Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7472-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE TUBEWELL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 23, 1989
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori?ation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =      Rupees (Rs)
US$ 1                  =      Rs 19.0
Rupee 1                      US$0.05
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                           Metric Units
1 inch (in)                  =    25.4 millimeters (mm)
1 foot (ft)                  =    30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                  =    0.915 meters (m)
l mile (mi)                  =    1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                  =    0.405 hectares (ha)
1 square mile (sq. mi)       =    259 ha
1 pound (lb)                 =    0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (lg ton)          =    1.016 metric tons (t)
cubic foot/second (cfs)    =    0.0283 cubic meters/second (m3/sec)
X    28.32 liters/second (1/sec)
acre foot (af)               =    1,233.5 cubic meters (mi3)
Pakistani Units                   English Units              Metric Units
1 Maund            =       82.3 lbs (0.0367 lg ton)  =    37.32 kg
26.8 Maunds        =       2,205 lbs                         1.0 t
27.2 Maunds        =       1.0 lg ton (2,240 lbs)            1,016 kg
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
ADBP         Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
ADP          Annual Development Program
AEBM         Area Electricity Board, Multan
AO           Agricultural Officer
CCA          Culturable Command Area
DC           Deputy Commissioner
DCC          District Coordination Committee
DGAEAR       Directorate General of Agricultural Extention & Adaptive Research
DGOFWM       Directorate General of On-Farm Management
ECNEC        Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FA           Field Assistant
FGW          Fresh Groundwater
FMCO         Functional Mobile Credit Officer
GM           General Manager
GOP          Government of Pakistan
GOPunjab     Government of Punjab Province
ICB          International Ccmpetitive Bidding
KV           Kilo Volt
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MAF          Million Acre Feet
MCO          Mobile Credit Officer
MVA          Megavolt Ampere
MV/LV        Medium Voltage/Low Voltage
NCA          National Commission on Agriculture
NPV          Net Present Value
NWFP         North West Frontier Province
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
OFWM         On-Farm Water Management
PASSCO       Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation
PC           Project Consultants
PC-l         Planning Commission-I
PCC          Provincial Coordination Committee
P&D          Planning and Development
PD           Project Director
PID          Provincial Irrigation Department
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PMC          Project Management Cell
PPC          Provincial Coordination Committee
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PTDP         Private Tubewell Development Project
RAP          Revised Action Programme
REP          Rural Electrification Project
SA           Special Account
SCARP        Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SCF          Standard Conversion Factor
SDO          Sub-Divisional Officer
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
STPP         SCARP Transition Pilot Project
srw          SCARP Tubewell
TDS          Total Dissolved Solids
TW           Tubewell
WAPDA        Water and Power Development Authority
WUA          Water User Association
XEN          Executive Engineer
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PAKJSrAN
PRIVATE TUBEWELL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...........  . ......................  (i)
I:   BACKCROUND ....................................................... 1
II:   SECTORAL CONTEXT .     .     ..................................... .  1
A. Agriculture          ........................                 1
B. Water Resources Development and Management ...........    2
C. Groundwater Potential and Development ................    3
D. Power Generation and Rural Electrification ...........    3
E. Government Policy and Bank Group Strategy ............    4
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement ........................       6
III:   THE PROJECT AREA ...................................... ..       6
A. Dera Ghazi Khan Subproject               .        .          6
B. Thal Subproject              .............. .  .              7
IV:   THE PROJECT        ......... ..................... .             8
A. Project Objectives            . .............         .      8
B. Project Description  ............    ........ ...            8
C. Project Cost              .     .     .............. 1.   1
D. Project Financing          .     .     ..... ... ..........   12
E. Procurement       ...........................................   13
F. Disbursement             ....... .            ........ 14
C. Project Accounts and Audit ...........................   14
V:   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................... .      15
A. Executing Agencies                  ..            .         15
B. Project Coordination                     .        .         17
VI:   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES              . . . .    18
A. Production    .          ........... .    18
B. Marketing and Prices ... .    19
C. Farm Income Analysis         .     .    .................   20
D. Cost Recovery                     . ..  21
VII:   BENEFITS, JUS TIFICON  AND RISKS .......................   22
A. Production Impact                   ...  22
B. Regional Impact             ...... ..  22
C. Environmental Impact        .....................   23
D. Economic Analysis .. ..................................   23
E. Sensitivity Analysis .     .    ...............................   24
F.  Project  Risks                  .................................... .  24
VIII:   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................   25



Page No
ANNEXES
I.  Average Monthly Rainfall, D.G. Khan             .      . .        27
II.  Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services .............        28
III.  Detailed Cost Tables               .. .... ......    31
IV.  Financing Plan ......         .....                 . ......    34
V.  Disbursements ...........                         .      .        35
VI.  Cropping Pattern and Crop Yields ....................... .        36
VII.  Financial and Economic Prices .......................... .         38
VIII.  Farm Budget Analysis .................................. . .        39
IX.  Cost Recovery Analysis ..................................         47
X.  Economic Benefit and Cost Streams ..................... .         48
CHARTS
I.  Project Organization and Coordination            . . .            51
II.  Project Implementation Schedule               .       .    .      52
IlI.  Discounted Benefit and Cost Streams .................... .        53
IV.  Locus of Benefit and Cost Switching Values ..............         54
MAPS
IBRD 21085
IBRD 21086
IBRD 21090
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Pakistan in July 1988. The mission comprised Messrs. Petros Aklilu, Joma
Mohamadi, Shawki Barghouti, Christos Christofides, Usma.i Qamar, and
Ms. Haeyoung Lee (IDA), and Mr. Leonard Drury (Consultant). Mr. Miran Awan was
responsible for the production of the report.



(i)
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE TUBEWELL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower            :   Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiary         :   Province of Punjab
Amount              :   SDR 26.3 M (US$34.4 million)
Terms               :   Standard, with 35 years maturity
Project Description:   The proposed pilot project, located in one of the least
developed areas of Punjab province, is the first
government effort to facilitate the development of new
fresh groundwater (FGW) areas through intensive private
tubewell (TW) installation. The project is designed to
test the viability of an integrated private TW
development program for increasing agricultural
production by: (a) providing reliable supplementary
irrigation; (b) controlling and preventing waterlogging
and salinity; and (c) improving agricultural and water
management practices. To achieve these objectives, the
project would consist of: (i) a complete distribution
network adequate to extend electricity to about 8,000
tubewells (TWs), infrastructure for the electrification
of about 200 villages and 300 agroindustry units, and a
pilot load management scheme for 500 existing TWs to
defer TW operations during peak electricity demand
hours; (ii) improvement of 320 watercourses (out of the
total provincial program comprising 680 watercourses),
and establishment of pilot pressurized irrigation
schemes; (iii) technical assistance to ensure adequate
back-up for the implementing agencies and to provide
training for project staff; and (iv) engineering and
office equipment. The installation of the TWs would be
financed by farmers by availing of funds from an
ongoing agricutural credit project being financed by
the Bank. Lining of selected minors and irrigation
system improvements would also be financed under an
ongoing canal rehabilitation program.
Risks               :   The proposed project does not entail any unusual risk.
The TW technology is widely known in Pakistan and its
adoption by farmers of the project areas would be
accelerated, provided that electricitx service and
credit are made available to them. One risk that might
affect project implementation is the possible failure
in the coordination of project implementation. Farmers



(ii)
would be frustrated if electric coanections are not
provided on time after they have instaUled TWs. To
avert this risk, the project's organizational setup has
the mechanism to closely monitor project implementation
and identify causes for delay. Another project risk is
the unreliab .ity of posrer supply for TW operation.  To
safeguard against such risk, the proposed load
management scheme would minimize power consumption
during peak demand hours, when load shedding is common.
Moreover, under current practices, electricity for TWs
is available for 8 to 10 hours a day, which is adequate
for TW operation.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local       Foreign         Total
--(Us$ M)-------------
TW Electrification                               19.5          14.3           33.8
Onfarm Water Management                           3.6           0.9            4.5
Technical Assistance                              0.8           0.1            0.9
Training                                          0.7           0.1            0.8
Engg. and Office Equipment                        0.2          0.2            0.4
Total Base Cost                           24.8          15.6           40.4
Physical Contingencies                     3.4           2.3            5.7
Price Contingencies                        2.9           1.3            4.2
Sub-total                                  6.3           3.6            9.9
Total Project  Cost                       31.1          19.2           50.3
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign         Total
--------     (US$ M)-------------
Government                                14.3           0.0           14.3
Farmers                                    1.6           0.0            1.6
IDA                                       15.2          19.2           34.4
Estimated Disbursements:
FY:   90     91      92     93      94     95
… _____= _-----…(US$ M)…-------------
Annual                       3.3   14.0   10.7    2.7    2.0    0.4
Cumulative                   3.3   17.3   29.3   32.0   34.0   34.4
Rate of Return:              25 percent



5 5 6 s Z
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE TUBEWELL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01     The development of water resources in Pakistan has been a joint
public and private effort. While the public sector provided tte major
infrastructure--storage dams, canals, and horizontal and vertical drainage to
prevent waterlogging and salinity--the private sector contributed to the
development of groundwater resources by installing private tubewells (TWs) in
fresh groundwater (FGW) areas. In 1979, the Government of Pakistan (GOP)
issued the UNDP-financed and Bank-executed study, the "Revised Action
Programme for Irrigated Agriculture (RAP)". The UAP concluded that future
development of FGW areas should be left to the private sector while the public
sector would continue its program in saline water zones. In the National
Agricultural Policy statement issued in 1980, GOP reaffirmed its commitment to
promote private TW development in FGW areas. This policy was implemented
during the Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-88) and has since continued.
1.02     The identification of a private tubewell development program was
initiated in 1983 under the UNDP-funded and Bank-executed "Investment Project
Preparation in Water, Agriculture and Energy Sectors". A reconnaissance
report was issued (covering two subprojects in Punjab and one in each of the
other three provinces) in August 1984, and a feasibility report was finalized
in September 1985. The study ranked the two subprojects in Punjab as high
priority based on the severity of waterlogging in the subproject areas.
1.03     The GOP, UNDP and Bank agreed on further preparatory work on Dera
Ghazi (D.G.) Khan and Thal subprojects in Punjab to: (a) obtain more details
on the waterlogged areas; (b) assess tubewell demand; and (c) determine power
requirements and devise a load management scheme. These issues were
re-examined in detail under a supplementary study which demarcated the
waterlogged areas by depth of water table, surveyed the dema d for private
TWs, and estimated the power requirements. The load management scheme study
was completed separately. Project preparation started after the completion of
the supplementary study in April .987. On the basis of the feasibility and
supplementary studies, the project was appraised by an IDA mission that
visited Pakistan in July 1988.
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Agriculture
2.01     Despite agriculture's declining share in the overall economy, the
sector accounts for 22% of GDP, employs 52% of the labor force, and generates
55% of total export earnings.  During the past decade, the agriculture sector
has undergone major technological and policy transformation. By introducing
technical changes, offering adequate production incentives and increasing the
availability of fertilizer, water, and credit, Pakistan has not only attained
self-sufficiency in rice, wheat, and cotton, but has generated an exportable



surplus. Today it is a leading exportez of raw cotton in the world and
domir.ates the export market for high quality rice (basmati). Despite these
achievements, the performance of the agriculture sector suffers from recurrent
climatic failures. In FY84, for example, cotton production dropped by 40% due
to pest attack following untimely rains, and the wheat output declined by 12%
owing to prolonged drought, resulting in a 6% negative sectoral growth rate.
Again in FY87, the untimely rain during wheat harvest contained the growth
rate to 2%. In FY88, the sector regained a growth rate of 4.6%. For the
Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-FY88), the agriculture sector attained an average
annual growth rate of 3.8% compared to the planned target of 4.5% per annum.
2.02     While inclement weather has been an important factor in crop failures
in rec(nt years, there are also continuing constraints to sustainable growth
of crop yields and productivity due to deficiencies in: (a) agricultural
support services and institutions, particularly for research and extension;
(b) management of water resources; and (c) small scale farmers' access to
credit, and technical inputs and technology. Removal of these constraints is
particularly critical for small scale farmers who constitute 75% of the farm
population. Future opportunties for growth in agriculture would largely stem
from productivity enhancements in the small scale farm sector. To meet this
challenge, the public sector effort will have to be complemented by private
sector participation. The private sector has demonstrated its ability to
actively participate in water resources development, input distribution, and
marketing of agricultural products.
B. Water Resources Development and Management
2.03     The Indus Basin, which covers two-thirds of the country, has the
largest contiguous irrigation system in the world. It comprises 22 dams and
barrages, 57,000 km of canals, and about 90,000 watercourses. Surface water
supplies account for 61% of total deliveries at farmgate; about 200,000
private TWs supply an additional 29%; and the balance comes from 11,000
public TWs designed to deliver supplementary irrigation and also function as
drainage TWs.
2.04     While these major irrigation works have helped to increase
agricultural production, Indus water has been diverted without adequate
drainage facilities. As a result, waterlogging and salinity have resulted in
lowering crop yields and even the eventual loss of cropped land, and hence
have been a source of growing concern. In an effort to relieve these
problems, the GOP, in the early 1960s, initiated a series of Salinity Control
and Reclamation Projects (SCARPs) that provided for the installation of public
TWs for drainage and supplemental irrigation in the areas with usable FGW and
salinity control. The public TWs have alleviated some of the drainage and
salinity problems in the Indus Basin. However, operation and maintenance
(O&M) of the public TWs has been poor owing to technical, financial, and
managerial constraints, and thus the pumpage of SCARP TWs (STWs) has been
declining. Recognizing the major contribution of the private sector to
controlling the rising watertable in waterlogged areas, and generating timely
irrigation supplies, the Government has adopted a program to induce the
private sector to invest in TWs by providing electric connections and credit.



-3-
C. Groundwater Potential and Development
2.05     The Indus Plain has a vast amount of varying quality groundwater
extending to depths of 100 meters in blocks spread over about 6 M ha. The
total development potential in the remaining FGW area (outside of the SCARP
areas) is estimated to be about 11.4 MAF, of which about 10.0 MAF is in canal-
commanded areas, 1.0 MAF in riverine areas, and 0.4 MAF in rainfed (barani)
areas. The total dissolved solids (TDS) in these FGW areas measure less than
1,000 ppm which is suitable for irrigation.
2.06     The large-scale development of groundwater for irrigation in the
Indus Plain started in the early 1960s with STWs (para. 2.04). Before then,
most TWs were privately developed dugwells, which numbered about 20,000 by
1960.. With the expansion of these early STWs--as locally manufactured pumps,
electric motors, and diesel engines became more available and the rural
electricity network grew--small and medium-capacity private TWs increased
rapidly. Thus, in the early 1970s, Pakistan experienced an unexpected boom in
private TW installation. By FY87, the number had risen to over 200,000, 90%
of which were located in Punjab. Despite the significant FGW potential that
remains, the annual rate of growth of private TWs has recently slowed down
from about 20% in the early 1970 to about 3% since 1977. The pattern of TW
ownership also indicates that TW development has been pursued primarily by
large Earmers, with an average holding of 10 ha or more, and accounting for
10% of all farmers. It has been shown that those farmers who have installed
electric TWs tend to be located close to the power distribution lines and are
fairly influential, whereas small farmers have had limited access to credit
for TW investment and electricity service. To accelerate private TW
develcpiient, particularly by small-scale farmers in waterlogged areas, the
Government recognizes the need for expanding the availability of electricity
(in conjunction with the village electrification program) and provis:on of
credit.
D. Power Generation and Rural Electrification
2.07     The total installed power-generating capacity of the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA) and the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation,
Ltd. (KESC), as of July 1, 1988, was 6,240 MW (WAPDA 5,102, and KESC 1,138),
of which 2,900 MW (47X) was hydroelectric and 3,340 MW (53X) thermal. Between
1978 and 1988, generating capacity grew at an average rate of about 8% per
year. Despite this performance, the growth of consumption in recent years has
outstripped supply, especially during the low river flow periods, leading to
growing petroleum imports for private generation and widespread load shedding
between the months of December and June. In addition, acute power shortages
are common on a daily basis during peak evening hours (18:00-20:00). The
power shortage is expected to continue until new major generation schemes are
commissioned in both the public and the private sectors. An important
consideration for the expansion of rural electrification is the avilability of
power for various rural consumers. The Bank-assisted Private Sector Energy
Development Project (Ln. 2982-PAK) is expected to supplement the public
sector's planned generation capacity significantly and would ease the growing
power deficit. Moreover, the adoption of appropriate load management,
particularly for TWs, shifting their use from peak to non-peak demand periods,
would also contribute to significant power savings.



-4-
2.08     The total number of clients served by the WAPDA system alone was
about 5.3 million in June 1987, and consumed about 17,700 GWh. In terms of
their sectoral share, industrial consiumers accounted for 362, domestic 30%,
agricultural 20%, and commercial and others 142. Since 1982/83, about 4,900
TWs have been provided with electric servic. zonnections annually.
2.09     With the exception of certain remote areas in NWF and Baluchistan
provinces, the existing, approved, and planned national grid system covers
almost 852 of the districts in Pakistar.. However, further utilization of
this grid system has been hampered by: (a) the inadequate allocation of funds
under the Annual Development Plan (ADP); (b) the use of relatively low voltage
(11 kV) lines for the primary distribution system; (c) the over-extension of
sub- transmission and distribution lines; and (d) the overloading of
transformers. As a result, the system's total losses as a percentage of
energy generated amount to about 30%. These losses are also exacerbated by
unauthorized use of electricity.
2.10     Of the 43,300 villages registered in the 1980 census, about 22,000
have been given electric connections. However, access of rural areas to
electricity service varies among provinces: about 312 of villages in Punjab,
50O in Sind, 45% in NWF, and 7% in Baluchistan. A ten-year rural electri-
fication master plan for rehabilitating and expanding the power distribution
system is currently being prepared by WAPDA, with assistance from USAID.
Under the Seventh Five-Year Plan (FY89-FY93), about 15,000 villages and
settlements and 20,000 TWs would be provided with electricity service by end
of 1993. Based on the rural electrification master plan the Bank is assisting
the GOP to prepare a Rural Electrification Project (REP). While the focus of
the REP would be on rural villages (located in saline water and FGW zones)
selected for electrification on an economic criteria, the proposed Private
Tubewell Development Project (PTDP), is designed principally to promote TW
derelopment, although the network could meet the needs of villages and small-
scale industrial units.
E. Government Poliey and Bank Group Assistane Strat
2.11     The improvement in agricultural performance during the last decade
stems from the positive response of farmers to the government's policies and
programs for stimulating agricultural production. These measures include:
(a) the rationalization of agricultural input and output prices with a view to
aligning them to international price trends; (b) establishing investment
priorities to improve the efficiency of existing assets by rehabilitating the
irrigation infrastructure, upgrading on-farm water management, and enhancing
agricultural research and extension capabilities; and (c) providing incentive
to the private sector to actively participate in input and product marketing
and distribution, processing of grain, and exploitation of gro ndwater. Under
the Seventh Five-Year Plan, the Government continues to accord high investment
priority to agricultural research, extension, and education. In the water
sector, land reclamation, irrigation systems rehabilitation and on-farm water
management would absorb a major share of the water sector investment
allocation. The private sector would also devote 17% of the total estima.ed
private sector investment to agriculture.
2.12     The Bank has helped GOP to accelerate its agricultural development by
encouraging it to: (a) formulate a balanced investment strategy that would
ensure selection of priority programs and allocate adequate resources with a



-5-
view to increasing agricultural productivity; (b) improve its formulation and
implementation of agricultural pricing policies; and (c) mobilize additional
resources that would help finance high-priority investment programs/projects.
The sector strategy and programs outlined above (para. 2.11) grew out of a
strengthened technical and policy dialogue with the Bank. For example, GOP's
current strategies are largely an extension of the recommendations of the RAP.
The Bank is supporting GOP's improved investment strategy, which is oriented
toward low-cost, quick-yielding investments and selective capital projects by
financing a number of projects in water management, irrigation system
rehabilitation, salinity control and reclamation (e.g., Left Bank Outfall
Drain), research and extension, and credit (e.g., On-farm Water Management,
SCARP Transition, and drainage in saline areas). A Water Sector Investment
Planning Study, financed by the UNDP and with the Bank as executing agency, is
supporting the Government's effort to establish a priority investment program
and strengthen the provincial water sector planning institutions.
2.13     The Bank's most recent agriculture operation in Pakistan is the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) (Ln. 2986-PAK). The ASAL was
formulated with a view to promoting agricultural productivity by focusing
public and private sector investments in high priority projects. Towards this
objective, the Federal and Provincial Governments have established a
three-year priority investment program for agriculture and water sectors. The
investment program has given priority to ongoing projects which are critical
to raising agricultural productivity (research and extension), deferred
investments in new irrigation schemes, promoted quick-gestating programs such
as on-farm water management, irrigation systems rehabilitation, and supported
crop diversification program for import substitution and export promotion.
This investment program is consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy.
While 60% of the estimated Seventh Five-Year Plan allocation is earmarked for
the three-year priority plan, due to increasing pressure on the budgetary
resources and to contain the budget deficit, the FY89 development budget for
agriculture and water sectors has been reduced from the original budget
allocation. Efforts to minimize the impact of the budget cut are being made
by closely scrutinizing the requirements of individual federal and provincial
projects.
2.14     As a part of the agreed policy adjustment program under ASAL, the
Government has also recently raised fertilizer prices with a view to phasing
out the prevailing subsidies for phosphate and potash fertilizers. Moreover,
the Government is initiating studies to determine the appropriate measures
necessary to improve the assessment and collection of water charges in order
to increase the irrigation O&M cost recovery. An added step being taken by
the Government is to prepare a program to phase out public TWs in FGW areas to
be replaced by private TWs. An important element in the privatization of
public TWs and promotion of private TWs in the new FGW areas is the twin
objective of improving the management of groundwater resources and reducing
the fiscal burden on the budget. The proposed PTDP is in line with the agreed
strategy for the development of FGW areas in Pakistan.
2.15     The Bank Group's assistance to Pakistan has had a noticeable impact
on the development of the agricultural and water resources. Dating back to
the successful settlement of the apportionment of the Indus water between
Pakistan and India, the Bank's financial assistance as well as policy advice
has contributed to Pakistan's attainment of food self-sufficiency and export
generation. Tne Bank's lending strategy has also receiveJ support from other



-6-
bilateral and multilateral donor agencies. To supplement the Bank's resources,
inter alia, a number of Bank-assisted projects are being cofinanced by other
donors. Among the aid consortium for Pakistan, the USAID, Asian Development
Bank (ADB), Overseas Development Administration (ODA), and the Canadian
International Development Administration (CIDA) are the leading agencies
assisting Pakistan in water and agriculture sectors.
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.16     The proposed project is included in the Government's three-year
(FY89-FY91) priority investment program for the water sector. It is also an
integral part of IDA's assistance strategy for the water sector and rural
electrification in Pakistan. To implement the policy agreed upon by GOP and
the Bank under the ASAL (para. 2.14), continued financial and technical
assistance is needed from IDA. IDA is the lead donor in water resource
development with some experience in Pakistan in the privatization of STWs and
private TW development. The proposed pilot project represents the first
attempt to promote private TW development in new FGW areas through a packaged
program of credit, electric connection, agricultural support services, and
technical assistance. Given the vast potential for future development of FGW
areas, IDA's involvement in this project would ensure that the emerging
lessons from the proposed project would be adequately monitored and evaluated
to develop a least cost private TW investment program for other FGW areas.
m. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Dera Ghazi Khan Subproiect
3.01     The D.G. Khan subproject lies in the useable groundwater zone of D.G.
Khan carnal command in Punjab, along the right bank of the Indus River. It
covers parts of D.G. Khan and Rajanpur districts in the D.G. Khan civil
division. The subproject has a gross area of 101,900 ha and a culturable
command area (CCA) of 95,200 ha and receives non-perennial supply from D.G.
Khan canal system.
3.02     Climate.  The subproject area has an arid climate with little
rainfall and prolonged periods of high temperature and occasional dust
storms.  The summers are hot and winters mild.  In June, the hotest month,
temperatures frequw.ntly exceed 42°C with the mean temperature of 34.6°C.
January is the coldest month, the mean and maximum temperatures being 21.2°C
to 39°C, respectively. The average annual rainfall in the project area
between 1960 and 1987 has been 3.1 inches. Rainfall records for Jampur since
1960 are given in Annex I, Table 1. More than 50% of the rainfall occurs in
summer (July to September). Rainfall during the rest of the year is
sporadic. The annual evaporation is about 72 inches per year. Moderately
fine-textured soils cover 65% of the project area. These soils are suitable
for a variety of crops under irrigated agriculture.
3.03     Groundwater Potential.  The D.G. Khan subproject area lies on
unconfined aquifer of unconsolidated materials. The aquifer, particularly at
its upper depth of about 100 meters, has suitable hydrogeological parameters
for low-cost installation of TWs with satisfactory discharge to drawdown
relationship. The sources for recharge of the aquifer are precipitation,
seepage from the irrigation channels (river water), field ur farm losses, and
recirculation of TW water. Considering these sources, the aquifer's annual



-7-
potential is estimated at about 420 million cubic meters (340,900 AF). The
groundwater table is shallow, and despite the annual and seasonal variations,
its depth is less than 4 ft in about 80% of the subproject area. The quality
of most of the groundwater in the subproject area is acceptable for
irrigation. According to the results of the computerized model used to
determine groundwater utilization under the proposed project, the presence of
various irrigation canals in the subproject area reduce the possibility of
groundwater degradation due to saline water 4ntrusion.
3.04     The average annual cropping intensity in D.G. Khan is 100% against
the designed annual intensity of 652. At present, wheat occupies 36% of canal
command area (CCA) and cotton accounts for 15X. Other crops include fodder,
rice, oilseeds, and sugarcane. Crop yields, particularly in the areas where
only canal water is available, are lower than the national averages.
3.05     The small farm category, with an average holding of about 6 ha,
represents about 63% of the total number of farms in the project area and
occupies only 23% of the total area, while the medium and large farms, which
account for the remaining 377 of the farms, occupy the 777 of the area.
3.06     The power requirements in the subproject area are met by 5 grid
stations. To meet the future demand of the area, WAPDA is proposing to expand
the existing transformer capacity at Kot Chutta or Jampur (2.5 MVA and 5 MVA,
respectively) by replacing one of the transformers with a 10 or 13 MVA
transformer.
B. Tha Suoproject
3.07     The Thal subproject area is a part of the useable groundwater zone of
the Thal canal command in Punjab, located along the left bank of the Indus
River in Layaah district of D.G. Khan civil division.  It covers a total area
of 78,300 ha, of which the CCA makes up 60,600 ha and receives perennial
supply from the Thal canal system.
3.08     Climate.  Between 1962 and 1988, the annual rainfall at Layaah, a
town in the project area, averaged 9.25 inches. Rainfall varies during the
alternate dry and wet cycles. The average annual precipitation during
1968-1981 was 8.9 inches. About two-thirds of the annual rainfall occurs in
Kharif (summer) season, between July and September. Winter rains are meager
and sporadic. The topography of the project area alternates between level
sand plain and rolling sand plain areas, and the areas between sand dunes
provide a suitable location for irrigation development. The soils in a large
part of the project area are coarse (50%) and moderately coarse (46%). A
variety of crops can be grown on these soils under improved land-water
management practices.
3.09     Grotndwater Potential.  The subproject area is underlain by a FGW
mound which has the potential for further groundwater development. This fresh
groundwater mound is in hydrodynamic equilibrium with the surrounding marginal
saline groundwater and the proposed TW development would not have an adverse
effect on it. However, excessive pumping could distuxrb the balance and cause
deterioration of the groundwater quality. The usable groundwater recharged
from precipitation, river-supplied irrigation water, and the recirculation of
planned TW pumped water could amount to about 280 million cubic meters
(230,500 AF). This aquifer is suitable for the installation of about 1,800



-8-
TWs with a discharge of 0.5 to 1 cusec utilizing locally manufactured,
inexpensive TWs and centrifugal pumpsets. About 85% of the groundwater in
the subproject area contains less than 1,000 ppm TDS, but the groundwater in
the remaining area is of marginal quality. The groundwater level within the
subproject area varies from 4 to 12 ft.
3.10     The small farms make up about 67% of the total number of farms and
occupy 25% of the total area; medium farms account for 20% and cover 25% of
the total area, and large farms comprise 13% and hold 50% of the total area.
The average farm size is 5 ha. The annual cropping intensity is about 110%.
Wheat accounts for 41% in the cropping pattern, pulses cover 30%, and the
balance is devoted to oilseeds, fodder, cotton, and sugarcane.
3.11     At present, the power requirements in the subproject area are met by
the existing two grid stations, which have a total of 26 MVA transformer
capacity. According to WAPDA's rural electrification program, the Layaah grid
station would be expanded during 1988 through installation of an additional 13
MVA transformer. In addition, a new 66/11 kV grid station equipped with a 5
MVA transformer is expected to be commissioned during 1989. The total
existing and planned capacity of 44 MVA would be sufficient to meet the
projected demand of 44 MVA at full development of the project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.01     The primary objective of the proposed project is to test the
viability of integrated private TW development with a view to increasing
agricultural production in one of the least developed regions of Punjab
Province by: (a) providing reliable supplementary irrigation water to farmers;
(b) controlling and preventing waterlogging; and (c) improving agricultural
and water management practices. These objectives would be achieved through a
coordinated package of incentives comprising electrification, credit, and
support services for small farmers, which is designed to promote investment in
TWs. Tubowells have proved to be one of the most effective means of
controlling the water table and providing reliable and timely irligatior
water. The project would also help to improve the living standards in thc
project area through the extension of electricity infrastructure to villages
and small agro-industrial units.
B. Project Description
4.02     The proposed pilot project is the first government effort to
facilitate the development of new FGW areas through intensive private TW
installation. The provision of a coordinated package of credit, electricity,
agricultural support services, and technical assistance is needed to
accelerate the installation of private TWs, particularly in waterlogged areas.
The installation of private TWs would provide farmers control over
supplementary irrigation supplies, while at the same time draining the
waterlogged areas. The project also complements the additional water supplied
by TWs, and lining of watercourses and canals, with impro"ed management of
water application and cropping practices with a view to increasing cropping
intensity and crop yields. Under the electrification component of the
proposed project, a load management scheme would be tested to determine the
economic and technical viability of deferring TW consumption of electricity



-9-
during evening peak hours. In addition, to demonstrate improved water use
efficiency, small scale pressurized irrigation schemes (drip and bubbler)
would also be tested. Lessons from the proposed project would be closely
monitored and evaluated to assess the replicability of the pilot project in
other FGW areas of Pakistan.
4.03     Electrification of TWs (Base Cost US$33.8 M).  The project would
provide all the distribution network facilities needed to extend electricity
service to about 5,400 TWs and to convert about 2,600 TWs from diesel to
electric prime-movers. It will also provide necessary electrical network
infrastructure for the electrification of about 200 villages and 300
agroindustry units in the project area. The network components to be
installed would include: (i) about 3,900 km of medium-voltage lines; (ii) the
installation of about 8,000 MV/LV distribution transformers with an aggregate
capacity of about 80 MVA; (iii) service drops, meters, and boards to connect
about 8,000 TWs; and (iv) equipment needed to extend and reinforce two
existing grid stations in the subproject areas. In addition, a pilot load
management scheme would be implemented for about 500 existing TWs with a view
to minimizing TW operations during peak hours. Based on forecasted
distribution of load among various electricity consumers, about 40% of the
electrical network capability would be utilized by non-lIW users.
4.04     On-Farm Water Management (OFWM) (Base Cost US$4.5 M).  The GOP has
launched national OFWM programs designed to improve the management and
utilization of irrigation water. Under the proposed project, the OFWM
component would concentrate on improving about 320 watercourses (out of the
total provincial program comprising 680 watercourses), located mainly in the
D.G. Khan subproject area. To implement the watercourse lining program, two
field teams would be added to the field teams currently executing ongoing
watercourse improvement schemes in the D.G. Khan area. In selecting
watercourses for improvement, high priority would be given to those water-
courses in areas where TWs are being installed. The same methods (lining upto
30% in sandy soils and 20% in clay soils) and specifications used for
improving watercourses under ongoing OFWM projects would be adopted under the
proposed project. In addition, 15 small pilot pressurized-drir and bubbler
irrig,tion schemes (10 in the D.G. Khan and 5 in the Thal subproject areas)
would be financed. The introduction of drip irrigation in arid conditicns
elsewhere has overcome several problems associated with conventional
irrigation, such as waterlogging, soil salinization, and soil sealing and
erosion.
4.05     Technical Assistance (Base Cost US$0.9 M).  To ensure adequate
technical back-up for the implementing agencies, the proposed project would
provide for the services of: (a) an electrical planning and design consultant
to review alternative voltages for electrification network and recommend least
cost alternative and to prepare load management scheme; (b) a group of project
consultants (PCs) for 216 man-months to assist in project implementation and
supervision; and (c) monitoring and evaluation consultants. The terms of
reference for these consultants are presented in Annex II.
4.06     To expedite project start-up and implementation, the consultant
needed to recommend the least cost electrical network and develop the typical
line configurations, and prepare the load management scheme (para. 4.05) has
been hired under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Upon Credit signing,



-10-
amounts disbursed from the PPF (estimated at about US$0.35 million) would be
reimbursed from the Credit. The consultant's task would be to first review
WAPDA's current design and construction practice for primary distribution and,
based on comparative cost analysis of different primary distribution voltage
levels, develop the most appropriate and least-cost design configuration
-ncluding required enhancement of grid stations for extending electricity
service in the project areas. In addition, the consultant would be
responsible for formulating a load management scheme to be used in a pilot
test program aimed at controlling the load of 500 existing TWs in the D.G.
Khan area. By June 30, 1989, WAPDA would review with IDA the consultant's
findings on the review and analysis of WAPDA's primary distribution network
and recommendations for the least cost network configuration, and the pilot
load management scheme.
4.07     A team of consultants who would be hired to assist in project
implementation and supervision [para. 4.05(b)1 would consist of experts in the
field of design and construction of electrical networks, hydrogeology, and
irrigation agronomy. These consultants would also be required to: (a) provide
on-the-job training for their counterpart staff and prepare technical manuals
in their respective fields of expertise to serve as reference guides during
project implementation; (b) assist farmers in siting TWs and in selecting the
appropriate pumpset and accessories; (c) facilitate prompt installation and
electrical connection of TWs; and (d) assist project staff in aquifer monitor-
ing, agricultural planning, and advise farmers in conjunctive use of canal and
TW water. To ensure timely appointment of these consultants for project
implementation, supervision and impact evaluation, WAPDA has agreed to hire
the consultants, in accordance with Bank Guidelines, by August 31, 1989.
4.08     Training (Base Cost US$0.8 M).  The training of OFWM and Extension
staff would be organized by the OFWM Training Institute in consultation with
the Irrigation Agronomy/Engineer consultant. The training program would be
designed to assist Agricultural Officers (AO) and Field Assistants (FA), and
OFWM staff to improve their skills, and strengthen field support services in
water management including pressurized schemes, input use, and diversified
cropping system on TW installed farms. The OFWM Training Institute would
develop training materials on: (a) methods to improve field water management;
(b) increasing the efficiency of conjunctive use of surface and TW water;
(c) crop diversification; and (d) monitoring water quality and water table. A
total of 20 AOs and 110 FAs and four OFWM staff would be trained Gn
pressurized irrigation schemes and demonstration plots and at the Institute in
Lahore. Such extension and OFWM staff would attend two courses to be held in
Lahore. The first round of training program would be completed in year three
of the project and the repeat training would be held during the remaining two
years of the project. The ADBP staff would also receive on the job training
in TW technology, selection of material and equipment and TW installation, and
attend courses organized by ADBP. During negotiations, assurance was obtained
from GOPunjab that the OFWM Training Institute would prepare the training
program by June 30, 1990 for review with IDA.
4.09     Engineering and Office Equipment (Base Cost US$0.4 M).  To facilitate
the technical assistance provided under the project, equipment for soil and
water analysis in the field, groundwater monitoring, land surveys, computers
and audiovisual, and other training aids would also be financed.



-ll-
4.10     Tubewell Installation.  Farmers with loans from the Agricultural
Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) and using local contractors (drillers),
would install about 5,400 TWs of about 0.5 and 1 cusec capacity and convert
diesel engines of existing 2,600 TWs to electric motors. In order to ensure
more efficient and economic pumping by reducing the investment and operation
cost, the project would provide assistance to farmers in selection and
installation of TW equipment and materials. The ADBP has a nationwide credit
program for production inputs, TWs, and other capital investments. The
lending terms and conditions for TW loans would therefore be in acordance with
existing practices under which farmers are eligible to borrow up to 901 of the
cost of purchase and installation of the TW, including pump set, at 12%
mark-up with two years grace period and six years repayment period. In the
D.G. Khan subproject area, 75% of ADBP annual lending is for long-term loans
with credit repayment rate of 90% in 1987/88. ADBP staff, in collaboration
with District Administration Revenue officers, would assist the project area
farmers in completing the steps required to obtain agricultural passbooks and
credit applications. The total credit requirement estimated at US$13.3
million would be made available over a four-year period. To ensure thet
farmers' loan application are processed in a timely manner, and ADBP's lending
program covers the subproject areas, GOPunjab would obtain an agreement from
ADBP by September 30, 1989 to make necessary arrangements for timely loan
processing by assigning adequate staff.
4.11     Rethabilitation of Irrigation System.  Improved delivery of canal
water supplies for conjunctive use would be critical for optimizing the use of
high-cost TW water. To this end, dilapidated distributaries and minors which
have been earmarked for conjunctive use of canal and TW water would be
improved under the ongoing Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project
(ISRP-II, Cr. 1888-PAK). It is estimated that the lining of minors and
improvement of irrigation system would cost about US$5.3 million.
C. Proect ec6t
4.12     The project cost including physical and price contingencies is
estimated at US$50.3 million with a foreign exchange component of US$19.2
million. The cost estimates include customs duties on imported equipment and
taxes on works and both local and imported equipment, estimated at US$9.9
million. The project cost summary is presented in Table 4.1. Detailed project
costs are given in Annex III, Tables 1-3.
Table 4.1 - Project Cost Summary
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total
----   (Rs M)------   _____--(us$ M)…------
TW Electrification               350.8   256.7    607.5      19.5    14.3    33.8
On-farm Water Management          65.2    16.5      81.7      3.6      0.9     4.5
Technical Assistance              15.2     1.7      16.9      0.8      0.1     0.9
Training                          12.6     1.4      14.0      0.7      0.1     0.8
Engg. and Office Equipment         3.0     4.6       7.6      0.2      0.2     0.4
Total Base Cost             446.8   280.9    727.7       24.8    15.6    40.4
Physical Cont.               61.2    40.5    101.7        3.4      2.3     5.7
Price Cont.                  69.8    35.0    104.8        2.9      1.3     4.2
Sub-total                 131.0    75.5    206.5        6.3     3.6      9.9
Total Project  Cost       577.8   356.4    934.2       31.1    19.2    50.3
_-=   ==   ====                =    ==   ==



-12-
4.13      The base cost estimates are expressed in December 1988 prices, and
are based on unit rates quoted by suppliers for equipment, materials, and
works under ongoing projects. Physical contingencies of 10% were applied to
all project component base costs, except for the electrif-.cntion component
where a 15% physical contingency was used after taking inco account WAPDA's
experience in implementing similar projects. Annual price contingencies ar-
based on the inflation rates estimated by the Bank and are shown below.
Inflation Rates (%)
FY90      FY91       FY92      FY93       FY94
Local:                    6.5        6.5       4.0        3.0        3.0
Foreign:                  3.8        3.5        3.0       3.0        3.0
D. Project Financing
4.14      The electrification, OFWM, technical assistance, training, and
equipment components, amounting to US$50.3 million would be directly financed
under the proposed project, and would be eligible for IDA financing. The
proposed IDA credit of US$34.4 m-llion equivalent would finance 68% of the
total project cost, or 85% (100% of foreign exchange and 72% of local costs)
of the project cost net of taxes and duties. Funding for 360 watercourses,
TW installation and irrigation system improvement works, estimated at US$23.6
million, would be provided under ongoing Provincial watercourse improvement
programs, ongoing agricultural credit programs and farmers' contribution, and
ISRP-II respectively. Financial allocation for the proposed project is
included in Pakistan's Seventh Five-Year Plan (FY89-FY93). The GOP would
make available to WAPDA the proceeds of the Credit and the GOP's share to
finance the electrification component. Approval of the project proforma
(PC-1) by the Executive Council of the National Economic Committee (ECNEC)
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. The proposed financing plan is
shown in Table 4.2. Details are given in Annex IV.
Table 4.2 - Proposed Project Financing Plan
Total Cost        GOP      Farmers       IDA
…--  (uS$ M)--------_________
Electrification 1/                    42.1           13.0        -          29.1
-           (30)          -         (70)
On Farm Water Management               5.6            1.2         1.6        2.8
_           (21)        (29)        (50)
Technical Assistance                   1.1            -          -           1.1
-          -        (100)
Training                               1.0            -          -           1.0
_             -           -        (100)
Engineering & Office equipment         0.5            0.1        -           0.4
-           (30)          -         (70)
Total                           50.3          14.3         1.6        34.4
1/ Including buildings and vehicles.
Figures in parentheses are percentage shares of financing.



-13-
E. Procurement
4.15     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3 below:
Table 4.3 - Procurement Arrangements
(US $ Million)
Procurement Method                 Total
Project Element              ICB          LCB       Other            Cost
Electrical Equipment/Material   31.69                                    31.69
(22.18)                                 (22.18)
Electrical Installation                       5.50 a/      3.00 b/        8.50
(3.85)      (2.11)          (5.96)
Buildings                                     1.30                         1.30
(0.91)                      (0.91)
On-Farm Water Management                      4.09         1.64 c/        5.73
(2.86)                      (2.86)
Engineering & Office Eqpt.        0.30        0.20 d/                     0.50
(0.21)     (0.14)                       (0.35)
Vehicles                                                   0.48 e/        0.48
TA & Training                                              2.11 f/         2.11
(2.11)         (2.11)
Total                      31.99       11.09        7.23           50.31
(22.39)    ( 7.76)       (4.22)         (34.37)
Figures in parantheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/  Larger part of installation would be carried out by WAPDA through LCB,
considering the size and nature of work, ICB is not appropriate.
b/ A part of installation work would be carried out by WAPDA on force account.
c/ Farmers' contribution in cash and labor.
d/  The equipment and materials consist of relatively small and non-
homogeneous packages.
e/ Reserved procurement to be financed by the Government.
f/  Consultants would be recruited according to World Bank Guidelines.
The electrical equipment and materials would be procured by WAPDA under ICB,
and the tender documents and the packaging would be subject to IDA's prior
review. Civil works related to the installation of the main part of
electrical networks and construction of buildings would be let through LCB,
according to local procedures used by WAPDA which are acceptable to IDA.
Bidding documents for such works with an estimated contract value of US$0.1
million would be subject to IDA's prior review. A part of electrical
installation work, related to TW connections that is highly scattered and
depends on farmers' rate of TW installation, would be carried out by WAPDA on
force account. The procurement of materials for the lining and improvement of
small, dispersed watercourses would be arranged on the basis of LCB procedures
adopted under the OFWM- II Project (Cr.1609-PAK). With respect to each
contract for watercourse materials estimated to cost more than US$0.1 million,
the procurement documents would also be subject to prior review by IDA. Part
of office and survey equipment and materials consisting of relatively small
and unrelated packages that would not attract international bidders would be
procured under LCB. As reserved procurement, vehicles would be purchased in



-14-
accordance with the Government's procedures. In all cases, consultants
financed under the proposed project would be selected in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for the use of consultants.
F. Disbursement
4.16     Proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed against the following
expenditure categories:
Category                           Percentage to be financed
(a) Installation of electrification
system and buildings                    70%
(b) Equipment and materials for             100I   of cif for imported
electrification, Office and             items, 100% of ex-factory
engineering                             price for local items & 70%
for off-the-shelf items
(c) TA and Training                         100O
(d) Materials for OFWM component            70%
4.17     With the exception of category (b)(para. 4.16), and contracts
exceeding US$100,000, disbursements would be made against statements of
expenditure (SOEs) certified by the Project Management Cell (PMC) for all
categories (para. 5.02). All supporting documents would be retained by the
PMC for review by IDA. Disbursements against electrification material and
equipment category (b), which would be procured under ICB, would require full
documentation. To expedite payment for eligible expenditures, WAPDA would
establish a Special Account (SA) with an initial deposit of US$2.0 million, to
be operated by the Project Management Cell (PMC) (para. 5.02), and GOPunjab
would establish a second SA with an initial deposit of US$0.4 million.
Proceeds from the IDA Credit would be disbursed over five and one half-year
period. Since disbursement profiles available for agricuDtural projects in
Pakistan are not directly relevant for the proposed project, the disbursement
period for the proposed Credit is established on the basis of performance
under minor Irrigation (tubewell) projects in other countries. The
disbursement profile for an ongoing public tubewell project in South Asia is
about five years. To ensure timely project implementation, pre-project
start-up activities for electification, the major component of the project,
are being arranged under PPF (para. 4.06). These actions are expected to lead
to preparation of bidding documents for equipment and materials prior to
Credit effectiveness and would ensure an early start in procurement. The
estimated disbursement schedule for the project is presented in Annex V. The
closing date for the proposed Credit would be December 31, 1994.
G. Project Accounts and Audit
4.18     Separate project accounts would be maintained by the PMC and the
Directorate General of On-Farm Water Management (DGOFWM). To ensure
approporiate financial reporting to IDA, agreement was obtained from WAPDA and
GOPunjab that: (a) project accounts would be audited by an independent auditor
accepta' le to IDA; (b) copies of the audit report would be sent to IDA no
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year; and (c) the audit



-15-
report would include a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs submitted
during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawal applications.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01     Under the overall guidance of the Provincial Coordination Committee
(PCC) (para. 5.12), WAPDA would be the principal project executing agency with
responsibilty for implementing the electrification component, and liasing with
GOPunjab's Departments of Agriculture and Irrigation, and ADBP, which are
responsible for the remaining project components. WAPDA would establish a PMC
(para. 5.02) in Lahore and the Project Implementation Units (PIU) (para. 5.03)
in D.G. Khan and Layaah (Thal) to carry out these tasks. The District
Administarations of D.G. Khan and Layaah, through their respective District
Coordination Committees (DCC) (para. 5.11), would facilitate timely project
implementation in their respective Districts and would provide assistance to
the executing agencies. The proposed organizational and management setup is
designed to: (a) ensure that the executing agencies coordinate their
activities in delivering incentive packages to farmers; (b) inform farmers
about the facilitites provided under the project, and help them obtain
agricultural credit and electric connections in a timely manner; and
(c) promote improved TW utilization, agricultural practices, and water
management. An organogram showing the links among the executing agenci.es and
coordination committees is presented in Chart I, and described below.
A. Executig Agencies
5.02     The Project Management Cell (PMC).  WAPDA has established the PMC in
Lahore under the General Manager, Water, WAPDA Central (GM Central). The
Project Director (PD) SCARP Electrification, who reports to GM Central and is
responsible for extending electric lines under SCARP projects in Punjab, would
also be the PD, PMC. The PD would be assisted by three deputy directors,
suppor.t s aff, and consultants' team leader (para. 5.04). The specific tasks
of the .'MC would be to: (a) procure equipment and material for the electric
network and other project needs, and hire contractors for the installation of
electric lines; (b) recruit consultants; (c) process withdrawal applications
and maintain project account; (d) oversee, coordinate, and monitor overall
project progress, liaise with the Provincial Coordination Committee (PPC), and
act as its secretariat; (e) review the groundwater balance to be monitored by
PIU (para. 5.03), and determine the remaining groundwater potential for
further development and report to the PCC and IDA; and (f) prepare a
consolidated work plan and quarterly progress reports for its project
components. To ensure timely reporting on project implementation, agreement
was obtained from GOPunjab and WAPDA that they would submit to IDA: (i) on
September 30 of each year, starting in 1989, an approved annual work plan for
the year; and (ii) quarterly progress reports not later than forty-five days
after each calendar quarter, starting with the quarter ending on December 31,
1989.



-16-
5.03     The Project Implementation Units (PIUs).  In D.G. Khan and Thal
subproject areas, WAPDA has established PIUs, headed by Executive Engineers
(XEN), who would be assisted by consultants, four Subdivisional Officers
(SDO), and support staff. The PIUs would be responsible for: (a) carrying out
surveys for electric lines, promotional/outreach activities in collaboration
with ADBP, OFWM, and Extension staff that would encourage farmers to install
TWs; (b) establishing and maintaining stores for electrical material and
equipment; (c) supervising the construction of electric lines and civil works
and handing them over to the Area Electricity Board; (d) advising farmers on
groundwater quality, appropriate technology, optimal locations, and monitoring
groundwater table; (e) providing electric connections to farmers; and (f)
monitoring overall project progress, maintaining close coordination with other
implementing agencies, and serving as secretariat for the DCC.
5.04     Project Consultants (PCs) would be appointed (paras. 4.05-4.08) to
assist the PMC, the PIUs and the OFWM teams in the implementation of the
proposed project. The Electrical Engineers would assist in preparing detailed
project designs and ensure that project details are implemented according to
WAPDA's specifications, and assist in bid evaluation. One of the
hydrogeologists, would be the team leader of the PCs to be stationed in the
field. The PCs team leader will be responsible for: (a) maintaining close
coordination between the consultants and the executing agencies involved in
the project; (b) assisting PIUs and the project staff in project
implementation; (c) carrying cut supervision of project progress; and
(d) assist in preparation of project progress reports. In addition to his
role as the Team Leader, the Hydrogeologist would be responsible for:
(i) advising farmers on TW installation for efficient and economic pumpage;
and (ii) monitoring groundwater behaviour to determine the safe yield of
aquifers with varying rate of TW installation. The Irrigation Agronomist would
assist the OFWM teams in watercourse improvement, advising farmers on reducing
conveyance losses of water delivered from TWs and certifying the completed
works, management of conjunctive use of canal and TW water, and establishing
the pressurized irrgation schemes. Consultants would also be appointed to
design and execute a system of project monitoring and evaluation.
5.05     Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP).  ADBP will provide
90% of the credit requirements (the balance would be farmers'share) for the
purchase and installation of TWs and 100% of the production loan under its
ongoing supervised credit schemes. To meet the expected work load due to
growing credit  :mand, ADBP will assign adequate number of additional
Functional Mobile Credit Officers (FMCO) in each of the subproject areas and
Mobile Credit Officers (MCO) especially trained in TW lending operations. The
Hydrogeology consultants (para.5.04) will provide on-the-job training on
selection of TW components and pumpsets, and on least cost installation
designs for the assigned ADBP staff.
5.06     Directorate General of On-Farm Water Management (DGOFWM).  The
DGOFWM, through its district offices in D.G. Khan and Layaah, would be
responsible for: (a) improving watercourses; (b) establishing demonstration
plots for pressurized irrigation systems and improved water mangement, and
training OFWM, Agricultural Officers (AOs), and Field Assistants (FAs); and
(c) participating in watercourse surveys in collaboration with the PIU.
DGOFWM would assign two field teams in D.G. Khan to carry out the above



-17-
tasks. Assurances were obtained that GOPunjab would establish by July 1989
two additional field teams in the D.G. Khan subproject area to carry out the
watercourse improvement. An irrigation agronomy consultant (para. 5.04) would
be assigned to the D.G. Khan field office of the DGOFWM for a term of 54
months to design and implement the pilot pressurized irrigation schemes and
assist in watercourse improvement in D.G. Khan and Thal subproject areas.
5.07     Directorate General of Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
(DGAEAR). The services of the existing 20 AOs and 110 FAs currently posted in
D.G. Khan and Layaah Districts would be available to the proposed project.
Some of this staff would undergo training in TW water management at the OFWM
Niaz Beg Training Institute in Lahore. The extension and research staff to be
assigned to the proposed project would establish demonstration plots on
farmers' fields that would emphasize on: (a) improving conjunctive use of TW
and canal water; and (b) increasing cropping intensities and promoting crop
diversification.   The ongoing IDA-financed Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research Project (Cr. 1762-PAK) would assign high priority to
developing specific extension messages to improve cultural practices in areas
with installed TWs.
5.08     Punjab Irrigation Department (PID).  The PID would identify distri-
butaries and minors for rehabilitaton/remodeling which would include the
lining of selected reaches of systems under ISRP-II (Cr.1888-PAK). These
works would be implemented by existing PID staff postel in the subproject
areas.
5.09     Area Electricity Board Multan (AEBM).  Although not directly involved
in the installation of electric lines and connections, the AEBM, a subsidiary
of WAPDA, would take over the operation and maintenance of completed electric
lines and load management facilities. AEBM staff would be trained by the
Electrical Design Engineer Consultant in monitoring the load management
schemes installed under the project.
B. Proiect Coordination
5.10     Responsibility for execution of the main project works--namely the
electric lines and TW electric connections--would rest with a single agency,
WAPDA (PMC/PIU). However, because several other agencies are involved in the
implementation of the other project components, mechanisms would be needed at
the field and provincial levels to effectively coordinate the various project
activities and to maintain an overall integrated project approach.
5.11     District Coordination Committee (DCC).  The existing DCCs in D.G.
Khan and Layaah Districts, chaired by the respective Deputy Commissioners
(DCs), would facilitate project coordination and implementation among the
executing agencies. The office of DC is also responsible for issuing
agricultural passbooks to farmers. The XENs of the PIUs would serve as
Secretaries of the DCCs; and the Regional Managers of ADBP, the Deputy
Director of Agriculture, Area Coordinator DGOFWM, and XENs of the AEBM and PID
would be the members. The DCC for D.G. Khan would also cover the part of the
subproject located in Rajanpur District. The Assistant Commissioner of
Rajanpur would be a member of the D.G. Khan DCC. In addition to facilitating



-18-
the coordination and implementation of the overall project, the DCC would
monitor the status of agricultural passbooks issued to farmers. The DCC would
meet quarterly or as the need arises to review project progress and resolve
outstanding project related issues.
5.12 Provincial Coordination Committee (PCC). At the provincial level, a PCC
headed by the Chairman of the Planning and Development Board (P&D) would
oversee the progress of project implemenation. The PCC would include the
Provincial Secretaries of Finance, Agriculture and Irrigation, an Executive
Director of ADBP, WAPDA's General Manager (Water) Central, and the Project
Director of the PMC, who would act as secretary of the PCC. The PCC's primary
functions would be to oversee matters related to annual budgetary allocations
and approval of the annual work plan, inter-agency coordination, and
resolution of policy issues. The PCC would meet at least twice a year.
5.13     Implementation Schedule.  The proposed project would be implemented
over a period of five and a half years. Experience from ongoing projects in
Pakistan suggests that slow project implementation is often caused by delays
in procurement of equipment and materials. To ensure that the project would
start up on time, detailed surveys and design are being prepared by a
consultant appointed under a PPF (para. 4.06) and it is expected that bidding
documents would be prepared prior to Credit effectiveness. WAPDA has also
appointed staff who would be assigned to the PMC and PIU and have ample
experience in electrification of TWs. The implementation schedule for the
project components is presented in Chart II.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production
6.01     Although the water table is high in the D.G. Khan and Thal subproject
areas, water supplies are inadequate for crop production, which is also
hampered by the traditional agriculture methods practiced in these areas.
Cropping intensities presently attained under different modes of irrigation
supplies are shown in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1 - Cropping Intensity
Source of Irrigation                        D.G.Khan       Thal
-------  --)------
Canal water only                                100         110
Canal & purchased TW water                      130         135
Canal & owned TW                                150         160
6.02     The D.G. Khan subproject is located in the wheat-cotton zone.  Wheat
is cultivated on only 36% of the cropped area on farms served by canal
supplies, whereas TW owners can grow wheat on about 472. For cotton, the
variation in cropped area is insignificant since canal water supply meets
water requirements and is equally available to farmers with and without TWs.
Although the main crops grown in the Thal subproject area are wheat, pulses,
and oilseeds, similar variations in cropping patterns due to sources of water
are observed there. Wheat takes up about 60X of the cropped area on TW farms,
against 41% on farms with canal supplies only. The significant differences in



-19-
cropping intensities and cropping pattern observed in D.G. Khan and Thal
demonstrate that production can be increased through the installation of TWs.
To maximize the benefits from TW irrigation, the project would promote crop
diversification--particularly toward oilseeds and fruits--through
demonstration plots. For the analysia if the proposed project, it is assumed,
based on observed trends ili groundwater behavior, that cropping intensities
without the project would decline in D.G. Khan due to rising water table and
salinity, and remain constant in Thal. With the proposed project, the
cropping intensities already achieved by farmers purchasing TW water and those
with owned TWs have been adopted. Hence, with the project, average increases
in cropping intensity of 53% in D.G. Khan and 38% in Thal are estimated.
Annex VI presents the cropping patterns and crop yields in the D.G. Khan and
Thal subproject areas.
6.03     The variation in crop yields among TW owners, TW water purchasers,
and canal-supplied farms is also similat to the variation in cropping
intensity. Wheat yields on TW farms in D.G. Khan and Thal are about 40% and
26% higher than on farms relying on canal supplies only. The wheat yield
increases with the project would vary from 31% in Thal to 62% in D.G. Khan.
With TW water, farmers are able to take advantage of improved crop
technology--fertilizers, high-yielding varieties of seeds, and plant
protection.
6.04 The total 'without' and 'with' project and the incremental production of
foodgrains and other commodities are summarized in Table 6.2. The projected
incremental outputs are attributed to changes in cropping pattern, higher
cropping intensity and higher yields made possible by the greater availability
of water, particularly during the Rabi (winter) season.
Table 6.2 - Proiected Annual  Production
Without         With       Incremental
…_ ___-_- ---(tons)--------------
Wheat                              83,000        202,300        119,300
Cotton                             10,800         31,400         26,600
Paddy                              19,600         17,300         (2,300)
Sugarcane                         172,000       422,100        250,100
Pulses                             14,000         20,400          6,400
Oilseeds                            7,000         11,700          4,700
Orchard                            17,000         46,200         29,200
B. Marketing and Prices
Marketing
6.05     Pakistan has attained self-sufficiency in wheat (in good years) and
has exportable surplus of rice and cotton. Foreign exchange receipts from
rice and cotton in 1987/88 totalled about US$1.0 billion or 23% of total
export earnings. During the Sixth Five-Year Plan, which ended in June 1Q88,
wheat output fluctuated owing to inclement weather and forced Pakistan to
import about 1.0 million tons in 1987. Considering that the population is
growing at a rate of 3% per annum, the expected growth in wheat production



-20-
would by and large be absorbed domestically. The production of oilseeds
barely meets 30% of domestic consumption and sugarcane output would also
substitute for imports. Hence, the greater part of output under the project
would be sold mainly in domestic markets. Pakistan is a low-cost producer of
cotton and therefore has considerable prospect for improving export
performance. The recent deregulation of the cotton and rice export trade has
induced the private sector to compete directly with the public sector export
corporations.
6.06     The marketing of foodgrains and industrial products is handled by
public and private sector channels. The Pakistan Agricultural Storage and
Services Corporation (PASSCO), local grain merchants, cotton ginneries, and
sugar refineries have established a marketing network in the project areas.
The proximity of the subprojects to Multan, the second largest town in Punjab,
ensures easy access to urban-based marketing channels by road and rail.
6.07     Prices.  The system of agricultural pricing in Pakistan that has
evolved over the years serves as a major production incentive. The
Government's administered procurement prices are established on the basis of
detailed production costs compiled from surveys, and infori-nation on import and
export parity price trends. Procurement prices are used by the public
marketing agencies such as PASSCO, which are in competition with the private
sector traders. Often, the open market prices are marginally higher than the
procurement prices. Nevertheless, public sector marketing agencies procure
about 30% of annual grain production. The Government's recent liberalization
of domestic trade has enabled producers to sell their marketable surplus at
competitive prices. With the exception of Basmati rice-for which Pakistan
has a virtual monopoly market in the Middle East-and sugarcane, the domestic
crop prices are close to international price trend. The farmgate prices used
in the farm budget analysis are presented in Annex VII.
C. Farm Income Anaysis
6.08     Two groups of farmers would benefit from the proposed project.  About
60% of the farm families in the project area would jointly or individually
invest in TWs and 40% would purchase water from neighboring TW owners. The
project area farmers would also benefit from watercaurse improvements, caral
rehabilitation, and support services.
6.09     The results of farm budget analysis under two methods of irrigation
are summarized in Table 6.3. The outcomes indicate that the per capita family
income would be highest among the TW owners. This should encourage farmers to
invest in TWs, as they could also generate additional income from the sale of
TW water to neighboring farmers without wells. The average rural household
per capita income in Pakistan in 1985 was about US$130. Under the proposed
project, it is estimated that the per capita farm family income for TW owners
would increase from US$110 to about US$320 in 1988 prices, while the income of
farmers relying on purchased water would only rise to $150. The higher income
for TW owners is attributed to higher crop yields, reflecting adequate and
timely water availability, which cannot be assumed for farmers who have to buy
irrigation water. It is estimated that about 12% of the total farm income of
TW owners is derived from sales of water. The details of the farm budget
analysis are given in Annex VIII, Tables 1-4.



-21-
Table 6.3 Summary of Farm Budget Analysis 1/
Without      With    Incremental
---------------(Rs)--
Source of Irrigation:
I. Purchase Water & Canal
D.G. Khan                     L1,400    14,900           3,500
(1,900)   (2,480)
Thal                          12,700    17,500          4,800
(2,120)   (2,900)
II. TW Water & Canal
D.G. Khan                     11,500    37,700          26,200
(1,920)   (6,280)
Thal                          13,100    31,800          18,700
(2,180)   (5,300)
11 Figures in parentheses are per-capita family income.
D. Cost Recovery
6.10     The cost of the proposed project would be shared by the benefi-
ciaries. The TW owners would also share the cost of electric connections and
pay electricity tariff. While all project beneficiaries would contribute
toward the cost of watercourse improvements, farmers would finance (using ADBP
loans and own resources) the installation of TWs. In addition, similar to the
Second On-farm Water Management Project (Cr. 1603-PAK), the watercourse
improvement beneficiaries would also contribute unskilled labor and masons
toward the improvement of watercourses, and would repay 25% of the cost of
materials within seven years including two years of grace. An assurance on
this recovery arrangement was obtained from GOPunjab during negotiations. To
reverse the decline in cost recoveries under ongoing OFWM projects, the
Provincial Revenue Department has taken over the responsibility to collect
repayments from beneficiaries.
6.11     The main cost item in the proposed project is the provision of
electricity service to TWs. At present, the cost of constructing rural lines
and connecting TWs is borne by WAPDA; in principle, WAPDA is to be reimbursed
by GOP, but in practice, this has not been done. Electric connection cost up
to Rs 30,000 per TW is borne by WAPDA with the balance being paid by the TW
owner. The number of TW connections is determined by the availability of
funds. WAPDA finds it difficult to sustain the increasing cost of TW
connections from its own resources, particularly since WAPDA is no longer
subject to federal budgetary appropriation starting in FY89. Under the REP,
the Bank has reached an understanding with the Government on full cost
recovery for tubewell connection. Since the PTDP was designed to alleviate
waterlogging, salinity, and irrigation constraints and considering its pilot
nature, an electrification network, which includes the 11 KV grid, the T-off
up to the tubewell, and the 11/0.4 KV distribution transformer, is provided
under the project. To cover the cost of connection from the tubewell to the
transformer, ADBP would lend to farmers the required amounts as part of the TW



-22-
loan. It is estimated that the total recovery from 8,000 TWs would be about
US$ 1.5 million. Agreement was obtained from WAPDA that applicants for
electric connections in the subproject areas would pay the full cost of
connecting tubewells to the electricity network.
6.12     The cost of providing electricity would be recovered through the
electricity tariff. WAPDA has a differentiated tariff for different
electricity consumers. The largest agricultural consumers of electricity are
TWs. In 1986, WAPDA introduced a flat rate of Rs 60 per month per horsepower
installed, which was subsequently raised to Rs 70. In collaboration with the
Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB), WAPDA has commissioned a study on
electricity tariff for all types of consumers. The results of the study would
be reviewed jointly by GOP, WAPDA, ADB, and the Bank and, under the proposed
REP and the proposed Second Energy Sector Loan, agreements would be sought
with the GOP on revising the tariff structure which would be applicable also
to TW owners under the PTDP. In the interim, WAPDA increased the TW flat rate
in July 1988 from Rs 70 to Rs 84 in order, inter alia, to be in full
compliance with the 40% self-financing covenant agreed under the Energy Sector
Loan-I (Ln. 2552-PAK). The total cost recovery from OFWM, electric connection
charges, and electric tariff, discounted at 10% over the life of the ptoject
is estimated at US$ 25.0 million or 44% of the discounted investment and
electricity production costs. Annex IX presents the cost recovery calculation.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Production Impact
7.01     The twin objectives of the proposed project are to raise agricultural
production and farm income, and demonstrate the viability of an integrated TW
development scheme. The cropped area would expand from the present 153,000 ha
(104% cropping intensity) to 213,500 ha, and would reach 148% cropping
intensity at full development. The increase in foodgrain and industrial crop
production (para. 6.04) would contribute to the exportable surplus (cotton),
and would substitute for imports (oilseeds and sugarcane). It would also help
Pakistan maintain self-sufficiency in wheat. However, these production
results would not be achieved unless farmers have access to supplementary
irrigation water and improve their cropping practices. The interventions under
the proposed project would enable farmers to alter their cropping practices
while increasing cropping intensity, and raising crop yields.
B. Regional Impact
7.02     The proposed project is located in one of the least developed regions
of Pakistan along the right and left banks of the Indus river in Punjab.
Despite increases in the allocation of canal water following the completion of
the Tarbela dam, the D.G. Khan area receives nonperennial canal supplies,
which limit agricultural production. Furthermore, because the area is close
to the Indus and Chenab rivers and exposed to seepage from adjacent canals,
waterlogging and salinity are a constant threat. Agricultural development has
also been slow in the Thal area owing to a shortage of canal water and the
prevailing arid conditions there. The proposed project would improve the
utilization of the agricultural resources in these areas and thereby induce



-23-
investments in agroprocessing, and services to cater to TW technology. The
project would directly benefit 26,000 farm families of predominantly (65X)
small farm-holders with less than 5 ha, and would create an estimated 0.4
million man-days of casual employment as a result of the expected increase in
production.
C. Environnental Impact
7.03     The interventions under the proposed project would have a positive
environmental impact in the subproject areas. The waterlogged and saline
soils have already stifled the growth of agriculture, which is the mainstay of
Pakistan's economy in general and of the project area in particular. The
low-income population in D.G. Khan and Thal have limited access to social
amenities largely because the production base of the region is so limited.
With the expected higher farm income resulting from timely and reliable
irrigation water supplies and the prevention of salinization, the project
would promote better management of the area's agricultural resources.
D.Economic Anlyss
1.04     The project's economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated to be 25X,
(27% for the D.C. Khan and 22% for the Thal subproject areas). The ERRs and
net present values (NPV) for the subprojects and total project are shown in
Table 7.1 below:
Table 7.1 - Economic Rates of Return and Net Present Values
ERR (%)         NPV (Rs M)
D.G. Khan                                    27                742
Thal                                         22                296
Total Project                                25              1,038
The higher ERR of the D.G. Khan area is due to the lower cropping intensity
assumed without the project, and higher incremental crop yields with the
project. The project's NPV, at a discount rate of 10%, the assumed
opportunity cost of capital in Pakistan, is at Rs 1,038 million or US$58.0
million. Annex X presents the benefit and cost streams for the two
subprojects and the total project. Chart III graphically shows the discounted
benefit and cost streams. The underlying assumptions and the treatment of key
variables in the derivation of the ERRs are as follows:
(a) Project Participation. The number of farm families likely to
invest in TWs during the project implementation period of five
years has been set at 8,000. However, because of joint
ownership, and sale of water, 26,000 farm families would benefit
from the proposed project.
(b) Proiect Life. The life of the project will depend on the
condition of electrical lines. It is assumed that the electrical
lines would supply service for 20 years. However, the privately
installed TWs would last for an average of ten years; therefore,
replacement cost of TWs has been added to the investment cost
stream.



-24-
(c) Investment Costs. The electric network is designed to meet
projected power demand for TWs, domestic, agroindustry, and other
users in the subproject areas. The load forecast for non-TW
users is about 402 of the total load. Hence, for the purpose of
the base case economic analysis, and to reflect the resource cost
attributable to TWs, the electrification component of the
investment cost stream has been reduced by 40X.
(d) Prices. To reflect the econoLlic impact of the project in terms
of forgone benefits and costs, all traded commodities and inputs
are valued at either import or export parity prices. Nontraded
outputs and factor inputs are converted to their opportunity
values using the standard conversion factor (SCF) for Pakistan,
which is 0.9. To adjust the TW tariff, it is assumed that the
alternative to electricity driven TW is diesel. TW water buyers
are currently paying 38% more for water supplied from diesel TWs
than from electric TWs. For the economic analysis of the
project, the cost of water supplied by diesel TWs is taken as a
proxy for electricity charges.
E. Sensitivity Analysis
7.05     The project's resilience to possible changes in selected variables
was tested. The results of are shown in Table 7.2 below.
Table 7.2 - Switching Value Indices
Value Index
Appraisal     Switching      % change
Benefits                             100            78              -22
Production Cost                      100           133              +33
Investment Cost                      100           255             +155
The switching value index indicates the change from the appraisal value which
would lower the ERR to 10X, the assumed opportunity cost of capital in
Pakistan. The locus of benefit and cost switching values is presented in
Chart IV. The above results demonstrate that the project's viability would
not be endangered by the magnitude of changes examined. For the project's ERR
to drop to 10%, either the benefits would have to decline by 22% or the cost
would have to increase by 33%. Neither of these scenarios is likely under the
proposed project. The projected benefits are based on realistic expectations
of crop yields derived from actual yields attained in the subproject areas,
and the prod&ction costs as a percentage of revenue are in line with ratios
for other irrigation and drainage projects. Based on experience from ongoing
projects, the chances for the investment cost to overrun by one and one-half
times are also unlikely. The ERR based on the cost of electrification
including costs attributable to non-TW users is about 22%.
F. Project Risks
7.06     The proposed project does not entail unusual lisks.  The TW
technology is widely known in Pakistan and its adoption by farmers of the
project areas would be accelerated, provided that electricity service and
credit would be made available to them. Among the risks facing the project



-25-
is a possible failure in coordination of project implementation. Farmers
would be frustrated if TW loans are granted and the electric connections are
not provided on time. To avert this risk, the project's organizational setup
has a mechanism to closely mnonitor project implementation, identify causes for
delays, and initiate appropriate remedial action. The other risk is the
failure to ensure power availability. To minimize the risk of power shortage,
successful implementation of the load management scheme would minimize the
power demand during peak hours, when load shedding is common. Moreover, under
current practices, electricity is available 8-10 hours a day, which is
adequate for TW operation.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECCOMMENDATION
8.01     The following assurances were obtained from the GOP, WAPDA and
GOPunjab during negotiations.
(a) WAPDA to review with IDA the consultant's findings and
recommendation regarding the electrical network design and
standards, and the pilot load management scheme by June 30, 1989
(para. 4.06);
(b) WAPDA would recruit project consultants by August 31, 1989 (para.
4.07);
(c) GOPunjab would prepare a training program for Extension and OFWM
staff to be conducted by the OFWM Institute (para. 4.08);
(d) GOPunjab would sign an agreement with ADBP to ensure timely
processing of credit to farmers (para. 4.10);
(e) The PMC and DGOFWM would maintain project accounts which would be
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and would
submit to IDA copies of the audit report, including separate
opinion, on the utilization of the special accounts for
disbursements against statement of expenditures (para. 4.18);
(f) The PMC and DGOFWM would s,bmit to the IDA an approved annual
work plan by September 30 of each year, and a consolidated
quarterly progress report within forty five-days after each
quarter (para. 5.02);
(g) GOPunjab would establish field teams for the watercourse
improvement component in D.G. Khan (para. 5.06);
(h) GOPunjab to recover 25% of the cost of materials for watercourse
improvement works, within seven years, including two years grace
period (para 6.10'; and
(i) WAPDA would charge farmers the full cost of tubewell connection
to the electrification network (para. 6.11).



-26-
8.02     A condition of Credit effectiveness would be approval of the Planning
Commission-1 (PC-1) project proforma by ECNEC (para. 4.14).
8.03     With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 26.3 Million (US$34.4 million equivalent)
on standard terms, with 35 years maturity. The borrower would be the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan.



PAKISTAN
PRIVATE TUBEWELL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AVERAGE MONTHLY RAINFALL AT JAMPUR D.G. KHAN. (1960 TO 1986)
(Inches)
---------- RABU --       - ----------------- KHARI --------------------   ----------RABI  -------------
MEAR    IM        EEO       Am         A?EIm               "A         i        AUG       LEA       _SI      QNY                TOTAL
1960      -1.40                                                                 -         -         -                   -        1.40
1961      -         -         -         -         -         -         2.40      1.46      0.32      0.17      -         0.12    4.47
1962      -         0.72      1.48      -         0.34      -         -         -         0.66      -         0.76      0.15    4.11
1963     -          -        0.30       -         0.45      -                   0.10      -         -         0.03      -        0.88
1964     0.96       -         -         0.14      0.02      0.30      3.22      0.52      -         -         -         -        5.16
1965     0.89       -         -         0.81      0.23      0.55      2.40      2.04      -         -         -         -        6.92
1966      -         0.14      0.53      1.31      0.50      0.25      0.22      3.10      0.79      -         -         -        6.84
1967      -        -0.26      2.10      0.14      -         0.54      1.72      0.10      -         -         -         3.34    8.20
1968     0.27       0.25      0.32      -         0.10      -         -         -         -         0.45      -         0.53    1.92
1969      -         0.52      -         0.14      0.37      -         0.19      0.37      -         -         -         -        1.59
1970     0.12      0.03       0.08      -         0.45      -         0.30      -         0.55      -         -         -        1.53
1971      -         -         -         -         -         0.53      0.10      -         -         -         -         -        0.63
1972      -         -         -         0.10      -         0.50      0.40      0.15      0.40      -         -         -        1.55
1973                                    -                   -         1.55      3.70      -                             -        5.25
1974     0.25      0.10       -         0.56      -         -         0.44      1.75      0.30      -         -         -        3.40
1975      -         1.10      0.05      0.47      0.29      0.48      0.40      1.95      2.17      -         -         -        6.91
1976      -         0.05      0.55      -         -         1.50      1.58      0.50      5.45      -                   -        9.63
1977     0.15       -         -         0.65      1.24      1.38      1.07      0.10      0.87      -         -         -        5.46
1978     0.10       0.62      -         0.07      -         -         5.71      -         -         -         1.15      -        7.65
1979     0.80       1.55      2.80      1.31      1.05      -         -         1.35      -         -         0.'9      0.23    9.28
1980     0.18       -        0.55       -         0.30      -         1.32      0.25      -         -         -         -        2.60
1981     0.30       0.27      0.50      0.07      0.47      -         0.88      -         -         -        -0.18      -        2.67
1982     0.10      0.13       1.11      0.90      -         -         -         1.93      -         0.08      0.4;      0.25    4.93
1983     0.25      0.75      0.41       1.24      0.51      0.45      2.21      6.38      2.11      -         -         0.12   14.43
1984     -          -         -         0.14      -         -         1.57      0.43      -         -         -         -        2.14
1985      -         -         0.11      0.32      -         0.46      1.05      0.38      0.75      -         -         0.04    3.11
1986     -          0.5      0.82       0.08      0.45      0.49      1.07      2.46      -         -         -         -        5.87
Total of
27 Years 4.37       6.99    11.71       8.45      6.32      6.77    31.2       29.02    14.37       0.70      2.74      4.78  128.53
(1960 to
198f)
Total of
14 Years 2.17      4.49      4.85       3.37      4.27      4.39    13.94    10.12        9.74      0.45      1.52      0.76   60.07
(1968 to
1981)
Kharif   Qabi       Annual
Average of 27 years Rainfall (1960 to 1986)   3.56           1.16    4.72
Average of 14 years Rainfall (1968 to 1981)   3.27           1.02    4.29



ANNEX II
-28-                      Page   1
PAKISTAN
PRIATE TUBEWELL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultants' Terms of Reference
1.      The Terms of Reference for the Consultants to be employed under the
proposed project are summarized below. The de ailed description of the
Consultants' tasks and qualifications are presented in the Project
Implementation Volume.
Hydrogeologist:
2.      To assist the Project Implementation Units (PIU), two hydrogeologists
will carry out groundwater monitoring and evaluation and work on tubewell
technology study in D.G. Khan and Thal subproject areas during the implementa-
tion of the project. One of the hydrogeologists would be designated as the
team leader for the project consultants. Their main tasks will be to:
(a) collect, monitor, review, and evaluate hydrogeological data in the
subproject areas to determine soil salinity and groundwater
quality at variable depths (both salinity and full chemical
analyses), and locate all existing TWs and measure water level
fluctuations under existing conditions to form the baseline study
before project TW construction and electrification;
(b) determine the location and supervise the construction of the
proposed 38 observation piezometer nests (24 in D.G. Khan and 14
in Thal). The recommended location and construction details are
given in Volume III of the Project Implementation Report;
Cc) establish a groundwater salinity and water level monitoring
network in both subproject areas using unused private dugwells and
TWs, WAPDA observation TWs, and the proposed 38 observation
project piezometer nests;
(d) install and maintain the six automatic level recorders (4 in D.G.
Khan and 2 in Thal) on observation piezometers to determine
recharge from canals, rainfall and farmer fields and to measure
the anticipated water level decline in waterlogged areas;
(e) carry out pumping tests on TWs in both subproject areas, using
observation piezometer where possible to obtain more accurate
aquifer hydrologi- characteristics to be incorporated in the
computer model;
(f) make further recommendations for the monitoring and utilization of
groundwater resources and recommend changes in the rate of
pumpage, if needed;
(g) design approptiate TW so that construction and operation costs of
the traditional coir strainer TW can be minimized;



ANNEX II
-29-                       Page   2
(h) provide advice and guidance on TW technology to farmers and ADBP
representatives to ensure economic and efficient performance; and
(i) prepare a final report outlining the changes in the hydro-
geological regime since project implementation and recommend
needed future actions.
Irrigation Agronomist/Engineer
3.      Under the supervision of the DG, OFWM, the Irrigation Agronomist/
Engineer would be responsible for:
(a) preparing a program for testing pressurized irrigation system in
D.G. Khan and Thal;
(b) assisting OFWM staff to select, design, and install equipment on
farmers' fields with TWs;
(c) assisting OFWM staff to implement, supervise, and evaluate the
performance of the pilot services;
(d) training extension agents and OFWM staff in management,
maintenance and operation methodologies of pressurized irrigation
methods;
(e) assisting in selection of suitable crops to assess their
performance under conjunctive use of surface and pressurized
irrigation systems;
(f) advising the farmers to minimize water conveyance losses and
certifying the lining works completed for selected watercourses;
and
(g) preparing annual reports on the progress and emerging lessons from
the pilot schemes.
4.      Electrical Planning Engineer.  Under the supervision of the Project
Director, Project Management Cell, and in collaboration with the Power Wing of
WAPDA, the Electrical Design Engineer would be employed to:
(a) review and analyse WAPDA's design and construction standards
currently used in erecting rural distribution networks, and the
development of the most appropriate and least cost design and
standards for typical line configurations emerging from the
analysis of different network alternatives;
(b) formulate a load management scheme which will be used in a pilot
test program aimed at controlling the load of about 500 existing
TWs in the Thal area;
(c) analyse the technical and cost advantages of up-rating the primary
distribution voltage in connection with developing the least-cost
design for typical line configurations. As a minimum, the
following alternatives should be investigated by supplying:



ANNEX II
-30-                    Page   3
(i) the project areas from grid stations with 11 KV primary
distribution voltage;
(ii) the project areas from grid stations with 33 KV primary
distribution voltage;
(iii) the project area through the use of two or single phase medium
voltage systems; and
(iv) the use of lighter prestressed concrete poles instead of the
standard steel lattice poles and use of lighter conductors for
small loads.
In analyzing the above-mentioned alternatives, the consultant
should consider, among other things, the line loading, line
losses, short-circuit duty, protective schemes, voltage
regulations, and flexibility for future expansion;
(d) formulate the load management scheme, in addition to capital
considerations, particular attention should be given to ensure
that the scheme proposed does not lend itself to unauthorized
interventions and that it is centrally or regionally controlled.
In addition, the consultant will train the staff of the Area
Electricity Board of Multan in monitoring and maintaining the
equipment to be installed.
5.      Electrical Engineers (Construction Supervision).  Two Electrical
Engineers for construction supervision would be appointed. On the basis of
detailed designs and standards of typical line configurations provided by
WAPDA, the consultants would be responsible to undertake, but not be limited
to, the following:
(a) site specific surveys and development of economical electrical
feeder layout and customer connection plans;
(b) preparation of detailed staking sheets on the basis of which an
engineering/construction contractor would erect the project
facilities;
(c) monitoring of all phases of construction implementation, advising
WAPDA on the accomplishments, problems and corrective measure
needed, preparing monthly progress reports, and reviewing and
certifying contractor invoices submitted by the contractor(s);
(d) assisting WAPDA, PMC, and the farmers in streamlinging the
electrical connection procedures and billing of electrical 'harges;
(e) commissioning each completed line and comparing the character-
istics of the project, as commissioned, w.th the initial design;
and
(f) preparing technical manuals which would serve as reference guides
and imparting on-the-job training to their counterpart staff.



PAKISTAN
PRIVATE TUB£JEIL DEVELOPIENT PROJCCT
SUWIARY AW.UUNTS COST SWUMARY
!RS '000)                                      (USS '000)
. Total                                       % Total
% Foreign  Base                               ' Foreign Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs    Local   Foreign   Total   E;chanse   Costs
T. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. ELECTRIFICATION INSTALLATION               103,266.7  18,223.5 121,490.2        15      17  5,737.0  ,l012.4  6,749.5         15       17
2. ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT                    65,139.0  16,462.6  81.601.6        20      11   3s618.B    914.6  4,533.4        20      11
3. BUILDINGS FOR OFFICE AND RESIDENCE          16,005.0  4.044.9  20@049.9         20       3    889.2    224.7  19113.9         20        3
Sub-Total CIVIL WORXS                            184,410.7  38,731,1 223,141.8        17      31  109245.0  2,151.7 12,396.8         17      31
B. MATERIALS AND ERUIPHENT
1. ELECTRIFICATION                            227,773.6 230,680.1 458,453.7        50      63  12.654.1 12,815.6 25,469.6        50       63
2. OFFICE EGUIPTMENT                            1,406.7   19415.7   2v822.5        50       0      78.2     79.7    156.8        50        0
3. 6W MONITORING ESUIPMENT                        182.0     424.7     606.7        70       0      10.1     23.6     33.7        70        0
4. COMPUTER AND METEOROLOSICAL EgUIPMENT        1,001.1   2,336.0   3,337.1        70       0      55.6    129.8   185.4         70       0
5. INPUT DEMONSTRATION MATER.                     451.3    455.1    906.3          50       0      25.1     25.3    50.4         50        0
Sub-Total MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT                230,814.7 235,311.5 466,126.3        50      64  12,823.0 13,072.9 25,895.9         50      64
C. VEHICLES
1. 444 VEHICLE                                  3,792.1   3,792.1   7,584.3        50       1     210.7    210.7    421.3        50        1
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                 3,792.1   3,792.1   7,584.3        50       1    210.7    210.7    421.3          50       1
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
1. IA/CONSULTANTS                               8,707.5     978.4  ?9,685.9        10       1     483.8     54.4    b38.1         10       1
2. TRAINING                                    12,600.0   1,415.7  14.015.7        10       2     700.0     78.7   778.7          10       2
3. TA/IMPACT EVALUATION                         6,480.0    728.1   7,208.1         10       1     360.0     40.4    400.4         10       I
Sub-Total IECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING       279787.5   3,122.2  309909.7        10       4   19543.8    173.5  1,717.2         10       4         (0
_--------   ---------   ---------   ---------   -------  --------   --------   --------   --------- __-___-
Total BASELINE COSTS                                 446,805.1 2809956.9 727,762,1        39     100  24,822.5 15,608.7 40,431.2        39      100
Phtsical Contingencies                             61,232.5  40,540.9 101,773.4        40      14   37401.8  2,252.3  5,654.1         40      14
Price Contingencies                                69,754.3  34,933.8 104,688.2        33      14  2,B53.9  1,370.9  4,224.8          32      10
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  577,792.0 356,431.7 934,223.6        38     128 31,078.2 19,231.9 50,310.1          38     124
'larch 13, 1989 14:39



PAKISTAN
PRIVATE TUPEWELL DEIVELOPMENT PROJECT
Susary Accounts by Ye;r
Totals Including Contingencies                         Totals Includirng Contingencies
(PS '000)                                              (USt '00)
1990      1991      1992     1993      1994    Total       1990      1991    1Q92   '°93    194    Total
T, INEWSTMENT COSTS
4. CIVIL VRS
1. ELECTRIFICATION INSTALLATION                 27,999.8 112,911.1  8,557.2  7,724.2          - 157,192.4  1,538.5  61d03.3   450.4   402.3         -  8,494.4
2. ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT                             -  15,466.5 24,187.1 40,323.1 294185.2 109,161.8          -    836.0 1.2?3.0 2,100.2 1,520.1  5,729.2
3. BUILDINGS FOR OFFICE AND RESIDENCE           18,738.5   49977.2         -         -        -  23,715.7  1,029#6   .69.0         -       -        -  1,298.6
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS                              46,738.3 133,354.9 32,744.3 48,047.2 29,185.2 290,069.8  2,568.0  7,208.4 1-723.4 2,502.5 1,520.1 159522.3
B. 1ATERIALS AND EGUIPHENT
1. ELECTRIFICATION                             104,878.4 420,647.4 31,980.4 28,972.0          - 5869470.3  5,762.6 22,737.7 1,683.2 1,5509.0        - 31.6'2.4
2. OFFICE EOUIPTtENT                             2,618.7      691.9        -         -        -   3,310.6    143.9    37.4         -        -       -    181.3
3. GU NONITCRING EQUIPMENT                         210,2      516.8        -         -        -     ?27.0      11.6     27.9       -                -     39.5
4. COMPUTER AND METEOROLOGICAL EOtIPNENT         1.541.6   2.436,2         -         -        -   39977,8     84.7    131.7        -        -       -    216.4
5. INPUT DEMOSTRATION HATER,                       210.5      222.7   235.4    244.5    251.9   1t165.0        11.6     12.0    12.4   12.7    13.1       61.8
Sub-Total MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT                 109,459.4 424,515.D 32p21'.8 29,216.5    251.9 595,658a7  6,014.3 22,946.8 1,695.6 1P521.7    13.1 32,191.4
C. VEHICLES
1. 4U VEHICLE                                    8,759.0          -        -        -         -   8,759.0    481.3         -       -       -        -    481.3
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                  8,759.0          -        -         -        -   8,759.0   481.3          -       -        -       -    481.3
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
1. TA/CONSULTANTS                                49305.9   2,094.1  29519.9  1,957.0  1,343.8  12.220.8    236.6    113.2   132.6   101.9    70.0    654.3          1.
2. TRAINING                                      3,280.7  3.490.2  3,674,9  3,805.3  3.919.5  18,170.5    180.3    188.7  193.4  198.2  204.1    964.7              fD x
3. TA/IMPACT EVALUATION                          1,687.2   1,795.0  1,889.9  2,957.0  2.015.7   9,344.8       92.7      97.0    99,5   101.9   105.0    496.1        , ,
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING         9,273.8   7,379.2  8,084.7  7,719.4  7,279.0  39,736.2    509,5    398.9   425.5   402.0  Z79.1  2,115.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                1749230.5 565,249.1 73,044.9 84,983.1 36.716.1 931,223.6  9,573.1 309554.0 3,844.5 4,426.2 1,912.3 50,310.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    174,230.5 565.249.1 73,044.9 84,983.1 36,716,1 934.223.6  9,573.1 30,554.0 3,844.5 4.426,2 1P912.3 50,310.1
-arch 13. 1989  14:39



PAKISTAN
PRIVATE tUDEWELL DEVELOPnENT PROJECT
Project Cosponents bu Year
Totals Including Contingencies                          Totals Including Contingencies
(RS '000)                                               (USS '000)
1i90      1991      1992      1993     1994    Total        1990     1991    1992    1993    1994    Total
A. ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM          160s375.7 538,535.8 409537.6 369696.2          - 776,145.4  8B811.9 299110.0 2,133.6 1,911.3          - 41,966.7
B. ON-FARN VATER MANASENENT                        -  159466.5 24,187,1 40,323.1 299185.2 109,161.8           -    836.0 1,273.0 2i100.2 1,520.1  5,729.2
C. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPhENT
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   5,993.1   3,889.1  4P409.9  3,914.0  3,359.6  21,565.6    329.3    210.2   232.1   203.9   175.0  19150.4
2. TRAINING                               39280,7   3p490.2  39674.9  3,805.3  3s919.5  18170.5    180.3    188.7   193.4   198.2   204.1    964.7
3. TECHNICAL EQUIP. I MATERIALS           4,581.0   3YB67.6    235.4    244.5    251.9   9,180.4    251.7    209.1    12.4    12.7    13.1    499C0
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT         13.854.8  119246.8  8,320.2  79963.9  7,530.9  48,916.5    761.3    607.9   437.9   414.8   392.2  2P614.1
Total PRMJECT COSTS                          174,230.5 5659249,1 73,044#9 84P983,1 36,716,1 934,223.6  9,573.1 30s554.0 3,844.5 49426.2 1,912.3 50,310.1
March 13, 1989 14:39



PAKISlAN
PRIVATE 7IUEUELL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financi- Plan bu Project Couporents
(USS '000)
IDA             ADBP          FARMER      GOVERNMENT         Total
--------------  -----------  ------------  -------------  --------------                 Local (Excl.  Duties I
Amoumt        AQmount  Z    Amount   X      Amount   Z      Aouwrt    Z    For. Exch.      Taxes)       Taxes
A. ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM         29,039.8  69.2        --             -    -  12926.9 30.8  41,966.7  83.4    17,578.7         15,234.2   9,153.8
D. ON-FARM MATER MANAGEMENT                2,864.1  50.0        -    -  1,637.7 28.6   1,227.5 21.4   5,729.2  11.4       1,142.2        4,014.1     572.9
C. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
______________  ___  ___   _-
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 1,150.4 100.0        -    -        -    -          -    -   1150.4   2.3         114.5        14035.9         -
2. TRAININ6                               964.7 100.0        -    -         -    -         -    -      964.7   :.9        96.0          868.6         -
3. TECHNICAL E[UIP. I MATERIALS           349,3  70.0        -    -         -    -     149.7 30.0      499.0   1.0       300.5           55.0     143.5
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT        2,464.4  94,3        -    -         -    -     149.7  5.7   29614.1   5.2        511.0        1,959.6     143.5
Total Disbursesent                          34p368.3  68.3        -    -  1,637.7  3.3  14.304.1 28.4  50,310.1 100.0    199231.9         21,207.9   9,870.2
March 139 1989 14:39
I0



ANNEX V
-35-
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE TUBEWELL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US $ M)
Semester                                 Per Semester       Cumulative
FY90
First                                            -                 -
Second                                           3.3               3.3
FY91
First                                            3.3               6.6
Second                                          10.7              17.3
FY92
First                                           10.7              28.0
Second                                           1.3              29.3
FY93
First                                            1.3              30.6
Second                                           1.4              32.0
FY94
First                                            1.4              33.4
Second                                           0.6              34.0
FY95
First                                            0.4              34.4



PIIIS?ISN
PRIVATS TIS1ILL DEVELOPIKET PIOJICT
DIII GIAZI IRAN SO-PIOJICT AREA
CROPPING INTEISITY, CROPPING PATTERN IND CIOP YIELDS
1. ill 801DIL: CAINL IAIIT OILY; FiNl SIIE - 6 la
PIRESIT                                       WITIOUT TaE PROJICS                                1ITH Tot PROJICT
CROPPING       CIOPPING                           CROPPING        CROPPING                          CROPPING       CROPPING
ITSITY         PATTEIN       CROP YIELDS           INISNITY       PATllE        CROP YIELDS         INTE1SI"       PATTRN        CROP SIILDS
IS)           (la)          (lI/Ia)                (I)           (la)          (Kg/la)             (2)            (la)          (Kg/Na)
lIlSA           36.00           2.160        1,179                 31.00           1.860       1,290                42.00           2.520        1,410
CO?tOI          15.00           0.900          600                 13.00           0.7J0         710                19.00           1.140          750
PADDY           11.00           0.660        1,6170                11.00           0.660       1,900                11.00           0.660        2,000
IODDIR          23.00           1.380       24,500                 20.00           1.200      28,200                23.00           1.380       29,400
SHAD             3.50           0.210       28,500                  3.50           0.210      32,800                 3.50           0.210       34,200
ORCIARD          1.00           0.060       10,000                  1.00           0.060      11,500                 1.00           0.060       12,000
PuLSES           5.50           0.330          550                  5.50           0.330         580                 5.50           0.330          610
OILSUDS          5.00           0.300          400                  5.00           0.300         420                 5.00           0.300          500
100.00          6.000                              90.00           5.400                            110.00          6.600
2. FIAR NODIL: CIIAL RAIR & BUYING RITIS; fINl SIlE   6 Ia
nilT            36.00           2.160        1,230                 31.00           1.860       1,300                60.00           3.600        1,800
conoN           15.00           0.900          680                 13.00           0.780         750         .      20.00           1.200        1,100
PADDY           11.00           0.660        1,750                 11.00           0.660       1,920                 7.00           0.420        2,300
FODEDR          23.00           1.380       24,500                 20.00           1.200      28,200                23.00           1.380       33,100
SUGAR            3.50           0.210       22,400                  3.50           0.210      33,800                 4.00           0.240       36,000
ORCIARD          1.00           0.060       10,000                  1.00           0.060      11,580                 1.00           0.060       12,500
PULSIS           5.50           0.330          600                  5.50           0.330         650                 8.00           0.480          740
OILSIIDS         5.00           0.300          440                  5.00           0.300         510                 7.00           0.420          600
100.00          6.000                              i0.00           5.400                           130.00           7.800
3. FAIN MODIL: CINAL VATIR & TV VATIR; FARU SIZI: 6 la
RIEAY           36.00           2.160        1,260                 31.00           1.860       1,300                67.00           4.020        2,300
COTTON          15.00           0.900          700                 13.00           0.780         750                24.00           1.440        1,450
PIDDY           11.00           0.660        1,800                 11.00           0.660       1,950                 7.00           0.420        2,500
FODDIR          23.00           1.380       24,500                 20.00           1.200      28,200                26.00           1.560       37,700
SUhI1            3.50           0.210       30,100                  3.50           0.210      34,000                 5.00           0.300       38,000
ORCIARD          1.00           0.060       10,000                  1.00           0.060      11,500                 4.01           0.240       13,000
PULSES           5.50           0.330          630                  5.50           0.330        650                  9.00           0.540          750      -I-
OILSIIDS         5.00           0.300          460                  5.00           0.300         520                 8.00           0.480          700
100.00          6.000                              90.00           5.400                           150.00           9.000



P111I! T0BIIILL DIVILOPIIET PIOJICT
TEIL SI-PROJICT Ila
CROPPING liTEISITY, CIOPPING PATAEN AUD CROP TIILDS
1. fill BODIL: CANAL EA7TR ONLY; fill SIZ: 5 la
PRlSlNT                                     MNITOUT TIE PIOJICT                                    VIT TIt rOJICT
CBOPPING         CIOPP11G                          CROPPING        CROPPING                             CIOPPING         CIOPPIG
INTNISIT         PIA lN       CROP YILDS          ITmSiT          PimT#        CROP YIELDS             INISITy          PA"ITI      CROP 7IILDS
(t)             Ila)         (lI/la)             (M              (Rai         (iNc)                    (1)             (la)        (Is/la)
HEUT                  11.00          2.050             1,850             41.00          2.050        1,900                   49.00            2.450       2,230
COTTON                5.00           0.250               650              5.00          0.250          15                     1.00           0.350         M80
FODDIR               11.50           0.575           24,500              11.50          0.515       28,200                   11.50            0.515      29,400
SUGAR                 3.50           0.175           31,600               3.50          0.115       33,250                    3.50            0.115      34,100
ORCIIRD               1.00           0.050            10,000              1.00          0.050       11,500                     1.00           0.050      12,000
PULSIS               30.00           1.500              600              30.00          1.500          650                   30.00            1.500         700
OILSIIDS             18.00           0.900               430             18.00          0.900          470                    18.00           0.900         530
110.00           5.500                             110.00          5.500                                120.00           6.000
2. FIRN HODIL: CANAL RATER I BUYING RATRI; FAIN SIZI  5 Na
VIEAT                41.00           2.050             1,900             41.00          2.050        2,000                   55.00            2.750       2,600
COTTON                5.00           0.250              Tt0               5.00          0.250          110                    6.00            0.300       1,100
fODDER               11.50           0.515           24,500              11.50          0.575       28,200                    15.00           0.750      33,000
SUGAR                 3.50           0.175           '2,600               3.50          0.175       34,000                    8.00            0.400      31,000           4
ORCIARD               1.00           0.050            10,000              1.00          0.050       11,500                    1.00            0.050      12,500
PULSIS               30.00           1.500              630              30.00          1.500          700                   32.00            1.600         SOO
OILSIIDS             18.00           0.900              :50              18.00          0.900          510                    18.00           0.900         650
110.00           5.500                             110.00          5.500                                135.00           6.150
3. FAIN NODIL: CANAL RATIR A TR RATER; FIN SIZI  5 h
alit                 41.00           2.050            1,950              41.00          2.050        2,050                   60.00            3.000       2,700
COTTON                5.00           0.250              130               5.00          0.250          800                    7.00            0.350       1,450
FODDIR               11.50           0.575           21,500              11.50          0.575       28,200                   18.00            0.900      37,700
SgGAE                 3.50           0.175           33,400               3.50          0.175       34,500                   18.00            0.900      40,000
ORC0IRD               1.00           0.050           10,000               1.00          0.050       11,500                    3.00            0.150      13,000        ,.3 
PULSIS               30.00           1.500              650              30.00          1.5t0          700                   34.00            1.700         850
OILSIIDS             18.00           0.900              410              18.00          0.900          550                   20.00            1.000         750
110.00           5.500                             110.00          5.500                                160.00           8.000                       c



-38-
ANNEX VII
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE TUBEWELL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices
(In Rupees)
Unit          Financial          Economic
1990      1995      2000
Outputs
Cotton                        Kg                  4.7       6.3        8.8      8.9
Irri Rice                     Kg                  1.5       2.4        3.0      3.1
Wheat                         Kg                   2.1      2.4        2.9      3.1
Sugarcane                     Kg                  0.3       0.4        0.4      0.4
Fodder                        Kg                  0.1       0.12       0.12     0.12
Pulses                        Kg                  3.2       2.85       2.85     2.85
Oilseed                       Kg                   3.5      4.7        5.7      5.6
Orchard (mango)               Kg                  4.8       4.3        4.3      4.3
Inputs
Cotton seed                   Kg                  4.5       4.1        4.1      4.1
Irri rice seed                Kg                  2.5       2.3       2.3       2.3
Wheat seed                    Kg                   3.2      2.9        2.9      2.9
Sugarcane seed                Kg                  0.8       0.7        0.7      0.7
Fodder seed                   Kg                  2.5       2.3        2.3      2.3
Pulses seed                   Kg                  5.7       5.1        5.1      5.1
Oilseed seed                  Kg                  4.8       5.7        5.7      5.7
Orchard seedlings (mango)    No.                 14.0      12.6       12.6     12.6
Fertilizer:
Nitrogen (N)               Kg                  5.8       8.3      11.3      11.3
Phosphorous(P205)          Kg                  7.0      10.9      13.5      14.0
Potassium (K)              Kg                  2.9       4.5       5.4       5.4
Cost of buying water          Rs/hr               9.0      12.5       12.5     12.5
Bullock work                  Rs/pair-day        45.0      41.0      41.0      41.0
Tractor work                  Rs/hr              70.0      74.0       74.0     74.0
Flat rate of TW tariff        Rs/horse-power    84.0    117.0        117.0    117.0
Labor                         Man-day            30.0      27.0       27.0     27.0
Economic prices of internationally traded commodities are based on World Bank
Comodity Price Forecasts (February 1988).



PANISIAN
PIaI  WMEELL BEWEtDPENT3 PROJECI
MOaLE  la   fUll. 86 611BE - Il  WNER 3. b CSEC ELECIRICI faer  Nodel
FINANCIAL BUDGE?
(in Rs)
fT
Witthout                                                        With Project
1  2     3        4     6m~~~~       ~ ~ ~~o 20  3  2     3         4        6         6        7         a     9 to20
lain ProCwit on
001101                                    2.961 0  2,913. 4  2.8t2 3  2.807.?7 2. 749. b   2.961.O0  4.293 6   5.72? 4   ?.261 3 8.893 6  9.264 8  9.540 8  9.723 2  9.813 6
lutll NICE                                1. 722. 6  1.76 6.   3 794.4  1.830. 3  18896. 2   1, 722. 6  1. 721. 3   1.705 2   3, 676. 0  1.6533 3  l.6586.4  1.563 a  1.6532.?  3.6 22 6
umthi                          S. ~~~~6506.5  6.464.8  5.300 0  6.142 I 4.981 I  5.606 6  8.169 6  10.939.56  13. 914 6 37.092. 6 17.878 1 18.464 4 18.83533 19. 0468a
laDDIE                                    4, 395. 3  4.412 5  4.418 9  4. 414. 5  4,399.2   4, 395.3  5. 145. I  5.916. ?   6. 705. 9  7.S12. 8  7. 568. 0  7. 607. !  7.633 4  7.b4% 6
PuLSES                                      669.0    664. 3    669.S    674.7    680.0      669 0    799 3      944.2   1.093 5  1.24? 2  1.262. 2  1. 273. 2  1.280 4  1. 213 9
SI3GICAIL                                 1.833 1  I.89M.   1 961. 8  2.011. 2  2.070 6   1. 833 I 2. 160.31  2. 502. 5   2.869 0  3.228.4  3.262 0  3.285 3  3.299 6  3.306 0
DIESElS                                     483.0    498. S    614 6    630 3    646.0      463.0    626.0      778 6     939.9  1. 109. 9  1. 137 3  1. 167 3  1.169 9  1.176t0
D9C3388  (HNGS)                           2,880. 0  298W8.0  3.096. 0  3. 204. 0  3. 312. 0   2,880. 0  2 988. 0  I1. 866.6. 12,6$36.2 13.420.8B 14,467. 6 14, 975. 0 14, 976. 0 14, 976. 0
S.b-lotal Rbin Productison                  20,640.6 20. 612.?1 20. 607. 4 20.614.7 20. 604.6  20,640.6 26. 903.8  40. 379 6  46. 984.4 64. 136.6 56.416. 4 67,8581.4 58. 468.3 68. 770 3
Not Value Of Prc4action                     20,640.5 20.512. ? 20, 607. 4 20. 614.?7 20,604.65  20,640.6 25.903.81 40,379.6  46,984.4 64. 136.65 566416. 4 57, 868.4 58.468 3 68. 770 3
(ther Inflows
INCUK  F90N SELLING 11 WAlER                    -         -        .         .- 7,450.0   7.450 0   7,460.0  7,450.0  7.450 0  7,460.0  7.450 0  7,460.0
IRILlINS                                  20.540 6 20.662 7 20, 607. 4 20.514.? 20.604.5  20.640.6 33,363.8  47, 829. 6  54,434.4 63,6586.6 6 3.866 4 65.308 4 66, 938. 3 66,220.3
Productison Cost
Investmeant
PRIVAIE JUBEWELL                             -         -        -         -        - 33.500.0                    -          -                 -         ---
Opierating
coiia  53.10                           S1 0      7863     76. 6    72 9      70 2      SI. 0    94 3      107 7     121 2    134 9    13564    135.7    136.0    336 1 
FERIILILEU-NI1RUrAU  IN)            1,160 9  1,3130. 6  I. 300. 2  1, 069.8S  1.0396 5 1,160. 9  l. 606. 9   2, 166. 1   2. 670. 0  3.202 0  3,316.2  3.402.2  3.4518 5  3,466. 6
FERitItEIR-PIIOSPWOR3US (P2063        878 6    868 6    838 3    8s8 2    7948. 0     87886  1.147 7   3,488 I   1.791 9  2, 116 6  2.188 0  2.242 6  2. 278 3  2.296 I
IIRIIli3zR-POIass3tmIIN36               2 9      2. 9      2.9      2. 9     2. 9       2. 9     3. 0      II.8 a    32. I     32 3     32 6      32.7     12 IF    12.7
RIIILOCK WOIL.                      4. 141 8  4,024.4  3.906 9  3.768 6  3,672.0   4. 141 8  4.772 4   6.j64 4   6.193 9  6.822 9  6.820 7  6.8319 I 6,838 0  6.817 6
Teaciom 11OM3                       1, 094. 1  3. 072. 1  l. 060.0  3,028. 0  3, 006.9   1. 094 3  1, 317. 9   1,6595.3   3. 863. 3  2,3147. 3  2,223.3  2.283 4  2,315 1 2.331 0
PESIICIDE                             300.6     98 7      96 9     96 1     93. 3     10065   193. 6      430 7     543. 4    654 8    7018a   73031   747 6    756. 3
C833* NAILS CIEAES                    34965   341 7    333.9    326 0    318.2        349.6    390 I    449 3       489.89   6303       30 3    620 3    630.3    630 3
31R3 RICE SEED                         24.8     248A    24.8A    24.8       24.8       24.8     2265      20 3       18. 0     Isa68          1  I8 36     368 a    368
111E*1 SEED                           691.2    667.2    643. 2    6392    696 2       691.2    840 0      9888   1. 137 6  1, 286. 4  1.286 4  1.28664  1.286 4  1,28664
FODDER SEED                            86 3     83 4      80 6     77.8     76.0       66 3     89 I       91 9      94 7     97 6      97.6     97.6      97.6     97 6
PULSES SEED                            71.65    73 6      71 6     71 S      73 5      71 6     82.8       94 2     306. 6    137 0    137. 0    137. 0    3370    1I7 0
SUIGARCANE SELO                       726.4    726.4    728. 4    728.4    728.4      728.4    848.2     973. 2   3, 097.65  3.221. I  3. 240. 3  3. 260. 1  1. 2til 7  3, 260 0
01163.50 SELO                          36.0      36. 0    36. 0    36.0      36. 0     36.0    43 4        46.8      62.2      67 6     67. 6    67 6      57 6     67 6
09633*9  SEEDLINIGS (NANGO)               -         -        -        -         -         -    342.8                4281.4                 --
FLAT SAlE Of TM TARIFF                    -                           -         -             .064 0   8,054.0   6, 084.0  8,064. 0  8.064 0  8. 064 0  8,054. 0  8.054 0
Suti-Iotal Inputs                      9,447.6  S. 218. 3 8,989. 2  8,760. 0  8,630.8   9,447.6 39,666.6S  22.088.6  24, 683. 6 26,496.3 26,806.6 27,044 6 27.1393 4 27.264 9
Hired Labor
SKILLED LABOR                         686.8a   670.6    666.2    639 9    624 6       686.8    793.0      976.2   1, 090. 8  1,210 3  1, 226. 0  1, 238.3 1   .245.6  1. 249 2
Ssb-Iotal Hired Labor                    686 8    670.6    666 2    639.9    624 6       686.8    793.0      976 2   3,090 8  1.210 1  3, 226. 0  1.238 1  1. 245.6  3.249 2
Sub-Total Operating                      30. 133. 3  9,8881.8  9. Q44. 4  9.399 9  9. 366. 4  10. 133.3 20. 449 4  23.063 7  26,774.4 27. 705 4 28. 032 6 28. 282 7 28.436 9 28.b34 I
Smb-Tota  Produact ion Cost                 30. 133. 3 S. 688.8  9,544.4  9,399.9  9. 366. 4  43,633.3 20.44*9.4  23. 063. 7  26. 774.4 27,706.4 28,032.6 28. 282 7 28,436 9 28.514.1I
CASN 31DM BEhONE FINANCING                   10.407 2 30, 693. 8 10,963. 0 II3,214.8A 11,449. 1 -23.092.8 12.904 3  24, 766. 9  28,660.0 33.881. I 36.8133 8 37,026.7 37,483.3 37,706.2
FAIN f*111? BEREFIIS JIF31R FINANCING       30. 663 7 30, 938. 3 11, 207.5 33,469.2 11, 449. I  91. 1 30, 290 1  133,41 9  18.63D. I 2b. 340.6 27,370.6 28. 668 2 29. 390. 9 32. 706 2
Returns per family-Day of Labor                 68 a      64. 4    67.0     69 7      61.31      0 4     43 3       47.3      66. 6     69.8     74 4      77 2     783      3 00 6
October 20. '988 38. 32



ANNEX VIII
Table 2
-40-
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE TUBEWEIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE   lb   FARM: DC KHAN - 114 OWNER 1S CUSEC ELECIRICI  Farm Nodal
FINANCIAL  BUDGET
(In Rsl
FY
Incranta I
1        2          3          4        5         6         7         8     9 to20
Main Production
COTTON                                              -  1, 380 0   2. 865. 1   4. 453. 7  6 144. 1 6 515,3  6. 791.3  6, 973.7  7. 064. 1
IRRI RICE                                           -    -37.2      -89.2    -155. 3   -234.9   -279.7   -312. 3   -333 4   -343. 7
WHEAT                                               -  2. 714.8   5 639.6   S, 772.5 12. 111.6 12.897.0 13. 483.3 13,872 2 14,065 1
FODDER                                                   733.6   1,497.8   2,291.4  3, 113.6  3. 168.8  3,208.7  3.234.2  3,246.4
PULSES                                              -    135.0      274.6      418.8    567.3    582.2    593 2    600 4    603.9
SUGARCANE                                           -    267.6      550 6      847 8  1.157.8  1.191.4  1.214.7  1,228.9  1,235.4
OILSEED                                             -    127.3      264.0      409.7    563.9    591.3    611.1    623.9    6300
ORCHARD  MAU1OI                                     -         -   8, 769. 6   9.331.2 10. 108.8 II, 145. 6 11.664.0 11.664 0 11. 664.0
Sub-Total Main Production                              -  5,321.1  19,772.2  26.369.7 33,532.0 35.811 9 37, 253 9 37.863.8 38,165.8
Not Value Of Product ion                               -  5.321. 1  19.772.2  26. 369.7 33.532.0 35.811.9 37,253.9 37,863.8 38. 165 8
Other Inflows
INCOME FROM SELLING TM MIATER                          7. 450.0   7.450. 0   7 450.0  7.450. 0  7,450.0  7,450.0  7.450. 0  7,450.0
INFLOWS                                              - 12. 771. 1 27,222.2  33. 819. 7 40,982.0 43,261.9 44,703.9 45,313.8 45,615.8
Production Cost
Investmeant
PRIVATE TU6EWELL                         33,500.0 t                             -         -        -         -
Operating
Inputs
COTTON SEED                                  -      16.0      32. 1      48.3      84.7      65.2      65.5     65.8      65.9
FERIILIZER-IITROGEN  INI                     -    476.3   1,065.9   1,600.2  2.162.5  2.276.7  2,362.8  2 419.0  2.447 1
FERTILIZER-PHOSPHOROUS IP2051                -    289.2      647. 7     973.7  1.317.5  1,390.0  1,444.6  1,480.3  1.498. 1
FERTItIZER-POTASSIUM  (KI                    -       0 1       9.0        9.2       9.4       9.6      9.8       9.8       9 8
BULLOCK MORK                                 -    748.0   1,657.5   2,404.5  3.150.9  3 148.7  3.147.1  3.146.0  3,145.5
TRACTOR WORN                                 -    245.8      545.3      835.4  1, 141.4  1.217.4  1.277.5  1, 309.2  1,325.1
PESTICIDE                                    -      94.9     333.8      448 3    571.5    608.5    636.8    654.3    663.0
CANAL IATER CHARGES                          -      48.4      115.4     163 8    212.1    212.1    212.1    212.1    212.1
IRRI RICE SEED                               -     -2.3       -4.5       -6.8      -9.0      -9.0     -9.0      -9.0      -9.0
IIHEAT SEED                                  -    172.8      345.6      518.4    691.2    691.2    691.2    691.2    691.2
FODDER SEED                                          5.6       11.2       16.9     22.5      22.5     22.5      22.5      22.5
PULSES SEED                                  -      11.4      22.7       34.1      45.5      45.5     45.5      45.5      45.5
SUGARCANE SEED                               -    119.7      242.7      369.1    498.?    511.8    521.7    528.3    5?1.6
OILSEED SEED                                 -       5.4       10.8       16.2     21.6      21.6     21.6      21.6      21.6
ORCHARD SEEDtINGS (UMNGO)                    -    142.8           -     428.4         -         -         -
FLAT RATE OF TN TARIFF                       -  8.064.0   8,064.0   8.064.0  8.064.0  8,064.0  8,064.0  8,064.0  8,064.0
Sub-Total Inputs                                - 10, 438. 1  13, 099.4  15. 923.6 17. 964. 4 18, 275. S18, 513. 7 18, 60. 6 18. 734.0
H ired Labor
SKILLED LABOR                                -    122.5      320.0      450.9    E85.5    601.4    613.5    620 9    624.6
Sub-Total Hired Labor                           -    122.5       320.0     450.9    585.5    601.4    613.5    620 9    624.6
Sub-Total rperating                                 - 1.C560 3  13,419.3  16,374.5 18.550.0 18,877.2 19.127 2 19,281.5 19.358 6
Sub-Total Production Cost                      33,500.0 10,560.6  13,419.3  16.374.5 18.550 0 18,877.2 19, 127 2 19.281.5 19,358 6
CASH FLOW BEFORE FINANCING                    -33.500.0  2,210.5  13,802.8  174.45.3 22.432.0 24. 384. 7 25,576.6 26, 032. 3 26. 25?. 1
FARM FAMILY BENEFITS AFTER FINANCING          -10.560.6   -648.2   2.634.4   7.056.5 13.891 6 15.921 4 17.209. 1 17,741.9 26.257 1
Returns per Family-Day of Labor                        -         -      27.4       52.2      79.1     88.2      93.5      95.2    140 1
October-20,-1-                                        --     --2                        ...... .... .......1........2.
October 20, 1988  18:12



PA2ISTAN
PRIVATE TUBEMELL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABIE 24   FARt THAI- TM OMWER 1.5 CUSEC ELECTRICI farm Nodel
FINNUCIAL BUDGET
lIn Rsl
FT
W ithout                                                       With Project
1        2        3        4     5 to 20       1        2         3         4        5         6        7        8     9 to 20
lain Production
CODTION                                     857.8   878.3   898.9    919.4   940.0         857.8  1. 171.9  1.504.7   1.855.6  2.224.3  2.289.5  2.337.8  2. 369.6  2. 385.3
IHEAT                                     S. 234.9  8.340. 4  8.446 0  B. 551.6  8. 657.2   8. 234.9 10.054. 1  11. 956.5  13.939.6 16.001. 1 16.279.9 16. 485.4 16. 620.0 16. 686.0
FODSER                                    1. 31.4  1.900.5  1.9bt9.7  2.038.8  2. 108.0  1.8.31.4  2.364.7   2,933.8   3.536.5  4. 171.1  4.270.9  4.342.9  4.388.9  4.410.9
PULSES                                    3. 090. 8  3. 150. 2  3.209. 6  3. 269. 1 3. 328. 5   3. 190. 8  3.437.9  3.792. 9   4. 155. 5  4.525. 2  4.548. 2  4, 564. 8  4.575. 5  4.580. 7
SLWARCANE                                 1. 695. 1  1. 709. 0  1. 723. 0  1. 736. 9  1. 750.9  1, 695. 1 3, 603.8  5.593. 4   7. 661. 1 9.804. 0 IC. 064.2 10. 255. 0 10. 379.3 10.440. 0
OILSEEO                                   1.480.5  1.543.5  1.606.5  1.669.5  1.732.5   .480. 5  1 747.o   2.019.9   2.298.6  2,583.0  2. 600.5  2,613. 1 2. 621. 2  2. 625. 0
OQcHaRD    NGOI                           2.400. 0  2.490.0  2.580.0  2. 670.0  2. 760.0   2,400.0  2.490.0   7.488. 0   7.956. 0  8.496.0  9.072.0  9. 360. 0  9.360.0  9.360.0
StAu-TotaI Hain Production                  19.590.3 20.012.0 20,433.6 20,sss.3 21,277.0  19.590.3 24,869.4  35.289. 1 41.403.0 47,804.6 49. 125.2 49.958.9 SO.314.3 50.487.8
Set Votal Mi Production                     19.590.3 20.012.0 20.433.6 20,855.3 21.277.0  19.590.3 24.869.4  35.289. 1 41.403.0 47.804.6 49. 125.2 49.958.9 50.314.3 50.487.8
Olher InilIws
INCONI fRON SEtINiG TM MATER                    -        -        -        -         -         -  7. 686. 0   7. 686. 0   7. 686. 0  7. 686. 0  7. 686. 0  7. 686.0  7. 686. 0  7, 686. 0
llFtONS                                   19.590.3 20,012.0 20.433.6 20.855.3 21.277.0  19.590.3 32.555.4  42.975. 1 49 089.0 55.490.6 56.811.2 57.644.9 58.000.3 58. 173.8
Product ion Cost
Investmant
PRIVAIE IUBEHEIt                             -        -        -        -         - 33.500.0         -         -          -        -        -        -         -        -
Operat ing
Inputs
C011ON SEED                           22.5      22.5     22.5     22.5     22.5       22.5     25.1      27.6      30.2      32.9     32.9     33.0     33.1      33.1
IERIILIZER-NI01ROGELN (N           1. 176. 0  1. 176. 0  1. 176. 0  1. 175. 0  1. 176. 0   1. 176. 0  1. 436. 3   t. 754. 0   2.035.4  2.326.9  2. 368.2  2.399.4  2.419. 5  2. 429.6  Z,
FERIIIIZER-PHOSPHOROuS (P2051       1.026.6  1 026.6  1.026.6  1.026.6  1.026.6   1,026.6  1.231.4   1,472.2   1,692.5 1920.2  1.950.5  1.973.4  1.988.,3  1.995.7
fERTILIZER-POTASSIUN IKI               2.4       2.4      2.4      ?.4      2.4        2.4      2.5       7.4       7.6       7.7      7.8      7.9      7.9       7.9
BuILDOC  MO                        2.793. 4  2. 793. 4  2. 793.4  2.793.4  2. 793.4   2. 793. 4  3.291. 6   3.879. 6   4. 377. 5  4.875. 2  4. 874. 5  4.874. 0  4. 873. 7  4.873.5
TRACTOR MO0                          551.3    551.3    551.3    551.3   551. 3      551.3    774. 1   1.032. 6   1. 291. 7  1. 565.4  1. 630.8  1. 681. 7  1. 710. 9  1. 725.5
PESTICIDE                             S3.8      53.8     53.8     53.8     53.8       53.8    100.3    229.8    293.2    364.5    397.0   421.7    437.4    445.3
CANAL MAIER CHARGES                  274.7    274.7    274.7    274. 7    274. 7    274.7    323.2      382. 1    430. 6    479. 1   479.     479. 1   479. 1   479. 1
HEAT SEED                            656.0    656.0   656.0    656.0   656.0        656.0    732.0      808.0    884. 0    960.0    960. 0    960. 0    960. 0    960.0
FODDER SEED                           37.4      37.4     37.4     37.4     37.4       37.4     42.7      47.9      53.2      58.5     58.5    585      58.5      58.5
PULSES SEED                          324.9   324.9   324.9   324.9   324.9          324.9    335. 7     346. 6    357.4    368.2   368. 2    368. 2    368.2    368. 2
SUGARCANE SEED                       656.3    656.3    656.3    656.3    656.3      656. 3  1, 371. 9   2.103.9   2.852.3  3. 616. 9  3.682. 1 3. 731. 1 3. 763. 7  3.780.0
OILSEEo SEED                          108.0    108.0    108.0    108.0    108.0      108.0    111. 0    114.0      117.0   120.0    120.0    120.0    120.0   120.0
ORNaRD SEEDLINGS (NAIGNO                  -        -        -        -         -         -    119.0         -    238.0          -        -        -         -        -
FLAT RAlE Of TN TARIFf                    -                 -        -         -         - 8.064. 0   8.064,0   8.064.0  8. 064. 0  8. 064.0  8.0640  8.064. 0  8 064. 0
Sub-Total Irputs                       7,1683.0  7.68.3.0  7.683.0  7.683.0  7.683.0   7.68.3.0 17.960.6  20.269.8  22.724.6 24.759.4 24.993.8 25.172.0 25.284.2 25.340.4
Mired tabor
S51ILED LABOR                        499.5    499.5    499.5    499.5    499.5      499.5    612.7      768. 6     u 6  1.011 7  1. 024. 7  1.034.7  1040.9  1.044.0
Sob-Total Nired Labor                   499.5    499.5    499.5    499.5    499.5       499.5    612.7     768.6     888.6  1.011.7  1.024.7  1.034.7  1.040.9  1.044.0
Sub-Total perating                       8.182.5  8.182.5  8. 182.5  8.182,5  8.182.5   8.182.5 18.573.3  21.038.4  23.613.1 25.771.1 26.018.5 26.206.6 26.325.1 26,384.4
Sob-Titual Production Cost                   8. 182.5  8. 182. S  8. 182.5  8. 182.5  8. 82. 5  41. 68.25 18.573. 3  21.038.4  23. 613.1 25. 771. 1 26, 018. 5 264206. 6 26. 325. 1 26.384.4
CAS  FItlM BEFORE FINANCING                 11.407.8 11.829.5 12.251.2 12.672.8 13.094.5 -22.092.2 13,982. 1 21.916.7  25.475.9 29.719.5 30.792.7 31.438.3 31.675.2 31.789.4
FAMI FANILT BENEFITS AFTER FINANCING        11.407.8 11.829.5 12.251.2 12,672.8 13.094.5   1.017.0 11.517.0  II. 148.8  15.104.7 21.258.9 22.391.3 23. 106.6 23.402.7 31.789.4
Retuwns per family-Day of Labor                 76. 1    76.9     &1. 8    84.6     87.4        6.8     62.7      48.4       56.7     70.0     72.8     74.4      74.9    101. 5
Octtbiw 20. 19J8  18 11H



ANNEX VIII
-42-
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE lUBENELL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
tABLE  2b    FARM: THAt- TN OWNER 1S CUSEC ELECTRIC) Farm Nodel
FINANCIAL  BUDGET
[in Rsl
FY
Incrawnta I
1        2          3          4         5        6         7         8     9 to 20
Hlain Production
COTTON                                              -    293. 6     605.8      936.2  1. 284.3  1, 349.5  1. 397. 8  1.429. 6  1, 445. 3
NHEAr                                               -  1. 713. 7   3. 510. 5   5. 388. 1 7, 343.9  7. 622.8  7. 828. 3  7, 962. 8  8. 028.9
FODDER                                              -    464. 2     964. 1   1.497. 7  2,063.2  2. 163.0  2.234.9  2. 280. 9  2. 302.9
PULSES                                              -    287. 7     583.3      886.4  1. 196.7  1. 2 19.7  1,236.3  1.247 0  1.252.2
SUGARCANE                                           -  1, 894. 8   3, 870. 4   5, 924.2  8.053. 1 8.313 3  8.504 1 8, 628. 4  8. 689. 1
OILSEED                                             -    203.5      413.4      629.1    850.S    868.0    880.6    888.7    892.5
ORCHARD IMANGO)                                     -        -   4. 908.0   S, 266.0  5. 736.0  6. 312.0  6,600.0  6. 600.0  6.600.0
S o aPodto-  4,857.4- --4,8---- 20.54--.? 26.52?.-  27,848.2 28,682.- -29-37.- -2     0
SRe-lotal Oain Production                              -  4.857.4  14,855.5  20,547.7 26,527.7 27,848.2 28,682.0 29.037.4 29.210.8
Not Value Of Productilon                               -4, 851 . 14, 855.5  20, 547. 7 26, 527. 7 27. 848.2 28. 682.0 29. 037.4* 29, 210. 8
Other Infl ows
INCONE fROM SELLING TW MAIER                        -  7,686.0   7,686.0   7,686.0  7,686.0  7. 686.0  7,686.0  7,686.0  7.686.0
lNIfLO1S                                            - 12.543.4  22.541.5  28.233.7 34.213.7 35,534.2 36.368.0 36.723.4 36,896.8
Production Cost
Investment
PRIVAIE TUBEWIELE                        33.5000                          -               -        -              -         -
Operating
Inputs
COTTON SEED                                  -       2.6       S. 1       7 7      10.4      t0.4      10.5     10.6      10.6
fERIILIZER-NITROGEN  IN)                     -    260.3      578.0      859.5   . 151.0   1, 192.2  1,223.4  1,243.6  1.253.7
FERTILIZER-PHOSPHOROUS (P205)                -    204.8      445.7      665.9    893.7    924.0    946.8    961.?    969 2
FERTILIZER-POTASSIUM  (K)                    -       0.I       5.0        5.2       5.3       5.4      5.5       5.5       5.5
BUt LOCK WORK                                -    498.2   1.086.2   1,584. 1 2.081.8  2.081. 1 2.080. 6  2.080.3  2.080. 1
TRACTOR WORK                                 -    222.9      481. 3     740.4  1.014. 1  1,079.6  1, 130. 4  1. 159.6  1. 174.3
PESTICIDE                                    -     46.5      176.1      239.5    310.7    343.3    368.0    383 7    391.5
CANAL MATER CHARGES                          -      48. 5    107.4      155 9    204 4    204.4    204. 4    204.4    204.4
WHEAT SEED                                   -      76. 0    152.0      228.0    304.0    304.0    304.0    304.0    304.0
FODDER SEED                                  -      5.3        10.6      IS 8      21.1      21.1     21.1      21.1      21.1
PU'.SES SEED                                 -      10.8      21.7       32.5      43.3      43.3     43.3      43.3      43.3
SUGARCANE SEED                               -    715. 7   1,447.7   2. 196 0  2. 960.6  3.025.9  3, 074.8  3. 107.4  3. 123.8
OILSEEO S-EO                                 -       3.0        6.0       9.0      12.0      12.0      12.0     12.0      12.0
ORCHARD SEEOLINGS (MANGOI                    -    119.0           -     238.0         -         -         -         -
FLAT RAIE Of TW TARIFF                       -  8,064.0   8.064.0   8,064.0  8,064.0  8.064.0  8,064.0  8.064.0  8.064.0
Sub-total Inputs                                   10.277.7  12,586.9  15,041.6 17,076.5 17,310.8 17,489.0 17,601.3 17,657.4
Hired Labor
SKILLED LABOR                                -    113.2      269.1      389.1    512.2    525.2    535.2    541.4    544.5
Sub-Total Hired Labor                           -    113.2      269.1      389.1    512.2    525.2    535.2    541.4    544.5
Svb-lotal Operating                                 - 10,390.8  12. 855 9  15.430.7 t?. 538. 6 '7. 836.0 18,024.2 13. 142. 7 18 201. 9
Sub-lotal Product ion Cost                     33. 500.O 10,390.8  12.855.9  IS. 430. 7 17,588.6 17.836.0 18,024.2 18. 142. 7 18.201.9
CASH FLOW BEFORE fINANCING                    -33.500.0  2. 152.6   9.,685.6  12. 803. 1 16,625.0 17,698.2 18.343.8 18,580.7 18,694.9
FARR FAMILY BENEFITS AfTER fINANCING          -10.390.8   -312.5  -1 102.4   2.431.8  8,164.4  9.296.8 10,012 1 10.308.2 18,694.9
Returns per fani iy-Day of Labor                       -                           20.8     53.1      59 0      62.4      63.5    114. 4
O      20. .    . .......................................I................I....
October 20. 1988  18 11



PAKISIAN
PRIVATE IUtBEhELt DEVELOPhEN1 PROJECT
TABLE  3a    FARM: DG KHAN- BUYING TM HATER farm Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET
(in Rs)
FY
Wlithout                                                        With Project
I        2         3        4      5 to 20      1        2         3         4        5         6         7         8     9 to 20
Mtain Production
COI1ON                                      2 876. 4  2. 82. 1 2.822.8  2.788.6   2,749.5  2.876.4  3.589. 9  4. 337.9  5. 119.2  5.932.6  6. 043.6  6. 125.0  6. 178. 1  6, 204. 0
IRRI RICE                                   1, 74.8  1 715.4  1 756. 1  1 796.8  1 837.4  1 674.8  1,644.5  1,601.8  1, 547.2  1 481.6  1 447.8  1 4235  1. 408. 1  1. 400. 7
NHEAT                                       S, 473. 0  5.358 1 5,237.9  5. i12 2  4. 981. I 5.473. 0  7. 103. 8  8, 829. 5 10,647.5 12, 555. 3 12, 877. 9 13, 1I5 9 13,272.0 13,348.8
FODOER                                      4,395.3  4,412.5  4,418.9  4,414.5  4.399.2  4,395.3  4.781.0  5. 166.7  5,552.4  5.938. I 5.938. 1 5.938. 1  5,938. 1 5.938. 1
PULSES                                        627. 7    640. 7    653.8    666.9    680.0    627. 7    738.9    854. 7    974. 7  1. 098. 6  1. 110. 2  1. 118.4  1, 123. 5  1. 126.0
SUGARCANE                                   1, 790.5  1, 857.5  1.924.4  1, 991.4  2, 058. 4  1, 790.5  1. 957.8  2. 129.8  2,306.2  2,486.5  2.495. 1 2, 500. 8  2,504.2  2. 505. 6
0ltSEED                                       462.0    480.4    498 8    517. 1    535.5    462.0    553.6    650.0    750.8    855.8    867.0    874.9    879.7    882.0
ORCHARD IMANGOP                             2,880.0  2,988.0  3, 096. 0  3.204.0  3,312.0  2. 880. 0  3.060. 0  3.240.0  3. 420.0  3,600.0  3.600. 0  3,600.0  3. 600.0  3,600. 0
STo--iPodcin2.19   20,304.7 20,408.7- 20,491.5-20.-553.-  20.-------------    179.6- 23,  26,810.3------- 30.-3--- 1-33,948.5 34,379.6 34,696.7 3 8  -
Sub-Total Oain Production                     20,179.6 20,304.7 20,408.7 20, 491.5 20, 553. 1 20.179.6 23. 429.4 26. 810.3 30, 318. 1 33.948.5 34,379.6 34.696.7 34. 903.8 35.005. 2
llet Va lue Of Productilon                    20. 179. 6 20, 304. . 20, 408. 7 20, 491. 5 20, 553. 1 20. 179. 6 23, 429. 4 26. 810. 3 30, 318. 1 33, 948. 5 34, 379. 6 34, 696. 7 34, 903.8 3505.OS.2
Production Cost
Operat ing
Inputs
COTION SEED                             81.0      78.3      75.6      72.9     70.2      81.0      88.8     96.7    104.7    112.7    113.0    113.2    113.3    113.4
FER1 ItlZER-NITROGEN INI             1, 160. 9  1. 130. 6  1, 100. 2  1, 069.8  1, 039. 5  1, 160. 9  1,477.9  1, 806.5  2. 146.8  2.498.7  2, 545.5  2. 580. 5  2. 603. 9  2. 615. 6
FERIILIZER-PHOSPHOROUS (P2051          878.6    858.5    838.3    818.2    798.0    878.6  1,079.7  1.289.5  1,508.2  1,735.7  1,770.8  1,797.2  1 814.8  1,823.6
FERTILIER-PO1ASSIUM  IKI                2.9       2.9       2.9       2.9      2.9       2.9       3.0      3.0       3.1       3.2       3.2      3.2       3.2       3.2
BULLOCK WORK                         4. 141. 8  4,024.4  3,906.9  3,789.5  3,672.0  4, 141.8  4.565.2  4.987.3  5,408.2  5, 828.0  5. 823. 1 S. 819. 4  5, 817.0  5, 815. 8
TRACTOR WORK                         1, 094. 1  1.072 1  1. 050. 0  1. 028. 0  1, 005. 9  1. 094. 1  1, 271. 4  1. 460. 2  1, 660.5  1, 872. 2  1, 917. 9  1. 952. 3  1. 975. 2  1, 986. 6
PESIICIDE                               100.5     98.7      96.9      95. 1    93.3    100.5    126.3    153.4    181.9    211.6    216.8    220.7    223.3    224.6
CANAL WATER CHARGZS                    349 5    341. 7    333.9    3?6. 0    318.2    349.5    374.4    399. 3    424.3    449.2    449.2    449. 2    449. 2    449.2                     1
IRRI RICE SEED                          24. 8     24.8      24.8     24.8      24.8      24.8     22.5      20.3      18.0      IS. 8     15. 8    15.8      IS.8      15.8 a
WHEAT SEED                              691 2    667. 2    643.2    619.2    595.2    691.2    806.4    921.6  1, 036.8  1. 152.0  1. 152.0  1. 152.0  1. 152.0  1. 152.0
FODDER SEED                             86.3      83.4      80. 6     77.8     75.0      86.3      86.3     86.3      86.3      86.3     86.3      86. 3     86.3      86.3
PULSES SEED                             71.5      71.5      71 5      71.5     71.5      71.5      79.6     87.7      95.8    104.0    104 0    104.0    104.0    104.0
SUGARCANE SEED                         728.4    728.4    728.4    728 4    728.4    728.4    770. 7    813.3    856.4    900.0    901.8    903. 2    904. 1    904.5
OIlSEED SEED                             36.0     36.0      36.0      36.0     36.0      36.0      39.6     43.2      46.8      50.4      50.4     50.4      50.4      50.4
Sub-lotal Inputs                        9,447.5  9.218. 3  8, 989.2  B. 760.0  8. 530.8  9,447.5 10. 791. 7 12. 168.4 13.577.7 15, 019.5 15. 149. 6 15. 247. 2 15. 312.3 IS. 344.8
Hired Labor
SKILLED LABOR                          685.8    670.b    655.2    639.9    624.6    685.8    762.6    841.9    923.7  1,008.0  1.018. I  1.025. 6  1,030.7  1,033.2
SubA-lotal Hired Labor                     685 8    670.5    655.2    639.9    624.6    685.8    762.6    841.9    923.7  1,008.0  1.018. 1  1.025.6  1.030.7  1,033.2
Sub -Total Operating                       10. 133. 3  9, 888. 8  9.644. 4  9,399.9  9. 155. 4 10. 133.3 11,554.3 13.010.3 14,501.4 16,027.5 16. 167.7 16,272.9 16,343.0 16, 378. 0
Other Outflows
COST OF BUYING li WATER                           -         -         -         -        -         -  3. 725. 0  3. 725.0  3. 725. 0  3. 725. 0  3. 725. 0  3, 725.0  3, 725.0  3. 725.0
OUTFLOWS                                    10. 133. 3  9,888.8  9.644.4  9,399.9  9. 155.4 10. 133.3 15, 279. 3 16.735.3 18,226.4 19,752.5 19.892.7 19,997.9 20,a068.0 20. 103.0
CASH FLOW BEFORE FINANCING                    10.046.3 10.415 9 10.764.3 11,091.6 11,397.7 10.046.3  8, ISO 2 10.075. 1 12.091.7 14. 196.0 14,486.9 14,698.8 14,835.8 14.902 2
FARM FAMILY BENEFITS AFIER fINANCING          10,290.8 10,660.3 11,008.8 11,336.0 11,397.7  8.625 3  6,694. 1 8,584.0 10.565.6 14,055.8 14.381.8 14,628.7 14,800.7 14,902.2
Returns per Family-Day of Labor                   50.0      53.0      56.0     59.1      60.8      41.9     29.3      34.0      38 1      46.5     47.1      47.5      47.9      48 1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------                        fD
October 20. 1988  18:11
l1-4



ANNEX VIII
Mabli 6
-44-
PAKI STAN
PRIVAIE TUBEWELt OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1tALE  3b    FARI: OG KHAN- BUTING TW WATER Farm Mlodol
FINANCIAL  BUDGET
lln Rs)
fT
.... ... ........... .................... .. . .. . ...........    ..... . ........ ........ . . .......
I ncrementa I
. .... ..... ... ... ....... ........... .. ... ... ... .   -. ..........   . ...   .. . . . . .
t         2         3          4         5          6         7          8      9 to 20
Main Production
COTTON                                                 -    737 8  1.515 0  2.330 6  3,183 1  3.294  1  3.375 5  3.4286  3.454 5
IRRI RICE                                             -    -70.9   -154 3   -249.6   -355 8   -389 7   -413.9   -4294    -436.?
HHEAf                                                  -  1. 7456  3. 591 6  S. 535.3  7. 5742  7. 896 8  8. 1349  8. 2910  8. 3677
FODDER                                                 -    368.5      747 8  1.138 0  1.538 9  1,538.9  1,538 9  1.5389   1.538 9
PULSES                                                       98 2    200 9    307 8    418 7    430 2    438.4    443 6    446 0
SUGARCANE                                              -    100.3    205.4       314.8      428.0    436.7    442 4    445 7    447.2
OILSEED                                                -      73 2     151 2    233 7    320 3    331 5    339 4    344 2    346 5
ORCHARD  INIANGO)                                      -      72.0     144.0    216.0       288.0      288.0    288 0    288 0    288.0
.. .-.. .M.n. .P  . ...... 3 ........ . .... I..... . 6   . .3.4. .3....... ........ ... . .... ...... -
Sub-N otal Oain Production                                -  3. 124.7  6.401.7  9.826 6 13.395.4 13.826 5 14. 143 6 14.350 7 14.452. I
Not Valua Of Production                                   -3. 124 7  6, 401 7  9. 826.6 13. 395.4 13. 826. 5 14. 143.6 14. 350. 714. 452. 1
Product ion Cost
Operat ing
n,puts
COITON SEED                                     -      10 5      21 1      31 8       42 5      42 8       43 0       43 1      43 2
FERTLtIZER-NITROGEN  IHI                        -    347.3      706 3  1.076 9  1,459 3  1.506 0  1,541.0  1.5644   1.576 I
FERTILIZER-PHOSPHOROUS  IP2051                  -    221.2      451.2     690.0    937 7    972 8    999 2  1.0168   1.025 6
FERTILIZER-POTASSIUM  XI1                       -      0. I       0 I        0.2       0.3        0.3       0.3        03        0 3
BULLOCK WORK                                    -    540 8  1.080 4  1,618 8  2. 156.0  2. 151. 1  2, 147.4  2. 145 0  2. 143 8
TRACTOR WORK                                    -    1994    410.2    632 5          866.3    912.0       946 4    969.3    9807
PESTICIDE                                       -     27 6       56 S      80 8      118.3      123 5     127 4      130 0     131.3
CANAL WATER CHARGES                             -     32.7       65.5      98.2      131 0     131.0      131 0      131.0     131.0
IRRI RICE SEED                                  -     -2 3       -4 5      -6.8       -9.0      -9 0       -9.0      -9 0       -9 0
IWHEAI  SEED                                          1392    278 A    417 6    556.8    556.8            556.8     556.8      5568
FODDER SEED                                     -       2 8       5 o       8.4       11.3       11.3      11.3       11 3      11.3
PULSES SEED                                     -       8 1      16 2      24 4       32 5      32 5       32 5      32 5       32 5
SUGARCANE iEED                                  -     42 2       84 9     128 0      171.6    173 4       174.7     175 6      176 1
OIlSEED SEED                                    -       3.6       7 2       10 8      14.4       14 4      14 4       14 4      144
Sub-Tota, Inruts                                   -  1,573 4  3.179 3  4.817 7  6.488.7  6.618.8  6.716.4  6.781.5  6.814 0
Hired tab-or
SKILLED LABOR                                   -     92. 1    186 7    283 8    383.4    393.5           401.0    406. 1    408.6
Sub>-Total Hired Labor                             -      92. 1    I86. 7    283.8      383.4    393 5    401 0    406. 1    408 6
.. . . .    .. . . .   ..... ..   .........   . ......   . ... ...   . ...   ..   ..... ....   ....... .
Sub.-Total Oporating                                   -  1.665.4  3.365 9  5.101.5  6.872 1  7.012.3  7.117.4  7.167.6  7,222 6
Other Outfloas
COST OF BUYINGi IH WATER                                  3.725.0  3.725 0  3.725 0  3 725 0  3. 725 0  3. 725 0  3. 725 0  3. 725 0
OUTFlOWS                                                   5.390 4  7.090 9  8,826.5  10.597 I 10.737 3 10.842 4 10.912 6 10.947 6
CASH FLOW BEFORE FINANCING                                - -2.265.7    -689 2  1.000 2  2.798 3  3.089 3  3.301  1  3,438. I  3.504 5
FARM FAMILY BENEFITS AfTER FINANCING              -1.665.4 -3.966.2  -2.424.8   -770 4  2.658. 1  2.984  1  3.231 0  3.403  1  3.504 5
Returns per Femily-Day of Labor                           -          -         -          -     23 1       25 3      26 9       27 9      28 6
.O  ...2............ .     ................... ..... ...... ......... ... ....   -
Orctobler 20. 1988  18 11



PAK I STAN
PRIVATE TUBE1ELL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE  4a   fARM: TIHAL- BUYING TN WATER farm Model
FINA4NCIAL  BUDGET
tin Rsl
fY
Without                                                        Mith Project
I        2        3         4     5 to 20      1        2         3         4        5         6        7         8     9 to .0
Main Production
CO1ON                                       846.0    860.7    875. 4    890. 1    904.8    846.0  1,004. 4  1, 167.8  1.336.2  1,509.3  1. 526.3  1. 538.8  1.547 0  I, 5I 0
WHEAT                                      8.023. 7  8. 129. 3  8.234. 9  8.340 4  8.446.0  8.023.7  9.498. 1 11.030. 3 12. 618. 3 14. 260.4 14. 451.4 14, 592 0 14. 683 9 14. 729 0
FODDER                                     1.831.4  1.900 5  1.969 7  2.038 8  2,108 0  1.831.4  2.139.2  2.461.0  2.795.5  3.141 9  3.174 2  3.196 9  3.211 0  3.217 5
PULSES                                     2. 995. 7  3.078.9  3. 162. 1 3.245 3  3.328.5  2.995.T  3,250 4  3. 508. 9  3, 770.9  4. 036.2  4.045 3  4. 051. ?  4. 055. 7  4.057 6
SUGARCANE                                  1.654.5  1.672.2  1. 690.0  1.707 7  1. 725.5  1,654.5  2.256. 4  2.877.3  3.516. 0  4. 171.3  4.221 9  4.258 1 4.281. 1 4.292 o
OILSEEO                                    1.417.5  1.464.8  1.512.0  1.559.3  1,606.5  1.417 5  1,575.0  1,732.5  1.890 0  2.047 5  2,047 5  2.047 5  2.047.5  2.047 5
ORCHARD (MANGO)                            2.400.0  2.490.0  2. 580.0  2. 670.0  2. 760. 0  2. 400. 0  2.550. 0  2. 700.0  2. 850.0  3.000.0  3,000 0  3,000 0  3, 000.0  3.000 0
SiA--T   Main Production  168 19.596 3 20. 023.9 20,45---.6-------------- 20.879.? 19.-168.7 22.-273.5 25.477.- 28.776-9 32,166.5 32.--466 6-- 32.-685.0 32.-826.2 3
SuN-lotal Oain Production                    19.168.7 19,596.3 20.023.9 20,451.6 20,879.2 19.168.7 22,273.5 25.477.7 28.776.9 32,166.5 32,466 6 32.685.0 32,826.2 32,894 6
Not Value Of Production                       19,168.7 19,596.3 20,023.9 20,451.6 20,879.2 19,168.7 22.273.5 25.477.7 28,776.9 32.166.5 32,466 6 32,685.0 32.826.2 32,894.6
Production Cost
Operat ing
Inpuls
COTION SEED                             22.5     22.5      22.5     22.5      22.5      22.5     23.9      25.3     26.8      28.2     28 3      28 3     28.3      28 4
FERTIlZER-NITROGEN INI               1. 176.0  1. 176.0  1. 176.0  1. 176.0  1, 176.0  1. 176.0  1.344.8  1,517.3  1,693.4  1,873 0  1.887 5  1,898.3  1.905 5  1.909 1
FERTILIZER-PIOSPTIHR0US (P205)       1,026.6  1,026.6  1.026.6  1,02b. 6  1,026.6  1,026.6  1, 168.8  1.314.8  1,464.6  1.618. 1  1,633.0  1,644.3  1.651 8  1.655 5
FERTILIZER-POTASSIUM  ItI                2.4      2.4       2.4      2.4       2.4       2.4      2.5       2 5      2.6       2 6      2 6       2.6      2 6       2 6
BULLOCK WORN                         2,793.4  2,793.4  2,793.4  2.793.4  2,793.4  2.793. 4  3,067.9  3,343. 1 3.618.9  3.895. 3  3.897.8  3.899. 6  3,900.9  3.901. 5
TRACTOR MORK                           551.3    551 3    551.3    55*.3    551.3    551.3    698 0    850 6  1.009 1  1.173 4  1,196.8  1.214 4  1,226 I  11232.0
PESIICIDE                               53.8     53.8      53.8     53.8      53.8     53.8      68.4      83.7     99.6    116.2    118 6    120.5    121 7    122 3
CANAL WAVIR CHARGES                    274. 7    274.7    274.7    274 7    274.7    274.7    295.9    317.2    338 4    359.7    359 7    359. 7    359 7    359 7                           1
ItHEAI SEED                            656.0    656.0    656.0    656. 0    656.0    656.0    712.0    768.0    824.0    880 0    8B0 0    880.0    880.0    880.0 o
FODDER SEED                             37.4     37.4      37.4      37.4     37.4      37.4     40.2      43.1     45 9      48 8     48 8      48 8     48.8      48.8                     ' 
PULSES SEED                            324.9    324.9    324.9    324.9    324.9    324.9    330.3    335. 7    341. 1    346. 6    346. 6    346. 6    346. 6    346.6                      1
SUGARCANE SEED                         656. 3    656. 3    656.3    656. 3    656.3    656 3    872. 3  1,089.5  1.307.7  1.527.0  1,531.2  1.534. 3  1,536.4  1.537 5
OILSEED SEED                           108. 0    108.0    108. 0    108.0    108.0    108. 0    108. 0    108. 0    108.0    108. 0    08 0    108. 0    108 0      08 0
Sub-lotal Inputs                        7,683.0  7,683.0  7,683.0  7.683.0  7,683.0  7,683.0  8,733.2  9,798.8 10,880.1 11.976.8 12.038.8 12,085.3 12, 116.4 12, 131.9
Hired Labor
SKILLED LABOR                          499.5    499.5    499.5    499.5    499.5    499. 5    558. 1    617.5    677.7    738.8    742. 1    744.5    746.2    747.0
Sub-Total Hired Labor                     499.5    499.5    499.5    499.5    499.5    499.5    558. 1    617.5    6?7. 7    738.8    742. 1    744.5    746 2    747. 0
Sub-total Operating                        8,182.5  8.182.5  8.182.5  8.182.5  8.182.5  8,182.5  9,291.2 10.416.3 11.557.8 12.715.5 12.780.9 12.829.9 12.862.5 12.878.9
Other Outflows
COST Of BUYING TW MATER                           -        -         -        -         -        - 2,565.0  2.565. 0  2,565.0  2,565.0  2,565.0  2,565.0  2,565.0  2,565.0
OUTftOUS                                    8. 182.5  8, 182. 5  8. 182. 5  8. 182. 5  8. 182. 5  8. 182. 5 11. 856. 2 12. 981. 3 14, 122.8 15.280.5 15, 345. 9 15. 394. 9 15,427.5 15,443.9
CASH FLOM BEFORE FINANCING                    10,986.2 11,413.8 11,841.5 12.269. 1 12,696.7 10,986.2 10,417.3 12,496.4 14,654. 1 16.886.0 17,120.7 17.290. 1 17.398 7 17.450.7
FARM FAMILY BENEFITS AFTER fINANCING         10. .56.2 11.413.8 11.841.5 12. 269. 1 12,696.7  9,877.4  9,292.2 11,355.0 13.496.4 16.820.6 17.071.7 17.257.5 17.382.3 17,450.7                     ;-
Returns per Family-Day of Labor                   73.3     16. 2    79.0      81.9      84.7     65.9      55. 5    61. 3     66.4     75.9      76.7     77 3      77. 7    77.9
---       -    -  -   -  -   -   -   -  -   -  -    -  -   -  -   -   -   -  -     --    -   -  -    - -    -  -   -  -    -  -   -  -   -   -   -  -   -     - -  -   -  -    -
October 20. 1988  18: 11



ANNEX VIII
Table7 8
-46-
PAKISTAN
PRIVATE TUBEWELL DEVELCPNENT PROJECT
TABLE 4b    FARM: IHAl- BUTING IN IATER farm Nodel
FINAINCIAL  BUDGET
(in Rsl
FT
Incrementa I
1        2         3        4         5         6         7        8      9 to 20
Main Production
COTION                                             -    143. 7    29:. 5    446. 1    604.5    621.5    634.0    642.2    646 3
WHEAT                        - 1368.9  2.795.4  4.277.8  5  '  4  6.005.4  6, 146.0  6,237.9  6,283.0
FODDER                                             -    238. 7    491 3    756.7  1      9  1, 066.3  1. 089.0  1. 103.0  1. 109 6
PULSES                                             -    171.5    346.8    525.6    IU7.7    716.8    723.2    727 2    729 1
SUGARCANE                                          -    584. 2  1. 187 3  1, 808. 2  2. 445. 8  2. 496. 4  2.532. 6  2. S55. 6  2, 566. 5
OIlSEED                                            -    110.3    220.5    330.8    441.0    441.0    441.0    441.0    441 0
ORCHARD INANGOI                                    -     60 0    120.0    180.0    240.0    240.0    240.0    240.0    24c. 0
Sub-Total Main Production                                2.677.2  5.453. 8  8.325.3 It.287. 3 11,587.4 11,805. 8 11.947.0 1. 2015.4
Not Value Of Production                               -  2.677.2  5.453.8  8.325.3 11.287.3 11.587. 4 11.805. 8 11.947. 0 12.015. 4
Production Cost
Operating
Inputs
COTTON SEED                                 -       1.4      2 8       4.3       5.7      5.8       5.8       5.8       5.9
FERTIIIZER-NJrROGEN  IN)                    -    168 9    341.3    517.4    69'. 1    711.5    722.3    729.5    733 1
FERTILIZER-PHOSPHOROUS IP2051               -     42.3    288.3    438.0    591.5    606.5    617.7    625.2    629.0
FERTILIZER-POTASSIUN (RI                    -      0 I       0.1       0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2
BULLOCK WORK                                -    274. 6    549. 7    825.5  1. 101.9  1, 104.4  1. 106.3  1. 107.5  1. 108. 1
TRACTOR WORK                                -    146. 7    299. 3    457. 8    622. 1    645. 6    663. 2    674 9    680.8
PESTICIDE                                   -      i4.7     30 0      45.9      62.4      64.9     66.7      67.9      68.6
CANAL WATER CHARGES                         -     21.3      42.5      63.8     85.0      85.0      85.0      85 0      85.0
WHEAT SEED                                  -     56.0    112.0    168.0    224.0    224. 0    224.0    224.0    224.0
fODDER SEED                                 -      2.8       5.7       8.5      11.4      11.4     11.4      11.4      11.4
PULS£S SEED                                 -       5.4      10.8     16.2      21.7     21.7      21.7      21.7      21.7
SUGARCANE SEED                              -    216.1    433.2    651.4    870.?    874.9    878.1    880.2    881.3
Sub-Total Inputs                               -  1,050.2  2. 115.9  3, 197. 1 4.293.8  4,355.8  4.402.4  4.433.4  4,448.9
Hired Labor
SKILLED LABOR                                     58.6    118.0    178.2    239.3    242.6    245.0    246.7    247.5
Sub-total Hired Labor                          -      58.6    118.0    178.2    239.3    242.6    245.0    246.7    247.5
Sub-Total Operating                                -  1,108. 8  2. 233. 8  3. 375. 3  4.533.0  4. 598. 4  4.647.4  4. 680. 1 4, 696. 4
Other Outflows
COST Of BUYING TN WATER                            -  2,565.0  2,565.0  2,565.0  2,565.0  2,565.0  2,565.0  2. !65. 0  2,565.0
OUTFLOWS                                            -  3.673.8  4. 798.8  5,940.3  7. osa 0  7. 163.4  7.212.4  7.245. 1  7,261.4
CASH FLOW BEFORE F INANCING                           -   -996.5    655.0  2,385.0  4, 189.2  4,424.0  4,593.4  4,701.9  4,754.0
FARM fAMILY BENEFITS AFTER FINANCING          -1,108.8 -2.121.6   -486.5  1.227.3  4,123.9  4.375.0  4.560.7  4.685.6  4.754.0
Returns per family-Day of Labor                                 -        -      23.0     57.5      60. 1     62.0      63.3     64.0
October 20. 1988  18. 11



PAIISTU
PRIVSTI T?01I1LL D1V1LOPUI0T PROJICT
COST IKCOVIRY AiALTSIS
(Rs 000)
1990     1991       1992      1993    1994    1995        1996     1997      1998      1999      2000      2001     2002      2003      2004      2005      2006      2007      2008     2009      TOTL
CO1TS:
A. inawu COSTS i
EIYIVICITIOI             160,378  538,536  40.538   36,696           -       -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -                   -         -         -        -         -      776,146
03-FillSITU v i T               -   11,012  17,221   28,710  20,780          -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -       77,723
TCICAL ASISTUCI    13,855   11,247   8,320    7,964   7,530                  -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -       48,518
B. ILCTEICITO   COST /2             -    5,347  15,618   31,231  41,091  41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   i,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091                      709,649
TOTU  COSTS       174,231  166,141  81,697  104,601  69,401  41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41,091   41.091   41,091   41,091   1,612,433
P?s     VALUE AT 102        174,2J1  467,886  61,380   71,444  43,092  23,195   23,195   21,086   19,169   17.427   15,842   14,402   13,093   11,903   10,820    9,837    8,943    8,130    7,391    6,719   1,029,183
A. 03-IM  IIM       T /             -         -     S51       S51    51        551      551         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -       2,753
-        -        -       861     861      861       861       861         -         -                                                                                                 -        4,305
-        -        -         -   1,436   1,436    1,436    1,436    1,430             -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -        7,178
-        -        -         -        -   1,039    1,039    1A39    1,039    1,039              -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -        5,195
D. CORCTIOE CIARSE /4               -    3,125   6,004    9,126   5,763           -         -        -         -         -                                                                                                  -      24,019
C. TARnI/S                          -    8,378  24,474   48,940  64,391  64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   1,112,050
TOTAL RlCOviRY              0   11,504  31,029   59,471  73,002  68,277   68,277   67,727   66,866   65,43D   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   64,391   1,155,499
PRISIT VALU  AT I10                0    9,507  23,312   40,625  45,328  38,541   38,541   34,754   31,193   27,749   24,826   22,569   20,517   18,652   16,956   15,415   14,013   12,739   11,581   10,528                     457,347
COST RICOVIRY  ATIO           0.44
11 - Inclades all project componeats.
/2 - Based on annual consuaption of 6,862 [Oh per TV and Rs 0.75 per Ilb.
/3 - larsers repay 25S of material costs over five years.
'4 - 3s 3,000 per Tabewell.
/5 - Based on Rs 84 per horsepower per aontb.



PAKI STAN
PRIVATE TUBENELL DEVELOPNENT PROdErl
DERA GAZI KIIHAN SUBPROJECT
ECONONIC CASH FLOW
IRS 000)
1990    3991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004 2005-2C09
BENEFITS:
TOTAL BENEFITS                   -   31145  106908  192122  313822  427977  524426  582827  616458  631190  638287  641330  642091  642091  642091    642091
MI,1S:
PRODUCTION COSTS                 -  55247   92704  159466  245637  301229  336516  360417  371923  376315  379251  380283  380541  380541  380541    380541
INVESII3NI COSIS:
-  ...... . . ..I
ELECIRIfICAIION             40328  129460    7963    7963        -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -        -         -X
IRRIGATION MORS                 -   8129   13549   18968   13549         -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -         -
ON-FARN  ATER MANGEMENT          -   17895   26251   43780   30764        -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -         -
TECHNICAL ASSISTACE          4533    5854    3263    3263    3263         -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -         -
TUBEMELL INSTALLATION           -   15031   28906   43938   27750         -       -       -       -       -        -   15031  28906   43938   27750           -
SUBTOTAL                    44861  176369   79932  117912   75326         -       -       -       -       -        -   15031   28906   43938   27750          -
TOTAL COSTS                 44861  231616  172636  277378  320963  301229  336516  360417  371923  376315  379251  395314  409447  424479  408291    380541
NET OE.mEFITS              -44861 -200471  -65728  -85256   -7141  126748  187910  222410  244535  254875  259036  246016  232644  217612  233800    261550
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN =27%
NET PRESENT VALUE =742387
_ _ _ _ _-      - - - - - - - -- - -- - -- -- - - - - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - -- - -- - -- - - - -



PAKISTAN
PRIVATE TUBEMEtL OEVELOPHENT PROJECT
THAL SUBPROJECT
ECONOMIC CASH FLOW
IRS 0001
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004 2005-2009
BENEFITS:
TOTAL BENEFITS                    -   15645   48376   89418  149075  207710  259076  290712  306492  311772  314076  315090  315344  315344  315344    3,5344
COSrS:
PRODUCTION COSTS                  -   30363   46901   77508  119089  148897  168456  181799  187573  189182  190248  190632  190728  190728  190728    190728
INVESTHENT COSTS:
ELECTRIFICATION              25676   80274    6901    5047          -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -         -
IRRIGAlIoN WORKS                  -    2032    3387    4742    3387         -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -          -
ON-FAM WATER NANAGENENT           -    5816    8720   13803    9699         -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -         -
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE          3104    4290    3105    3105    3105          -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -         -
TUBEWELL INSTALLATION             -   11750   23867   37651   24493         -        -       -        -       -        -   11750   23867   37651   24493           -
SUBTOTAL                     28780  104162   45980   64348   40684          -        -       -        -       -        -   11750   23867   37651   24493           -
TOTAL COSTS                  28780  134525   92U81  141856  159773  148897  168456  181799  187573  189182  190248  202382  214595  228379  215221    190728
NET BENEFITS                -28780 -118880  -44505  -52438  -10698   58813   90620  108913  118919  122590  123828  112708  100749   86965  100123    124616
ECONONIC RATE OF RETURN =227
NET PRESENT VALUE   296352
-E



PUMIST1l
PRIVATE TUtEIEll DEVEtOPNEUT PROJECT
D. G. KHAN AND THAL
E£NONIIIC CASH FLOW
IRS 0005
--- -- --- --_--  -- --_--  --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- _- -- --- --__-_-   --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -   -- _  -__--  --- -- -_
1990    1991    1992    5993    1994   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000   2001    2002    2003   2004 2005-2009
BENEFITS:
0.6. KHAN                       -  31145  106908  192122  313822  427977  524426  582827  616458  631190  638287  641330  642091  642091  642091    642091
THAL                            -   15645  48376  89418  149075  207710  259076  290712  306492  311772  314076  315090  315344  315344  315344    315344
SUB11AL                         -  46790  155284  281540  462897  635687  783502  873539  922950  942962  952363  956420  957435  957435  957435    957435
PRODUCTION COSTS:
0.G. KHAN AND lH                -  85610  139605  236974  364726  450126 504972  542216  559496  565497  569499  570915  571269  571269  571269    571269                  0
INVESINENT COSTS:
ELECTRIFICATI4            66004  209734   14864   13010               -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -         -
IRRIGATION  OUS                -   10161   16936  23710   16936            -           -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -         -
ON-FARN HATER NUANAENENT        -  23711   34971   57583  40463            -       -       -           -       -       -       -       -       -         -
TECHHNICAL ASSISIANCE       7637   10144   6368   6368   6368          -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -         -
lUIIIELL INSTALLATIO            -  26781   52773   81589  52243        -       -       -       -       -       -  26781   52773  81589   52243           -
SUBTOTAL                   73641  280531  125912  182260  116010       -       -       -       -       -       -  26781   52773   81589   52243          -
TOTAL COSTS                73641  366141  265517  419234  480736  450126 50497? 542216  559496  56549' 569499  597696 624042  652858  623512    571269
PROJECT  NET PROFITS      -73641 -319351 -110233 -137694  -17839  185561  278530  331323  363454 377465  382864  358724  333393  304577  333923   386166
ECONOKIC RATE OF RIEUM R   251
NET PSENT VALUE : 1038739
t1o.
Ij34



PAKISTAN
PRIVATE TUBEWELL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organizaton and Coordination
PONJCML COOERDMTK)ON
PhWm&D(h0M)
SeCte"F-(Merd)
Gent"M~~~~~~~~~ectw E DhectorADBP (Mal0)
R o&ct Dicwkr (Seatcit to Co-n-ee)
;~~~~~~~                                                     I
IIEE                                P      oPROEC N   M  CEL
p                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~WAPD
Dv. CTrki (Ch* )                          De" Diect1 Punen/Accounts
Dnt C-soma   (Rjoripa )                   D         D     D   orC-W
beLmE g     (Dsn:            ¢d DWLt Dkot CAv & Gun Water bo lrb
oM1       g Mo (AW                                (    Ef)  Orn
EcAeEr(Ie hflgoflW
Aeo COO(A)
D. Dieckl (Agcu*hj)
PU (SeaseNo to GxCanuee)
NMAW             OBM                   ANZO On4AO aEC RK                                                   AD BP                LaN rvEN
9        _  D-p*y Oran                       AmaC      r          E.oru  E  m  AWDA         rlWAA    R d                              Ms  Coawt
Eluca* r,             DIorihkCeCo            (%e odIorl fid       lb0ftiad 9Cf  (4)    &ub.CMian  BC-hI Mtarx  (s)                    pR*luI
.._Reid A btlo            Mobl be set up in    C_n: _ _                   10
ConaMort              0.QXhanC0nwAanr       Ca QucGGtn 6 inm  (2)
(b  )IA-i)            (e0 _WQ) hoomVia iVi
* ehwmnwVmdDiC*-      S Adom to Fa.on       *     -                 Coruhueflo dun  *ft  0 M     ddflCunoS ct    pwg or  Al h. Pa T             d 
bt  dw                T      A9             Coumg                 lrmadF Pd ona- p ton                                                 P      to R
h PKdesano undw       hc     n t                                  C anectlom to T   oeth      c -"a             to  R u
olo gO5" wpm1mc      D_iniw  dExtnbnn *  EdablWw.hntTddcW        s.wSn  and rrmManal   S Opwton aId Mtfr*    * Opvie to  R                                        I
(S#EPlU              ItockCbTl tPad          O1 gICrh DstfOl      aumadoctMIs to           wce d 1a   n                 Tdbchnf ok
.%pated AgdcuAwe      PkOt.                  o hcJSVftw to                               __                    _
hutd Tub_wi
Adv*  toF ean
- NECT LI OF ADT4NIOTON                                   Tu    Tedno
_--- a H~RNT  COORDNATON                                           anci Qolhrt
--- *-  '0RTWICL 0RDlNWIrdB4312l



-52-
PAKISTAN                                           CHART II
PRIVATE TUBEWELL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project ImplementatIon Schedule
PROJECT YEARS (PY)
ActivIty/Component              Unit      PYI      PY2       PY3       PY4       PY5      Totfu
Watercourse Surveys                      % WC         20        30       30        20       -          100
Construction ofOfte & Residntal EBdgs.   %           100      -         -         -        -           100
Recrultment d Consullants                %           100      -         -         -        -           100
Procurement of:
- Electical Equlpment                    %            20        70        5         5      -           100
- Vehicles                               %           100      -         -         -        -           100
Surveys for Allgrnment of Etric Uns      %            20        40       30        10      -           100
Installation of Eiic Unes                %          -           20       40        30       10         100
Load Management Scheme                                        Start              _        Finish
Pass Books Preparation                   No.        1000      1500     10 00    1000       1000      5500
PiWs Instaiatn:
- (New)                                  No.        -          500     1500      2000      11400     5400
- (Diesel Conversions)                   No.                   500     1000      1000   , 100        2600
ImprovementofWatercourses                No.                   100      150      250       ISO        680
ADBP TWs Lending Operations              No.                   CONTINUING ACTIVITY
Agricultural Extension Activts                                 CONTINUING ACTIVITY
Establishment of Pressurelzed            No.                     5        10       _        _          15
Irrigation Demo. Plots                                         -         -
Establishment of TWs Extemnsi            No.                    10       10        10                  30
Demo. Plots--
Irrigation Wouks Unir ISRP-II                           As Idenied durng Wtrours Surveys
Technical Assistano                     M/M          30        60       60        60        60       270
Training                                 No.          40        50       50        50        50       240
Ground Water Monitoring                                        CONTINUING ACTIVflY
Managementt& Supervislon                                       CONTINUING ACTIVITY
-            ~    ~ ~ ~~I  I-
Impact Evaluation                                           Baseline Surveys/Case Studis
1/ Of which, 360 watercourses wouLd be improved under ongoing Provincial                          oak4r2
fl 8fflPm.



PAKI STAN
PRIVATE TUBENELL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
_0SCOTID BEND!! MM CO  STRMS
ECONOMIC CASH FLOW
IRS 0001
11 a  873659                                                                                                 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. -+------. +---- ,----  . .. . 
vI                 I          I           I          I          I          I..                   I          I          1           1.         1          1          1          1          1           1I
S  I        I          I          I                I    1          |           1          1          1          1          1          1           [xxxxxxxxxtxxxx I II  I 
*C                   XXXXXX: XXXXAXXXXXX 1  1                I                                                                             I I
47871                                      --  - - ---S.  --+--------- XXXXX  --   -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -*--              -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  -
A           I          I 1XXXXO.XXXXXXXX I                    I          I                                I           I          I          I          I          I          I           I          I
V          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
I.         xalx^xxxxxfixxxxx           !.     
IxxxI~~~~~~x !              x          1                              1          1           !                                           1          1           1   
X                  !          I          I          !          I          II                     I          I          !!!!!II
347070 -      ~x  XX          -*x
.I                     .         .I*      .I            .          .          .          .           .          .          .                                       
x~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    =  otlC0t
215423-----X--------------- -----                               *----
xI        I       AI...
-47872 
1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995       1996        1997       1998       1Q99       2000       2000;      2001       2002       2003       2004        200S       2006       2007       20
LEGEND
*-Total Benefits
x   Total Costs



PMI STAN
PRIVATE TUBENELI VEVELOPWEUI PRJECT
D.G. KHIAN AND THAL
LOCUS OF BENEFIT-COST SNiTCflIGO VALUES Al CCC    lox
IRS 000)
1     29.
oE               ......
V           25
*1          22 
*                                                                                 ......-
I I
I 2
£  18.                                                      .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                   1          121                     5            61                     is2
1  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ HRti 
S  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LGN
---I    - - - - - - - - - - - -  -- -  - --  - -  -
I                                                                     .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIU  EXETDFL    NaEEISI   0
I                                                                           .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MXNMEXEIDRIEI   OSSI  5
I. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~EEI   WTHN   ON    S-2
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CS UTHIGPITI 2



MAP SECTION



IBRD 21085
U. S. S.R.                                        720esh.
V     ''                                                 Rawalpndi*    ApproxlrpOte line
PAFGHKISTAN  *                                                                                          Acontrol
* 2 j / i. g ,' MWALPJDI \ .. : ~~~~~JAMMU
S._.-   J    j              C    l.1      S      ~~~~~~~~~~----- ---                          AND
A,r*aian see  RGurvtt
760
NORTH WEST FRONTlER                   )                       -    /                   -                S
S  _  '   1)/    D     S      Qx,  ~~~~~~~~Gujranwala  SLLO
320                                                                   Sargoha       GWRA.WALA                             32°-
`!I              8537    /BHAKI'W/8'0tM                                  EMU r         g           To Amftsar
BALUCHISTAN                                                                                    KASUR
1   \   o~~~  /g  _/' 2               w       ~~~OKARA/   
/ , UZ^FI Ut- >/* KHANEWAL-SAHhilAL |I N D I A
To Klngd 
0                      h                                                                                                300
l,, ~~~ 0   /tJ  X      /t   ha*ffl~~~~pur       _ 
j < o t1 J } . ~~~~~~~~P A  K I S T A  N
"' RAIANPUR /t               ~                      "\                   PRIVATE TUBEWELL
,)                                  ____ / \o  , /   i1  WEPUR    /,DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,' (   ~~~HAWALPUR ~~PROJECT AREAS
*                                                         /)<A  /   8  !            z       Project Areas
/   ~~~~~~~~~--- -  District Boundaries
IMYAwgR -   r   t    l y a /   |                                      -  Dvision Boundores
0\/HI>AN                                ;                                 Province Boundories
-- ->  _  *-Internosionol Boundaries
*28*       \         )_                                                        National Capitol          280
o Division Capitols
MUA  Division Names
SIND                                                                             Molar Roods
__________________                                  ~~~~~~    Rivers
0  20 30 40 50 60 70
| t.-   Th. -gi. . W d   in - i. - . Ciii  .d.-
/                                            72°                                      740
AUGUST 1988



_____________________________________ _                                                                                                                                                                                          1   0BRD   210
U.S.S.R.                C'1 CHINA-V
,-)                              (  I Approw 
%   AFGHANISTAN                     % In.
( r3~~~~~TLAPMABAD t.. @ i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  fR 
(      PUNJAB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
t~--'  AppoxnqnO1 1  Khnn /                                                                                                                                                                                                   } ,F-,,,o                                                                .
PAKISTAN                 INDIA                                                                                 s'-
4                                                                                                                                                                             ;AN~~~~~~~~~~~~
D.G.AT  rGKHAN SUBPROJECT
,^z'g- - .- ,g X <tX ~~~~~~~WATER TABLE DEPTH AND OBSERVATION PIEZOMETER LOCATIONS
I Rc jz=   ,,.   F                             g                             1?                                              r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Projet Areaoee Ob                         RouRee5ds
Dalai  1esS a Depth 1F'1                                            ;    Netinl Capita
f         y;  '.9 .-...e$                                                                                                                                   DO. Khcan Seorp (Salinel Beundenies                               -. -Internetienel 50undaries
_   =   _                _ .; i -                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Piedmans/Rinerein Boundory        Rivers
t                i                    si; iP '!,,..,,O    Observation Tubeuuells'                                                                                                                                                              .,it'n   Sendbanks
dfr I ~~~~~/                           -.x.¢.f ; ....  Enisting Drain
Kot Mi1haon       I1,o                                                                                                                                                                                Planned Drains                                                                                               &
I                                                                                                             tA,, s  4 ,,. i  MILES                                   Canals
I                                                                                 0                   6                                                    Main/Canal                    PA         I     TA  
I                         ;.                                                                          0         3         6                                                     Branch/Link
2  15                                                        -  -D                                    KHAN-S DistribuaOry
CILOMETWTRTALEDPHANSSSRAIO                                                                                      IEOEERLCAIN
Miner
c Hill Terrent Crossing
*9SuW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YYY rBund Itanbeabmentl
Watdentiaictien nuDnbers fnn reCerence to tenT info*nmhnetil
-_s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .'. Kha  Scr (aline Bondris                                                                                                                                      ..... .e.r wico Bound..a.  ries . 
x ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUST 1981



30545'                                             31500'                                            3 70 15'                                            31'30,
.4'!
'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
l121sc~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD2
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/~'  * " '5g5!.                                               1.,5Aj  Psi';
* aJ-s a-.w -,1X. -n-- - :.                                                                                                                               U.S.S.R.            BRD 2USC
I~~~~~~~~~~~~-  r~ -._ oyst,
.i-~~~~~~~~~AFGHANISTAN                      p-.^j
,              0o.v-..ss\. ~s ,:                          iAtk ' '   4*'"i                                                       *45g.                 -',         5.091>*@FS3X>   .
'h  -O,?½t   --                                          ':,..              i'4R' ,/
33 t g ,; j 1~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                   .4        -EL o, )MN RJC
"'Q ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~       ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     C 'r
g.,    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.h AFGANSTAN                                   INDIA
/ <4Xsl   t---   o /  >s \ \  E  THAL  SUBPROJECT
.43110...~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~P..dP- . . O-1  .
-.,    . . |'Qtit'    frt'0          X                                     .'.                          /                                        01.05' /8   NF* 39;  :
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 0                                                                    ,- WdM oaPO D-| r-  X DFel ooi ionpLrfw
~~~~~,~~~0. 31st.  .14 ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     D;-  1  -- 5
__  \ _ | a ; ssolved Solids tlDsI Line~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,,. .    -10  1~dS.id 10) ~
t                                                     .~~~~~~~~~~~~c 
27   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t fB              /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  OfCe., Town ond V.1h,,e
i   .  | ; _hiok  -                                        Koros                                                                              _/_-  -D________do______
oK....                                                            0  N.  PAKIS,T AN
<   S  Zf         O N3w K e                           #(                                                      bR v:~~~~~~~~~~~~HA   SUBPROJECT
.w_,,_~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OBEVTO PIEZOMETEOMLOCATION
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poo Ar_ so P
,0 ff  OS W llI s  De.t.   to ..t l _  r
P-9oi... B-sdot,s
Co-so-I
h-b-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M'
N.- K.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,ss
-.w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+-.s.R od



