OFFCiAL
CREDIT NUMBER 2004 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Tubewell Development Project)
between
ISIAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPIMNT ASSOCIATION
Dated        /t(                   , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2004 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               2      , 1989, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN actingfy its President (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described;in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) Parts B and C.2(b) of the Project will be carried out by
the Province of Punjab (Punjab) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to Punjab a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement;
(C) Parts A, C.1 and C.2(a) of the Project will be carried
out by the Borrower's Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to WAPDA a portion of
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and Punjab
(the Punjab Project Agreement), and in the Project Agreement of
even date herewith between the Association and WAPDA (the WAPDA
Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein


﻿-2-
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Punjab Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Punjab of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Punjab Project Agreement;
(b) "WAPDA Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and WAPDA of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term iniludes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the WAPDA Project Agreement;
(c) "Project Agreements" mean collectively the Punjab
Project Agreement and the WAPDA Project Agreement;
(d) "Punjab Special Account" means the Special Account which
Punjab shall open and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the Punjab Project
Agreement;
(e) "WAPDA Special Account" means the Special Account which
WAPDA shall open and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the WAPDA Project Agteement;
(f) "Special Accounts" mean collectively the Punjab Special
Account and the WAPDA Special Account;
(g) "P&D" means Punjab's Planning and Development Board;
(h) "DGOFWM" means Punjab's Directorate General of On-farm
Water Management;
(i) "DGAEAR" means Punjab's Directorate General of
Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research;
(j) "PID" means Punjab's Irrigation Department;
(k) "PAD" means Punjab's Agriculture Department;
(1) "ADBP" means the Agricultural Development Bank of
Pakistan established by the Borrower pursuant to the Agricultural
Development Bank Ordinance, 1961, as amended;


﻿-3-
(m) "WAPDA Act" means the Borrower's Water and Power
Development Authority Act, 1958, as amended, and all regulations
framed thereunder;
(n) "AEBM" means WAPDA'S Area Electricity Board for Multan;
(o) "WUAs" mean collectively the Water Users' Associations
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and
"WUA" means each or any of those associations;
(p) "Project areas" mean collectively the Dera Ghazi (D.G.)
Khan canal command area and the Thal canal command area, where the
Project is to be carried out, and "Project area" means each or
either of those areas;
(q) "PMC" means WAPDA's Project Management Cell referred to
in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(r) ."Project Director" means the Project Director in-charge
of-the PMC;
(s) "PIUs" mean collectively WAPDA's Project Implementation
Units referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
and "PIU" means each or either of those units;
(t) "DCCs" mean collectively the District Coordination
Committees referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, and "DCC" means each or either of those committees;
(u) "PCC" means the Provincial Coordination Committee
referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(v) "OFWM" means on-farm water management;
(w) "OFUM and Extension Staff" means DGOFWM's and DGAEAR's
field staff assigned to the Project;
(x) "TW" means a tubewell;
(y) "Rs" or "rupees" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(z) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower


﻿-4-
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated August 30, 1988,
October 15, 1988 and November 7, 1988 between the Borrower and the
Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-six million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 26,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts B and
C.2(b) of the Project, cause Punjab, and for the purposes of
Parts A, C.1 and C.2(a) of the Project, cause WAPDA, to open and
maintain in dollars special accounts in the National Bank of
Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower,.withdraw from the Credit. Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance with,rawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year,but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 1999 and ending March 15, 2024. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2009 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-6-
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The following are designated as representatives
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions:
(a) the Chairman, P&D-, in respect of the parts of the
Project for which Punjab is responsible; and
(b) the Chairman, WAPDA, in respect of the parts of the
Project for which WAPDA is responsible.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3101. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause Punjab and WAPDA to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreements all the obligations
of Punjab and WAPDA therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Punjab and WAPDA to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause Punjab and WAPDA
to carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall make available:
(i)  to Punjab, an amount equivalent to about
SDR 3,050,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit for
the purposes of Parts B and C.2 (b) of the Projecit;
and
(ii)  to WAPDA, an amount equivalent to about
SDR 23,250,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit
for the purposes of Parts A, C.1 and C.2 (a) of the
Project.
Section 3.02, Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,


﻿-8-
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out as follows:
(a) in respect of Parts B and C.2 (b) of the Project, by
Punjab pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Punjab Project Agreement;
and
(b) in respect of Parts A, C.1 and C.2 (a) of the Project,
by WAPDA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the WAPDA Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1989, enter into arrangements with ADBP, satisfactory to the
Association, under which ADBP will provide, on a priority basis,
the credit facilities required to finance about 5,400 privately-
owned, small-capacity, electric-powered TWs to be newly-installed,
and about 2,600 privately-owned, small-capacity, TWs to be
converted from diesel to electric power, and the related electric
connection charges, all in the Project areas.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until at
least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
and
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records.


﻿-9-
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Punjab and/or WAPDA shall have failed to perform any of
their obligations under the Project Agreements.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Punjab
and/or WAPDA will be able to perform their obligations under the
Project Agreements.
(c) The WAPDA Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and


﻿-10-
adversely the ability of WAPDA to perform any of its obligations
under the WAPDA Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of WAPDA or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the PC-l document with respect to
the Project has -been approved by the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Punjab Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Punjab, and is legally binding upon
Punjab in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the WAPDA Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by WAPDA, and is legally binding upon WAPDA
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the
provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date thirty (30) ynars
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary, or Section Officer in that Division of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                     Telex:
ECONOMIC                        952-5634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Uned States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names iiq the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By     //l
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
B/     Regional Vice President
Europe, iddle East and North Africa


﻿-13-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
the Credit
Allocated             % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)      be Financed
(1) Civil/instal-          4,000,000           70%
lation works
under Parts
A and B.2 of
the Project
(2) Equipment
and mate-
rials for:
(a) Parts A,         13,740,000           100% of forign
B.2 and                              expenditures,
C of the                             100% of local.
Project                              expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured
locally
(b) Part B.1          1,750,000           70%
of the
Project


﻿-14
Amount of
the Credit
Allocated             % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)       be Financed
(3) Consultants'            1,290,000          100%
services and
training
(4) Refunding                 280,000          Amount due
of Project                                 pursuant to
Preparation                                Section 2.02
Advance                                    (c) of this
Agreement
(5) Unallocated             5,240,000
Total                 26,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to give effect, in the
Dera Ghazi Khan and Thal canal command areas of Punjab, to the
government policy of developing schemes for intensive private TW
installation such as would: (i) provide reliable sources of
irrigation water to supplement existing sources; (ii) control and
prevent water-logging; and (iii) improve agricultural and water
management practices; and (b) to this end, to develop a replicable
package of incentives for farmers, particularly small farmers, to
participate in such schemes.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Tubewell Electrification
Provision of a power distribution network, including instal-
lation of: (i) about 3,900 km of medium-voltage (MV) transmission
lines; (ii) about 8,000 V/low voltage (LV) distribution trans-
formers with an aggregate capacity of about 80 megavolt ampere
(MVA); (iii) service-drops, meters and boards to connect about
8,000 TWs; (iv) equipment required to expand and strengthen two
existing grid stations; and (v) load management instruments for
about 500 TWs.
Part B:   On-Farm Water Management Improvements
1.   Renovation of about 680 watercourses, including installation
of permanent outlets and construction of culverts, check/drop
structures and a limited number of buffalo baths.
2.   Construction of about 15 small pilot pressurized-drip and
bubbler irrigation schemes.
Part C:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Provision of technical assistance in developing a least-cost
power distribution network configuration and a pilot load
management scheme.


﻿- 16 -
2.   Provision of training for: (a) AEBM staff in load management
scheme monitoring; and (b) OFWM and Extension staff in TW water
management.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDUTE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject t.o,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Construction and installation of the electrification and
related facilities:
(a) under Parts A (i), (ii) and (iv) of the Project, may be
carried out under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) under Parts A (iii) and (v) of the Project,. may be
carried out by WAPDA through force account.
2.   Materials required for Part B of the Project, and office and
field equipment and materials estimated to cost up to. an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.


﻿- 18 -
Part 2:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for- watercourse materials
and installation of electrification facilities estimated to-- cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more., and each contract for
electrification materials and equipment, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
such Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract -not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 'two conformed
copies of the contract together with the -other- information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Ckedit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist Punjab and WAPDA in carrying out a least
cost network configuration study and a load management study, in
implementing, supervising, monitoring and evaluating the Project,
and in imparting staff training, WAPDA shall employ electrical,
hydrogeological and irrigation agriculture consultants whose


﻿- 19 -
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis,
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A. \--roiect Organization and Management
1.   Project Agencies
Responsibility for implementation of the Project shall be
assigned as follows:
(a) for Parts A, C.1 and C.2(a) of the Project, to WAPDA;
(b) for Part B of the Project and for training of OFWM staff
under Part C.2(b) of the Project, to DGOFWM; and
(c) for training of Extenstion staff under Part C.2(b) of
the Project, to DGAEAR.
2.   UAPDA's Organization
(a) WAPDA shall carry out its responsibilities under the
Project through:
(i) a Project Management Cell (PMC), located in the
office of the General Manager (Water), WAPDA
Central, at Lahore; and
(ii) Project Implementation Units (PIUs), one located in
each of the Project areas.
(b) The PMC shall be headed at all times by a Project
Director of Superintending Engineer rank who shall be assisted by
three Deputy Directors and other staff and supporting personnel.
The three Deputy Directors shall be the Deputy Director for
Procurement and Accounts, the Deputy Director for Design,
Monitoring and Construction, and the Deputy Director for Civil
Works and Ground Water Monitoring. The PMC shall, within WAPDA's
sphere of responsibility, inter alia: (i) procure equipment and
materials and employ contractors; (ii) recruit consultants; (iii)
process withdrawal applications and maintain consolidated project
accounts; (iv) oversee, coordinate and monitor overall progress;
(v) liaise with the PCC and act as its secretariat; and (vi)
prepare a consolidated work plan and quarterly progress reports.


﻿- 21 -
(c) Each PIU shall be headed by an -Executive Engineer who
shall be assisted by four Sub-divisional Officers and other staff
and supporting personnel. Each PIU shall, within its sphere of
responsibility, inter alia: (i) carry out surveys for transmission
lines; (ii) establish and maintain stores for electrical material
and equipment; (iii) supervise construction of transmission lines
and civil works and hand them over to AEBM for maintenance; (iv)
carry out promotional/outreach activities in cooperation with
ADBP, OFWM and Extension staff assigned to the Project with a view
to encouraging farmers to install TWs; (v) advise farmers on
groundwater quality, appropriate technology and optimal locations,
and monitor the groundwater table; (vi) provide electrical
connections to farmers installing TWs; and (vii) m0nitor overall
progress, coordinate closely with the other Projec. agencies and
serve as secretariat to the concerned DCC.
(d) The PMC and the PIUs shall be assisted by the
consultants employed pursuant to Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement for the purposes of project implementation,, monttoring
and evaluation. Such consultants shall be employed'%by WAPDA not
later than August 31, 1989.
3.   DGOFWM's Organization
(a) DGOFWM shall discharge its responsibilities under- the
Project through its District Offices in D.G. Khan and Layaah. Each
District Office shall: (i) undertake watercourse surveys in
cooperation with the PIU concerned; (ii) improve watercourses with
the assistance of the WUA concerned; (iii) establish demonstration
plots for pressurized irrigation systems and impr6ved water
management; and (iv) train OFWM staff.
(b) In order to assist in the carrying out of watercourse
improvements under Part B.1 of the Project, DGOFWM shall, not
later than July 1, 1989, assign two additional field teams in the
D.G. Khan Project area.
4.   DGAEAR's Organization
DGAEAR shall assign its Extension staff posted in the D.C.
Khan and Layaah Districts to the Project. Such staff shall, after
undergoing training in TW water management under the Project, and
in collaboration with OFWM staff, establish demonstration plots on
farmers' fields for improved water management and increased
cropping intensities and crop diversification.


﻿- 22 -
5.   Water Users Associations
(a) As a condition of obtaining financial assistance for the
purposes of Part B.1 of the Project, farmers shall be required to
form Water Users Associations (WUAs) at the outlet command level.
(b) .Such Water Users Associations shall be responsible
primarily for: (i) providing the labor required for renovation of
watercourses under Part B.1 of the Project; and (ii) operation and
maintenance of the watercourses so renovated. The WUAs shall also
be encouraged to assume specific responsibilities, inter alia
for (iii) facilitating the distribution of non-water inputs;
(iv) advising on water allocation and distribution at the outlet
command level; (v) undertaking OFWM work on watercourse branches;
and (vi) providing and maintaining field drains at the outlet
command level.
B.   Project Coordination
6.   District Coordination Committees
(a) In each Project area, a District Coordination Committee
(DCC) shall coordinate overall Project implementation and shall
also be responsible for monitoring the issuance of agricultural
passbooks by the office of the concerned Deputy Commissioner to
farmers included in the Project.
(b) Each DCC shall be chaired by the concerned Deputy
Commissioner with the WAPDA Executive Engineer in-charge of the
concerned PIU as secretary, and shall include, as members, the
Deputy Director of Agriculture, DGAEAR, the Area Coordinator,
DGOFWM, the Executive Engineer, PID, the Executive Engineer, AEBM,
and the Regional Manager, ADBP. The DCC for the D.G. Khan Project
area shall also include the Assistant Commissioner, Rajanpur, as
member.
(c) Each DCC shall meet at least once every quarter, and
more frequently if so required.
7.   Provincial Coordination Committee
(a) At the Provincial level, a Provincial Coordination
Committee (PCC) shall coordinate overall Project implementation


﻿- 23 -
and shall also be responsible, inter alia, for annual budgetary
allocations, approval of the annual work plan, and resolution of
policy issues.
(b) The PCC shall be chaired by the Chairman, P&D, with the
Project Director as secretary, and shall include, as members, the
Secretary, Finance Department, Punjab, the Secretary, PAD, the
Secretary, PID, WAPDA's General Manager (Water), Central, and the
Executive Director, ADBP.
(c) The PCC shall meet at least once every semester, and
more frequently if so required.
C.   Training
8.   AEBM Staff Training
Training of AEBM staff in monitoring of load management
schemes under Part C.2(a) of the Project shall be carried out with
the assistance of the consultants to be employed for purposes of
Part C.1 of the Project.
9.   OFWM and Extension Staff Training
Training of OFWM and Extension staff in water management
under Part C.2(b) of the Project shall be carried out at Punjab's
OFWM Training Institute at Lahore. The Institute shall prepare a
training program for this purpose and shall furnish- it to the
Association for its approval not later than June 30, 1990.
D.   Other Project-related Activities
10. TW Financing. Pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement,
ADBP shall provide the finance required for TWs and the related
electric connection charges in the Project areas through its
supervised credit schemes. To this end, Punjab shall, not later
than September 30, 1989, obtain from ADBP a commitment, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association, to assign to the
Project areas adequate numbers of additional Functional Mobile
Credit Officers (FMCOS) and Mobile Credit Officers (MCOS)
especially trained in TW lending operations.
11. Irrigation System Improvements. PID shall identify the minor
canals and distributaries to be rehabilitated/remodelled in the
Project areas under the on-going Second Irrigation Systems


﻿-24-
Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 1888 PAK) and shall carry out
such rehabilitation/remodelling in accordance with a schedule
satisfactory to the Association.
E.   Project Reporting
12. Annual Work Plans
Pursuant to Section 9.05 of the General Conditions, Punjab
and WAPDA shall, not later than September 30 in each year,
beginning 1989, furnish to the Association Annual Work Plans for
their respective areas of responsibility under the Project for the
next following twelve months.
13. Progress Reports
Pursuant to Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, Punjab
and WAPDA shall, not later than forty-five days after the end of
each quarter, beginning with the quarter ending December 31, 1989,
furnish to the Association progress reports on their respective
areas of responsibility under the Project for such quarter.
F.   Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
14. Responsibility for the 0&M of the Project facilities shall be
assigned as follows:
(a) to AEBM, for the I&M of the electrification and related
facilities provided under Part A of the Project;
(b) to WUAs, for the O&M of the watercourses renovated under
Part B.1 of the Project; and
(c) to PAD, for the O&M of the pilot pressurized irrigation
schemes constructed under Part B.2 ef the Project.


﻿-  25  -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of
Punjab, an amount equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Punjab Special Account, and in
respect of WAPDA, an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to be
withdrawn from the. Credit Account and deposited in the WAPDA
Special Account, all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Spec.al Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3..  After the Association has received evidence- satisfactory to
it that the Punjab Special Account or the WAPDA Special Account,
as the case may be, has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
relevant Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the relevant Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by Punjab or
WAPDA, as the case may be, for a deposit or deposits which add up
to the aggregate amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation, the
Association shall, on behalf of Punjab or WAPDA, as the case may
be, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the relevant
Special Account such amount or amounts as Punjab or WAPDA, as the
case may be, shall have requested.
(b) Punjab or WAPDA, as the case may be, shall furnish to
the Association requests for replenishment of the relevant Special


﻿- 26 -
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of
Punjab or WAPDA, as the case may be, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the relevant Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to replenish the relevant Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of such
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by Punj ab and WAPDA, as the case may
be, out of a Special Account for which Punjab or WAPDA, as the
case may be, request replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of
this Schedule, Punjab or WAPDA, as the case may be, shall furnish
to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into a Special Account shall be made
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i)  the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by Punjab or
WAPDA, as the case may be, directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions; or
(ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts B
and C.2(b) of the Project, in the case of Punjab,
and for Parts A, C.1 and C.2(a) of the Project, in
the case of WAPDA, minus the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to Parts B and C.2(b) of
the Project, in the case of Punjab, and for


﻿- 27 -
Parts A, C.l and C.2(a) of the Project, in the case
of WAPDA, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories for Parts B and C.2(b) of the Project, in the
case of Punjab, and for Parts A, C.1 and C.2(a) of the Project, in
the case of WAPDA, shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to Punjab or WAPDA, as the case may be.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the relevant Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Punjab Special Account or the WAPDA
Special Account, as the case may be: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, Punjab or WAPDA, as the case may be,
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
relevant Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Association into the relevant
Special Account shall be made until Punjab or WAPDA, as the case
may be, has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Punjab Special Account or the
WAPDA Special Account, as the case may be, will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, Punjab or
WAPDA, as the case may be, shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount for
crediting to the Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


