DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 2004 PAK
WAPDA Project Agreement
(Private Tubewell Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF PAKISTAN
Dated                                ,1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2004 PAK
WAPDA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        0fj, 1989, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOVATION (the Association) and WATER
AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF PAKISTAN (WAPDA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-six million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 26,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that WAPDA
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to
WAPDA; and
WHEREAS WAPDA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) WAPDA declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A, C.1 and C.2(a) of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,


﻿-2-
financial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for Parts A, C.l
and C.2 (a) of the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and WAPDA shall
otherwise agree, WAPDA shall carry out Parts A, C.1 and C.2(a) of
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) WAPDA shall, for the purposes of Parts A, C.1 and
C.2 (a) of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special
account in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, such Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Parts A, C.1 and C.2(a) of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. WAPDA shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the WAPDA Project
Agreement and Parts A, C.1 and C.2(a) of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) WAPDA shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of Parts A, C.1 and C.2 (a) of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) WAPDA shall promptly inform the Association of any
co-rAition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A, C.1 and C.2(a) of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by WAPDA of its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, WAPDA shall, not later than June 30, 1989, review with the
Association, the findings and recommendations of the studies on
the least cost power network configuration and the pilot load
management scheme can led out under Part C.1 of the Project, and
shall thereafter implement such recommendations.
ARTICLE III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) WAPDA shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition in respect of Parts A, C.1
and C.2(a) of the Project.
(b) WAPDA shall:
(i) have such records and accounts and the records and
accounts for the WAPDA Special Account for each
fiscal.year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
enO of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts as well as the
audit thereof, as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, WAPDA shall charge the beneficiaries for electrical
connections provided under Part A of the Project at cost.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of WAPDA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 30 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
WAPDA of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter


﻿-5-
specified or at such other address as such.party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving puch notice or. making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For WAPDA:
Water and Power Development Authority
WAPDA House
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:                   Telex:
WAPDA                      44869 WAPDA PK
Lahore, Pakistan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, tinder this
Agreement on behalf of WAPDA, or by WAPDA on behalf of qhe
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken pt
executed by the Chairman, WAPDA, or such other person or persons
as he shall designate in writing, and he shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/l
6        Regional Vice President
Europe,   ddle East and North Africa
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


