Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3491-FIJ
(Second Road Upgrading Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF FIJI
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 9, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3491-FIJ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF FIJI (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from Asian Development Bank (ADB) a loan 
(the ADB Loan), in various currencies in an amount equivalent to $18,000,000 (eighteen 
million dollars), to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the ADB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower 
and ADB;
(C)
ADB and the Bank intend to enter into an agreement, a copy of which will 
be furnished to the Borrower (the Administration Letter), making arrangements for the 
ADB to process applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be 
provided severally by the ADB and the Bank and regulating certain other matters of 
common interest in connection with such financing;
(D)
the Borrower further intends to contract from the Export Import Bank of 
Japan (hereinafter called Eximbank) a loan (hereinafter called the Eximbank Loan), in 
an amount equivalent to six million five hundred thousand dollars ($6,500,000), to 
assist in financing the foreign currency cost of Part D of the Project on terms and 
Page  2
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Eximbank Loan Agreement) 
to be entered into between the Borrower and Eximbank; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan (also called the IBRD Loan) to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions), with the 
modifications set forth below constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and 
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"DEO" means a Divisional Engineers' Office within PWD, and includes any 
successor thereto; 
(b)
"MIPU" means the Borrower's Ministry of Infrastructure and Public 
Utilities, and any successor thereto;
(c)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of  
Schedule 6 to the ADB Loan Agreement;
(d)
"PWD" means the Public Works Department within MIPU, and any successor 
thereto; and
(e)
"RCU" means any one of the Road Construction Units referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 6 to the ADB Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifteen million dollars 
($15,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Page  3
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester. 
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989, bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part C of the Project, and carry out Parts A, B, D, E and F of the Project through 
PWD, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental and engineering practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 6 to the ADB Loan Agreement, which is incorporated into this Section of this 
Agreement as if fully set forth herein, with the following modifications, unless the 
Page  4
context requires otherwise:
(i)
the term "Bank" shall read "International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development";
(ii)
the term "the closing date for withdrawals from the Loan Account 
referred to in Section 3.05 of this Loan Agreement" shall read 
"the Closing Date set forth in Section 2.03 of this Agreement"; 
and
(iii)
the term "IBRD Loan" shall read "ADB Loan".
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedules 4 and 5 to the 
ADB Loan Agreement and such Schedules are incorporated into this Section of this 
Agreement as if fully set forth herein, with the following modifications, unless the 
context requires otherwise:
(i)
the term "Bank" in such Schedules shall read "International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development";
(ii)
the term "Loan" shall read "IBRD Loan";
 
(iii)
such Schedules shall apply provided that contractors, suppliers 
and consultants from countries that are members of the Bank (and 
Switzerland) as set forth in paragraph 1.5 of the Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank 
in May 1985, shall be eligible to compete in providing such works 
and consultants' services;
(iv)
the words "road link under (a) (i) of the Project" in paragraph 4 
of Schedule 4 shall read "Dreketi - Transinsular Road under Part 
A.1 (b) of the Project"; and
(v)
the words "road link under (a) (iii) of the Project" in paragraphs 
5 and 6 of Schedule 4 shall read "Wainikoro Road under Part A.2 
(b) of the Project".
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and for purpose of clarification only, the procurement procedures and sources of 
financing which have been planned for the Project are set forth in the Annex to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Sections 3.01 (b) and 3.02 of this Agreement, 
the provisions of Schedules 4, 5 and 6 of the ADB Loan Agreement shall continue to 
remain in full force and effect, notwithstanding the termination of the ADB Loan 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
Page  5
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that:
(a)
subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
 
(i)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the ADB Loan 
or the Eximbank Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the ADB Loan Agreement 
or the Eximbank Loan Agreement, respectively, or
(ii)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under the ADB Loan Agreement or the Eximbank Loan 
Agreement; and
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 
(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the 
ADB Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
   and Economic Planning
Government Buildings
Suva
Fiji
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN
2121 MINFIN FJ
Suva
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF FIJI
By /s/ Pita K. Nacuva
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
Page  7
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   %  of
(Expressed in expendituires
Category
    Dollar Equivalent
to be financed
 
(1)
Civil works under
5,500,000
56%
Part A.1 (b) of the
Project
(2)
Civil works under
4,100,000
46%
Parts A.2(b),
A.2(g) and B of
the Project
(3)
Consultants'
3,900,000
70%
services under
Part E of the
Project
(4)
Unallocated
1,500,000
 
TOTAL
     15,000,000
 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000,  may be made 
in respect of Categories (2) and (3) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after February 14, 1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to upgrade and improve the Borrower's 
road network; (b) to enhance traffic safety and to improve traffic management; and (c) 
to improve road administration and maintenance management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Road Link Upgrading
 
Upgrading gravel-surfaced road links to bitumen-surfaced standards, and 
upgrading bitumen-surfaced road links in order to increase traffic capacity, including 
the following road links:
1.
(a)
Dama - Navolau Road (about 36 km); and
 
(b)
Dreketi - Transinsular Road (about 29 km);
 
2.
(a)
Nadi - Nadi Airport Road (about 8 km);
 
(b)
Wainikoro Road (about 13 km);
 
(c)
Suva - Nausori Road (about 16 km);
 
(d)
Cunningham Road (about 4 km);
 
(e)
Khalsa Road (about 4 km);
 
(f)
Nadi Airport - Lautoka Road (about 20 km); and
 
(g)
Transinsular Road (about 21 km).
 
Part B:
Traffic Safety Improvements
 
Carrying out improvements of the existing road network in order to enhance 
safety and traffic management.
Page  8
Part C:
Vehicle Regulation
 
Formulating and implementing measures to control road deterioration through 
enforcement and improvement of vehicle weight and axle load regulations as well as 
other measures to prevent vehicle overloading and improve road traffic safety and 
management.
Part D:
Equipment and Physical Plant
 
Providing physical plant, equipment, vehicles, spare parts, workshop tools and 
computer hardware and software in order to improve the Borrower's physical plant and 
augment the Borrower's fleet of vehicles and equipment used for road construction and 
maintenance.
Part E:
Institutional Support
 
Providing institutional support for Project management and road maintenance 
management.
Part F:
Technical Assistance
 
Providing technical assistance in the design and supervision of road links 
upgraded or improved under Part A.1 of the Project.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1998
through September 15, 2009   
625,000.00
 
____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
Page  9
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of 
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years 
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but 
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before      
1.00
maturity
ANNEX
Planned Procurement Procedures and Sources of
Financing for the Project
  Primary
Procurement
Source of
Project
Activities
 Procedure
Financing
 
Part A:
Road Link Upgrading
 
1.
(a)
Dama - Navolau Road
ICB
ADB
(b)
Dreketi - Transinsular Road   ICB     
Bank
 
2.
(a)
Nadi - Nadi Airport Road   
FA/LCB  
ADB
(b)
Wainikoro Road     
FA/LCB  
Bank
(c)
Suva - Nausori Road    
FA      
ADB
(d)
Cunningham Road    
FA      
ADB
(e)
Khalsa Road    
FA      
ADB
(f)   Nadi Airport - Lautoka Road   FA      
ADB
(g)   Transinsular Road      
FA      
Bank
 
Part B:
Traffic Safety Improvements   FA      
Bank
 
Part C:
Vehicle Regulation     
FA      
Borrower
 
Part D:
Equipment and Physical Plant  ICB/IS  
Eximbank
 
Part E:
Institutional Support  
ISC     
Bank
 
Part F:
Technical Assistance   
ISC     
ADB
 
_____________________
ICB
:
International Competitive Bidding
IS
:
International Shopping
LCB
:
Local Competitive Bidding
FA
:
Force Account
ISC
:
International Selection of Consultants
 
