Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3634 
 
Project Name 
PDPL 3 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Multi-sector 
Project ID 
P101296 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF MACEDONIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Date PID Prepared 
January 16, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 31, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 15, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Progress in advancing political and economic reforms has been substantial this decade.  The authorities 
have moved with determination in implementing the Framework Agreement for Peace (the Ohrid 
Agreement) that ended the 2001 hostilities, including in enhancing the representation of minorities in 
governmental structures.  This, together with economic reforms and the implementation of the 
Stabilization and Association Agreement (SAA) with the EU, led the European Council to grant FYR 
Macedonia the status of a candidate country in December 2005.  While no date to begin negotiations has 
been set yet, the goal of EU integration is shared by all key political parties, providing incentives for 
further reforms and cohesion in what is still a tense political dialogue within the country. 
 
Macroeconomic stability was quickly restored and economic growth recovered following the 2001 
conflict.  Stabilization was underpinned by tighter fiscal policy, adherence to the de facto peg of the 
currency to the euro, and progress in restarting structural reforms interrupted by the conflict.  After years 
of modest real GDP growth, averaging 3.1 percent during 2004-2006, the economy expanded more 
vigorously in 2007.  Real GDP is estimated to have increased by about 5 percent for the year as a whole, 
reflecting ongoing structural reforms, including those supported by the PDPLs. 
 
Ongoing reform efforts to tackle obstacles to business development have helped strengthen investment 
rates of late, with gross investment rising to an estimated 23.1 percent of GDP in 2007 from 21 percent 
on average in 2002-2006.  Investment rates in FYR Macedonia still lag the new EU member states 
(average of 29 percent), with a negative impact on economic growth.  Business climate surveys indicate 
that the most serious obstacles to private sector development (and, correspondingly, investment) include 
an inefficient and opaque judicial system, poor access to credit, heavy regulation, political risks, 
corruption, and policy unpredictability. 
 
The balance of payments has improved substantially over the last several years, reflecting a narrower 
merchandise trade deficit, increased remittances and improved statistical coverage.  The current account 
deficit is officially reported to have decreased from 8.4 percent of GDP in 2004 to 0.9 percent in 2006, 
before widening to a modest 2.3 percent in 2007.  In 2006, the authorities prepaid fully London Club 
creditors, and in 2007 prepaid fully the IMF, most obligations to the Paris Club and obligations under 
five loans to the World Bank.  Prepayments in 2007 amounted to $283 million, or 4.6 percent of GDP.   
Despite the prepayments and the larger external deficit in 2007, net capital inflows exceeded the current 
Page  2
account deficit in 2006 and 2007 helped boost foreign exchange reserves.  Reserves rose to 4.6 months’ 
imports of goods and services by the end of 2007. 
 
Larger capital inflows of late reflected stronger inflows of foreign direct investment (FDI), which 
averaged 5 percent in 2006-2007, thanks to accelerated privatization to strategic foreign investors.  Even 
at these levels, however, inflows of FDI are rather modest compared to a large number of other countries 
in Eastern Europe and Central Asia (ECA), an outcome that has hindered a stronger growth in output 
and exports.   
 
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The objective of the PDPLs is to support the Government in tackling the interconnected agenda this 
interconnected agenda through improving: (i) the investment climate and (ii) governance and efficiency 
of the public sector.  The PDPL1 was approved by the Bank Board in October 2005 and the PDPL2 in 
February 2007.  Reforms supported by the proposed PDPL3 are underway.  A comprehensive judicial 
reform has been launched to firmly establish the rule of law including creditor, contract and property 
rights. After engaging in a critical dialogue with social partners regarding an overhaul of the labor law 
and institutions to introduce more flexibility into FYR Macedonian labor markets, a new Labor Law was 
enacted in July 2005. Reforms aimed at increasing competition in the economy have been launched 
including those that facilitate efficient entry and exit of firms as well as reduce the regulatory burden on 
ongoing business. Strengthening the new business registration system has continued, with reforms 
launched to clarify the legal status of the Central Registry, including its financing mechanisms and 
hiring procedures. Banking supervision and governance are also being strengthened.   Finally, reforms 
initiated under the PSMAC and PSMAL to build a meritocratic, rules-based, transparent public sector 
through the continuation of public administration reforms, health care reforms, and decentralization as 
envisaged under the Ohrid agreement are continuing to be carried out. 
 
Sustained improvements in the investment climate would also require a reduction in perceived political 
and geopolitical risk. The continued implementation of the Ohrid Agreement, continued progress toward 
eventual EU membership, and the successful implementation of a final status arrangement in 
neighboring Kosovo ultimately could prove as important to the investment climate in FYR Macedonia 
as the proposed PDPL reform program. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank involvement 
 
A
number of factors have historically discouraged growth in output, exports and employment in FYR 
Macedonia. These have included an inefficient and opaque judicial system that obstructs creditor, 
contract and property rights and has hampered the effectiveness of key government agencies and 
supervisory bodies from enforcing administrative sanctions (such as fines, penalties and actions to 
revoke licenses).  Inflexible product and labor markets, high payroll taxes, a burdensome regulatory 
environment, and poor corporate and financial sector governance have also impeded job and new 
business creation. A poorly functioning bankruptcy regime has hindered firm exit and the secondary 
transformation of ownership. These flaws in the investment climate have been compounded by weak 
public sector governance which further undermines investor sentiment. 
 
The government efforts supported by the program are in two main areas: 
 
Pillar 1: Improving the investment climate 
·
Judicial reform 
·
Labor market reform 
Page  3
·
Strengthening financial sector regulation and supervision 
·
Improving the business environment 
 
Pillar 2: Strengthening public sector governance  
·
Public administration reform 
·
Health sector reform 
·
Decentralization 
 
Summary of the PDPL Program
 
Pillar Objective 
Reform Area 
Issues/actions 
Improving the 
Investment Climate 
Judicial Reform 
Reduce backlog and delays in court proceedings  
Improve enforcement of court judgments 
Improve regulatory and implementation framework for bankruptcy cases 
Increase transparency and fairness of administrative agency decisions 
Increase institutional capacity to implement and monitor reforms 
Labor Market 
Reform 
Enhance labor market flexibility 
Strengthening 
Financial Sector 
Regulation and 
Supervision 
Strengthen banking supervision and regulation 
Strengthen compliance of banks with AML and CTF requirements  
Improving the 
Business 
Environment 
Strengthen corporate governance of the enterprise sector 
Adopt a quality-oriented approach to regulatory reforms 
Implement a business-friendly system for business registration 
Enhance the quality of corporate financial reporting 
Strengthening Public 
Sector Governance 
Public 
Administration 
Reform 
Improve institutional arrangements for effective strategic prioritization 
Develop a professional, politically neutral civil service, managed on the basis of 
merit, rather than political loyalty 
Revise salary structures public administration to ensure consistently competitive 
yet fiscally sustainable remuneration across required types of human capital 
Improving 
Governance and 
Transparency of 
the Health Sector 
Strengthen HIF Governance and the health policy making environment  
Improve budget planning and control, financial management and procurement in 
HIF, MOH and HCIs 
Decentralization 
Adopt a stable and transparent mechanism for financing municipal governments  
Reduce municipal arrears  
Adopt plan for f
inancing teachers’ salaries 
Adopt a decentralization strategy 
4. Financing 
This is a single tranche operation. 
 
Page  4
Source: 
(In millions of U.S. dollars) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
25 
 Total 
25 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
 
The reforms supported by the PDPL series aim at accelerating economic growth and job creation in FYR 
Macedonia, reducing poverty and raising living standards. The PDPLs also support the Government in 
advancing EU integration and eventual EU accession.   
 
Risks 
 
Implementation risks are moderate. The institutional changes that the PDPL supports are a medium-term 
endeavor. The current capacity of some public sector institutions to implement an ambitious reform 
agenda, while much improved over the past few years, remains relatively weak. However, the risk is 
mitigated thanks to the use of two donor-financed grants designed to provide technical assistance in key 
areas of the reform program and from Bank investment projects in health, social protection, judiciary, 
and business environment.  The risk is further mitigated through close cooperation with other donors 
supporting reforms in these areas. 
 
Political risks have affected foreign investor confidence and constrained inflows of foreign direct 
investment.  The broad popular consensus in favor of further EU integration and ultimate EU accession 
is overwhelming and serves as a mitigating factor, with continued implementation of economic reforms 
widely recognized as an essential step on the path to EU membership.  Moreover, implementation of the 
2001 Ohrid Agreement that ended the 2001 hostilities has been advanced. 
 
There are also macroeconomic risks. Ongoing turbulence in international financial markets and their 
impact on the EU could contribute to slowing capital inflows and weaken the expansion in exports and 
output in FYR Macedonia.  Inflation and the current account deficit have begun increasing, albeit from 
very low levels.  The authorities’ commitment, backed by all mainstream political parties, of the need to 
maintain macroeconomic stability and advance reforms as key to EU accession is a crucial mitigating 
factor. Additional mitigating factors could reflect the possibility that PDPL-supported reforms help 
stimulate growth in productivity and increase domestic saving. To the extent that the improved 
investment climate helps attract larger inflows of foreign direct investment, a larger current account 
deficit could be financed without reliance on foreign borrowing. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The policies supported by the PDPL are expected to contribute substantially to a long-term reduction in 
poverty by helping engender a virtuous cycle of growth in output and employment.  As discussed above, 
reduction in poverty and unemployment has been slow during 2002-2006, and unemployment is a 
Page  5
pressing issue.  The PDPL-supported reforms are designed to help reduce obstacles to business and 
employment creation (business creation has accelerated, in part thanks to improvements in the 
regulatory environment as recognized in the 2008 Doing Business report and recent surveys that indicate 
that unemployment has begun to decline), reduce the informality in the economy (and thus helping 
workers gain social protection), improve labor market flexibility (so that it is workers rather than the 
positions they hold that are protected). The PDPL is also helping improve the sustainability of the health 
system to benefit all citizens.  The second phase of decentralization will pose risks for the equitable 
delivery of social services if not well designed. With that in mind, the PDPL program includes measures 
to ensure that the design of Phase 2 of decentralization will safeguard equal access to quality education, 
an adequate supply of qualified teachers and non-teaching staff for ethnic minorities. 
 
The team has reviewed the possible effects of the PDPL-supported policies on the environment, natural 
resources, and forests and concluded that the policies are unlikely to have any significant effects.  An 
area that may require further attention with respect to the environment and will be followed up includes 
Government efforts to remove regulatory and administrative barriers through the “regulatory guillotine” 
and the RIA.  Such reforms involve a comprehensive review of regulations to help identify those that are 
unnecessary or without a sufficient legal basis, including those that do not offer sufficient safeguards, 
including with respect to the environment, safety, health and the consumer interest.  The Bank’s BERIS 
project is providing assistance in implementing the reforms of the business environment and monitoring 
their effects.  Further, ongoing efforts by the Government in EU integration should help align 
environmental legislation with the EU acquis and, as a result, international best practices in this area and 
help mitigate potential risks.   
 
8. Contact point 
Ivailo Izvorski 
Senior Country Economist 
iizvorski@worldbank.org
Tel: 202-458-8807
 
