Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3219 
Operation Name 
PDPL 3 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Multi-sector 
Project ID 
P101296 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF MACEDONIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Date PID Prepared 
July 4, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 15, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 7, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
A
number of factors have historically discouraged growth in output, exports and employment in FYR 
Macedonia. These have included an inefficient and opaque judicial system that obstructs creditor, 
contract and property rights and has hampered the effectiveness of key government agencies and 
supervisory bodies from enforcing administrative sanctions (such as fines, penalties and actions to 
revoke licenses).  Inflexible product and labor markets, high payroll taxes, a burdensome regulatory 
environment, and poor corporate and financial sector governance have also impeded job and new 
business creation. A poorly functioning bankruptcy regime has hindered firm exit and the secondary 
transformation of ownership. These flaws in the investment climate have been compounded by weak 
public sector governance which further undermines investor sentiment. 
 
The objective of the PDPLs is to support the Government in tackling this interconnected agenda through 
improving: (i) the investment climate and (ii) governance and efficiency of the public sector.  The 
PDPL1 was approved by the Bank Board in October 2005 and the PDPL2 in February 2007.  Reforms 
supported by the proposed PDPL3 are underway.  A comprehensive judicial reform has been launched 
to firmly establish the rule of law including creditor, contract and property rights. After engaging in a 
critical dialogue with social partners regarding an overhaul of the labor law and institutions to introduce 
more flexibility into FYR Macedonian labor markets, a new Labor Law was enacted in July 2005. 
Reforms aimed at increasing competition in the economy have been launched including those that 
facilitate efficient entry and exit of firms as well as reduce the regulatory burden on ongoing business. 
Strengthening the new business registration system has continued, with reforms launched to clarify the 
legal status of the Central Registry, including its financing mechanisms and hiring procedures. Banking 
supervision and governance are also being strengthened.   The Government has recently decided to 
establish an independent supervisor for the insurance sector and to bring the regulatory and supervisory 
framework closer to international best practices. Finally, reforms initiated under the PSMAC and 
PSMAL to build a meritocratic, rules-based, transparent public sector through the continuation of public 
administration reforms, health care reforms, and decentralization as envisaged under the Ohrid 
agreement are continuing to be carried out. 
 
Sustained improvements in the investment climate would also require a reduction in perceived political 
and geopolitical risk. The continued implementation of the Ohrid Agreement, continued progress toward 
eventual EU membership, and the successful implementation of a final status arrangement in 
Page  2
neighboring Kosovo ultimately could prove as important to the investment climate in FYR Macedonia 
as the proposed PDPL reform program. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The Programmatic Development Policy Loans aim to support measures to enhance prospects for 
economic growth and job creation in FYR Macedonia through improving: (i) the investment climate, 
and (ii) governance and efficiency of the public sector.  The PDPL also supports the Macedonian 
Government’s efforts to carry out intensive structural and institutional reforms required for EU 
accession. 
 
The program is structured under two pillars along the above-mentioned goals: 
 
Pillar 1: Improving the investment climate 
·
Judicial reform 
·
Labor market reform 
·
Strengthening financial sector regulation and supervision 
·
Improving the business environment 
 
Pillar 2: Strengthening public sector governance  
·
Public administration reform 
·
Health sector reform 
·
Decentralization 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Summary of the PDPL Program
 
Pillar Objective 
Reform Area 
Issues/actions 
Improving the 
Investment Climate 
Judicial Reform 
Reduce backlog and delays in court proceedings  
Improve enforcement of court judgments 
Improve regulatory and implementation framework for bankruptcy cases 
Increase transparency and fairness of administrative agency decisions 
Increase institutional capacity to implement and monitor reforms 
Labor Market 
Reform 
Enhance labor market flexibility 
Strengthening 
Financial Sector 
Regulation and 
Supervision 
Strengthen banking supervision and regulation 
Strengthen compliance of banks with AML and CTF requirements  
Improving the 
Business 
Environment 
Strengthen corporate governance of the enterprise sector 
Adopt a quality-oriented approach to regulatory reforms 
Implement a business-friendly system for business registration 
Enhance the quality of corporate financial reporting 
Strengthening Public 
Sector Governance 
Public 
Administration 
Reform 
Improve institutional arrangements for effective strategic prioritization 
Develop a professional, politically neutral civil service, managed on the basis of 
merit, rather than political loyalty 
Page  3
merit, rather than political loyalty 
Revise salary structures public administration to ensure consistently competitive 
yet fiscally sustainable remuneration across required types of human capital 
Improving 
Governance and 
Transparency of 
the Health Sector 
Strengthen HIF Governance and the health policy making environment  
Improve budget planning and control, financial management and procurement in 
HIF, MOH and HCIs 
Decentralization 
Adopt a stable and transparent mechanism for financing municipal governments  
Reduce municipal arrears  
Adopt plan for financing teachers
’
salaries 
Adopt a decentralization strategy 
4. Environment Aspects 
The proposed PDPL3 will not support specific measures which are likely to have an effect on the 
environment, forests or other natural resources of FYR Macedonia and no environmental impact 
assessment will be required for this operation. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
25 
 Total 
25 
 
6. Contact point 
Ivailo Izvorski 
Senior Country Economist 
iizvorski@worldbank.org
Tel: ++387-33-251-507
 
