Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4060-BR
Loan Agreement
(Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resources Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF PARANÁ
Dated December 23, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4060-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1997 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF PARANÁ (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Annual Operating Plan” means each plan referred to in Section 3.05 (d) 
of this Agreement;
(b)
“Banco Central” means Banco Central do Brasil, the Guarantor’s Central 
Bank;
(c)
“CCPG-UAP” means Unidade de Assessoramento do Projeto, a unit housed 
within the Borrower’s general coordination center of government programs (the CCPG) 
located in the Borrower’s Secretariat of Planning, established pursuant to the 
Secretariat of Planning’s Resolução No. 053 of May 10, 1996;
(d)
“CODAPAR” means Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agropecuário do Paraná,  the 
Borrower’s development agency established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 9570 of 
February 15, 1991;
(e)
“CODAPAR Beneficiary” means the individuals and the entities in the 
Borrower’s public or private sector which are responsible for the carrying out of a a 
CODAPAR Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
“CODAPAR Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(g)
“CODAPAR Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.01 
(e) of this Agreement;
(h)
“CODAPAR Subproject” means a project selected by the Borrower pursuant to 
the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Manual (as 
hereinafter defined) and in the relevant Operating Arrangement (as hereinafter 
defined), consisting of investments and other activities to be financed by a Grant in 
any of the areas referred to in Part A.1 (b), (c) and (d), A.2 and A.3 (a) and (c) of 
the Project;
(i)
“CODEPRO” means Comissão Deliberativa do Projeto, the Borrower’s Project 
deliberative commission referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (v) of this Agreement;
(j)
“COHAPAR” means Companhia de Habitação do Paraná, the Borrower’s company 
responsible for implementing the Borrower’s housing policy established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Law No. 5113 of May 13, 1965;
(k)
“COHAPAR Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
Page  3
(l)
“COHAPAR Beneficiary” means the individuals responsible for the carrying 
out ofa a COHAPAR Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(m)
“COHAPAR Subproject” means a project selected by the Borrower pursuant to 
the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Manual (as 
hereinafter defined) and in the relevant Operating Arrangement (as hereinafter 
defined), consisting of investments and other activities under Part A.1 (a) of the 
Project;
(n)
“Communal Facilities” means the facilities used or to be used by the 
local communities for the delivery of health, education and other social and 
productive services;
(o)
“CRPs” means Comissões Regionais do Projeto, the Borrower’s regional 
Project commissions referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (iii) of this Agreement;
(p)
“DER” means Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem, the Borrower’s 
department of roads established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 547 of December 18, 
1946;
(q)
“DER Subproject” means a project selected by the Borrower pursuant to the 
criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter 
defined) and in the relevant Operating Arrangement (as hereinafter defined),  
consisting of investments and other activities under Part A.3 (b) of the Project;
(r)
“DERAL” means Departamento de Economia Rural, the Borrower’s department 
of rural economy located within SEAB (as hereinafter defined);
(s)
“EMATER” means Empresa Paranaense de  Assistência Técnica e Extensão 
Rural the Borrower’s company responsible for implementing the Borrower’s technical 
assistance and rural extension policy established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 
6969 of December 26, 1977;
(t)
“Executing Entity” means each of the entities listed in the Annex to 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and Executing Entities means collectively all such 
entities;
(u)
“Grant” means a grant to be made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, 
through CODAPAR, to a CODAPAR Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(v)
“IAPAR” means Instituto Agronômico do Paraná, the Borrower’s agricultural 
research institute established pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 9663 of July 16, 
1991;
(w)
“Microcatchment Plan” means the Borrower’s plan for the management of its 
microcatchment areas, including, inter alia, a list of priority areas to be assisted 
under the Project as such Plan is set forth in a letter from the Borrower to the Bank 
dated May 17, 1996;
(x)
“Municipal Councils” means Conselhos Municipais, the Borrower’s municipal 
councils referred to in Section 3.01 (iv) of this Agreement;
(y)
“Operating Arrangement” mean each of the arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement; and “Operating Arrangements” means 
collectively all such arrangements;
(z)
“Project Implementation Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
containing inter alia, the operating procedures for the execution of the Project, the 
criteria for the selection of, and procedures for the carrying out of, CODAPAR, 
COHAPAR and DER Subprojects, respectively, and the standard form of a CODAPAR Grant 
Agreement and of a COHAPAR Agreement;
(aa)
“SEAB” means Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura e do Abastecimento, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Agriculture;
(bb)
“SMG” means Sistema de Monitoramento Gerencial, the Project’s management 
Page  4
information system, an instrument, satisfactory to the Bank, comprised of the 
following Project-related elements: (i) input and output information; (ii) baseline 
data; and (iii) information transferred among the Executing Entities and SEAB;
(cc)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(dd)
“UGP” means Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto, the unit referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement; and
(ee)
“Vilas Rurais Program” means the Borrower’s program described in the 
Project Implementation Manual and consisting of a set of actions, including, inter 
alia, the provision of land plots, technical and financial assistance for the poorest 
segment of the Borrower’s rural population.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred seventy five 
million dollars ($175,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the 
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 
2.06 
of this Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which 
this Agreement is signed.
(ii)
“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
Page  5
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
“Semester” means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
“(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on 
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period.”
“(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter.”
“(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.”
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Secretary of SEAB, and the person or persons designated in 
writing by such Secretary, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SEAB with the assistance of the Executing Entities as set 
forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and with the participation of the 
CODAPAR and COHAPAR Beneficiaries, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with: (i) the Project Implementation Manual; (ii) the Annual Operating Plan; and (iii)  
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, agricultural and land management 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
waive the Project Implementation Manual or any provision thereof. 
(c)
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i)
through SEAB, enter into arrangements, satisfactory to Bank, with 
the 
Executing Entities (the Operating 
Arrangements) to 
determine, inter alia, 
their respective roles in the execution 
of the Project;
(ii)
establish and thereafter maintain until the completion of the 
Project, a unit 
within SEAB (the UGP) with 
responsibilities, 
structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank, and with staff 
in adequate numbers and with adequate 
qualifications, for the purposes 
of, inter alia: (A) assisting SEAB in the 
carrying out of the 
Page  6
Project; and (B) reviewing and approving proposals for 
CODAPAR, COHAPAR and DER Subprojects; all in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual;
(iii)
maintain until the completion of the Project, at least three 
regional Project 
Commissions (the CRPs) for the purposes of, inter 
alia: (A) coordinating 
regional Project activities; (B) 
organizing and monitoring the flow of demand 
for CODAPAR and COHAPAR 
Subprojects originated from the Municipal Councils; 
and (C) subject to 
the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, 
participating 
in the selection of CODAPAR and COHAPAR Subprojects;
(iv)
cause to be established and thereafter maintained until the 
completion of the 
Project, at least fifty municipal councils (the 
Municipal Councils) for the 
purposes of,  inter alia: (A) promoting 
the Project at the local level; (B) 
providing information to 
prospective CODAPAR and COHAPAR Beneficiaries with 
respect to CODAPAR 
and COHAPAR Subproject conditions and procedures; (C) 
subject to the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, participating 
in the selection of CODAPAR and COHAPAR Subprojects; and 
(v)
establish and thereafter maintain until the completion of the 
Project, a 
commission (the CODEPRO) for the purposes of, inter 
alia, advising SEAB with 
respect to the coordination of the activities 
under the responsibility of the 
Executing Entities.
(d)
The Borrower shall, not later than October 31 of each year during Project 
implementation, furnish to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the 
Borrower shall have allocated in its budget proposal for the next succeeding year the 
amounts required for the carrying out of the Project during such year.
(e)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and, for the purposes of providing counterpart funds for the implementation of CODAPAR 
Subprojects, the Borrower shall: (i) open, and thereafter operate and maintain in 
CODAPAR, an account (the CODAPAR Project Account) under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) maintain in the CODAPAR Project Account, at all 
times during Project implementation, a positive balance of not less than $2,000,000 
equivalent.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of  carrying out Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
(i)
cause CODAPAR, through the relevant Operating Arrangement, to 
enter into a 
grant agreement with each of the CODAPAR 
Beneficiaries (the CODAPAR Grant 
Agreement) to finance the costs 
of a CODAPAR Subproject, under terms and 
conditions 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank which shall include, 
inter alia, the terms and conditions set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual; and 
(ii)
for such services, CODAPAR shall be entitled to a fee, in an 
amount not 
exceeding the equivalent of 1.5% of the amounts 
disbursed by CODAPAR under 
Grants, out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
(b)
through the relevant Operating Arrangement, cause COHAPAR to enter into 
an agreement with each of the COHAPAR Beneficiaries (the COHAPAR Agreement) to finance 
a COHAPAR Subproject, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank which shall include, inter alia, the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Project Implementation Manual; and 
(c)
observe strict compliance with the Microcatchment Plan.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  7
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under each Operating Arrangement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of such Operating Arrangements or any provision 
thereof..     
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) and 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
In the months of December, 1998; December, 2000; and December, 2002, 
respectively, furnish to the Bank evaluations focusing on: (i) the socio-economic 
impact of the Project on the rural communities assisted by it; and (ii) the 
performance of the Vilas Rurais Program;.
(b)
In the months of June and December of each year during Project 
implementation, furnish to the Bank reports on the progress in the implementation of 
the Project during the previous six months, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request;
(c)
In the months of July and January of each year during Project 
implementation, hold reviews jointlywith the Bank (the review to take place in January 
of the year 2001 to be the mid-term review), such reviews to be based on the reports 
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above (as applicable) and, thereafter, take or 
cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed upon by the Borrower 
and the Bank during the reviews referred to in this paragraph, as necessary for the 
efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action 
to be taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such reviews; 
and
(d)
In the month of August of each year during Project implementation, 
furnish to the Bank an annual plan satisfactory to the Bank (the Annual Operating 
Plan), describing, inter alia, the Project activities to be carried out during the 
next calendar year, including the cost thereof, such plan to take into account any 
recommendation made by the CRPs, the Municipal Councils and the Executing Entities.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1998, furnish to the 
Bank for comments, the study referred to in Part B.6 (f) of the Project, and 
thereafter, implement the recommendations of such study, after taking into account the 
comments made by the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the SMG to become operational not later 
than 90 days after the Effective Date.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation  thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and
        (b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
departments and agencies of the Borrower in charge of the execution of the Project or 
any part thereof. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  8
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the UGP, CODEPRO, at least three CRPs and at least fifty Municipal 
Councils have been established;
(b)
the Operating Arrangement with CODAPAR has become effective; 
(c)
the Project Implementation Manual has been adopted by the Borrower; and
(d)
the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco Central.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly 
registered by Banco CentralCentral Bank of Brazil.
Section 5.03. The date March 23, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI
Page  9
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of SEAB is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
     Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura e do Abastecimento
Rua dos Funcionários 1559 - Cabral
CEP 80.035-050, Curitiba - Paraná
Brazil
Telex:
41-5226
With copy to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
611146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF PARANÁ
Page  10
By /s/ Jaime Lerner
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1)
Goods, works
and services
for Part A of 
the Project:
(a)
CODAPAR
72,000,000
50%
Subprojects
(b)
DER Subprojects
18,000,000
50%
(c)
COHAPAR
41,000,000
50%
Subprojects
(2)
CODAPAR’s Fees
 1,100,000
100%
(3)
For Part B of the Project:
(a)
Goods
 4,000,000
45%
(b)
Consultants’ Services:
  (i)
Technical
assistance
to CODAPAR
and COHAPAR
Beneficiaries
10,000,000
100%
 (ii)
Training and 
workshops
 8,500,000
100%
(iii)
Studies and 
 5,000,000
100%
research
(c)
Operating Costs
 1,500,000
100%
(4)
Unallocated
13,900,000
_________
TOTAL
      175,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “CODAPAR’s Fees” means the fees for the services provided by 
CODAPAR to the Borrower under the relevant Operating Arrangement and as provided in 
Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement; .and
(b)
the term "Operating Costs” means expenditures made for office supplies, 
communications, travel and per diem for the purposes of supporting the coordination 
and supervision activities to be carried out by the UGP and the CCPG-UAP. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  11
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$12,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after March 18a date which is latter than , 1996;
(b)
any expenditure unless such expenditure shall have been included in the 
relevant Annual Operating Plan;
(c)
expenditures made by any Executing Entity, unless the relevant Operating 
Arrangement has become effective (except the Operating Arrangement with CODAPAR); and
(d)
expenditures under the first five CODAPAR Subprojects under each of  
Parts A.1 (b), (c) and (d), A.2 and A.3 (a) and (c) of the Project, respectively, the 
first five DER Subprojects and the first five COHAPAR Subprojects, unless the Bank has 
approved such subprojects.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures under contracts for: (a) CODAPAR or COHAPAR Subprojects; 
(b) Operating Costs; (c) CODAPAR’s Fees; (d) works or goods costing less than $100,000 
equivalent; (e) services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; 
and (f) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the living standard conditions of 
approximately 260,000 rural poor and small farm households located in the Borrower's 
territory, by: (a) increasing their income; (b) restoring and replenishing natural 
resources through improved natural resource management; and (c) promoting agricultural 
modernization and diversification as well as vertical integration of agricultural 
products. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Poverty Alleviation through Investments
1.
Carrying out of infrastructure projects consisting of:
(a)
construction of houses;
(b)
construction of house additions;
(c)
construction of Communal Facilities; and
(d)
provision of water, sanitation and electrification services.
2.
Carrying out of on-farm and off-farm projects consisting of:
(a)
on-farm activities to include, inter alia: (i) investments (including 
provision of selected inputs and materials) for crop improvements, emphasizing 
subsistence crops and vegetable gardens; and (ii) small-scale livestock production in 
the areas of dairy, poultry, swine and fish; and
(b)
off-farm activities to include, inter alia: (i) milling facilities; (ii) 
cottage agro-industries and processing; (iii) dairy and food processing; (iv) 
equipment for the provision of agricultural services; (v) basic marketing facilities 
and infrastructure facilities; and (vi) post-harvest agricultural storage facilities.
3.
Carrying out of microcatchment-based projects consisting of: 
Page  12
(a)
natural resources management activities to include, inter alia: (i) 
collective land management, such as vegetative contours and terracing; (ii) 
conservation and/or establishment of permanent vegetation on fragile areas; (iii) 
provision of soil improvement inputs; (iv) water pollution control measures; (v) 
purchase of conservationist farm equipment for farm groups to undertake reduced 
tillage and other land management practices; 
(b)
rehabilitation of approximately 8,000 kilometers of rural feeder roads, 
within the beneficiary microcatchment areas, aimed at reducing water run-off and soil 
erosion;
(c)
agricultural modernization to include, inter alia: (i) crop 
diversification; (ii) post-harvest technologies; (iii) small agro-industries; (iv) 
feasibility and marketing studies; and (v) market development through the promotion 
and expansion of market outlets.
Part B:
Technical Support Services
1.
Institutional strengthening of EMATER through: (a) purchase of vehicles and 
equipment for their field offices; and (b) contracting of social promoters to work in 
the microcatchment areas under the Project.
2.
Institutional strengthening of DERAL through the provision of equipment and 
vehicles aiming at the improvement of the information on agricultural prices.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to CODAPAR Beneficiaries, CRPs and Municipal 
Councils, through: (a) contracting of private firms and individuals to complement 
EMATER’s technical services; (b) carrying out of feasibility studies as needed,  to 
assist in the implementation of CODAPAR Subprojects; and (c) support for 
identification, design and implementation of CODAPAR Subprojects.
4.
Carrying out of  training activities in several Project-related areas including, 
inter alia, the following:
(a)
farm production and vocational skills;
(b)
home economics;
(c)
community organization;
(d)
soil conservation;
(e)
natural resource management;
(f)
participation methods;
(g)
promotion of CODAPAR and COHAPAR Subprojects;
(h)
environmental impact assessment; and
(i)
agro-processing and marketing.
5.
Carrying out of adaptive research and dissemination activities aiming at the 
improvement of existing technology with respect to small-scale agricultural production 
systems, emphasizing methods to reduce production costs, increase productivity and 
increase farm households returns.
6.
Carrying out of studies, including, inter alia:
(a)
a diagnosis of rural poverty in the Borrower’s territory;
(b)
an evaluation of the environmental impact of the Project in selected 
microcatchment areas;
(c)
a comparative analysis of the effectiveness of mass communication and 
technical transfer methodologies for small farmers;
Page  13
(d)
an analysis of the fruit markets and demand in the Central-Southern 
region of the Guarantor;
(e)
an evaluation of the options for privatizing rural extension services; 
and
(f)
a review of the feasibility and the mechanisms for establishing a 
cost-recovery system for income-generating activities in the Borrower’s rural area. 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2002.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
The following Parts of the Project shall be carried out with the assistance of 
the entities indicated below:
Part of the Project
Executing Entity(ies)
A.1 (a)
COHAPAR
A.1 (b), (c) and (d)
CODAPAR
A.2
CODAPAR/EMATER
A.3 (a)
CODAPAR/EMATER
A.3 (b)
DER
A.3 (c)
CODAPAR/EMATER
B.1
EMATER
B.3 EMATER
B.5
IAPAR/EMATER
B.6 (a), (e) and (f)
CCPG-UAP
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
        (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15  and October 15
8,750,000
beginning October 15, 2001
through April 15, 2011
_______________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Section 
3.04 
and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Page  14
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the 
Loan on the day of 
pre-payment multiplied 
by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years but not
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C.2 of this Section, computer and vehicles shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(c)
To the extent practicable, contracts for computers and contracts for 
vehicles shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or 
more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Page  15
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (other than computers and vehicles) estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent 
or more per contract, and works estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more per 
contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and works 
under this part C.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be 
used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
International Shopping
(a)
Vehicles estimated to cost  less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Computers estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods (other than computers and vehicles) under CODAPAR or COHAPAR Subprojects 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $104,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works under CODAPAR or COHAPAR Subprojects estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $154,000,000 
equivalent,  may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic 
form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Page  16
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Other
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term custom duties and 
other import taxes includes the Guarantor’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the 
Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha Mercante -AFRMM), 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 1142 of December 30, 1970, as 
amended on December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable 
opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: ( a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
Page  17
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$12,000,000, or such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from 
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Page  18
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
