Documont of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repw No. P-4062-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$250 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
RIHAND POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
May 7, 1985
This doaeM hs a restrickd distinlhuim md *ay be used by reipiens mly in dte perfornmanc  of
dhir officd dutes  s lbcotnts any no othrwise be disosed witbout Wodd Bank authoioatibm.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of April 29, 1985)
US41.00        -  Rs12.454
Rs 1.00        -  US40.0803
Rs 1 million   - US$80,300
.
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as othervise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 12.0.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviaticns and Acronyms
AC     -   Alternating Current
CE&    -   Central Electricity Authority
DC     -   Direct Current
GOI    -   Government of India
GWh    -   Gigawatt-hour
HQI    -   Hydro Quebec International
HVDC   -   High-voltage direct current
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB    -   Local Competitive Bidding
LREC   -   Long-Run Marginal Cost
MW     -   Megawatt
NEPC   -   National Hydroelectric Power Corporation Limited
NPP    -   National Power Plan
NTPC   -   National Thermal Power Corporation Limited
REB    -   Regional Electricity Board
REC    -   Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB    -   State Electricity Board
TOE    -   Tons of oil equivalent



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
RIHAND POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
QAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrover:               India, acting by its President.
Beneficiarv:            National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC)
Amount:                 USS250 million.
Terms:                  Repayment over 20 years, including five years' grace,
at the applicable rate of interest.
Onlendint Terms:        From the Government of India (GOI) to NTPC, with
repayment over 20 years, including five years' grace,
at an interest rate of not less than 12.5Z per annum.
GOI will bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
risks.
Project Description:    The project's main objective is to help meet the
demand for electricity in the Northern Region of
India by providing transmission linkage between
the thermal power plants at Singrauli-Rihand in
the State of Uttar Pradesh and the main load
centers in the Northern Region, and to ensure the
evacuation of power from these plants at least
cost to the economy. The project comprises the
installation of about 910 km of 500-kV direct
current (DC) power transmission line between
Rihand and Delhi, and the associated converting
stations, together with about 1,450 km of 400-kV
alternating current (AC) line connecting
Singrauli-Rihand with the main load centers at
Kanpur, Delhi, Panipat, and Jaipur and related
substations in the Northern Region. The project
will introduce long-distance, high-voltage, direct
current (HVDC) power transmission technology in
India. There are no risks other than those
*                               normally associated with this type of project.
NTPC will be assisted by consultants for the
implementation of the DC component. NTPC has
experience vith transmission line installation so
risk of slippage will be minimal. Most of the
major equipment components, with the exception of
the converting stations, are manufactured in
India, and there is adequate understanding of, and
experience with, their installation.
Ibis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost: Jj
(USS millions)
Item                         Local        Foreizn         Total
400 kV AC lines                            90.9          34.0         124.9
400 kV substations                        81.8           11.7          93.5
HVDC line                                 55.2           25.1          80.3
HVDC terminals                            65.4          122.1         187.5
Consultancy and Technical Assistance       -              4.6           4.6
Engineering and Administration            32.5            -            32.5
Base Cost                             325.8          197.5         523.3
Physical Contingencies                     16.9           9.6          26.5
Price Contingencies                       60.2           55.9         116.1
Total Project Cost                    402.9          263.0         665.9
Interest during Construction
Bank                                  -             18.8          18.8
Other                                 8.3            -             8.3
Total Financing Requirements             411.2          281.8         693.0
Financing Plan:                                    (USS millions)
Local        Foreian        Total
I-RD                                  122.0          128.0         250.0
Cofinanciers                            -            135.0         135.0
GOI and MTPC                          289.2           18.8         308.0
Total                             411.2          281.8         693.0
O/ Including about US$86.7 million in taxes and duties.



-iii-
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ millions)
Bank FY                     FY86      FY87       FY88      FY89      FY90
Annual                      23.0      64.5       81.0      45.0      36.5
Cumulative                  23.0      87.5      168.5     213.5    250.0
Rate of Return:    About 13Z.
.
Appraisal Re,ssrt: No. 5410-lN, dated May 3. 1985.
.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO INDIA FOR THE RIHAND POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India, for US$250 million to help finance the Rihand Power Transmission
Project, designed primarily to assist in meeting the electricity demand in the
Northern Region of India by providing power transmission linkage between the
thermal power plants at the Singrauli-Rihand complex and the main load centers
in the Northern Region. The proceeds of the loan will be onlent by the
Government to the National Thermal Power Corporation for twenty years, includ-
ing five years' grace, at an interest rate of not less than 12.5% per annum.
Additional financing for the project, in an amount equivalent to about US$135
million, may be provided from official bilateral assistance, export credits, or
suppliers' credits to cover the foreign exchange cost of the high-voltage
terminal equipment. The foreign exchange and interest rate risks will be borne
by the Covernment of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Structural Change and Development Perspectives"
(5593-IN, dated April 24, 1985), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 1, 1985. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those who own little or
no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2Z since 1950/51 - has
been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.3% per annum). As a
result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at
factor cost) from 52% in 1950/51 to about 33% in 1981/82, while the share of
industry rose from 20% to around 26Z. But industrialization has not been rapid
enough to absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging
about 3.6Z per annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imporcs through significant
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Chandrapur Thermal Power Project (No.P-4041-1N),
dated April 24, 1985.



-2-
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings rate more than doubled from
10.82 of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.72 in 1983/84, while the gross domestic
investment rate rose from 12.52 of GDP to 24.82 in 1983/84. Foreign savings
(balance of payments deficit on current account) have never financed a major
portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the
early 1960s. Currently, foreign savings account for about 8% of investment.
External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita
terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and averaging below 1% for the past five
years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3Z of GDP, and
presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3Z. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during
the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume
of India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a
whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle
East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and
more effective export incentives pLayed a major role.
6h      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a resuLt, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
5.3X, 3.3% and 8.1%, respectively, during the 1975/76 to 1978/79 period. In
1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent
years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply
shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and
the opening up of a relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pres-
sures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These
setbacks coincided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid
down a program of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, remov-
ing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an overall
growth of the economy of 5.2% per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early l980s continued to grow at the faster pace of the
second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to 1982/83),
GDP growth averaged almost 5% per annum, while between the two recovery years
(from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum -- substantially higher than
India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. Continued rapid economic growth has
resulted from a development strategy which includes higher investment levels
and liberalized policies on imports, industrial licensing, prices, and commer-



-3-
cial borrowing. These policies, by easing constraints on the supply of
infrastructure and basic comnodities, were a determining factor in the improved
performance of the economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement
in performance, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82 and
1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflaticn. The growth rate
of wholesale prices declined from over 18% in 1980/81 to only 2.6% in 1982/83,
but rose to over 9% in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect of the 1982/83 drought
*       on food prices.  Further improvements in the policy environment will be
required to maintain these higher levels of economic growth and investment
without putting undue pressure on the balance of payments or reviving infla-
tionary expectations.
8.      Economic growth in the early 1980s has not been steady, mainly because
of the effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production during the period.
In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered from the 1979
drought, with real CDP growing by 7.6% and 5.3%, respectively. While
industrial output expanded by 4Z in 1980/81 and 8.6Z in 1981/82, recovery was
particularly robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise
by more than 15Z and 5.5%, respectively. The supply of power, coal, and rail
transport, already improved in 1980/81, was further expanded in 1981/82,
recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.6Z and 12.5%, respectively. This over-
all improvement in the Indian economy was halted in 1982/83 by a severe drought
in mid-1982 which reduced agricultural production by 4Z, brought down the GDP
growth rate to 1.8%, and put further strains on the already difficult balance
of payments and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of
various economic policies relating to foodgrain imports; procurement and
distribution, and the allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the
otherwise very distressing effects of the poor monsoon. The economy recovered
in 1983/84, led by a robust agricultural sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7Z
with agricultural production growth in the 9Z-10 range and industrial growth
of 4.52. The major factors contributing to the good economic performance
during 1983/84 were the excellent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural
policies and programs, and satisfactory performance of the coal and transport
sectors. The power sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher
growth, especially in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response to
the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of irrigation.
Overall foodgrain production rose by 10X-12X over the previous year, reaching
a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the previous
peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82.  Corrected for weather variations,
foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend oE 2.6% per annum-sufficient
to maintain a broad balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic
demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain
imports to maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise
from time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks and programs
to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other agricultural inputs ccntinue to receive high priority.



-4-
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983184,
partially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of
the year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains of
1980-82. Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7% due to low reservoir
water levels during the first half of the year, delays in the commissioning
of new capacity, and a deterioration of capacity utilization in thermal plants.
As a result, power generation was about 11.5% below requirements and con-
stituted a major bottleneck in the economy. Key industries which were adver-
sely affected by power constraints included steel, fertilizers, cement, and
coal. To improve performance in the power sector, the Government recently
increased incentives for higher labor and management productivity in thermal
plants. Railway freight traffic, measured in ton-kms, grew by only 0.5X in
1983/84, reflecting sluggish demand. Coal production increased by about 6.5Z
in 1983/84 reaching 139 million tons. When combined with stocks already avail-
able this level of production was sufficient to meet the relatively slow demand
growth. Infrastructural constraints would have emerged much more sharply had
the pace of industrial growth and demand been more rapid. It is therefore
critically important that India maintain the pace of investment in these key
sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement programs to
enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus in
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross invest-
ment and national savings increased from negligible levels during the late
1970s to an average equivalent to 2.1X of CDP in 1980-84. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.6% of GDP in the last four years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a substan-
tial increase in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. If India is to
maintain investment at about 25% of GDP, a major effort will be required to
raise additional domestic resources particularly in the public sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhAnced profitability of
public sector enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity,
more efficient operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow
a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1Z-2.3Z of
GDP to 1.5X-1.8Z, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976/77 to
1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of CDP during
1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to these relatively
larger current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated
sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued
to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a
more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net
invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated
(reflecting slower developmeLt activity in the Middle East), and payment of
interest on higher levels of foreign debt increased. Faced with severe
infrastructural constraints and a deterioration in its balance of payments,
India initiated an adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth



-5-
rate from its historical level of 3.6% to 5.2% while adjusting the country's
external balance to the adverse price developments in the world markets. The
main elements of this strategy, which is being successfully implemented, are
export promotion, import substitution where economically justifiable, implemen-
tation of a coherent energy policy designed to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and continued movement toward
a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to inputs
for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology and
capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduction
in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in
1983184 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import liberalization.
Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and petroleum proWducts,
metals and fertilizers more than offset the substantial increase in "other"
imports. These "other" imports consist mainly of industrial imports and capi-
tal goods which historically have been in chronic short supply and which are of
critical importance to capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modern-
ization and expansion. A major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was
the lower net import bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in
1980/81 to US$3.4 billion in 1983/84 in response to a successful oil develop-
ment program that reduced import needs and allowed crude oil exports, which
totalled about US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural changes in the
balance of payments are to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It is expected that the
balance of payments will continue to be under strain for the next several
years, since the adjustment strategy will continue to require high levels of
imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need external
capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future, given
the low per capita income level in the country, the already high savings rate,
and the structural adjustment process. Faced with a growing need for external
capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance,
India decided at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and commercial banks to substantial levels.
In the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India A ew SDR 3.9
billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In addition, India bor-
rowed significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84,
India contracted commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and
suppliers' credits of over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrowing has
been used for specific development projects in the public and private sector
(mostly for petroleum exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and
shipping). India's favorable debt service position and the nature of its
borrowings, for project-related purposes instead of direct balance of payments
support, enabled it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads.
This larger commercial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement
with the IMF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen
to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.



Development Prospects
15.     I.e experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity.  India also has
a wide range of institutions capable of fostering development and is well-
endowed with human resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource
base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores,
but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985/86-19B9/90. This strategy is expected
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy development,
export promotion, domestic import substitution where economically justifiable
and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall Sixth Plan performance
has been encouraging, with aggregate real investment projected to be about 30%
higher than in the period 1975-80--a creditable performance indeed. The Sixth
Plan expenditure targets, however, will not be fulfilled as resource mobi-
lization by the public sector will fall short of the financing requirements of
planned public investment. Actual aggregate real investment is projected to be
about 7% below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment
being 5% to 10% higher and public investment about 20% lower in real terms than
actually projected. In terms of meeting Plan expenditure targets, the perfor-
mance of the Central Government is considerably better than that of the State
Governments. The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely to reach about
80% to 90% of the original Plan allocation in real terms, while the States'
will probably achieve only about 50% of their targets, due principally to
shortfalls in resource generation. Bottlenecks in key sectors such as power,
transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of real invest-
ment shortfalls relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's capi-
tal formation rates have increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.7% of GDP in
1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future
income growth, but returns to investment have so far been relatively low. Much
of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a large
and growing proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic
infrastructure services which have inherently high capital-output ratios.
However, there is scope to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements
in efficiency. As discussed in greater detail in our recent economic reports,
performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through better plan-
ning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utiliza-



-7-
tion throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic
capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and
cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors
such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned capacity in
accordance with the requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital for
sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program has
been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running well
ahead of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for
exploration and development were raised by successive price increases for
domestic crude and products. While the gap between domestic consumption of
petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence on oil imports
dropped from 63Z of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41X in 1983/84 and is
expected to decrease to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects. At the same time, the increases in domestic
petroleum prices have helped encourage conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
This will require the continuation of the current development strategy which
assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improve-
ment of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, supported by
adequate flows of external borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively
large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commer-
cial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments conse-
quences of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing
India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of conces-
sional assistance since India is still a very poor country with a large rural
sector and enormous investment requirements for human development and basic
infrastructure. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrow-
ing on coumercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of
course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives
rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms.  Nevertheless,
with a more open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove constraints on the
growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of both
foreign and domestic savings, India is demonstrating that it can sustain a rate
of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6Z per
annum. If the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per
annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of
per capita income of 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts would make a
significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there
was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2% per



-8-
annum in the 1970. despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The
population growth rate failed to decLine in the past decade due to a reduction
in the infant mortaLity rate and an increase in life expectancy, reflecting
larger availability of food and health services. While this is a welcome
development, it impLies a greater strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the
need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health and family planning
programs in a broad range of activities and services. These efforts are given
high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of
protected couples in the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80
level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85. The Government is reviewing its
population policy for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a determination to
retain the emphasis on the implementation of family planning, health, education
and literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and
social policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40Z of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Significant reductions in poverty
will depend primarily on an acceleration of economic growth, particularly in
agriculture, combined with effective implementation of poverty alleviation
programs. India's poverty alleviation strategy appropriately recognizes that
production-oriented programs, which aim at accelerating the overall pace of
economic growth, and poverty alleviation programs, targetted at those least
able to participate in the general growth of the economy, can be mutually
reinforcing rather than substituting for each other. Major poverty programs
operating on a nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum Needs Program
(MNP), the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and the National Rural
Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP and NREP are targeted programs aimed at
increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the transfer of
productive assets or direct employment. The MNP, aims at broadening the provi-
sion of social infrastructure and basic services which enhance the human capi-
tal of the poor and improve living standards. These programs represent a
vitally important commitment of the Government to address the needs of the
poorest. The scale of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent
difficulties in implementing poverty programs in any country, imply the need
for continued efforts to enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 82 loans and 165 development
credits to India totalling US$6,526 million and US$12,268 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,524 million has been
repaid, and US$6,207 million was still undisbursed as of September, 30, 1984.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1984 totalled US$171 million, representing a decrease of about
40 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a sutmary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1984.



-9-
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$223
million, of which US$34 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and
US$34 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$98 million, US$91 million repre-
sents loans and US$7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements
as of September 30, 1984, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consi'tent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan and in the approach being
taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan. First, high priority will
continue to be given to GOI's agricultural program. While India has made
significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to be sus-
tained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to contribute
to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will continue to
support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricultural
extension and credit. Second, alongside COI's efforts in promoting greater
efficiency and faster development of the industrial sector, increased assis-
tance will be provided for industrial development. Third, the review of per-
formance under the Sixth Plan confirms the high priority that should continue
to be given to the expansion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure
capacity and to the development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources.
Accordingly the Bank Group will continue to support the development of the
energy, transport and telecommunications sectors to alleviate critical
shortages which constrain output in both agricultural and industrial sectors.
Fourth, support of urban development and other GOI basic social services
programs for the poor will also continue in light of the growth in population
which, despite successes in lowering birth and death rates, still increases by
about 16 million each year.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully



-10-
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India
continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to offset
the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the
relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the first four
years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Croup assistance for projects in
India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports
relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the
domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component
tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such
high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.6 billion
in FY82, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Civen its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to sup-
plement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2% in 1984/85.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not
adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34Z of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 622, 33% and 37Z, respectively, in 1983/84.
In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were tD the Bank
Group. On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was US$9.6 billion or 36Z (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion). As
of September 30, 1984, outstanding loans and credits to India held by the Bank
totalled US$17,271 million, of which US$6,207 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$11,064 million.



-11-
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
29.     India's commercially exploitable energy resources consist of coal,
oil, gas, hydro, uranium, and thorium. Of the nonrenewable resources,
coal is the most abundant. Reserves of thermal coal have been estimated
at slightly more than 100 billion tons, of which 25 billion tons are
proven. Although reserves are ample, the quality of coal produced is
generally low and is deteriorating. Proven and probable petroleum
reserves comprise approximately 530 million tons of oil and 390 million
toe of natural gas. Despite recent increases in domestic production,
India still imports 35Z of its oil requirements, which in 1983/84 cost the
equivalent of 40Z ot its merchandise exports. Consequently, the
Government of India has attempted to stimulate exploration while
restricting petroleum and natural gas consumption by emphasizing premium
uses such as transportation, petrochemicals and fertilizer. However, in
the case of natural gas, the slow development of premium uses has led to
substantial volumes of associated gas being flared.  India's hydroelectric
potential is about 100,000 NW. At present, only 13,000 NW have been
developed, 4,700 SW are under construction, and a further 23,000 MW are
being studied-for future development. The prominent role of hydro in
regional least-cost development plans prepared in 1982 has led GOI to
emphasize the need to accelerate its development; however, progress has
been slow owing to the limited resources available for the simultaneous
preparation of a large numrber of schemes and the time required to resolve
water rights and environmental issues. The country's uranium reserves
could support a modest nuclear program (8,000-10,000 MW), and its thorium
reserves are enough for a large fast breeder program.
30.     Planning the best use of India's indigenous energy resources for
power generation raises a number of issues. First, the high ash content
of coal, which can reach 50X, increases transport costs, as well as power
station capital and operating costs. The development of minemouth
stations, which is constrained by pollution limitations and the
availability of cooling water, helps to solve only the transport problem,
and thus priority needs to be given to more selective mining and improved
coal preparation. Even though a lower ash content might help to alleviate
transport problems, they would still persist. Two studies included in the
Dudhichua Coal Project (Loan 2393-IN) are designed to help formulate a
strategy to deal with these problems: one study will examine ways of
improving the linkages between the sources of supply and demand, and the
other will concentrate on improvements in handling and transportation
facilities. Second, with the recent increases in the supplies of both
associated ana free gas, there is a need for a coherent policy on the
utilization of gas. A Bank study planned for 1985 will focus on, among
other things, the potential for the economic use of gas in power
generation. Third, if hydro development is to accelerate, further
resources, including consultants if necessary, need to be deployed to
prepare hydro schemes. Furthermore, it water rights and environmental
issues cannot be resolved quickly, appropriate procedures need to be



-12-
initiatea to ensure that an adequate number of schemes are available for
development.
Supply and Demand of Electricity - Inaia
31.     Approximately 50% of India's electricity is generated from coal,
40% from hydro, ana the rest from oil, nuclear power, and natural gas.
Although a number of large thermal projects are planned for the short
term, the share of hydro is expected to increase in the long run.
Electricity losses have risen slowly but steadily over the last few years
and now exceed 26% of gross generation. The deteriorating quality of coal
has been at least partly responsible for this trend, with coal stations'
own consumption now approaching 10% of gross generation against a
desirable 5% or 6Z. Distribution networks have been overloaded because
inadequate attention has been given to systematic analysis and planning of
this part of the system. As a result, distribution losses are high by
generally accepted standards and, although they are lower than in several
countries in the region, they need to be reduced. Under its lending
program, the Bank has supported pilot studies to reduce system losses, ana
it will continue to tollow this approach in its future lending. However,
the Bank can only pursue this on a State-by-State basis, vith loss
reduction targets reflecting the particular circumstances of each State.
32.     Over the past two decades, the consumption of electricity has
grown approximately twice as fast as total commercial energy consumption
and now accounts for more than 30Z of the latter. As a result, shortages
have prevailed throughout the country and, during the last five years,
averaged an estimated 13% of electricity requirements. The principal
sectoral shares of total electricity consumption are: industrial, 56X;
agricultural, 19%; and domestic, 12X. Agriculture-s share has grown
steadily owing to increased electrical irrigation pumping made possible by
rural electrification and encouraged by heavy subsidies. Total
consumption has grown at an average rate of 1UX per annum during the past
two decades, and the Central Electricity Authority (CR4) has forecast
growth of 9X per annum between 1984/85 and 1989/90. Whether such growth
can take place will depend on the utilities'-success in installing new
capacity.
Supply and Demand of Electricity - Northern Region
33.     The Northern Region comprises the States of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab,
Haryana, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, and the Union
Territories of Delhi and Chandigarh. As of March 31, 1984, the installed
capacity in the Region was about 11,200 H, consisting of 5,958 M  (53%)
of thermal power, 4,771 MW (452) of hydro power, and 440 MM (4%) of
nuclear power.  The Region's installed capacity is expected to reach
almost 20,000 MW by 1990, representing an average increase of 10.4% per
year.  NTPC's share of installed capacity in the Region is expected to
increase from 1,770 MW in 1983/84 to 4,600 MW in 1989/90, the increase
being provided from the ongoing extension at Singrauli (1,000 MW), the new
Rihand plant (1,000 MW), and a proposed 800 MW station at Muradnagar.
Electricity consumption in the period 1978/79 through 1983/84 grew at an



-13-
average rate of 7.1X per year, reaching 28,200 GCh in 1983/84 with a peak
demand of about 8,700 NW. Industry is the largest consumer of electricity
in the Region with a share of about 521 of total consumption, followed by
agriculture at 30%. Over the period 1984/85 to 1992/93, energy
requirements are expected to increase at an average rate of 10.2Z per year
to 102,432 GWh, and peak demand to increase by 10.8Z per year to 20,024 MW
over the same period. Forecast demands are unlikely to be met because of
capacity shortages and operational problems; deficits in both peak demand
and energy are therefore expected to continue.
Organization of the Power Subsector
34.     Responsibility for the supply of electricity is shared between the
Central and State Governments. The State Electricity Boards (SEBs) and
the Regional Electricity Boards (RE5s) are controlled by States; the
Central Electricity Authority, the National Thermal Power Corporation, the
National Hydro-Electric Power Corporation (NHPC), and the Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC) are controlled by the Central
Government. SEBs were instituted under the Electricity Supply Act of 1948
to promote the development of the power subsector and to regulate private
licensees. Although, in principle, SEBs are supposed to be autonomous in
managing their day-to-day operations, in practice they are under the
control of State Governments in such matters as capital investment,
tariffs, borrowings, pay, and personnel policies. As a first step toward
national integration, the SEBs have been grouped into five regional
systems, each coordinated by an REB. Coordination responsibilities
include overhaul and maintenance programs and determination of generation
schedules, inter-State power transfers, and concomitant tariffs. CEA was
created in 1950 to develop national power policy and to coordinate the
various agencies involved in supplying electricity. It is responsible for
the formulation of countrywide investment plans for approval by the
Cen;ral Government, the development of integrated system operation, the
training of personnel, and research and development. It maintains
operational, economic, and financial data at both the Central and State
levels, and provides consulting support to SEBs. NTPC and NHPC were
incorporated in 1975 by GOI to construct and operate large power stations
and associated transmission facilities. They sell bulk power to the SEBs
for distribution. NTPC has had marked success and has grown rapidly. In
contrast, NHPC is still struggling to establish a role for itself. The
States own most hydro sites and are reluctant to relinquish these sources
of comparatively inexpensive energy to the Central Government.  REC was
established in 1969 to coordinate rural electrification and provide
financial and technical expertise for SEB schemes. At present, REC
finances more than half of total rural electrification investment.
Pricing and Resource Mobilization
35. Through the 1983 amendments to the Act, GOI has set a financial
objective for the SEBs to produce an annual return of at least 3Z on their
historically valued net fixed assets, after meeting operating expenses,
taxes, depreciation and interest. The 31 return would represent, in terms
of the Bank's conventional method of calculation, a rate of return on



-14-
historically valued assets in the range of 102 to 13%. The Bank considers
this objective to be a reasonable minimum but believes that because of
their investment requirements, a number of SEBs need to achieve internal
cash generation which implies returns higher than this minimum. Higher
returns may be possible in some cases through reclassification of
consumers. However, substantial improvements are only achievable through
tariff increases. Present tariffs are in most cases inadequate, not only
in economic terms but also in financial terms, and most SEBs are unable to
finance a reasonable share of their investment programs. On average, SEB
tariffs are equivalent to only about 502 of the long run marginal cost
(LRhC) of producing power. In contrast, NTPC's tariff approximates LRMC.
Industrial tariffs are almost 90Z of LRMC, whereas agricultural and
domestic tariffs, which are considered politically sensitive and have been
consistently subsidized, are only 272 and 36% of LRMC, respectively.
State-specific financial programs are needed to provide both an increased
return on investment and a simpler, efficient and affordable tariff
structure. Such programs will be addressed through the Bank's lending to
individual SEBs.
Power Suusector Planning
36.     Because the demand for electricity has increased rapidly, GOI at
present allocates about 20% of public investment to power development. To
ensure that the subsector would be developed in the most economic manner,
the Bank encouraged GOI to prepare a comprehensive least-cost National
Power Plan (NPP), which was completed in September 1982. Although this
plan represents substantial progress, further refinement is needed. To
assist GOI in this task, the Bank has planned a study for FY85 that will
review the assumptions and methodology employed in formulating the
least-cost plan. There appears to be a need for further national
integration and greater coordination between power and other sectors,
especially coal and gas. Since it will not be possible to achieve full
national integration im-ediarely, the Bank will continue to ensure that
each Bank-financed project forms a part of an up-to-date regional
least-cost development plan   In due course, the sources of supply
considered in the formulatior of each regional least-cost plan should be
widened to include the option of importing from neighboring regions. This
approach would eventually lead to integrated planning at a national level.
A further problem has arisen in the coordination of the long-term NPP with
the national five-year plan and shorter-term budgets. Because of
inadequate resources, fewer projects have been included in the five-year
plan than in the NPP and, as a result of underestimation of project costs
and delays in project implementation, st;11 rewer have been executed.
Consequently, the shortage of power has bacome more and more acute, and
over the next decade, India expects its power deficit to increase
severalfold. This deficit will tend To Undermine rational planning
because emphasis is likely to be places on rapid expansion of supply
rather than on least-cost development. Furthermore, it may prompt
overinvestment in captive plant and excessive use of high-value energy
products in the generation of power. In addition to supporting GOI's
efforts to increase the supply, the Bank will continue to stress to GOI



-15-
the role of pricing in eliminating the deficit and the importance of
integrating planning and pricing.
Management and Operations
37.     SEBs' organization and management capabilities have not kept pace
with the expansion of supply. The quality of service, reliability, and
financial performance are the principal areas of concern. In gene&al,
SEBs have high-quality engineering staff, but lack experienced personnel
in the areas of financial planning and control. The relatively poor
status and pay of these personnel merely add to the already significant
pay differential between the public and private sectors, and make it
difficult to recruit competent staff. Management practices are generally
outmoded and inadequate. The SEBs' inefficient accounting systems are an
example. At present, accounts are maintained principally to track cash
receipts and expenditures, and accounting information is seldom used for
managerial purposes. GOI has decided that a new and uniform accounting
system should be installed in all SEBs. After initial delays,
preparations are now proceeding and implementation is scheduled to begin
in April 1985.
38.     In the area of operations, one of the main concerns has been the
poor performance of thermal plant. Factors that have contributed to thia
are inadequate maintenance (due to capacity shortages), deficiencies in
plant manufacture, lack of spares, and the poor quality of coal; in
general, these problems have been recognized by the relevant authorities
and corrective steps are being taken. GOI is currently preparing a
rehabilitation program for thermal plant which may be financed by the
Bank. Until this program is compiled, the Bank will, whenever
appropriate, include a thermal rehabilitation component under each of the
loans made to the SEBs.
Bank Group Participation in the Past
39.     The Bank Ias made 18 loans for Indian power projects amounting to
US$1,983 million, and 17 IDA credits totaling US$2,409 million. Seventeen
projects financed under the following loans and credits have been
completed: ten generating projects, the Beas Project (Credit 98-IN), the
first four transmission projects (Loan 416-IN, Credits 242-IN, 377-IN and
604-IN), and the First and Second Rural Electrification Projects (Credits
572-IN and 911-IN). The Fourth Transmission Project (Credit 604-IN) was
completed in 1983, and the Second Rural Electrification Project in 1984.
The Singrauli (Credit 685-IN), Korba (Credit 793-IN), and Ramagundam
(Credit 874-IN and Loan 1648-IN) Thermal Power Projects are in advanced
stages of implementation. The credit for the Second Singrauli Thermal
Power Project (Credit 1027-IN) and the credit/loan for the first stage of
the Farakka Thermal Power Project (Credit 1053-IN and Loan 1887-IN) were
approved in May and June 1980. Korba II (Credit 1172-IN) was approved in
July 1981, Ramagundam II (Loan 2076-IN) in December 1981, and the Third
Rural Electrification Project (Loan 2165-IN) in June 1982. The Upper
Indravati Hydro Project (Credit 1356-IN and Loan 2278-IN) and the Central
Power Transmission Project (Loan 2283-IN) were approved in May 1983, and



-16-
the Bodhghat Hydroelectric Power Project in May 1984. The Second Farakka
Thermal Power Projec. (Loan 2442-IN) was approved in June 1984, and the
Trombay IV Thermal Power Project (Loan 2452-IN) in June of the same year.
The Third Rural Electrification Project is about a year behind schedule.
The first five units of the Singrauli Project and the first two units of
the Korba project were commissioned on schedule. The Farakka and
Ramagundam projects are proceeding satisfactorily, the first unit at
Ramagundam having been commissioned four months ahead of schedule.  The
Third Trombay Project (Unit 5) (Loan 1549-IN) was first synchronized in
January 1984, about a year behind schedule; time was lost mainly because
parts for the boiler were not delivered on time, and because of delays in
its construction.
40.     A performance audit conducted in 1980 for the Second Power
Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN) concluded that the project has
succeeded in helping the nine beneficiary SEBs extend their transmission
systems and meet their growing power requirements. Utilization of
generating capacity in these SEBs has exceeded the appraisal forecast.
The upgrading of the SEBs' financial management practices that began under
this project will continue under subsequent projects. The audit
highlighted the difficulties of adequately supervising this project
(because it consisted of many widely scattered subprojects), and of
effecting institutional improvements in the absence of a close working
relationship between the Bank Group and the beneficiary SEBs. The Bank
has therefore sought more direct involvement with the SEBs through
State-specific projects.
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Subsector
41.     Over the last ten years the Bank Group has assisted GOI in
substantially expanding its centrally-owned generation capacity, which is
currently being run relatively efficiently. In the past two years,
however, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has begun to shift from
supporting projects owned and operated by the Central Government to
projects owned and operated by the SEBs. This gradual shift has come
about in support of GOI's desire to accelerate the development of India's
hydroelectric power resources (most of which are owned by the State
Governments), and because of the considerable need to improve the
operational and project implementation efficiency and the financial
viability of the State-owned power sector institutions. In parallel with
this shift in Bank Group lending, sector-wide objectives for power system
operation at both Center and State levels--such as improving efficiency in
the use of existing power generation, transmission and distribution
systems, strengthening Central and State level sector institutions,
improving country-wide power system planning, and increasing resource
mobilizarion within the sector--will continue to be pursued by the Bank
Group. More specifically, the principal objectives of the Bank Group's
assistance in the subsector are:
(a) the better use of existing facilities--through transmission
projects improving regional interconnections and through
rehabilitation of plant, particularly of thermal power



-17-
stations and distribution networks: these measures will
improve the efficiency of energy use and reduce system
losses, thereby helping to minimize system capital and
operating costs;
(b)  institution building-although the Bank will continue to
maintain an interest in Central institutions, its efforts
will be broadened to encompass individual SEBs, where
substantial efforts are needed to strengthen management,
operations, and finances;
(c) improved planning-particularly by extending the scope of
planning from the State through the regional to the national
level and through greater integration of planning with other
sectors in the economy, both those that consume electricity
and those that supply other forms of energy; and
(d) improved resource mobilization from electricity consumers -
the principal vehicle for this has been and will continue to
be financial covenants in relation to beneficiaries; however,
the Bank will also continue to stress the importance of
relating tariffs to the economic costs of supply.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.     The project was prepared by NTPC and appraised by a mission that
visited India in August 1984. A Staff Appraisal Report is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held
in Washington in April 1985. GOI and NTPC were represented by a
delegation with Mr. Arjun Thapan of the Department of Economic Affairs as
coordinator. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
43.     The primary objective of the project is to help meet the demand
for electricity in the Northern Region of India by providing a power
transmission linkage between the thermal power plants in the
Singrauli-Rihand complex in the State of Uttar Pradesh and the main load
centers of the Region, and to ensure the evacuation of power from these
plants at least cost to the economy. The three large thermal power
stations in the area-at Singrauli, Rihand, and Vindbyachal--will
ultimately have a combined total capacity of about 7,300 M4. Five units
at Singrauli, with a total capacity of 1,000 MW, are already in operation.
A least-cost program for the transmission system necessary to ensure the
efficient evacuation of power from the Singrauli-Rihand stations into the
Northern Regional transmission grid has been developed by CEA, in
cooperation with a firm of consulting engineers. The proposed project is
designed to implement this program. A secondary objective of the project
is to continue the institution-building efforts initiated under earlier
Bank Group lending operations in the sector by strengthening CEA's



-18-
planning capabilities, particularly in the area of power transmission.
Though not a Bank-financed component of the project, a series of long-term
planning studies will be undertaken to provide the basis for the
formulation of a long-term (15- to 20-year) national plan for the
development of the country's extra-high-voltage power transmission system.
The policies and procedures for its operation will also receive close
attention in view of the increased size of power generating units and
plants, the expansion of the interconnected transmission grid, and the
introduction of high-voltage, direct-current facilities which has become
necessary to keep up with the growth of the power sector. Another
objective of the proposed project is to increase the technological
capabilities and experience of NTPC and other power sector institutions by
introducing long-distance HVDC transmission technology in India.
44.     Through its participation in the project, the Bank would be
supporting GOI's objectives and efforts to alleviate power shortages and
reduce transmission losses. Through its involvement with the power
transmission studies, the Bank would also help to ensure sound planning in
power transmission throughout the country and at the same time help CEA to
strengthen its capabilities in this area. The HVDC facilities in the
project will not only acquaint Indian engineers with this type of
equipment, but should also encourage the mobilization of foreign exchange
for the project through official bilateral assistance or other sources of
cofinancing.
Project Description
45.     The project is made up of the following components:
(a) about 910 km of 500-kV DC transmission line connecting Rihand
and Delhi, together with the associated AC/DC converting
stations and auxiliary equipment;
(b) about 1,450 km of 400-kV single- and double-circuit AC
transmission lines connecting the Rihand and Singrauli
stations with Kanpur, Delhi, Panipat, and Jaipur, together
with new or extended substations, and associated auxiliaries;
and
(c) technical assistance for the engineering, testing, and
commissioning of the project.
Project Implementation
46.     The project will be implemented over a five-year period
(FY85-FY89) by NTPC, as part of its ongoing power development program.
NTPC will construct, own, and operate the proposed transmission facilities
from the Singrauli-Rihand complex from which power will be distributed and
sold in bulk to SEBs in the Northern Region-in Darticular to those of
Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Haryana-and to the Delhi Electricity Supply
Undertaking. The AC transmission lines to be constructed under the



-19-
project will form part of the 400-kV system for that region, which will
eventually be integrated into the national grid.
47.     NTPC has developed its expertise in building 400-kV transmission
systems through the transmission components of its large thermal power
projects. With the commissioning of nine 200-MW units in rapid succession
since the beginning of 1982, the organization has moved from the
construction phase to the operational phase, and has accomplished this
transition efficiently. In support of this process, the corporation in
1982 adopted an organizational structure that made regional headquarters
units responsible for the design, construction, and operation of
generation and transmission facilities within the region. More recent
organizational changes provide for a division that will be responsible for
the construction of power transmission facilities in the Northern and
Western Regions, including the introduction of HVDC facilities. Most of
NTPC's operations have now been decentralized. Recruitment is progressing
satisfactorily to meet NTPC's expanding operational needs. UTPC places
special importance on the training of engineers, supervisors, and
operating staff as well as managerial and administrative staff, and
detailed programs have been developed to meet the training needs of all
categories of staff.
48.     Detailed system and engineering studies for the project were
completed in September 1984 by NTPC in close association with its
consultant, Hydro Quebec International (HQI) of Canada, and financed by
the Canadian International Development Agency. As part of the process,
HQI helped CEA and MTPC staff become familiar with power systems analysis
and equipment performance specifications. NTPC is now preparing detailed
specifications for the HVDC component of the project, and will retain
consultants to assist in supervising the engineering activities during the
equipment supply, construction, testing, and comhissioning phases of that
component. The 400-kV Lines and substations in the project are based on
standardized designs adopted by India in similar projects in the past.
With the aid of contractors, NTPC is currently installing 400-kV lines and
substations associated with a number of the thermal power plants that are
under construction. The same arrangement will be followed for the
construction of the 400-kV AC facilities (lines and substations) under the
proposed project.
49.     In conjunction with the project, CEA will carry out a series of
power transmission studies, to be financed by GOI from its own resources.
These studies will be undertaken for each of the Regions and will form the
basis for the formulation of a least-cost, long-term (15- to 20-year)
national power transmission plan for the development of the high-voltage
power transmission system; the plan will include the configuration of a
primary grid, interregional linkages, and system control requirements.
Further studies will be undertaken by GOI as necessary to address the
responsibilities, policies, and procedures pertaining to the
institutional, commercial, operational and training aspects of the system
at the State, regional, and national levels. The scope and terms of
reference for the power transmission studies will be prepared by CEA in
collaboration with the Bank by December 31, 1985, and consultants will be



, -20-
appointed or retained as necessary to assist and train CEA staff in their
execution. The studies and the national power transmission plan will be
completed, and the results reviewed with the Bank, by June 30, 1987.
50.     No ecological problems are expected.  The area of the transmission
corridor required for the HVDC Line is significantly smaller than that
required for an AC line of similar capacity. There are no land
acquisition or resettlement problems.  Conductor sizes and spacing will be
designed to keep energy losses and radio interference within acceptable
limits.
Project Cost and Financing
51.     The total cost of the project, including contingencies but
excluding about US$87 million in taxes and duties, is estimated at about
US$579 million equivalent, of which about US$263 million (45Z) represents
the estimated foreign exchange costs. Interest during construction adds
about US$27 million to the financing required. The principal costs, net
of physical and price contingencies, but including taxes and duties, will
be as follows: 400-kV AC lines, US$125 million; 400-kV AC substations,
US$94 million; HVDC line, US$80 million; HVDC terminals, US$188 million;
engineering and administration, US$33 million; consultancy and technical
assistance, US$5 million. The estimates of project costs for the main
items of equipment and materials related to the 400-kV AC facilities are
based on the most recent price quotations for similar projects, with
prices updated to December 1984 levels. Estimates for the HVDC facilities
are based on indicative proposals of firms with extensive experience in
the installation of HVDC equipment. Price contingencies, amounting to 22Z
of base cost, are based on expected annual inflation rates of 8.5Z for
1985/86 through 1990/91, and 6% thereafter for local costs, and 9Z for
1985/86 through 1987/88, 7.5% for 1988/89, and 6% thereafter for foreign
costs. Physical contingencies of about 10 on civil works and 5% on
equipment have been allowed, and these amount to abo t 5Z of base cost.
52.     The proposed Bank loan of US$250 million will finance about US$128
million (45%) of the total foreign exchange financing requirement of about
US$282 million, together with about US$122 million of the local costs, and
would cover about 431 of the total project cost net of taxes and duties.
Additional financing of about US$135 million may be obtained from external
cofinancing sources in the form of official bilateral assistance, export
credits, or suppliers' credits, to meet the foreign cost of the HVDC
terminal equipment. This amount would finance about 47% of the foreign
exchange costs, or about 23% of the total project costs net of taxes and
duties.  The balance of the funds required, totaling about US$308 million
equivalent, wilL be provided by GOI in the form of loan and share capital,
and by NTPC from its own resources.
53.     The proceeds of the proposed loan will be onlent by GOI to NTPC at
an interest rate of not less than 12.52 per annum, with repayment over 20
years, including five years' grace, under a subsidiary loan agreement
between GOI and NTPC (Section 3.01(b) of Loan Agreement). Execution of
the subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and NTPC will be a condition of



-21-
effectiveness for the loan (Section 5.01 of Loan Agreement). The average
inflation rate is not expected to exceed 8.5Z per annum over the next five
years. GOI's onlending rate to NTPC is therefore expected to remain
positive in real terms. The foreign exchange and interest rate risks will
be borne by GOI.
Procurement and Disbursement
54.     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex IV.  Most of the
major items of equipment associated with the 400-kV AC lines and
substations under the project--conductors, insulators, hardware, metering,
telecommunications, and substation equipment, and the construction of the
substations themselves (US$150 million)--together with the supply and
erection of towers and auxiliary equipment associated with the
construction of the HVDC transmission line and converting stations (US$108
million), will be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB), in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The main AC/DC terminal equipment
(converting stations) would be purchased through negotiated contract in
the event that external cofinancing becomes available (para 53); otherwise
it would be procured through ICB. This contract, which also includes
erection works, is eatimated to amount to US$176 million. The contract
would also include provision for the training of NTPC staff since the HVDC
facilities are being introduced in the Indian power sector for the first
time. Contracts for the supply and erection of towers for the 400-kV
lines (US$59 million), and the construction of buildings and other works
associated with the HVDC converting stations (US$26 million), will be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB); these components
are not being financed from the Bank loan. Consultants for project
supervision, including the engineering, testing, and commissioning of the
project, would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local
manufacturers are expected to be competitive for all equipment and
materials contracts associated with the AC facilities and HVDC lines.
Local manufacturers competing under ICB will be allowed a margin of
preference of 15Z of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods, or the actual
customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less. All contracts costing
US$3,500,000 or more will be subject to the Bank's prior review.
55.     The project is scheduled to be completed by the end of 1988, to
coincide approximately with the completion of the Rihand thermal plant
which is currently under construction. Under the schedule for the
procurement of the equipment and material to be financed from the proposed
Bank loan, the first award decision is expected by mid-May 1985.
Accordingly, advance procurement and retroactive financing of up to US$20
million is being proposed to cover expenditures under contracts awarded
after April 15, 1985 and prior to loan signing, and in accordance with
Bank procurement guidelines, in respect of the supply of equipment for the
AC facilities and HVDC line, and associated consultancy services (Schedule
1, para. 3 of Loan Agreement).
56.     The proceeds of the loan will be disbursed over a four and one
half year period (FY86-90) and will cover 100% of the c.i.f. cost of
imported goods or of the ex-factory cost of goods manufactured in India,



-22-
902 of the civil and erection works subject to ICB, and 100X of the cost
of consultancy services associated with the HVDC facilities. The
disbursement period for this loan is shorter than the Bank-wide average
for power transmission and distribution projects, but is reasonable
considering NTPC's experience in the construction of transmission lines
and the advanced stage of project preparation.
NTPC Finances
57.     NTPC is currently in the ninth year of an investment program bLgun
in 1977 under which it expects to construct and commission by 1995/96 a
number of large-scale thermal power stations with an aggregate generating
capacity of 21,580 MW and about 10,700 km of high-voltage transmission
lines. The Government's investment in this development has undergone
continuous review during the past five years in an attempt to accommodate
the increased demand for power. As a result, the original investment
program, which was designed to provide generating capacity of 7,300 MW and
about 6,000 km of associated transmission lines at a cost of about
US$3,417 million, has been extended in stages by eight years through
1995/96 and increased to about US$35,243 million equivalent.  By the end
of 1983/84, NTPC had an installed generating capacity of 1,800 MW.
Financing for the increased investment program will come from NTPC's
increased internal resources accruing during the extended construction
program (about 30%), from GOI in the form of long-term loans and equity
share capital (about 40%), and from foreign sources in the form of Bank
loans, bilateral assistance, and cofinancing (about 30%). NTPC's
contribution to the investment is expected to increase to about 40% in the
latter years of the program. NTPr's investment program and financing plan
through 1995/96 are satisfactory.
58.     NTPC began commercial operations in 1982 shortly after its first
200-MW generating unit at Singrauli was commissioned. Since then, eight
additional 200-MW units have been commissioned--four more at Singrauli,
three at Korba, and one at Ramagundam. Operations in 1982/83 were minimal
owing to the stabilization requirements of the newly commissioned
generating units. However, NTPC's net earnings for that year compared
favorably with the forecast. For 1983/84, operating income and net income
exceeded previous forecasLs and yielded a rate of return of about 11 on
historically valued assets, which compares favorably with the 7% minimum
rate of return required for this year (para. 59). The equivalent rate of
return on revalued assets, calculated on a pro-forma basis, is slightly
less than 9%. Cash generation measured as a percentage of average annual
capital investment requirements was only about 3%, but this low level of
contribution was due to the fact that generation during the year was only
about 43Z of the potential output, mainly because of the time required to
stabilize the units, and that 1,000 MW of the 1,800 MW year-end capacity
wer2 progressively commissioned and in operation only during the last six
months of the year. Cash generation will increase significantly in future
years (para. 61). NTPC's debt-equity ratio at year end is 26:74, which is
satisfactory. Alt;.ough NTPC still needs to improve in accounts
receivables collections (para. 62), its overall financial performance in
1983/84 and its financial position at year end were satisfactory.



-23-
59.     Estimates of NTPC's future earnings are based on the assumption
that it will supply bulk power to its customers at regional tariff levels
sufficient to achieve high enough minimum rates of return to ensure its
financial viability. In accordance with agreements reached under the
Second Farakka Thermal Power Project (Ln. 2442-IN), approved in FY84, NTPC
is to set tariffs at the levels required to achieve annual rates of return
of not less than 7% on historically valued assets for the period 1984/85
through 1989/90, not less than 9.5% for the period 1990/91 through
1994/95, and at levels sufficient to ensure its viability thereafter. It
was also agreed that since the Government does not wish to use asset
revaluation to determine a realistic basis for estimating returns to
capital, a rate of return of about 15% in 1995/96 (which would be
equivalent to a rate of return of about 7.5Z on revalued assets), based on
current projections, would be required. The progressive step-wise
increase in the rate of return takes into account the schedule for the
stabilization of new units, and the dampening effect on the rate of return
when large new investments are undertaken. In view of the high initial
capital investment in the early stages of NTPC's power development program
and the time involved in commissioning generating capacity, this approach
to tariff setting is appropriate. Similar measures will be adopted under
the proposed project (Section 4.03 of Project Agreement). On the basis of
current projections, NTPC's rates of return through 1994/95 are expected
to exceed the minimum levels specified; in addition, its projected rate of
return of 14.7% for 1995196 is considered adequate to ensure a
satisfactory level of financial performance in that year.
60.     Under previous loans and credits, GOI and NTPC agreed to sell the
power from NTPC's power plants to its customers under contracts
satisfactory to the Bank Group. Contracts have now been concluded between
NTPC and the Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking, the Damodar Valley
Corporation, the Electricity Department of the Union Territory of Goa, and
all but two of the SEBs, with respect to sales of electricity from the
four major Regional plants-Singrauli (Northern Region), Korba (Western
Region), Ramagundam (Southern Region), and Farakka (Eastern Region). The
Bihar and West Bengal SEBs are not expected to receive power from the
Farakka plant for some time, as the first 200 MW unit there is yet to be
commissioned. Contracts in respect of these SEBs are expected to be
concluded, however, by August 31, 1985. The Electricity Department of the
Union Territory of Pondicherry is not expected to receive power from the
Ramagundam plant until the commissioning of the second stage, which begins
in early 1988. A contract in respect of this entity is therefore not
required at this time, but will be concluded as appropriate in the event
it becomes necessary. The contracts concluded to date are interim
contracts only, since certain additional provisione--contract renewal,
tariff revision, capacity charge, and NTPC's return on equity-need to be
included. GOI and NTPC propose in due course to replace these interim
contracts with either individual or regional supply contracts (one for
each Region) that will provide uniform terms and conditions for the sale
of electricity by NTPC to all SEBs and other customers within a region.
Accordingly, GOI and NTPC will provide to the Bank, by March 31, 1986,
revised electricity supply contracts incorporating the necessary



-24-
additional provisions with respect to the SEBs and other customers of the
Northern, Western, Southern and Eastern Regions. In the interim, the
terms of the existing contracts will continue to apply (Section 3.04 of
Project Agreement).
61.     With regard to NTPC',s future operations, power generation is
expected to increase from 1,109 GWh in 1982/83 to 106,161 GWh in 1995/96.
NTPC's average tariff is expected to increase at an average rate of about
8.5X per annum, from 32.30 paise/kWh to 93.22 paise/kWh, over the same
period. Average tariffs would be maintained approximately on par with the
long-run marginal cost of electricity generation. Operating income is
expected to increase from Rs 675 million (US$56 million) in 1983/84 to
Rs 42,236 million (USS3,520 million) in 1995/96, and net income from
Rs 449 million (US$37 million) to Rs 25,622 million (US$2,135 million)
during the same period, yielding financial rates of return on historically
valued assets ranging from about 9.4% to 14.7Z. Both the financial rate
of return and the internal cash generation would increase to acceptable
levels of about 12% and 52%, respectively, by 1993/94. NTPC's projected
rates of return are realistic and achievable, and its forecast of future
financial performance and cash generation are satisfactory.
62.     NTPC's capitalization as of March 31, 1983--which is the end of
the financial year in which NTPC began to earn revenues--was about
USS1,254 million, divided betweeu GOI loans (including the onlending of
Bank Group finance) and equity capital in the ratio of 21:79. In March
1990, after the completion of the proposed project, total capitalization
will be about US$15,299 million, with a debt-equity ratio of 34:66. The
debt-equity ratio would increase slightly to 35:65 by March 1995, at which
time total capitalization will be about US$33,133 million. Debt service
coverage is expected to decrease from 3.5:1 in 1983/84 to 2.0:1 in
1989/90, then to increase to 2.7:1 by 1994/95. NTPC's issuea share
capital will rise progressively during this period from a level of about
US$1,305 million at the end of 1983/84 to US$14,419 million by the end of
1994/95. NTPC's financial position, debt-equity ratios, and debt service
coverage are, and will remain, satisfactory.
63.     NTPC's collection of accounts receivable has been slower than is
considered acceptable. As of July 31, 1984, outstanding receivables on
the average represented about 3.9 months of NTPC's total sales. According
to the terms of the bulk supply coatracts (para. 60), NTPC's customers are
required to remit payment for power purchases within 30 days of receiving
bills from NTPC. The contracts also require that customers open revolving
bank letters of credit in favor of NTPC for an amount equivalent to one
month's power purchases. At present, five of the nine customers concerned
in the Northern and Western Regions have complied with this requirement;
none of those in the Southern and Eastern Regions has yet done so as bulk
supply contracts for these were concluded only recently, only a limited
amount of power is available from NTPC's Ramagundam plant, and NTPCs 
Farakka plant is yet to be conmissioned. NTPC has encountered resistance
trom some of its customers concerning the opening of letters of credit,
because at this stage of development of the transmission network, power
frequently has to be routed through one or more States before it reaches



-25-
its ultimate destination, and as a result NTPC is not able to ensure that
they receive their allocated shares of power. In view of this situation,
it has been agreed that the required letters of credit should be opened
for each NTPC customer within 30 days of their receiving their allocated
sbares of power. In the meantime, NIPC will continue to make every effort
to obtain letters of credit from those customers that have not yet opened
them. With regard to the arrears in NTlC'Bs accounts receivable, these
have arisen primarily in connection vith NTPC',s sales of electricity prior
to the signings of the bulk supply agreements vith its customers, during
which time electricity was being sold at interim rates vhich were subject
to subsequent aajustment. By December 31, 1985, NTPC will provide the
Bank with repayment schedules drawn up in conjunction with each of the
customers in arrears in its payments, with the objective of liquidating
the outstanding arrears within two years. NTPC will also ensure that with
respect to its sales of electricity since the signing of the bulk supply
agreements, its total monthly accounts receivable will be maintained, from
March 31, 1986, at a level equivalent to not more than two months'. sales
(Section 4.02 of Project Agreement).
Proiect Justification and Risks
64.     The proposed project is justified as part of the least-cost
high-voltage transmission system for the Northern Region. Long-term
planning studies of the region'.s high-voltage transmission system carried
out by CEA in 1982, with the assistance of HQI, showed that of the three
options considered (expansion of existing 400-kV network, introduction of
a 735-kV grid, and a combined AC-DC system), a combined AC-DC system would
provide the least-cost option. The proposed project was formulated on
this basis. The proposed national power transmission studies to be
carried out in conjunction with the project are also expected to confirm
the need for a transmission line between RihAnd and Delhi in any
comprehensive national transmission plan, given the geographic
distribution of electricity supply and demand in the country. The
economic rate of return for the Northern Region's expansion program is
about 13Z, according to benefits based on incremental revenues at average
retail tariffs, and quantifiable industrial and agricultural consumers6,
surplus. The actual rate of return is likely to be considerably higher it
domestic consumers', surplus or industrial output made possible Dy the
alleviation of power shortages is taken into account.
65.     Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected in
operations of this type. Risk of slippage in the implementation schedule
is expected to be minimal in view of NTPC's previous experience with
transmission facilities construction. In addition, suppliers of HVDC
terminal equipment have indicated that terminals can be commissioned on a
turnkey basis within 36 months of the placement of orders. The HVDC line
also is simpler to construct and install than the AC lines. NTPC will
closely monitor the implementation of the proposed project and the ongoing
Riband thermal power plant to ensure that the commissioning of these is
appropriately coordinated.



-26-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.     The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and NTPC, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
67.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India and
NTPC has been made an additional condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 5.01 of Loan Agreement).
68.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMEMDATION
69.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
May 7, 1985



AID=  I
Page 1 of 5
TAILS 3*
INDIA                  _ UCILAL UUC&T0  DATA NEMTY
1151*  ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ mREPO  089013 (WEEUIHeD, AVEUNAcm) Is
ROUT                     (OST AECWT STINTO) fb
39k  ,L            Low INCOME           KIDuDI INCOE
1 1970^-I   rArolk    xi   ML"        ASIA tAc FACrrEC      LIlA & PAC
LIA CSI*S. -)--
TOTAL                               3267.6    3267.6       3287.6
ACRICULTtUAL                        1763.S    1780.5       1312.3
CuNM CAPITA (CM)                         40.0      O0.0      260.0            278.4                   1091.2
-ERE cmsmuwnm - cnnt
(KILOuS OF OIL TUIVALEWT)             ".0       113.0      15.0             272.0                    567.3
inaneU -M VITAL STATSTICO
POPULATION,ID-TAR (TlOtAMS)    4343*9.0  54759.0   719n .0
URDA  FOPUATIfO  (Z O TOTIL)          18.0       19.        Z4.1             21.7                     34.7
PDPCIAT101 7110J=tlOS
POPULATO IN TER 20l0 CHILL)                               9.4*.
STATIONARY POPUATION CHILL)                              17D7.2
POPULATION 11u11                                            1.7
POPULTION amou
PER SO. DI.                        132.3      1664.      213.4            114.6                    243.9
Pri SQ. 10. AGR1. LAN              24b.4      307.5      337.1            345.5                   1735.1
POPATtION ACE YSCIW E (r'
0-14 YRS                           40.9       42.7        39.3            35.8                     39.0
15-4 nS                             54.5       s4.2       57.4             59.8                     57.6
S AND AOVE                          4.6        3.1        3.1              4.3                      3.3
POPUIATION CRO1 RA MT  (2)
TOTAL                                1L         2.3        L22              1.9                      2.3
UNA                  Z.5                        3.3        3.9              4.1                      4.3
CRUMt *8D  MATU (PEA TOM)             47.7       41*4       31.2             21.7                     30.1
CRUE DATH RATM  (PE ?OUS)            23.6       17.8       12.7             10.1                      8.3
GROSS REPROCUCflO  RATE                L9         2.3        2.2              1.8                      2.0
FAMLT PLAIMIS
ACCEPTOS LANUAL (THOis)             64.0    3782.0       6826.0
USERS CZ OF MAI   oMN*)                        11.7       2S.0               ..                     52.7
FMS An maTRTls
INDEX OFOOD ram  PE CAPITA
(1949-71-100)                         91.0      102.0      101.0            112.                     123.0
PER CAPMA SUPPLY OF
CIAIRIES (2 OF EWIRbDiS)            9S_0       91.0       S6.0             97.7                    114.4
poiSim (CPSS PM DAY)                54.0       50.0       4&0              56.8                     57.0
OF WHICH ANDL ALD P1LSE            17.0      15.0        13.0 Ic         14.9                     14.1
CWILD (CCrS 1-4) DmTh 3TC             21.2       20.7       11.0              9.6                      7.2
LIV  EXPECT. AT 13M (IEA)             4Z.5      47.5       54.6             60.0                     60.4
IWNANT HOIT. RATE (PER 7us)          165.0        9o        940             83.8                      66.3
ACCESS 1T SATE WATER (POF)
TOrAL              -                  ..       17.0       33.0 Id          3L.9                     37.0
CuAnm                                 ..       60.0       83.0 Fd          70.9                     54.6
AL                                    ..        4.0       20.0             22.1                     26.4
ACCESS TO  XRta DISPOSAL
Cl or rPOPLATION)
TO^tL                                 ..       150        20.0             IL                       41.3
INs                                   ..       8S.0       87.011           7LU                      *7.4
RUUL                                  ..        LU         Lo               4.6                     33-3
POPULATION PEt PYSICUM              4850.0    4890.0      3690.0 If        3484.2                   7749.4
POP. PER NUEc PERSON               10980.0 L 7420.0       5464.W    *       793.i                   2460.4
POP. P  HPITAL MM
TOTAL                             21800    1650.0        1290.0 If       106LS                    104.2
uma.                                  ..         ..      370.0 F          29B.0                    651.2
RURAL                                 ..         ..    10420.0           599L.4                   2594.6
ASEISIS PM  UOISPlTAL 3D                ..         ..         ..               ..                     Z7.0
AVERAE SIZE Or IHOUUEIUD
TOTAL                                5.2        .6         3.2 1a
URB                                  5.Z       LG6         4.87             ,.
RIMAL                                5.2        5.6         L 3 T..
AVUSAE 10. OF PEFOIROOM
TOL                                  L6         LO..
Una                                  2.1    LS2
RURAL                                2.6        2.8
S     A TO ELEr. (2 OF NettleS)
m                                     ..         ..         .                 ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
It A 5 L I 1%
7,NDL                 - SOCIAL n Aro   DATA  S
KOST                    (M0M R%Cl3! ZUTDIXA) l
i,soLk       O/.k      ~                LW  INCU             NZWDi &
II6O&  LL0111 A= a  ASIA 4 PACIC      ABIA   PACIFIC
ADMTED ENROUJ43a RATIOS
rI4AlT   TOTAL                      61.0      73.0        79.0            17.4                   102.0
HAL1E                    00.0       90.0       13.0            110.3                   105.9
?LA1Z                    40.0       56.0       64.0            53.7                     91.2
SECONMARIs TOrAL                    20.0      26.0       30.0             35.9                    46.0
AIZ                      30.0       36.0       39.0            44.6                     46.7
FIAz                     10.0       15.0       20.0            26.6                     43.1
VOCATIONAL (3 or SUCONDART)           2.8        1.0        0.7 /           2.2                     17.5
PUPIL-E    R RATWIO
PRDIAY                              4.0       41.0       54.0             38.5                    31.8
SECONDARY                           16.0      21.0         ..             15.7                     MS.5
ADULT LITERACY UTE (Z)                27.6      34.1       36.2             53.4                    72.9
PASSENCK. CARS/THOUSAND POP           0.6        1.1        1.4             0.9                     10.1
RADO  ECEIVE1RSI ,USAID POP           4.9       21.5       43.6            112.1                   113.6
TV hECEIVERS/ITNUAND POP               0.0       0.0        1.7             15.7                    50.1
Ns rAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATIOI
PER TROUSND POPULATION              10.6      16.2        19.4 A          16.2                    53.9
CINIQ ANUAL ATTENDANCICAPITA           3.2       6.2        3.7 ^            3.6                     3.4
TOtAL LABOR FORCE (ThOUS)         185951.0  219194.0   242169.0
1E313  (PIcr?)                      30.7      32.3       31.8             33.3                    33.5
A=ORXCLTURZ (PERCENT)               74.0      74.0        71.0            69.6                    52.2
INmUSTRY (PERCEIT)                  11.0      11.0       13.2             13.6                    17.9
PAiTIICIATION XATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.8      40.0        39.4            42.6                    3A.7
KALZL                               57.0      52.4        52.0            54.7                    50.9
PIKALE                              27.3      26.9       25.9             29.8                    26.6
ECONOlIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1       1.1        1.1             1.0                      1.1
YORC   OF PRIVATE INC@
RZCEIzD BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHDS              26.7      26.3 A     22. 2J           22.2                    22.2
RICHEST 202 or HousEOLDS            51.7      41.9       49.A4            44.0                    48.0
LOWEST 2OZ OFHUSEOLDS                4.1       6.7  [     7.0O             6.4                     6.4
LOWEST 402 OF W uRoLLS              13.6      17.2 It    16.2 1t          15.5                    15.5
ESTDITD ALSOLUTE POVMRY  ClOE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPrTA)
UR6AN                                 ..        ..       132.0 A         133.9                   18.6
RURAL                                ..         ..       114.0           111.6                   152.0
ESTAMEO RELATIVE POVERTY INCONE
LML (USS PER CAPITA)
URAN                                  ..        ..         ..              ..                    177.9
RAL                                  ..         .          ..              ..                    16.6
ESTIDATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUrE
POVERTY ENCaE LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                .,         ,,       40.3 f1         43.8                     23.4
RURAL                                ..         ,        50.7             51.7                    37.7
NOT AVAILAJI
NO APLICABLE
NOTES
/a  7be group average for each Indicater are popcation-miahtd ariteb_tc memo. Coverag of countriee among the
indieaters depends an availabilit of data and is not imfer_.
/b  Danem otbezwire noted. c Dta for 1960" cefer to *ay Fear betwen 199 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 md
1971; ad data for "ibst Recent ZEtiate" betwen  190 and 1982.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1978; L  1962; /h 1979; A 196-65.
im, 19Us
-



AM=fZ I
-Slam- bs~ SbCSb                                iije       cof   5
beete. .i.e.l .. tooe lof llee.cm.                                                        an dam.leswedseso.   Aemm wamem
lb Csheeown guls emm 45) lsms aumeIp Ers 4oa. mam swank man  (Ni ml? urn .c mM..StWSmsema    ue   ~9a
al9Wb  ie le  b   llsf   t    .mtw.  msIsm    l  eiess                         -l   blble .1 dIue    to Me    o beEst. -win mm  .
esetetbe go InIL.113 MeSo     9S   .hltb   a?   imsamS   spml  s                   l       'Ak el ang *dlginet a e elmf e    a. met  me
.1.  M  wdeleft L5beoo arm   kind lal betin .                                     af beliS mae.a ee beS, lbel
isle. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~fonefe ludort-ro                                           16
mpllll belee .1 eeSwIfleerl e was    teqeor.ell St     Itmeel             ad5    mm  5..mo.  mu.=. ..slaeeS  moom. sealla  sr.m  be
(eUPCwlT(Ib. - bset alk  alMoaa de "-ILse  "M.  p                     WMsesIMIG..I 1e.14, be pnno1 semes be "spessoll  bIlld VA
~~  eseeL  esled~-o  -hM   1md .  ales (115541  eeetsSlleea                              . bupllele S  e,eebelambreetme.el .5l1.l
to". low. be 19W iee.                                                       Ip at 119W a* a.51e1. bue imali psetilgm sIleePlpI   oewale
-  S  Ms aeslebe  heelg         %-md.   mm. andlod bodd be
ebeep ..   S-b      It.selI. PA1R onows  Md be Set- mees                 =lIeSO. ulsAM% sll M&   Se.) bsa .dll 55ee  sbummila be
Oa OWeebees salsealelly Is hiLegftm   .l1 elIequeib  see opplaee IN%5       ibetd& C lIld =MP 1 mibem leelItl.t.
Mesaso mwe  N*P  or lbemom.l   9..
ileisnaieCsSetees                                      be ~~~~~~~~a.sr be. mis. a b=ouMi -  Iw-  or aw weem &"Km" go
Me onowton; glm IWO. OM IM dwo,  ~~b 1m*.I  he "Ififiet"& iwnesm.
I                                                    JN9__ _ _ _ _       _ _      m        m      Mbe
besle emEg LIb .eeel 1   lolnbe' eta  ames e                            lees5uyebCea.Idlmal  - s.9l wab  berem  ad
eee. b m ...   l, be tmleopsao  ali11fe . e ..el Ombele a91  q 11gr. 1   bmssILiel.eIbll?  ase9est     e
eM-L daises es IsIILliF "ems"e B. Im M mal on  *alsp
Pt-am ff pssem me Meps I. elm sonoi osb of abo ele.
milmee..at ow"eselsl, be fttleelstoonfinm he sesIsb serum
bee. bee e5eeism         Ion emi.i  6le lea asrnoi sb                      p11m?it  el.Sb. PctviSbI e      -eWI nlesber. beUbee    5.11r
emIl. an is.-  lb MMebb,  peMisslsl ca Sb newsumi a a.                     elm me rots ol b .. Ae.- a. .95141.1 odoesl Mo.
beag. . Wa  :leei=   mi.e"Inl.e5.do sis MqleplIlis me Ilon ae.t                    Anot be5    -Ie~lme be     - 5mwsl. no a.sl9 semolet.
WMt  e  bwe.-dt--. 4StIonLes. orel-lep ra  seeleee  e. on                   dee -1lM__.                 P-..ee   Ise  Ml     slIm, Aesebsebel
~l.1l~mlin-st.   ee oood Ca p.selsanto Sron 9.5m   bevolio              PI-to"b 8fS. ee.l.         10r.eidbe B-Bleba looffbeerns te
iieb ii.wBe. e,sMPMe-5eeel letelIIs be be. sllioesie Elm                   9wileMotl meS   Itse efr. I .-Mr mein onlonxonloon eeebe Sb
be. me :110f, cb oft Mnseesis "Win h-e e.ab  Mal. lb                       Isb"ieI, -e551mi
onmesa of 5 PeIMleele is lb- res j Is mesd M a bee .1 a.n                                                     - ee 9.-    bbllS l bsef"ob
egInorse "MI e.. Meseelle Itol  seseleebu is a. pm j, elm see oee !"M            m ba esm.    p-em   1.1ee
a.  e9owtes elm ft..lslsr melee 4 eISplesm.ess i he.f ese.L               lInA nelp, - moansweesmee.lmea,  leee-lv -4two-m
.l IO. lst, be ISe de..                                                     iff"sr.,  eIqeeI-UeeoeeS  (b   ..   ebel4
* ~5ed- elmhe e.leele.el Ie         e semeeo  - s.e   -l .llee5e  Moft (Itee..  .a Om  So.
ItIleC-lP.=    .1 Wsellow
melalal 555. SIb  fib 5452 bee.           - f ."Mo
2tCM)- -m- so-l Pe."  ..  .1 eebe                                 ISM"" .  og-bv-   .-on WI ebrb SIt tinea.  at
meee.. C           .1)0   be sib..).alme  beetsdow  Is Mone bev ad  eos ofte slianelles a9 robe
,.esleaa19W  1975.j be lobw ils.b"   -"-.   1M-4 mg .. obUma"  ftme. -t                                   WM     --          M -
,eselesleeos 5S  J1. be  -  OM doa.                                        ow"Goo Anbe                    - hometIbslh  Weeee I
I lielad - Am.1 am" Mor Monsoon M  ~~          ~          ~          beMeeos,N a sensuli I r.bm
ML-=     st   oafln         .99r.. 6-se A is          lonsmelee be so Psa. don        ok fbetel   St 15wlaso m. Is m.
e-ms.t  Wain"M-W e
-  -~~~~~e~~ -  ~         L-     i a . 9  sie. no0s,                  idlWO    at Is aqsoes   lobs Iora-ems  mk.
.1 kIl .e~    eebb  els. mSoeeCeertm  tall                          , e.e                - mea a.  m.t S
p59Wa.                                        lIMe.. esli dalE a. pm. Ibbul.~~~~~~k..b  sM.b e-        a 
~~~~ am                                                 metl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on belIe..ou 
bubme Sb~ ~ ~~ _11.  11n
al.1 0036bn"  reei olesWIb ee-MU.0,21 esste muodsu
C   - ml.,.   - imesa ~~, am.                                    1mb saet tSte  Ms ueeeo      Monaee le0 te.
U - - b     d  V-g.."esConoe pm  bee.pml-e..   ele...   G.e.-                 - eeemm: or teed lber leseI lson. two be  M9 i.le
.um   esMi of oaw) WAlao m NW sbl,b  *mde. Mossous (e4am                     W..     - lob  emsn IS Ma~                           Mdeela    me sb
esilee be s  a   mimi). inowe sei -. cW Am muep I.                   on"llp     mr  e A. M pseemelaSI on" "sh- lmn Mel. gm1
eas bebe emw pownw, ties -lowl Ifflel. 95 be PM                     be m151 afts.                      mja      mle W
I-M           M    "..mo !Lla                          t"                  e-"                                   on-    MOW foelmle o
onnow, ___________ _________...___M .. W ito swimes       -                                        1 lull  mle. be-    lob  bees..wo
9w. JMLIS.e mpUe esonvou  iomul pookou.%.~e  am~                           5Ww INr, be glan  o, Nos. ,11mm We."  tIPs lien,   besbeo  mu-
.esser. bef Monn iS e.    beS  O  =es1.- -a1m MAMAl Sa. IMo.               eiuee  emo        oogeelo a. 1mbela b    to" 1"  "MA69 AS
mu me b l 5, ml~.. ~elbslee1-M-M e- bmeeGltf.                               8 ~ e m We0zbI  .1d lebubet I4e I e
Mw beA        1A "dl M-".e Iwo sesolal   be0 do.e 5  eumh
*l~ .90w...or ISbi lebs-te " 9W0 9 be mu-d odes be
p.5. sea.. . bsSasono .muid "o bebemft. Noon
Moolos Sb Wool me- mu .9 flomeC emS osesho be  U u                               de5s           m  be   Psbme~-M uleme  lSe"2t, isb. be
ibd"     food bsi imipa  1l.4. "M1 be lbs das.n-                                                                         -            5
______ _____ _____ _____ _____ ____L-  "eset.  'R  Ond bei               A   SM.   5     mS                       In a   el b.    cc 
an                  .W      M        -.                                     9CmwC.-d2
laId  me ~eI beb be tqqt~m,) -~*dse an-P           is                                        ood ga's   M        -W         Pt
ma..  beedou 4-11a Cu   t.blei       . ams owam  doe.                      meem"es      da.su.? %beslow  b"  iib  los Sb  -11
I EL- gso-dw soow se poe Mr Uitt noamete                    P- nn es...i Mele     (-eb- be -meL a.WeS.b
~~ 1915.mmld                  -  lOts be am:e be..
1metf Mp      (ml5-Iwo.eL   ilf Me no; dmm                                                                   l.siae   em   es
Cm . 6-wb. M.Ann - bee. l.1.                          on eMM
fSin. s~ 9.i-A Mono memoift, mm wld l           W.1ma   ~b.W    a
........  a.lal i  bl   a            al,l.S            m.
a. -13MISIe, be  m)   easamsconon"               mu knose
be    -bt I -St bmm  el-S, a a.m  .1' gse Monson be



lea 4 of S
OW PU CAPITA Il 1US8260 St
cOS DtBU    C Snl     KU 19"315 k/                                        AIAL 0I  OF g.     M  ccitmat mlen) i
s5/91   60161.645  65/61469/70  7o1n-74/75 75/76-7910  0/61-2UW/3
MX BID.    X
GO at Market Prices             1S9.81     100.0                  3.7         3.6          3.7        2.9         4.1          5.1
Grog: Domaotic Inv    t          45.94      24.0
Gro- Natina Saving               43.17      22.7
Currte Acout 2lalce              -2.17      -1.5
OUTPUT. lABO  FORCE AIND PRDDCTIrV2 Dl 1981
Value added Cat factor cost)     Labor Fore sl   V.A. Pr Worker
0s5  UIn.             X           1         7T                of Iioi   l AVerag
Agriculture                      52.5                 35.9        172.7    70.6    304        51
Industry                         34.5                 23.6        31.6    12.9   1092        183
Servceas                         59.2                 40.5        40.3    16.5   1469        246
tell,Averag                     16.2                 100.0          1.6   100.0    51        100
GOV         71A1C
CGaral Covermat                                 Central Cowe t
Re. DIn.           S of 0P                   RS. Bin.       *Z of GDO
19631/34    193/84   1979/O-1983SK          lS83/B4    1963/84    1979/W-1963/4
Current RUeLipts                378.54        19.3           19.5            201.67        10.3           10.3
Curre:. Ez9enditures            397.12        20.3           19.4            225.42       11.5            10.9
Curr"et SurplunjlDficit         -18.58        -1.0            0.1            -23.75       -1.2            -0.6
Capital Expenditures ft         149.66         7.7            8.0            114.12        5.8             5.8
Externel Assistance (net) d1     19.16         1.0            1.1
:DNIT. CFRDIT AND PRICES        1970/71  1975/76  1978/79 1979/80  1960/81  1981/82 1982/83  1913/3"  Januar- 1914 January 1965
(R Billon outstanding at end of period)
Money end QuL Mony              109.8    224.8   401.1   472.3   557.7   627.5   728.7   860.9          835.1        993.9
Bank Cradit to Covermnt (net)   54.6    106.3   159.3   200.1   257.2   306.3   353.8   407.7           403.1        483.9
Bank Credit to Com_ecil Sector  64.6    156.2   255.3   310.1   366.4   434.6   517.1   612.7           575.5        685.0
(P*erentag  or Ind  Numers)                       A[n-Je  83/8&    Anril-Jan 84/85
Money nd Quasi Money as a 2
of GOP                         27.3      30.3    41.1    44.1    43.7    42.5    44.5    44.0
Wbolesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 1w)                100.0    173.0   185.9   217.6   257.3   281.4   288.6   315.2          313.6           336.7
Annual Percentage changes in:
--boleale Price Xndex             7.7      -1.1     -       17.1    18.2      9.4      2.6     9.2        9:2             7.4
Bank Creit to Government (net)   13.0      22.7    16.0    25.6    28.5    19.1    15.1    15.3          16.9-J/         23.2 hi
Bank Credit to Comercl Sector  19.4        22.7    20.3    21.5    18.2    18.6    17.7    18.7          13.8 1I         15.6 h
a/ The per capita GNP estateo is at market prices. sing World lank Atlae mtbodolOgy. bae period 1981-83.
All other conversions to dollars Z. thti  table are at the naerag  exchage rate pre-alling during the period covered.
b/ Quick Eati_mtee, Central Statisticai Orhenizatio0.
cl Coeputed fro trend line of GNP st fctcor cost series. inlding one observation before first yar and coe observatio  after
lat year of listed period.
dl World Bank estiates of net diabursement of ceneamional aid and IBRD.
*t Trnsfers betmm Centre and States have bean netted out.
f   All loan  and advenea to third p rtiam have been netted out.
S' Percentage change from end-March 1983 to end-Jn.84.
ht Percentage chane fro end-Mrch 1984 to end-Jan.85.
V  Total Labor Force and percentae breaUdown frm 1981 Cseus. E=cludes data for Asan.



74P5 of 5
jI          11
P0TH=                      o                                                          1nom w00  n CAY        1910/a-1"316)t
Rgports of Good jf                     3.51         2         8.355        .724       h       _ine U  C s             12S       13
lwores of fONda                      -25.301    -14.2       -14.0W      -14.301       Te                               45 
Trae BEL.O                           - 6*M2    - G.0        - S.4S    - 5.777                                         1009      12
Ws (net)                               1.002         "5                    1.093      a etlbs             343                    a
Leat.r and Leather productis   343        4
Usmourct Umle                        - 5.710    - 5,065     - 4.737     - 4.678            Mn _factures                249       3
X. 0g.                          480       5
interest Ineam (ast) hI                  350    -   302    -   44       -   75        Cott  Textils                    316       4
Noe Trsfer.                            2,317      2.50D       Z,6         2.930       Sar                              104       1
ate                            3704       Z
Belince an Curr    CCOe              - 3.13    - 2.53       - 2.521     - 2,533
Direct aver,                              10         f5          62          61
Total                          8417     100
Offical  ans & Grams (nut)                   1    190         L.9U        1.914
Cress Disbuummta                       2.269      2.513       2.578       2,585       MM2AWL 1313WACE 31. 194
hmrtit                                   5so        412          17         641
Us$ billion
Pivate Borroufag (met)                   3W         34          526         64
Omlatanding and Ulubursed    21.5
No-Residet Deposit.                      240        578         903         600                                                 10.4
Iransctie with  W  (net)                 690      1,6         1.23           70        etd           ludg ikdlsburued           31.9
All otbhr Ier_ El                    - 2,24     - 1,522     - 1.347       - 683
incre    in Reserves  -)               2.396    -   50      -  3 2        - 303       MT Sancz Raw lOt 19384 1/!Y               13.6 per cent
Cross Iceerve. (sed yew) p/             .42       4,945       5.87        6.150
Net Reserves (snd yeer) .              3,497      2.069       1.497       2.250
Puel and Relstud Materials
IMPrtS (P0eroleu) SI                   5.553      4,614       2.963       3,026                                           16        -s
of whch: Crud.                       3.921      3139        2.U3        1.015
Products                   1,632      1.475         600       2.010       O.tanding a  DIsbursed               Z.158    8.902
Wdiabota.d                          4.326    3,748
Outstanding including IbiUraed    4.484   12.650
RATE OF RICUMNEI
0use 1966 to  id-Decmb  1971    : nSS1.00 - Re 7.50
Rs 1.00 - IS50.13333
Mld-OecDer 1971 to  <-jm   1972:  1SS1.00 - fe 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - 0580.137376
After end-Ja  1972               :   latigs Rate
Spot Rate ead-March 1984         :  US$1.00 - Rs 10.71
Rs 1.0D - 1R58.0933
Spot Rate end-Mrh  1985          :  USSL.00 - Re 12.3457
as I.00 - 0D0.04810
JjEstimated
t Fgurs givm cewr Al Investet ncom  Cnt). Mejor pVpta are intert - forig  loans aod chars psdd to DV,
and maor receipto i   cerms ear_ed on foreig 
I/ Figures SI"e  lude secRet' amttmas but minde officl I                  sietanc  sdlnh Iseluded within official Loans
ad grants. ad m-r.slden  depoeits _lae a        boeh sepeaatly.
01  Enlude  et we of WU credlt.
*I ~ptation and Inters peymans an foreig  lo. ase a percentag  of toal curent receipts.
o/ Includes exchanie ret adjutors to cb  valuatioe of reser_e and f         -nancin  of  S 1bmacas In rupee trad.
[ RIKxludlng 8O.14
n ot of petrolsi  exports



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATTUS OF BANK GROUP OP1RATIONS TX  MIA
A.  STATEMT OF BANK LOANS AID IDA CREDITS
(A. of September 30, 1984)
USS million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit  Year of
No.  A- Aroval          Purpose                        Bank         IDA iJ    Undisbursed Zj
50 Loans/                                            2,1640 -.
93 Credits fully disbursed                               -        5,535.2
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                                  30.0          8.15
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton Development        -           18.0          0.03
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation          145.0          -           24.94
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                    25.0         -            11.19
1335-IN    1977     Bombay Urban Transport              25.0         -             1.17
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. DevelopmetL            -          30.0           8.45
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development            -           20.0          1.65
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research              -           12.0          7.32
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                   14.0         -             2.62
720-IN    1977     Periyar Vaigai Irrigation            -          23.0           1.52
728-IN    1977     Assam Agricultural Development       -           8.0           1.34
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage             -         107.0          52.65
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research             -            8.0          4.93
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector            25.0         -             1.72
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power        105.0         -             3.60
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                 -          117.6         37.38
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                  -         200.0          30.11
806-IN    1978     Jamuu-Kasbmir Horticulture           -           14.0          9.91
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries             -           17.5          8.40
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                    -           16.0          4.86
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII             120.0         -            15.10
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                       -         150.0          43.85
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II               -          196.0        141.11
844'-IN    1979    Railvay Mbderaization
& Maintenance                     -          190.0         25.05
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage       -          38.0           5.28
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research       -           27.0         14.06
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -            25.0          2.94
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                       -           30.0          0.83
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power            50.0         -            50.00
874-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             -         200.0          10.71
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                    -         129.0          38.32
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply             -           48.0          6.72
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II       -          175.0          4.45
925-IN    1979     Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry        -           23.0          2.24
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation 1I            -          210.0         42.74
961-I1N   1980     Gujarat Commnity Forestry            -          37.0           6.51
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                     -           20.0         16.07
981-IN    1980     Population II                        -          46.0          27.63



Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                         lank        IDA jJ     Undisbursed ;J
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -          32.0          19.48
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -         175.0         94.88
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                             -          22.0          16.11
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                  -         300.0        159.67
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension         -          10.0          7.56
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport              -          56.0         17.76
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                 -          54.0         30.32
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -            80.0         49.09
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                   100.0         -            5.37
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                25.0         -           25.00
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                -          225.0        113.52
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0         -            20.31
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                    -           35.0         14.38
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                    -           83.0         42.64
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II          -           42.0         19.49
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation               -          140.0         85.73
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII              -          314.0         89.58
111h-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation            -           54.0         37.68
1125-IN    1981     Eazira Fertilizer Project            -          400.0        117.86
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.        -           23.0         13.92
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.         -           28.0         17.08
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II            -           37.0         28.05
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -         125.0          70.25
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II       -          400.0        273.61
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation      -          220.0        154.99
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint               100.0          -           18.15
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry          -           29.0         19.92
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development             -           25.0         15.13
2051-IN    1982     ICICI XIV                           150.0         -           57.70
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundan Thermal Power II        300.0          -          269.54
2095-IN    1982     ARDC IV                            190.0          -            0.43
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -             6.0          4.69
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization         200.0          -           96.43
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III          304.5          -          274.48
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                  20.3          -           20.00
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   -           60.0         30.57
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                 -           72.0         60.11
1286-IN    1983     Jammu/Kashmir and
Raryana Social Forestry            -          33.0          24.97
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh               -            -
Irrigation II                      -          31.0          19.65
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation              -          127.0        105.96
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration       165.5          -          140.52
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0         -           197.04



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      hworoval       Purpose                       Dank         IDA 1f    Undisbursed )
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    -         200.0        177.00
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Developmect     139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983    Haryana Irrigation II                -         150.0         114.38
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubevells II            -          101.0         89.79
1356-IN    1983     Upper Iadravati lydro Power         -          170.0        148.38
2278-IN    1983    Upper Indravati Rydro Power        156.4          -          156.01
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III      -          147.0        132.10
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization       -          32.0          26.95
2308-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization      22.7         -            22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Tranmission         250.7         -           250.07
2295-IN    1983     Riualayan Watershed Management     46.2         -            45.89
2329-IN    1983     Nadhya Pradesh Urban               24.1         -            24.04
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                -          105.0         83.20
1424-IN    1984    Rained Areas Watershed Dev.         -          31.0          29.37
1426-IN    1984     Population III                                 70.0          66.23
1432-IN    1984    Karnataka Social Forestry            -           27.0         25.57
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                  250.0                     249.38
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                    151.0                     150.62
2403-IN    1984     Cambay Basin Petroleum            242.5                     241.90
2415-IN    1984    Nadhya Pradesh Fertilizer          203.6                     203.09
1483-IN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation                        125.0         117.38
1496-IN    1984    Gujarat Nedium Irrigation                       172.0        164.14
2417-IN    1984     Railways Electrification*         280.7                     280.70
2442-IN    1984    Farakka II Thermal Power*          300.8                     300.80
Total                                  6,526.3    12,268.3
of which bas been repaid             1.350.8       173.0
Total now outstanding                  5,175.5    12,095.3
Amount Sold                   133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8        -           -
Total now teld by Bank and IDA         5,175.5    12,095.3
Total undisbursed (excluding *)        2,712.69    3,494.35
IJ  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
V  Undisbursed mnounts for SDR-denminated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDRIUS dollar
exchange rate in effect on September 30, 1984.
/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                    CLmany                       loan      Eouitv    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5         -       1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.8         -       0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                1.4         -       1.4
1961            L.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2         -       0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.6        0.4      1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8        0.4      1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8        1.3     13.1
1964            Laksbmi Machine Works Ltd.            1.0        0.3      1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.               1.1        0.1      1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.            15.1        3.8     18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6         -       6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                           4.0       1.2       5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5       1.2       8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited       15.9                15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0          -      38.0
1981            Mbhindra, Mahindra Limited           15.0         -      15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9        0.3      3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited             2.3         -       2.3
1981            NagarjnnA Steels Limited              1.5        0.2      1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                28.0         -      28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            11Y8        -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.            15.5         -      15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           F.A         -       8.1
1984            The Ovalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.       3.7        -       3.7
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS        210.7      12.1    222.8
Less:   Sold                         53.0       3.4     56.4
Repaid                      34.0         -      34.0
Cancelled                   33.0        1.4     34.4
Now Held                     90.7       7.3     98.0
Undisbursed                 44.1         -      44.1
- ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     -        =
;-:



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
RIHAND POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SKET
Section I:          Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to Prepare the Proiect
About two years.
(b) The azency that has prepared the proiect
National Thermal Power Corporation.
(c) Date of first Presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the proiect
The project vas first presented to the Bank in
February 1984; a preparation miseion visited India
in June 1984.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
August 19, 1984.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 29, 1985.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 30, 1985.
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  Execution of subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and
NTPC (condition of effectiveness, para. 53);
(b) Achievement of financial rate of return by NTPC
(para. 60);
(c)  Execution, by March 31, 1986, of bulk supply contracts
between NTPC and each of its customers in the



ANX= In.
Page 2 of 2
Northern, Western, Southern, and Eastern legions
(para. 62);
(d) Maintenance of accounts receivable of NTPC at a level
of. two months', electricity sales, from March 31, 1986
(para. 65).
l
lI
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



.   -|i        - _V        i      r-                           1
Abl3HANISTAN            r 4- '-2'v&             1                                     NOI1A
J  A                             RIHAND POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
and
KASHMIR         .                        40 kV AC and HVDC Grd
>      P N1(8 U    _HIACNAI  -sr _.e _             fDC  C.
P  ~ A  K I S Ti1                                                     - Ao N
PAKISTAPN           .-t            fmn I1..O                                  * . 
0                               __
-'-;'.'' '' Alt  s)'  ;" -'AN'
ot~~~~~~~~~~~ Aa,  0v E_.-    A N  v 
e~~                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~              ..          MVDC LI ,d h.i.        -                -a   !  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                             /  .     ;.   M,%
>GUJARA=---' ADO
---z  PRADESHADEK&LI7
w                                  9 S  H                              r         I
:-s..RAESC -l.-
MA~~~H   PRAS1TA D'O     
cQ~, AL1~ ANDSRI AK
C5                sr                                                       or~~~a 






