Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4036-CH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDEENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO TIE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$97.0 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
FERTILIZER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECT
April 22, 1985
This docunmet bu a resicted distributin  d may be used by recipets only in the perfn   of
ther offica dusb  hg contents may no othewi  be dsclosed withu World BDk authorlatio



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984        April 1985
Currency Unit  =     Renmimbi       (RMB)
US$1.00        =      Y 2.32        Y 2.84
Y 1.00         =     $0.43          $0.35
(Project cost estimates are based on the January 1985 exchange rate of Y 2.8
per US$1.00.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WJEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)         =   2.47 acres
i metric ton (ton, t)  =   1,000 kilograms or 2,205 pounds
ACRONYMS
AN     -  ammonium nitrate
CCFC   -  Cangzhou Chemical Fertilizer Company
CFDC   -  China Fertilizer Development Center
C'NCCC  -  China National Chemical Construction Compzny
CIF    -  cost, insurance and freight
FOB    -  free on board
ICB    -  international competitive bidding
LCFC   -  Liaohe Chemical Fertilizer Company
LNCCC  -  Luzhou Natural Gas Chemical Company
MCI    -  Ministry of Chemical Industry
MOF    -  Ministry of Finance
NCIC   -  Nanjing Chemical Industry Company
p.a.   -  per annum
SPC    -  State Planning Commission
tpd    -  tons per day
tpy    -  tons per year
tpyn   -  tons per year of nutrients
YNGCC  -  Yunnan Natural Gas Chemical Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
FERTILIZER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECT
Loan and Project Suumary
Borrower:       People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:  Luzhou Natural Gas Chemical Company (LNGCC)
Yunnan Natural Gas Chemical Company (YNGCC)
Cangzhou Chemical Fertilizer Company (CCFC)
Liaohe Chemical Fertilizer Company (LCFC)
Nanjing ChemicaL Industry Company (NCIC)
China Fertilizer Development Center (CFDC)
Amount:         US$97.0 million equivalent
Terms:          20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard variable
interest rate
Relending       The Government will onlend:  (a) US$87.0 million equivalent
Terms:        to the five companies as follows:  LNGCC (US$40.3 million),
YNGCC (US$10.1 million), CCFC (US$11.1 million), LCFC (US$8.7
million) and NCIC (US$16.8 million) for 10 years including 3
years of grace at an interest rate of 8% per annum and a
commitment charge of 0.75%; and (b) make available under its
current procedures US$10.0 million equivalent to CFDC through
the Ministry of Chemical Industry (MCI) at an interest rate of
3.5% p.a. and a commitment charge of 0.75Z for repayment over
20 years including 5 years of grace. The companies and CFDC
will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project         The major objectives of the project are to:  rehabilitate,
Description:  modernize and save energy in selected fertilizer facilities;
improve research planning in the fertilizer industry; foster
the beneficiary companies' capabilities to implement projects,
and manage operations and finances; and develop strategies for
modernizing medium-size fertilizer plants. The project
consists of (a) rehabilitation, modernization and energy-
saving modifications in the fertilizer plants of the five
companies and training of their staff; (b) equipment, data
processing facilities and training to strengthen the research
and design capability of CFDC and its member institutes; (c) a
study, to be conducted by MCI, of nitrogenous fertilizer
production costs; and (d) technical assistance in
international procurement.
The project wiLl lead to significant savings in specific
energy consumption, increase production of urea by 129,000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withouL World Bank authorization.



tpy, ammonium nitrate by 24,000 tpy, methanol by 29,000 tpy,
surplus ammonia for sale by 14.000 tpy, and replace production
of about 180.000 tpy of sulfuric acid. Over its econmic life,
the project will generate a net foreign exchange saving of
US$694 million in January 1985 US dollars. Technical ris?.s
are moderate as project investments will be in existing plants
using commercially proven technologies. The main risks of the
project are possible delays in procurement and implementa-
tion. These should, however, be minimized by the provision of
consultazy services for procurement and of experienced
engineering firms for project implementation. The companies
are financiaLly sound and adequate measures are provided for
in the project to maintain such soundness.
Estimated Cost:                                      Local /a   Foreign    Tota.
- US$ million equivalent --
Rehabilitation, Energy Saving and Training /b
LNGCC - Luzhou                                  11.9         32.5       44.4
YNGCC - Yunnan                                   4.4         10.1       14.5
CCFC  - Cangzhou                                 4.2          8.9       13.1
LCFC  - Liaohe                                   4.4          8.3       12.7
NCIC  - Nanjing                                 24.7         20.7       45.4
Subtotal                                      49.6         80.5     130.1
Fertilizer R&D (CFDC)                              0.7          8.9        9.6
Base Cost                                     50.3         89.4     139.7
Physical Contingency /c                            5.0          7.2       12.2
Price Contingency                                  7.9         13.7       21.6
Incremental Working Capital                        0.3           -         0.3
Total Project Cost                           63.5        110.3     173.8
Interest During Construction                       0.6         12.4       13.0
Total Financing Required                     64.1        122.7     186.8
/a  Including taxes of US$2.0 million on equipment and material procured
locally.
/b  Including US$0.5 million base cost of technical asssistance in
international procurement which is distributed proportionally among the
five companies.
/c  Physical contingencies for the fertilizer R&D (CFDC) component are
included in base cost.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                       Local       Foreign    Total
-- US$ million           --
IBRD                          -         97.0       97.0
Domestic Bank Loans         21.2          1.6      22.8
Beneficiary Companies      42.1         24.1       66.2
CFDC                         0.8         -          0.8
Total                 64.1        122.7      186.8
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY             1986     1987    1988    1989
------ US$ million
Annual            13.0      39.0    40.0      5.0
Cumulative        13.0      52.0    92.0    97.0
Economic Rate of Return: 31%
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 5367-CHA, dated April 22, 1985.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A FERTILIZER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of China for the equivalent of US$97.0 million to
help finance a fertilizer rehabilitation and energy saving project. The loan
would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. The Covernment would onlend (a) the equivalent of
US$40.3 million to the Luzhou Natural Gas Chemical Company {LNGCC), US$10.1
million to the Yunnan Natural Gas Chemical Company (YNGCC), US$11.1 million to
the Cangzhou Chemical Fertilizer Company (CCFC), US$8.7 million to the Liaohe
Chemical Fertilizer Company (LCFC) and US$16.8 million to the Nanjing Chemical
Industry Company (NCIC) for 10 years, including 3 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 8% per annum (p.a.) and a commitment fee of 0.75%; and
(b) make avaiLable under its current procedures US$10.0 million equivalent to
the China Fertilizer Development Center (CFDC) through the Ministry of
Chemical Industry (MCI) at an interest rate of 3.5Z p.a. and a commitment fee
of 0.75% for 20 years, including 5 years of grace. The companies and CFDC
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:  Recent Economic
Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. An economic mission that visited China
early in 1984 is preparing a report on long-term development issues and
options, which is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors by May
1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        To address economic inefficiency and structural imbalances, the
Government initiated a program of reform and adjustment in 1979. Reform
implementation proceeded most rapidly in agriculture and culminated with the
introduction of the "production responsibility system" (in various forms),
which gave households and small groups autonomy in production and investment
decisions and allowed them to keep most income earned after contracted
payments to the state and collective. By the early 1980s, the vast majority
of production teams in China had implemented such a system. Reform of the
urban economy began much more slowly, but nevertheless significant systemic
changes occurred, including bonuses for individual workers; profit retention
by state-owned industrial enterprises (at first on an experimental basis);
fiscal decentralization measures, which allowed provinces to share in the
benefits of increased revenues and gave them more freedom in budgeting; and
some decentralization of foreign trade authority. Adjustment policies



-2-
resulted in an increase in the share of consumption in GDP; a rise in the
share of light industry in total industrial output, substantial improvements
in living standards, rapid growth of foreign trade (particularly manufactured
exports), and relatively modest (in relation to past trends) GDP growth.
4.        A number of problems emerged in the process of reform and adjust-
ment, including large budget deficits in 1979 and 1980, deterioration of the
external position and a significant current account deficit in 1980, infla-
tionary pressures and some overt price increases, and excessive investment
demand resulting from decentralization of investment decision making and
financing. In response to these difficulties the Government imposed a stabil-
ization program in early 1981, which relied mainly on administrative con-
trols. It resulted in a slowdown in growth, a reduction in price inflation
(to around 2% p.a.), a sharp cutback in budget-financed investment, a lower
budget deficit (1% of GDP in 1981); and a current account surplus of $1.5 bil-
lion in 1981 and $5.6 billion in 1982.
Economic Performance, 1981-84
5.        Economic growth picked up in 1982 with the resumption of rapid
growth of heavy industry and the rebound in investment. Overall performance
has remained strong, with real GDP growth averaging over 8% p.a. from 1981 to
1984. Shortages of energy, many producer goods, and construction materials
were exacerbated by the rapid growth of demand, yet price increases were
limited by further strengthening of administrative price controls
(particularly in 1983). Government budget revenue grew very slowly in 1982
(1.3%) but much more rapidly in 1983 (7.9Z) and 1984 (as much as 10%), due to
a new tax on enterprise retained funds and extrabudgetary incomes of Govern-
ment organizations. This permitted an increase in budget expenditures on
investment of 17% in 1983 and a further rise in 1984, while maintaining a
relatively small budget deficit (less than 2% of GDP in 1983). Growth of
subsidies was largely stemmed by stopping increases in most of the agricul-
tural procurement prices.
6.        Gross industrial output value grew at over 10Z p.a. between 1981 and
1984, with heavy industry growing somewhat faster than Light industry (12% vs.
9%), a reversal of the 1978-81 pattern. The energy constraint on industrial
growth was eased by rising coal output (81 p.a. in 1981-84), consistent annual
crude oil output at over 100 million tons, and improvements in the efficiency
of energy utilization (primary commercial energy consumption grew only 60% as
fast as GDP in 1981-83). Agriculture has continued its very strong perfor-
mance, with gross agricultural output value rising at 9% p.a. in 1981-84 and
grain output at 7% p.a. (reaching over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops
and animal husbandry, stimulated by rising demand and attractive prices, have
also grown very rapidly.
7.        There have been impressive increases in personal incomes throughout
the period 1978-83. Average per-capita income in rural areas rose by about
12% p.a. in real terms and urban incomes by about 5% p.a. Rural income growth
was mainly due to production increases, efficiency improvements, and growth of
employment in nonagricultural activities, as well as substantial agricultural
procurement price increases (through 1981). Urban income growth, on the other



- 3 -
hand, can be attributed primarily to wage and benefit increases, which have
exceeded growth of Labor productivity.
8.        Control of the aggregate level of investment and its composition has
continued to be a serious problem. Enterprise and local government investment
continued to increase sharply in 1982, far exceeding plan guidelines. In
1983, more stringent measures brought this part of investment under control
(though it still exceeded plan targets). But investment outside the rural
sector remains rather inefficient, and improvements in efficiency have been
hindered by administrative controls. Construction costs have risen
continuously (10% p.a. in 1978-83).
9.        China has maintained a strong external position.  The dollar value
of both exports and imports stagnated in 1981-83, but this masked considerable
increases in the volume of foreign trade. Since 1983, imports have grown more
rapidly than exports, and in 1984, exports rose by an estimated 10 while
imports increased by 25Z. Manufactured export growth was slower in 1981-84
than in 1978-81, but it started from a much higher base and occurred in the
face of worsening world market conditions. Foreign debt and debt service
ratios remained at very low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in
1983); China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion
(over 7 months' imports) by mid 1984 and have stabilized at that level since
then. The value of the Chinese renminbi declined by about 36Z against the SDR
between the end of 1981 and late 1984 (60Z against the US dollar).
Recent Reforms
10.       Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
cultural activities such as processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on one undertaking - often cash crops, animal
husbandry, or nonagricultural activities) and pooling of capital by small
groups of households in various types of ventures are becoming more common
forms of economic organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for
some agricultural products have emerged. To encourage investment in land
improvement and development, farming contracts between collectives and peasant
households (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can now
be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, it was announced that
planned procurement quotas for agricultural commodities will be abolished;
more methods of financing investment in rural nonagricultural activities will
be permitted (including tax exemptions, local government bonds, higher
interest rates to attract more saving, etc.); and the growth of the
agricultural processing industry in coastal areas will be promoted.
11.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. Since early 1984, the focus has been on broadening and
delineating the decision-making authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).



-4-
12.       In financial reforms, the most important new development was the
implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by state
enterprises to the Government budget. Though most enterprises have switched
to this system, the benefits have been Limited because of the application of a
different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset the impact of
distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems have resulted
in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on the fixed
capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they have
hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed investment,
despite strong Government support. Financial discipline at the enterprise
level remains weak, in spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing
systems and more strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
13.       In the crucial area of price reform, a major price adjustment for
textiles and textile raw materials occurred in early 1983; it helped balance
supply and demand, to a large extent equalized profit rates for synthetic and
cotton textiles (which are close substitutes in production and consumption),
and drastically reduced subsidies for cotton procurement, with only a small
net effect on the Government budget. Prices of many "minor" consumer goods
(which individually do not have a significant impact on living standards) and
the majority of agricultural commodity prices have been decontrolled and are
now set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 202 above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g. for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions (at largely uncontrolled prices) has
increased in recent years.
14.       Reforms in the employment and wage system have made limited
progress. The bulk of urban labor is still allocated administratively, and
transfers of workers or professionals among enterprises are heavily impeded.
Numerous attempts are being made to link individual performance more closely
with rewards, including piece-rates, "floating wages," and various types of
contractual "responsibility systems." These have achieved some success, but
problems of egalitarian distribution of bonuses remain, and many enterprises
give out bonuses in kind or disguise them as allowances in order to evade
regulations.
15.       China's foreign exchange rate system has been unified with the
abolition of the "internal settlement rate" (Y 2.8 to $1) at the beginning of
1985. Direct foreign investment (which was first allowed in the late 1970s
but developed slowly due to the lack of a legal framework) is being actively
encouraged and joint venture agreements have increased sharply. In addition
to four "special economic zones" open to foreign investment and subject to
more flexible policies, 14 coastal cities were recently opened up in the same
way.



16.       Significant steps have been taken to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management. The central banking functions of the People's Bank
of China were separated from its commercial banking functions (which were
given to the newly established Industrial and CommerciaL Bank of China) at the
beginning of 1984. The central bank relies on redeposit requirements and a
discount window to influence the operations of specialized banks, and even-
tually may use discount rates and interest rates in general as a flexible tool
of macroeconomic management. Adjustments in indirect taxes may be used to
affect profitability and supply, in the absence of or as a supplement to price
reform. Scope for horizontal flows of investment funds is aLso widening, as
enterprises invest in each other and in joint ventures and as some individuaLs
purchase stocks. Though restrictions on secondary trading remain, Government
bonds purchased by individuals can now be sold to banks or used as collateral
for Loans.
Long-term Issues and Prospects
17.       The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on urban reforms in October 1984, which reaffirms and consolidates
recent reforms and provides some general guidelines for the direction of
future reform.  It emphasizes the need for breakthroughs in:  (a) enlivening
and better motivating urban enterprises; (b) clearly separating Government and
enterprise functions (and limiting direct intervention by Government
organizations in enterprises' day-to-day operations); (c) reforming the price
system; (d) improving incentives in the wage and bonus system; (e) establish-
ing a planning system that is in harmony with greater reliance on the market
mechanism and developing indirect macroeconomic management; tf) upgrading
managerial personnel to meet the new demands on them in a reformed economy;
(g) removing obstacles to a unified national market and promoting cooperation
and technology transfer among regions; and (h) expanding utilization of
foreign capital and advanced technology. Among the main themes of the
document are the role of competition in promoting a more dynamic, flexible
economic system; the recognition that a certain degree of income inequality is
necessary to provide better incentives for economic development; the need for
clear responsibilities and appropriate incentives at all levels in the
economy; and the recognition that thoroughgoing price reform must involve
liberalizing the mode of price determination, not just adjusting administra-
tively set prices. Managers of large state-owned enterprises, however, will
still be appointed by the Government; a few key products will stiLl be subject
to mandatory planning and distribution by the Government; state ownership and
control over certain institutions like banks and railways will not be
relinquished; and establishment, relocation, changing product lines, mergers,
and shutdown of enterprises will still be subject to Government approval.
18.       The Central Committee declaration represents a political commitment
to economic reform, which will help foster an environment in which fundamental
reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated way. But specific
policy measures will take a considerable length of time to design and then to
implement. Many of the reforms required will be very difficult, particularly
since reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appro-
priate sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform
in the absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have



limited benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from
tighter financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices.  Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Government-supported social service programs.
19.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6X
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. There will be major structural changes in
the economy over the next two decades, including a reduction in the share of
agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and possibly in that of services
(which at present is unusually Low), and substantial urbanization (in smaller
towns if not in large cities). There will also be a shift within agricuLture,
away from grain and basic crops and into cash crops and animal husbandry.
20.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy,
shortages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain
growth in transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new
investments and improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing
resources in all these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign
borrowing. Finally, the rising share of the elderly in China's population
(related to the slowdown in population growth) means that more resources will
have to be devoted to maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the
decades after 2000.
21.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among cther things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
22.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a
beneficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to
the fore. Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary,
and other instruments is a major issue. In this context, maintaining an
adequate saving rate (if the Government no longer accounts for the bulk of
aggregate saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns)
will be major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum standard of living for the
population and an appropriate level of social services will become a major
challenge as enterprise and rural communal responsibilities in these areas are



reduced. The problem of poor, backward ruraL areas in various parts of the
country will continue to require attention. Redistributing financial
resources through the fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of
the poorest areas, and lowezing nonagricultural wages to make investment in
them more attractive are some options for alleviating poverty in these areas.
23.       The Government is in the process of finalizing its Seventh Five Year
Plan (covering the period 1986-90). The combination of potentialLy
fundamental reforms and the urgent need for large investments in many parts of
the economy to build the foundation for further growth makes this task
difficult. In order to mobilize the investment resources needed for rapid,
sustained economic growth and deveLopment, China will need to rely in part on
foreign borrowing. Recognizing this need, the Government plans to gradually
draw down its substantial foreign exchange reserves and hopes to attract
foreign capital through a variety of channels. China also has a claim to
concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of the
world. But China's access to concessionary capital to finance development and
modernization is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of
concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other
bilateral donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a.
during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       To sustain rapid growth over the coming decades, to increase
efficiency and innovation, and to maintain equity in distribution, China will
need continuing and fundamental reforms. These challenges are compounded by
China's large investment requirements and difficulty in efforts to open up to
the rest of the world. In light of this, there are several broad objectives
for the Bank to pursue in its relationship with China. First, the Bank can
offer China development experience and institutional knowledge as well as
opportunities for interaction with the Bank's other member countries. Second,
the Bank can assist China in removing major constraints on development and in
improving investment planning and policy coordination in the priority
sectors - namely energy, transport, other infrastructure, human development
and industry. Third, the Bank can assist the Government in efforts to remove
the remaining pockets of poverty.
25.       The Bank Group's strategy to meet these objectives is formulated in
line with China's broad development priorities and related issues outlined in
Part I of this report. However, Bank Group lending can provide only a small
portion of overall resource needs. As a key element of the strategy, there-
fore, the Bank's lending operations will aim to create a substantial demon-
stration effect applicable to China's overall development efforts. For
example, projects involving new techniques for land development or for provi-
sion of social services have been designed so they can be repeated by local
authorities with their existing resources. Some of the agriculture projects
and rural health projects are examples of this approach. The introduction of
international competitive bidding through Bank projects (first to finance
goods, and later civil works) is being adopted by the Government for most
local purchases and many domestic construction projects.



26.       Bank assistance can help improve the efficiency of investment,
through introduction and dissemination of improved analytical techniques for
investment and project planning and through institution building. Preparation
of the project appraisal manuals for the China Investment Bank and the
Agricultural Bank of China, consultant assistance and the EDI-sponsored pro-
grams, as well as specific sector work in transport, industry, health, educa-
tion and other sectors have improved the quality and content of project pro-
posals. Assistance to Chinese enterprises and agencies through staff train-
ing, consultant assistance, creation or reorganization of institutions, and
improvement of costing and financial management has bien included in a number
of projects ranging from the ports and railway projects to the several educa-
tion and petroleum projects. Sector work in enterprise management, urban
development, health and industry has also provided assistance for improvement
of investment efficiency.
27.       Human resource constraints are a particularly serious problem for
China's development. There are severe scarcities of higher level trained
manpower. Substantial economic and sector work and technical assistance and
training components in most of the Bank projects are providing support. In
terms of poverty alleviation, the rural health project, proposed urban and
water supply projects and sector work on labor mobility and regional develop-
ment options address poverty, health and equity issues.
28.       Transfer of technology in the broad sense is of fundamental impor-
tance in China's efforts to improve efficiency of the economy. Outmoded,
inefficient and costly industrial technologies are serious impediments to
development and are wasting valuable energy resources. Here, the Bank can
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry, agri-
culture and even education, the Bank can finance transfer of technology
through equipment imports, provision of foreign consulting assistance,
arrangement of training and promotion of licensing and other agreements such
as are now being discussed in the railways and other projects. Long-term
investment for new technology will require increased foreign borrowing in the
future and the Bank can assist China through cofinancing. Progress is being
made in introducing co-financing under the first and second power projects,
coal, urban, water, and some agriculture projects, and the Bank will continue
these efforts.
29.       For most of these elements of country strategy, however, progress
will be gradual and will require sustained Bank involvement over a series of
projects in various sectors.
Economic and Sec.tor Work
30.       Economic and sector work in China was initially designed in part as
a learning experience to provide the Bank with a basis of knowledge on the
development and functioning of the Chinese economy. It also introduced the
Covernment to alternative ways of economic analysis and views about its
achievements.
31.       In the last four years, the above approach has been well received
and has fostered economic and sector work that is responsive to the problems



- 9 -
of adjustment and reform. Follow-up to the first economic report emphasized
technical assistance and sector work for investment analysis and selection
techniques and enhanced sector planning. The content of the lending program
has been directLy infLuenced as a result. The rural credit project, the China
Investment Bank projects, and future regionaL industry projects are examples
of the links between economic and sector work and the lending program.
32.       More fundamental research by the Bank in collaboration with Chinese
economic research institutions into the problems of enterprise management is
nearing completion. The research has yielded insights into the attitudes of
enterprise managers toward system reform and has Led to better understanding
of how policy changes can improve planning, performance and management of
enterprises. In addition, there is a variety of project-related sector work
underway through studies included in the projects. These are expected to
produce the basis for detailed discussion of development options and poLicies
in the various sectors.
33.       Current economic work focuses on future options and issues to the
year 2000. A comprehensive report will be ready later this fiscal year. In
light of the experience of other countries in making the transition from low
to middle income levels, the report will pay special attention to inter-
sectoral Linkages and cross-sectoral and economy-wide issues.
34.       Future economic and sector work will be based on the conclusions of
dhe economic report and will look in more detail at some of the issues
raised. It will continue to improve our knowledge of the economy - its struc-
ture, the issues and constraints in key sectors, and the functioning of the
economic management system. Collaboration with Chinese research institutions
on issues of institutional and policy change will continue. Review of the
investment program in key sectors when the Seventh Five Year Plan (1986-90) is
finalized will help develop the next generation of projects for the lending
program.
Lending Operations
35.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May of
1980, 24 projects involving lending of $2,391 million to China have been ap-
proved. Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and credits as
of March 31, 1985. For this fiscal year we expect to present a total of
twelve projects to the Board. These include che already approved projects for
Second Agricultural Research, Second Power, Second University Development,
Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining, Seeds Development, Rural Water Supply, and the
proposed Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project as well as
projects in roads, railways, Pishihang-Chaohu area development, forestry and
gas engineering.
36.       For FY86 and beyond, the China lending program should continue to
grow from current levels. Areas of emphasis would include development of
energy resources, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and improved
technology. We will also investigate the feasibility of a regional approach
in a number of sectors to take better account of intersectoral linkages.



- 10 -
37.       rn the energy sector, lending has included six projects, which have
emphasized increased energy output and technology transfer through financing
of equipment, techiiical studies, training and consultant assistance. The
Lubuge Hydropower Project has resulted in the Government's extensive use of
competitive bidding for power projects. The Second Power Project places
particular emphasis on becter system planning. Fuel alternatives for electric
power, generating plant Location and interconnection of power grids will be
the subject of future work. For development of China's petroleum and coal
resources, Bank Group assistance will emphasize acquisition of appropriate
technologies, least cosc planning of investment and related transport
investment programs.
38.       In the transport sector, railway, port and road capacity must be
substantially increased. So far, one project each in ports and railways has
concentrated on increasing capacity, upgrading technology for lower cost
operations, and establishing better costing systems. Expanding domestic
capacity to manufacture improved transport equipment will continue to be a
theme in the sector and this should provide scope for substantial foreign
private sector involvement. Improved management and information systems and
analytical techniques for better cost control will be encouraged under the
projects, which, once proven, will be suitable for wider use throughout
transport enterprises. Intermodal coordination and planning and assessment of
alternative invest.mnent choices will have increasing prominence in both lending
and sector work.
39.       In agriculture, six projects have emphasized support services
through improved research and education, production increases through new land
development, reclamation, use of improved technologies and management,
strengthening of the agriculture credit system and seeds development.
Projects in forestry and agriculture credit will continue to strengthen sup-
port services and rural institutions. Land and area development projects will
endeavor to provide models of integrated regional development. Specialized
activity projects such as fisheries, livestock and agro-processing may also be
developed to support ongoing structural transformation in agriculture.
40.       In the industrial sector, two projects have focused on establishing
and strengthening the China Investment Bank. Improved investment selection
criteria, incentives for more efficient management, technology transfer, and
energy ccnserv&tion are priorities for future projects. Lending will have a
two-pronged approach - further strengthening of the China Investment Bank (and
perhaps other financial intermediaries) and financing large regional produc-
tion-oriented projects such as the proposed project for fertilizer as well as
other projects for machine tools and cement, to expana output and demonstrate
the merits of improved subsector analysis and planning.
41.       Further expansion of higher education and improvement of teaching,
curricula and graduate quality will be needed to the end of the century. The
human resource constraints have already been addressed by five education
projects and a component of the Rural Health/Medical Education Project. The
value of international competitive bidding for equipment purchases and of
international advisory panels for educational policy and curriculum reform has
been demonstrated in the first projects. Improved university management is



- 11 -
being encouraged throug> establishment of quantitative targets for growth,
student-teacher ratios, classroom utiLization, Laboratory experiments per-
formed, and other reforms (including development of evaluation and monitoring
procedures and greater decentralization). Projects in heaLth, urban
development and water supply will assist the Government in addressing diffi-
cult poverty-linked questions of affordability, cost recovery, and minimum
standards with focus on particularly impoverished regions.
42.       Implementation.   Project implementation is generally proceeding
well. There have been some delays in procurement because of the Government's
unfamiliarity with the concept of bidding, but these are now being addressed
through a central procurement agency. Most project agencies, as well as the
Ministry of Finance and the State Planning Commission, have established and
staffed offices to handle Bank Group projects. To support further expansion
of the lending program, acceLerate project preparation, improve project
implementation, and facilitate further economic and sector work, the Bank
Group is planning to open a resident office in China early in FY86.
PART III - THE FEiRTILIZER SECTOR AND THE BENEFICIARIES
43.       China is the world's third largest producer of chemical fertilizers
after the USSR and USA, with a total production in 1983 of 13.8 million tons
per year of nutrients (tpyn). Nevertheless, in recent years, China had to
import an average of about 2.5 million tpyn at a value of over US$1 billion
p.a., making China one of the world's largest importers of fertilizer.
Fertilizer plays an important role in China's agriculture. Although China
accounts for less than 8Z of the world's arable land it supports about 22% of
the world's population. Increased fertilizer use is thus central to China's
efforts to increase agricultural output.
44.       Consumption of fertilizers in China increased at an average annual
rate of about 13% during the last decade. Consumption in 1983 amounted to
16.3 million tpyn, of which 73% was nitrogen, 23% phosphate and 4% potash.
Current application rates of chemical fertilizer at about 115 kg of nutrients
per sown ha are more than three times those in India, about equal to levels in
the US and a third of those in Japan or South Korea. The fertilizer alloca-
tion process has so far favored food crops in the high, stable yield and
irrigated areas and state farms. There are also disparities in fertilizer use
among provinces with a range of 50 kg to 170 kg of nutrients per sown ha. The
marginal yield responses in some high yield areas reportedly have declined
from 15-25 kg of grain per kg of nitrogen in the 1960s to about 5-10 kg of
grain today. To correct this problem, the Government plans to allocate a
larger proportion of the incremental fertilizer production to zones outside
the high, stable yield areas, where marginal yield responses to fertilizer
application are expected to be higher.
45.       China's application of phosphate and potash fertilizers is low.  The
nutrients ratio of nitrogen: phosphate: potash of 100:32:5 in 1983 compares
unfavorably with the world average of about 100:51:37. This serious nutrient
imbalance reduces synergism and the benefits from the relatively high levels



- 12 -
of nitrogen use. Therefore, projections of nitrogen demand up to 1990 are
based on a much slower growth rate of about 1.2% p.a., whereas consumption of
phosphate and potash are projected to increase at average annual growth rates
of 7% and 22%, respectively, by 1990.
46.       Chemical fertilizer production in China has increased from 3.7 mil-
lion tpyn in 1972 to 13.8 million tpyn in 1983, from some 2000 plants with a
wide range of production technologies and sizes. Most of the plants are very
small and use outdated technologies. Among the 1,270 nitrogen plants, only 14
are in line with international standards and out of some 700 phosphate
fertilizer plants, only 8 have capacity exceeding 200,000 tpy of low grade
phosphate fertilizers. This evolution reflects the technologies available at
the time of plant construction and China's decision in the early phase of
fertilizer industry development to rely on indigenous technology to the extent
possibLe. It was only in the early 1970s that large-scale nitrogen fertilizer
plants were built and equipped with imported technology and equipment. The
average capacity utilization for the 13 large nitrogen plants in 1983 was 81%,
with five plants operating below 80% capacity due to constraints in feedstock
supplies (natural gas and naphtha). The operation of the only large nitrogen
plant using indigenous technology has so far suffered due to technical
problems. Domestic fertilizer production in China is characterized by a small
number of product types and low average nutrient content.
47.       The Government's target for total nutrient production by 1990 is
about 17.1 million tons, with only a modest growth of 2.3% p.a. for
nitrogen. The target growth rate for phosphate fertilizer is about 6Z p.a.,
which may be difficult to achieve. The Government's current plans for
increasing the production of phosphate fertilizers are to construct six
medium- and large-size plants. Potash output is projected to more than triple
by 1990 but will remain very small in relation to demand.
48.       Despite the impressive buildup in production capacity during the
last decade, China is still not self-sufficient in fertilizer requirements.
While domestic nitrogirn production and consumption are expected to be nearly
balanced by 1990, deficits of phosphate and potash fertilizer will substan-
tially increase. The gap between domestic production and consumption, to be
met by imports, is expected to increase from 2.5 million tpyn in 1983 to about
4.3 million tpyn in 1990, or from 15% to 20Z of requirements plus provision to
cover fertilizer in transit, stocks and distribution losses.
49.       Energy Consumption.  Generally, energy consumption in China's
nitrogenous fertilizer plants is higher than current levels for modern
plants.  The large plants, built in the 1970s, do not incorporate the technol-
ogical improvements now a-vailable to minimize energy consumption. Substantial
possibilities also exist for energy saving in the 55 medium-size plants, which
require major process modifications in view of their age and obsolete
technology. The small-size nitrogen plants (about 1,200) consume about 46%
more energy compared with the more efficient anthracite/coke-based medium-size
plants now being designed. Given the age, obsolete technology and broad range
of process configuration of the amall plants, the most appropriate energy
efficiency measures will likely be better management and maintenance.



- 13 -
50.       The problem of high energy consumption in the fertilizer industry
can be solved only gradually as it requires substantial capital investment in
technical renovation and some restructuring of the industry. The Government
has assigned high priority to efficient energy use and has adopted a number of
policy measures to achieve them. These include: cutbacks in planned alloca-
tions of energy to major industrial users; a gradual reduction in energy
consumption norms and their more strict application; bonuses for below quota
use; penalties in the form of higher prices for additional energy consumption;
closing down of very inefficient plants; and escablishment of some 55 energy
conservation centers to assist enterprises in improving energy efficiency.
The Government has also recently raised prices of natural gas and coal and
increased taxes on petroleum fuels to ancourage both conservation and fuel
substitution. The current energy prices are, however, noc fully conducive to
energy conservation. Appropriate reform of the price system especially of
energy prices (para. 53), complemented by more effective implementation of the
administrative measures, should provide additional incentives to further save
energy.
51.       Fertilizer Pricing.  Both ex-factory and farmgate prices of ferti-
lizers, like those for other essential commodities in China, are administered
by the Government. After having remained unchanged since the mid-1970s, the
ex-factory prices of urea and ammonium nitrate (AN) were increased in February
1984 by 14% and 22%, respectively, to cover increases in raw material prices
and reflect consumer preferences. These prices are at present 77% for bagged
urea and 59% for fertilizer grade AN of FOB international prices, and 61% and
48Z, respectively, of landed price at Shanghai. Domestic prices are thus
lower than international prices, principally because energy input prices in
China are also lower than international prices. Domestic relative prices of
fertilizers and energy inputs are, however, in line with international
relative prices. The Government's policy on ex-factory fertilizer pricing is
to cover on average the full production costs and provide a profit margin of
about 17% after product tax on sales. In the past, these prices have provided
satisfactory financial returns on investments.
52.       While prices currently play only a limited role in resource alloca-
tion and consumer decisions, the Government has become increasingly aware that
without overall price reforms and an increased role for market forces, efforts
to revitalize enterprise planning and management through financial reforms
cannot succeed. The two main elements of the Government's October 1984 deci-
sion to reform the economic structure thus relate to overall price reforms and
a decrease in the Government's direct control of the economy. However, due to
its importance in the national economy, fertilizer production will continue to
be planned by the Government and its prices will remain administered.
53.       The Government is aware of the need to rationalize energy prices,
and consequently in 1984 it increased gas prices for fertilizer production by
43Z for the Luzhou and Yunnan plants and by 74Z for the Cangzhou plant, and in
early 1985 by 64% for the Liaohe plant. Coal prices for the Nanjing plant
were also increased by about 18% in 1984. Nevertheless, current natural gas
prices paid by these plants are on average about 60% of the economic value of
fuel oil equivalent in calorific terms. Similarly, the price of anthracite
for the Nanjing plant is about 60Z of its economic value. Because energy is a



- 14 -
major input in fertilizer production, future increases in the price of
feedstock, fuel and electricity, if large, would directly affect the financial
viability of nitrogen-producing companies. The Government's plans are to make
compensating adjustments in the ex-factory price of fertilizers. These
adjustments, however, are not expected to fully cover the increases in energy
prices; plants would need to make up the difference by increasing efficiency
and reducing energy consumption. The Government considers the proposed proj-
ect a model for other industriaL enterprises which could also improve energy
efficiency and minimize production costs to respond to the new incentive
regime of the price strucFure.
54.       Farmgate prices of fertilizers also have not changed during the last
decade, except in February 1984 when the prices of urea and AN were increased
by about 13% and 16Z, respectively, following an increase in their ex-factory
prices. Current prices are 78% and 64% of the present import CIF prices,
respectively. Farmgate nitrogen fertilizer price relative to the price of
wheat is in line with international levelf. The present farmgate fertilizer
prices are higher than ex-factory prices and margins are adequate on the
average to cover marketing and distribution costs. It is expected that as ex-
factory prices are adjusted to reflect economic energy input prices, farmgate
fertilizer prices will also be adjusted accordingly.
The Beneficiaries
55.       The beneficiaries of the proposed loan are five chemical fertilizer
companies, the Luzhou Natural Gas Chemical Company (LNGCC), the Yunnan
Chemical Fertilizer Company (YNCCC), the Cangzhou Chemical Fertilizer Company
(CCFC), the Liaohe Chemical Fertilizer Company (LCFC) and the Nanjing Chemical
Industry Company (NCIC), and the China Fertilizer DeveLopment Center (CFDC).
The companies are all state-owned industrial enterprises operating under the
supervision of the Ministry of Chemical Industry (MCI) and their respective
provincial governments. They are distinct legal and independent accounting
entities. The four fertilizer complexes owned by LNGCC, YNGCC, CCFC and LCFC
are among the 13 large ammonia/urea complexes built in the 1970s with foreign
know-how and substantially imported equipment. CFDC and its eight fertilizer
research and design institutes are also state-owned and operate under the
jurisdiction of MCI.
56.       As is the case for alL state-owned industrial enterprises in China,
the five fertilizer companies have hitherto enjoyed limited managerial and
financial autonomy. Direction received from the center has included:
(a) annual production targets based on State Planning Commission (SPC) projec-
tions; (b) allocation of major inputs from designated sources at pre-
determined prices; (c) directed marketing of output at administered prices;
and (d) specified investment plans and budgets. As part of the ongoing
economic reforms, the Government has recently begun to revise planning and
financial regulations to provide more autonomy to industrial enterprises and
thereby encourage greater operational and financial efficiency. The
fertilizer sector, due to its importance in the national economy, will
continue to be planned by the Government. Nonetheless, ongoing reforms in
financial regulations (tax system, remittances to the Government, profit
retention, etc.) will provide increased freedom to management of the five
companies and incentives to improve operational efficiency.



- 15 -
57.       Research, development, design and engineering in the fertilizer
sector are shared by several chemical research and design institutes
specializing in specific areas. Eight such major regional institutes report
to MCI. In order to coordinate their activities, MCI established CFDC in
January 1984. The proposed project will support CFDC's tesearch and develop-
ment activities through assistance in acquiring up-to-date research equipment
and improving data-processing capabilities, and in providing training and
technical assistance to upgrade knowledge and strengthen design
capabilities. In order to ensure a well-focussed research program, assurances
were obtained from the Government that it will cause CFDC to furnish to the
Bank for review and commencs (a) by October 31, 1985 its four-year research
and development plan (1986-1990) including coordinated allocation of work
among its eight member institutes; and (b) by October 31 of each year starting
1986 and up to 1990, its annual research and development plan for the
following year including an assessment of achievements of the previous year
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
Government Stracegy in the Fertilizer Sector
58.       The major focus of the Government's priorities in the fertilizer
sector are to rehabilitate and save energy in nitrogen plants; to rapidly
expand capacity of phosphate production based on local raw materials; and to
identify and develop domestic resources for potash production. Conservation
is an important element of the Government's efforts to ease energy shortages
which pose a severe constraint to China's future economic growth. The
Government plans to use the rehabilitation and energy-saving measures under
the project as a model in developing and implementing similar investments in
other large and mediumrsize nitrogen fertilizer plants. The Government
recognizes that small nitrogen plants, although important, are less economic,
and therefore no new ones will be built. Some have been closed in recent
years and more are scheduled to be closed in the future. Simultaneously,
efficiency is being improved through retrofitting and some increase in
capacity where economically feasible. While no significant new nitrogen
capacity has yet been planned, large nitrogen fertilizer plants based on
recent natural gas finds can be built for both domestic consumption and
exports.
59.       China's Low application levels of phosphate and potash fertilizers
will have to be substantially increased to improve crop response and increase
agriculture production. The Government's strategy is to rapidly expand
phosphate fertilizer production capacity using phosphate reserves which have
not yet been tapped due to difficulties in both mining and processing and the
lack of adequate infrastructure. The Bank is financing technical assistance
under the IDA-financed Technical Cooperation Credit (1412-CHA) for testing of
phosphate rock and necessary feasibility studies for preparation of a phos-
phate mine project. There is also a need to optimize investments in the
subsector through integrating approaches to mining, transportation and
phosphate fertilizer manufacturing. The Bank has proposed to the Government
an outline of a phosphate subsector investment planning study and has offered
to finance assistance for it also from the TechnicaL Cooperation Credit.



- 16 -
Bank Role in the Sector and Project Justification
60.       The Bank's major objectives in the fertilizer sector are to support
the Government's efforts in (a) introducing technical renovation and energy-
saving measures in nitrogen fertilizer plants; (b) improving nutrient balance
through capacity expansion in the phosphate fertilizer subsector; and
(c) institution building and training. The proposed project wouLd be a first
step in furthering these objectives. The technical rehabilitation and energy-
saving component has been designed to provide experience which will enable
China to formulate and implement similar programs for other ammonia pLants.
The Bank has played a major role in project design through economic analysis
in optimizing the rehabilitation component, and in institution building, by
ensuring the close involvement of MCI, the project entities and the design
institutes in project preparation and appraisal. The Bank has also helped
define the scope of CFDC's activities. Bank participation will contribute to
improved financial management of the companies through their use of
appropriate financial performance criteria and strengthen their capabilities
in project implementation and plant operations. The outcome of the fertilizer
production cost study will help provide a basis for formulating strategies to
modernize medium-size fertilizer plants. Continued Bank assistance for
fertilizer development will be necessary and is justified considering the
critical link between the fertilizer and agriculture sectors, and the large
needs of China's fertilizer industry for technical renovation, energy-saving
investments and development of the phosphate fertilizer subsector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
61.       The project was identified in September 1983, and appraised in
July/August 1984 and in January 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington in
April 1985 with a delegation led by Mr. Wang Liansheng, Deputy Director,
External Finance Department, Ministry of Finance and included representatives
of the beneficiaries. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5367-CHA, dated April 22,
1985) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Special
features of the project are given in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III. A map (IBRD 18561) of the country showing the project locations is
attached.
Project Objectives and Description
62.       The main objectives of the project are to assist China to (a) imple-
ment rehabilitation and energy-saving measures to improve efficiency and
minimize production costs in the nitrogenous fertilizer plants of the five
companies; (b) strengthen these companies' capabilities in project
implementation, operations and financial management; (c) strengthen the newly
established CFDC and its eight fertilizer research and design institutes to
improve research and engineering capabilities in the fertilizer industry; and
(d) develop strategies for modernizing medium-size fertilizer plants.



- 17 -
63.       The project consists of four main components:
(a) Rehabilitation and energy conservation in the large- and medium-size
fertilizer pLants of the five companies which would incLude: (i)
energy-saving modifications in four large ammonia plants;
(ii) installation of hydrolysis units in four large urea plants to
reduce pollution and recover urea from liquid effluents; (iii) reha-
bilitation and capacity expansion of two medium-size ammonia plants;
(iv) rehabilitation and capacity expansion of a medium-size urea
plant; (v) improvements in the fertilizer grade AN plant, addition
of a porous granular AN unit to produce industrial grade AN, and
installation of a 200,000 tpy sulphuric acid plant at Nanjing to
replace two obsolete lines, one of which was shut down in 1983 and
the other to be shut down in 1988; (vi) training aids and training
of the staff of the project companies in pLant operations and
maintenance; and (vii) overseas visits by local staff for
engineering and procurement.
(b) Fertilizer research and deveLopment which would include:
(i) research equipment and scientific instruments for CFDC's eight
member institutes; (ii) computer hardware and software to increase
data-processing capability; (iii) training aids; (iv) training
abroad and in China; and (v) overseas visits by local staff for
procurement.
(c)  Nitrogenous fertilizer production cost study which would be
conducted by MCI to develop a basis for (i) evaluating operational
and energy efficiency of fertilizer production and (ii) developing
strategies for modernizing medium-size nitrogen fertilizer plants.
(d) Technical assistance comprising up to 30 man-months of consultant
services to assist the project implementation coordination unit of
MCI with international procurement (para. 67).
Project Cost and Financing
64.       Total financing required for the project including taxes, physical
and price contingencies, and interest during construction is estimated at
US$186.8 million equivalent including foreign exchange requirements of
US$122.7 million equivalent or 65.7% of the total. Physical contingencies are
calculated at 10  of the base cost.  For calculation of price contingencies,
it is assumed that exchange rate adjustments will be made to maintain
"purchasing power parity". Price contingencies for both foreign and local
costs (a) when expressed in US dollars, are based on expected international
annual inflation rates of.5Z in 1985, 7.5Z in 1986 and 8Z in 1987-88; and (b)
when expressed in yuan, are based on expected domestic inflation of 3% p.a. in
1985-88. There is no additional cost associated with the fertilizer produc-
tion cost study, which will be carried out by MCI's own staff. The above
estimates include foreign consultant services for technical assistance in
project management (360 man-months) and training (8 man-months for process
control and maintenance for LNGCC and 12 man-months for visits by foreign
experts to CFDC) for a total base cost (excluding contingencies) of about
US$5.1 million.



- 18 -
65.       The proposed Bank loan of US$97.0 million would cover about 79% of
the total foreign exchange requirement. The balance of the foreign exchange
would be met by domestic bank loans for LNGCC and LCFC (US$1.6 million), from
the companies' own resources (US$22.5 million), and from the Panjing Oil
Company (US$1.6 million) for the installation of a purge gas recovery unit at
the Liaohe plant from which it will buy recovered hydrogen. The local cost
(US$64.1 million) would be met by domestic bank loans for LNGCC and LCFC
(US$21.2 miLlion), and from the beneficiaries' own resources (US$42.9 mil-
lion). The five companies are capable of meeting their financing requirements
and their cash flow situation is expected to remain sound.
On-Lending Arrangements
66.       About US$87 million equivalent of the proposed loan would be onlent
by the Government to LNCCC (US$40.3 million), YNCCC (US$10.1 miLlion), CCFC
(US$11.1 million), LCFC (US$8.7 million) and NCIC (US$16.8 million) at an
interest rate of 8% p.a., with a commitment charge of 0.75% to be repaid over
10 years, including 3 years of grace (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). The
balance of US$10 million will be made available under the Government's current
procedures to CFDC through MCI at an annual interest rate of 3.5Z with a
commitment charge of 0.75% to be repaid over 20 years including 5 years of
grace. The companies and CFDC will bear the foreign exchange risk. The
execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and the five
companies for the onlending arrangements and approval of the Loan Agreement by
China's State Council, will be additional conditions of loan effectiveness
(Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). The domestic bank loans will be for 10 years
including 3 years of grace at an interest rate of 3.6% p.a.
Project Implementation
67.       MCI will supervise the implementation of the overall project.
Because project implementation will involve coordinating several plants and
institutions, MCI has established a project implementation unit within the
Ministry. The unit will monitor progress including procurement and take
timely action to facilitate smooth project implementation. The Government has
agreed to maintain this unit with staff and responsibilities acceptable to the
Bank and to employ by November 30, 1985, a procurement advisor to assist the
unit in international procurement of equipment and material (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03 and Schedule 4, Section II). The companies will be responsible
for implementing their respective plant rehabilitation and energy-saving
modifications, and CFDC for the fertilizer research and development
component. The management and staff of MCI's project unit, the companies and
CFDC are competent and capable of implementing the project efficiently. How-
ever, for basic engineering, supervision of detailed engineering, and for
assistance in procurement, construction, erection and start-up the companies
will require consultant services for which provisions have been made in the
project. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.
68.       The companies' technical plant management skills are good but need
to be upgraded through exposure to experience outside China and to specialized
technology and equipment. The project will provide training for this purpose
and the companies have agreed to develop appropriate programs by September 30,



- 19 -
1985 for review with the Bank and subsequent implementation (Project
Agreement, Section 2.06). Training for CFDC and its eight member institutes
will include training abroad to build and upgrade knowledge of recent advances
in technology and visits to China by foreign experts and researchers to
promote exchange of research experience. The Government has agreed to cause
CFDC to develop its training programs by September 30, 1985 for review with
the Bank and subsequent implementation (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).
Reporting and Auditing
69.       The companies' annual financial statements and both the companies'
and CFDC's project accounts, including withdrawals from the special account,
will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports
wilL be furnished to the Bank within six months after the close of each fiscal
year. The companies and CFDC will furnish quarterly project progress and
procurement status reports.
Financial Performance
70.       The present financial performance and position of the companies are
sound with return on net assets in service in 1984 ranging from 16% to 30%.
The current ratio of four of the companies was over 10.8, and for NCIC, it was
4.6. Long-term debt is almost nonexistent. It is possible, however, that as
part of the ongoing economic reform in China, there could be changes in the
existing price structure. Energy prices, should they increase rapidly, could
have an adverse financial impact on the project companies. Consequently, the
Government has agreed to continue to take, or cause to be taken, all measures
which, under conditions of efficient plant operation, would enable each of the
companies to at least meet all operating expenses from revenues from all
sources and service its debt from internal cash retention (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.03 and Project Agreement, Section 4.02). Accordingly, if energy
input prices for fertilizer production were to increase, it would imply
adjustments in the ex-factory fertilizer prices.
71.       The financial situation of the five companies is expected to remain
satisfactory throughout the project life. The companies are expected to
generate cash sufficient to more than meet their debt service requirements.
Nonetheless, assurances were obtained that the companies will
(a) take all measures which, under conditions of efficient plant operation,
would enable them to at least meet all operating expenses from revenues and
service their debt from internal cash retention; (b) maintain a debt service
coverage ratio of not less than 1.2; and (c) prepare and furnish to the Bank
by October 31 of each year, starting in 1985 and up to 1990, for exchange of
views with the Bank their production, investment and financial plans in the
form of projected financial statements, for the next five years (Project
Agreement, Sections 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04). Understandings were also obtained
that the companies will maintain a current ratio of at least 1.4 and a long-
term debt to equity ratio of 60:40 or better.



- 20 -
Procurement and Disbursement
72.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Bank Financing                  Chinese      Total
Int'l      Direct               Financing   project
ICB   LIB   Shopping  contracting  Other        Other      cost
----------        ------ (US$ million)                         ---
Equipment & materials      62.9   4.5       7.0        4.5          -        39.0       117.9
Civil works & erection       -     -         -          -           -        29.7        29.7
License, engineering &
project management         -     -        -           -         14.7        7.7        22.4
Training                     -     -         -          -          3.4        0.4         3.8
TotaL                    62.9   4.5       7.0        4.5        18.1       76.8       173.8
73.       SuppLy of local construction materials, pLant and equipment financed
domestically will be procured through the allocation system administered by
central and provincial government agencies. International procurement of
equipment and material will be channelled through the China National Chemical
Construction Company (CNCCC) and coordinated by the project implementation
unit, both within MCI. Equipment and material financed by the Bank will be
procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines. International competitive
bidding (ICB) will be used in most cases. Equipment for which there are only
a limited number of suppliers may be procured through limited international
bidding from a list of qualified and eligible suppliers, to be agreed with the
Bank, for an aggregate amount up to US$4.5 million equivalent. Small and
miscellaneous items costing less than US$250,000 for each contract may be
procured through international shopping with quotations obtained from at least
three qualified and eligible suppliers. Such procurement would not in the
aggregate exceed US$7 million equivalent. Proprietary equipment may be
procured through direct contracting up to an aggregate amount of US$4.5
million equivalent. Domestic manufacturers participating in ICB will be
eligible for a margin of preference of 15Z or the prevailing customs duty,
whichever is lower. All consulting services will be contracted in accordance
vith Bank Guidelines. To proceed with the engineering work necessary for
project start-up and execution, the Bank loan will retroactively finance up to
US$500,000 of eligible expenditures for down payments to engineering firms and
for project mAnagement incurred after January 23, 1985 (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, para. 3).
74.       The proposed Bank loan will be disbursed against (a) 100Z of foreign
expenditures for directly imported goods; (b) 1002 of local expenditure for
ex-factory goods (expected to total about US$2.5 million or 3Z of all goods



- 21 -
financed out of the Bank loan); (c) 100% of foreign exper.ditures for
engineering, licensing and technical services and (d) 100l of the cost of
overseas visits by local staff for engineering and procurement, overseas
training and consultants' services for training. To facilitate disbursements,
a special account will be established in US dollars in a bank acceptable to
the Bank with an authorized allocation of US$4 million. Disbursements will be
against full documentation except for training, visits abroad by local staff
for engineering and procurement, and for contracts valued at less than
US$100,000 equivalent each, which will all be against statements of
expenditure. The loan closing date will be June 30, 1989.
Environmental Impact
75.       The project provides for the treatment of liquid effluents before
discharge into the environment and reduction of sulfur dioxide emitted into
the atmosphere. Consequently, effluent discharge levels compatible with
international standards will be achieved. NevertheLess, assurances were
obtained that the companies will (a) build the facilities and operate the
plants in accordance with environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank;
and (b) carry out and furnish to the Bank an environmental safety case study,
in accordance with the terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for their
respective plants by December 31, 1985 for the Bank's review and comments
(Project Agreement, Sections 2.01 and 2.07). The studies will identify major
accident hazards that could arise and indicate existing arrangements and
controls to prevent or limit their damages.
Benefits and Risks
76.       The project meets China's objectives in the industrial sector -
modernization of existing industrial facilities, technology upgrading and
energy conservation, institutional improvements and training. The technical
renovation and energy-saving investments under the project are likely to be
followed by similar investments in other fertilizer plants as well as other
energy-intensive industries in the country. The project is important to the
Government's efforts to prepare industrial enterprises for efficient opera-
tions under the reformed economic structure. The project will also improve
the beneficiary companies' capabilities in plant operations and financial
management. The outcome of the fertilizer production cost study will help
provide a basis for formulating strategies to modernize medium-size nitrogen
fertilizer plants.; While the economic benefits of training and fertilizer
research and development are not quantifiable, they are expected to be
substantial for the development of the Chinese fertilizer industry.
77.       The main economic benefits of the project would derive from:  (a) an
increase in production volume through rehabilitation, capacity expansion, and
improvements in operational reliability of the plants; and (b) the decrease in
specific energy consumption and other operating costs. The subprojects show
economic rates of return ranging from 18Z for the Nanjing nitrogen fertilizer
plant to 45% for the Luzhou medium-size fertilizer plant. The weighted aver-
age economic rate of return for the plant rehabilitation and energy-saving
component as a whole is 31%. This r-flects the high economic benefits
possible from rehabilitation of and energy-saving modificaticns in existing



- 22 -
facilities. Results of sensitivity tents indicate that the project would
remain economically viable under any reasonable change in the main parameters.
78.       The project will generate significant benefit, to China.  In 1991,
when stabilized production levels are reached, the project will (a) result in
significant savings in energy consumption with decreases of 62 to 14Z for
feedstock and fuel and decreases of 42 to 202 for electricity per ton of
ammonia; (b) ir:rease production of urea by 129,000 tons, ammonium nitrate by
24,000 tons, methanol by 29,000 tons, and surplus ammonia by 14,000 tons;
(c) replace production of 180,000 tpy of sulfuric acid; and (d) generate a net
foreign exchange saving over its economic life, after for2ign debt service, of
about US$694 million in January 1985 US dollars. The local engineering firms
and some of CFDC's design institutes involved in project impLementation wiLl
gain valuable know-how and experience in designing technical renovation and
energy-saving programs.
79.       Technical risks are moderate as project investments wilL be in
existing plants using commercially proven technology. However, the risk of
commissioning problems, and of not attaining and maintaining a high operating
rate, especially for the medium-size plant at Luzhou, cannot be ruled out.
This risk is minimized by the invoLvement of experienced international
engineering firms in the design, engineering and commissioning of the plants,
and by the provision of training in operations and maintenance. The main
risks of the project are possible delays in procurement and implementation,
due to the complex nature of the project and lack of experience within CNCCC
in international procurement following ICB procedures. These risks should,
however, be minimized through the provision of specialists to strengthen the
operational staff where necessary, involvement of experienced engineering
firms, maintenance of the project implementation unit in MCI, and the planned
involvement of Bank staff in project monitoring and supervision. No
commercial risk is foreseen.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the five benefi-
ciary companies (LNGCC, YNGCC, CCFC, LCFC and NCIC), and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
81.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of loan effectiveness are (a) approval of the Loan
Agreement by China's State Council; and (b) signing of subsidiary loan agree-
ments between the Government and LNGCC, YNCCC, CCFC, LCFC and NCIC (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01).
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
Is                                                                 President
Attachments
April 22, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I   . 
-24-                                               Page 1 of 6
cREL n@ts u. ihdwu_cx mon suuiuui 493A68) x
MIOT                 CEDE?T UCUIT S:Ukti) ,
moLt  u,a&                   tm  mccc            GUStSm   as lE
mal         i.97aLb    zgrn mdt.    flu & PAWVC            ASIA A rACfC
-R  (TOSAND fl. M)
TOTAL                              9361.0       9sm.o       9561.0
ACEISIURAL                        3257.6      5U82.0       385.9
acr    ca     (SfU                      40.0 /a     *0.0        3L0.0          275.6                   1091.2
(UxnIMcu  OF OIL EQUIVALETf         191.0       250.0        412.0          272.0                    547.3
ROPPLATIOU AMD WITS. STATISWTC
FOPULATION.MID-TAE  (TUOUANS)   667800.0    365700.0   1006173.0
Una" POrPanoI O z or TOTAL)          1.4 d          ..        20.6           21.7                     34.7
POrmAoSN PROJCTED"
POPMAInOl DI Tan  m  (20LL)                               1196.3
TATIONRET POULATION (HILL)                                1461.0
rOnhrAuTIl mIITO                                             1.7
POPULATION UBNSITT
PER SQ. IN.                        71.9        88.5        103.8          1".0                     261.9
a SQ. EK.  tI. LAUD               211.1       217.9        256.8          345.5                   1735.1
POPLATION AM STRUCIR  (2)
0-14 nRS                          3B.9         37.7        30.9           35.8                     39.0
15-64 15s                          56.3        57.2         63.3           59.3                     57.6
65 AND ANE                          4.8          5.1         5.5            4.3                      3.3
POTPUATION CGCO   ATE  T)
TOTL                                1.3          2.1         1.5            1.9                      2.3
0RBA                                 ..           ..          ..            4.1                      4.3
CRUDE 3111T SATE (PER TIIOS)         39.2 t.     34.0         13.5           27.7                     30.1
CRUDE DEATH SFE (PER TNOOS)          23.5 1-     10.1          6.6           10.1                      9.5
ROSS REPIODOC      RATE               2. I.       2.3          1.2            1.8                      2.0
sAtY FLAsMIN
ACPTORS. ANUL (OUS)                  ..            .          . 
asERS (Z or M      A..UWE)                                  69.4 if          *-                     52.7
pow amo munritom
INDE OF POOP PROD. EU CAPITA
(1969-71-.00)                          -         100.0       124.0          112.8                    1.23_0
FE CAPITA SLULT OF
CALORIES (Z OP REQCIUEEN)          93.0         88.0       107.0           97.7                    114.4
PlRONS (GRAMS PEN DAT)             56.0        53.0         66.0           56.8                     57.0
OF UItaU  AWfuL. SD PULSE        16.0         16.0        17.0 1         14.9                     14.1
CHILD (ACES I-&) DEUD   ATE          Z6.0         14.0         7.0            9.8                      7.2
LlIE MECT. AT SIM  (TEARS)           41.0 lh      52.3        66.5           60.0                     60.4
IfliAT ICRT. RATE (PER DOO)         165.0 W     109.0         67.0           83.8                     66.3
ACSS TO SAFE WATER (DO?)
TOTAL                                --                     4              3 32.9                   37_0
UN                                   ..           ..        8S-            70.9                     54.8
RRAL                                 ..           ..00                     22.1                     26.4
AeSS To  rElL DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOA V  DN                                         ..          *-           18.1                    4L3=
MA..                                              ..          ..           72.8                     47.4
**AL                                 ..           ..          ..            4.6                     33.3
POPmATION PER PUISICIA             8390.0 /1   3130.0 11   1810.0 It       3484.2                   7749.4
POP. PER NURSINIC PERSON           4050.0      Z370.0       1790.0         4793.1                   2460.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1040.0        7bO.0       490.0         lOb6.5                   1042
URBAN                      -      210.0          ..        160.0          298.0                    651.2
RURAL                           10140.0           ..      1020.0         5993.4                   2594.6
AMUSSEONS PER BOSPITAL BED              -           ..          ..             ..                     27.0
AVERAAZ SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..         5.2
URBAN                                 .           ..         4.2              .
RURAL.                                           5.5 -- 
AveRAZZ NO. oP PENSOOS/I0OO
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBIN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCSS TO ELECT. (Z OF VUELLICS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
mn                                   ,.           ...
RUAL                                 ..           ..          .               ..



ANNEX I
-25-                                           Page 2 of 6
CUlls.  RoZs RP. or   SOCIAL INICATORS DATA SUmT
cEA=. PoILEs    . or *                 IFLAj   GRUPS (MZLGUTeD AVERAGXSk /a
MOST                  (MOST  ICEN  IST5NSC) /b
RECT            LOW INCOSE           11001! town
L96GLt      197QM           rz        5A.sI   PAACIrIC      ASI   PACIric
A*JSTEND  UnOLUETr RnATIOS
FIDMUT:   TOTAL                     109.0         110.0        113.0            97.4                      102.0
NIOLE..                                  ..         1I.0            IO.s                      105.9
.                           ..           ..         101.0            63.7                      91.2
SBCOMTI TOTAL                        21.0         23.0 a        ".0             35.9                       43.0
HALE                        ..            ..         53.0             .7 4.7
15AL.                       ..           ..          35.0            24.8                       3.1
VOCATIUOUAL CZ or SICONDART)               -           *-          2.2             2.2                       17.5
VUFIL-TEACUR RATIO
ptr  T                                 ..            ..         21.0            38.5                      31.
StCOIIDT                               ..           ..          17.0            15.7                      23.5
ADOLT LIZUACT RL  (S)                  43.0 /d        ..          69.0            53.4                       72.9
CO'wMrgou
PASSLUCE, CARSlTsoSoAD  oP               ..            ..          0.2             9.9                       10.1
RADIO  ZCCIWrS/T1O1SAND POP                          14 1.2      L3.3            112.1                      113.4
TV NECEI DSJSTOUSANI  OP                 ..           0.h         27.4            15.7                       50.-r
ESPAIPS ('AILY CEIUJ
IRTENEST) CUOUCAT!ON
PR TDS   POPUATON                      ..            ..           ..            14.2                        3.9
CZNA AMNUAL ATI UC/CAPIT                                       . ..  ..            3.6                       3.4
TOT" LABOR FORCE (TW0S)            32143.0    380555.0    473468.0
F915   (PERCEN)                      35.3         38.D          37.2            33.3                      33.5
CEZCU   E (VUCMSNT)                    .G ..                   3.9             69.6                       52.2
KIUOSTIY (PERCENT)                     ..           ..          1.7             15.8                      17.9
PAZTIU"ATIOU XA33 (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.3          45.0         47.0            42.6                       33.7
KMALE                                55.9         54.5          57.2            54.7                      50.9
PALE                                 37.0         35.D          36.0            29.8                      26.6
EwNoNIc orDENCEC  RArIo                 0.9          1.0           0.5             1.o                       14
PUC2CC  OF PRIVATE INCOU
RPEcED nT
BIitC!510  IOUS UOL. .                 ..           ....        12.3 je           ..                      a2.z
RCIICST 200 orF01       *              ..           ..S.LD..                                              4 /10 *  2
WrIC zo0 or OUSDS                      ..           ..          3.                ..                        .4
LOWS? 4oS or IUSEUOLD- ..                           ..          U_42              ..                      13.3
ZSr91AM  ABSOLUTE nbun  ICWE
LEMEL (USS  CAPITA)
U                                      ..           ..            ..           133.9                     1UI.3
12                                     ..            ..           ..           111.3                     1.52.0
USDIL3   EITIVE  rovET   Duol
LEE. (SS PE  C&ISTA)
..                                                 ..           ..               ..                     177.9
..                                                 ..            ..              ..                     L4.
zsrDIm  PO P. lLOW AUSM=
P09112? iiccm LEVEL (I)
.-*h                                   ..           ..4 ..                       3.3                      23.4
1,01                                                                            51.7                      37.7
NOT AVAILAsLE
MOT APLCABLE
1O T Z S
/a   Th. grrop aver sua for each 4IdiAtor ar*  populactiov-viltd ancthstic namas. CoDrage of co_uer-ie  _mug tb.
LnadLccor. deuds Om *railabLUty of eat  MMd ts not mifort.
/b   Unless othewi we mted, -Data for 1960' refer to mar year between 1959 and 1961: -Data for 1970C  b-etwen l960 ad
1971: and data for -oot .Aese Ieliatts- baorem  18o0 mad 198S.
/c IDnC.polatsed 1957-62 data;  Id 1964;  /a 1955-1965 arag;  /f Percentage of all  errid   am of child bearing
age practicIng ceoermcepclOn    * 19V7;  lh 195 3arags;  /1 Senior doctor 1 western mmdclse;
D Ostrierstle of people r          ;    _ ssi j per capita lucc. 1979 date.
* A11 ponuLatLon and vital statistLcs are leak etiaces wklch differ from Ceieoe official stacLeitc.
a  Forml educaclon only: nor-formal surellmout is substantial.
ven  Dmfiitla. and coverage differ fro  tbose of Cbl_e officlal statiC1scs.
JUIM. 1986



- 26-                                                                                           ANNE I
Page 3 of 6
Oet .eu  au.esey s.s-rcpii.    usue ducsa ott u'.pctr  aryuer   Wit  us    .t    ic  ci51.Ie'S   t..hC                                 6.rru e               .itsnt
ePMp its. des. Fur thus ltateewar.  its-, tie eeurug  c  ruecruc           thu    lf"'es  daguedd  b- thu uc 1iiahlttu  .  duct .AS  len  sufire., u I-S        mm be
u.s. ruuprtus.se tate. areu us_clueL, tIi ri.b3   jh                     .       -1- .jji   -   1.-dasidudh sr . R. 1ldl    p#ett. els  _
salrrstjuj -  ist4lcre1.rte.sudluuct,u   rietru.tut                                                                                            b analuarr paltue oras.. .5,
1      tryi  .uli. -M,u ead huthes surdum-   Ic it. Tel Ite  ISIS.                   .Intl  cuuttlurtse.
hue us I          -,n.Ps. Cute.                                                     Pe,sdcdd...rt.juttusbl hI S teSftq  My p  s.5. sebs. diet da-1nt.0 luieet.1 (-11el
reu.cs    in-.    sm.l  sa   aa,,e-ei besets.  L-mbttuta, eusers   wesydrtt,Ius                                 b am at httcbeutca guatusl  utuiraidin
III   tutu, C_             I...da                                 - me   -i dc..              by      beet      buu a ., Iuehtuastu.  _Pr ..ali  ptulyi,se5u
prices cmee tuc ciN        Nisstts, ru  sl..  clru  cu,   . rb". h5p.sr -ercs               ucte,  u. iile  sct.5                    u..t-c  ii           stam
tue. cud 11tSIR61 jute.`Id ...IIitisflLdi1tiLhuJ    Lee                                                                    u     --br   i  bt , l- t  -1 Cictiel..;
- ft-da F"traWi P-I..:.   b.qnwut.uuI gm                             ubt   greseic  dddl trshuC -dd ual." ei)    me-      y
P   cistsi stL          ra    cee ycir   ssnlt,i   e,u    ht   t   -5        cdiu  tudcia                                                      gma      hu leiep,dedd Lu
asi  sRssus1*1.cs.meiu  dt.th   acimli rut1-4 utuetcstcu .pssrycrau
tuctifLWett .!5     dre.etsctasu.mreae -easl  rbs.c  tud  .rIuI.t.
1~ ~ ~ ~~Crmipqlete  elc  es en biL  e1.                                            ismmrt  m   eciuis   dere   ecddcs.tse
Ihel   d;d1iIut ii ddw    eec. lit .hlr .ubeit  18.6 Feesit                           dairs   cpelar               elt    ure.us.uaaleTre
rises.  Ficiustta tecucteuc i.e serwetly ruse. tastlm  .6 adus            ceeremyt-e ..ree
sects  55e   nmsse   I.. .rcdley rue ai    humthee  sde             t-act,InrH-c. fiamerridlieerucsmy
picctte  selarud L. Scseer   utu  ceatesci adr eS  bce s-ler                     lice  -Iwt   -  PI-"                                             1
ddiailu_e  uId  u-sie h    srrdsyes    e   rir  e   cyus Ie = cteImu  be - I ce
as..tam           e kuc    .eir   r    sm-ytrS ee.uetPlr ...0f::i    $.Pit ditew  cW u-ic- PM                                            a Icei,al .15ud
MI. dt  WeI    eti.ae  e-uruu   etttt                                                  mi- J.t.Iaa  tepcuu  sat m cee   c1didnyete
POW. -1'tM f             .  ..ec..ens   ic     et                                  rtr   eulue   scsueicial   alisstd e.-I.I- l
mee  iti  putW 1 ..;    trrerete.  tepsetsi  h  ret  -                                       `dIe5 1c.sate  -III.;    t          daf~ti-l  l     ehse   ucat
r--u-l db4sa .    se ie icdee  lsrpri  e   tl 5,d              e Leu                         tr -ldu   itei   u.let,-tchrtt5s   ctcsm    u
.t, ua. .- elect rh    e  erduis.tt  sareru  ely,diduralrsriia
cascri.  seceta       Idru Rt-tece  mcI.,t                                                                    -  Lr$ee   med ceeddcc   (- -  i nl edat erl aid let.
ftdaid te tuttrse   usaId"                                                                                         bs pdrtiud hRd Im                -1suhs.I  h
ru dc. r.- el-rc  tuuiti    -   Icct  ti-case   (ti  bertr-s ei-uraite.tels
tataa,d ctuslue.  slle, u5d ifs ieee.                                                   adlh-es,rt  assi-Uuci   dtect   sra   5ni)c
psastattee. sudS, ire. aslug) sec.,                               ru   cecissa tur  tbcs ct.bud        v-rca   emius-   1ccs, adiacdrueb.   ad
t"c  tcyIcteeFe  ti-tit.  sC.-?s  e    tie,1    eedIct"tcee I                                                  ltms Is     d aacts    - Alt iuS   idsr T        eV   raise
Nuetsh-     e Is  hecst all,eue,  Its. hilic te eIsucuc  ci~ ul-                              tea    2t elus  at   urriessen-   cut`he  uqurebi  ute   u-Idt
setr.-   sle   iu.li.ci  itCt..ccic   dhuisutu   l5tss.   rdrl.                                                                            -            .
irs. bethS..Irer stcci     cetdah.erteee   tSs                                                   M  -lan* ImIebsi ecaese   f- Lirrtr   crtamtt
rusrrcsm-lnlr   eue  tuuil-ra                           te  rtOarreters                    te-  detiq,--dt ar-ce. u Tdueta       - ci. 5.... P-       .&dd,.gd,,
clttess         .1 ate  .  derse se yr,   etitu  Seluti   I1 4di-ed, u-u
yu.ty rasss.  bas (u -  a'inrred  eas  - uttacct i    ittd             Icited-Ie. "" -
tea - asulur-ia                           a..eepc- -elt6.siedi. i5, us iuei Ie-ee,                                                    ".100-APO
suac tudsi  S   l tdrusde  e.   Pesw- rlia eecIs  eati ad                                siii!!friil   de  Ere5                     drete r. nIse. im55ti adw..
reed-  s eeratedar Parea-. Pau-,delera dtriare umie. - e1 t                          tssswi  as teemsa   es!sbrlte   ie   ie   st                       s
uccrecesuea   -eaer iisi  m  jetsadc-sttee.ttas  t-i             Ismss cetes)- cIr  ur  5  uute,Icclctips.asrcssR                      s   m
rutuee  ad em s. ecrieudi.  tinsale pcieresc  ci ece   tselr  tI eeresrtes -e Iasi -..   T- ta Inc                     ld c  -ue IcIe p etnLt- tIdnd ur
cead      ceteal byerFM prsdce    tsmeee   ie..i  sue, ad 150)                        ad  5501 idea.d  1dI-   R
did! -   t.LI1WIt- R_I--    W .11-erieseca be artus  -  c.t. cl  uSluCet   rcseipcsc  e
Fu r   Mc cel c-i eetcrses Idieeerrcrue ...1                utad Free                    cri'meIIprece--cuuedc  *t5 mitadr-a  dc  tr 
c-e   eeecet  la   t-carlecedulei   ae,prrytarttseeiee  Fuss,WuteR                                                 u I  u-e-s        %eltt ) c fialdl c h. Ifselt, S
du,eetet   urtarusadmre  aala   ssrcic.sa  tr,a   te   ae.Leea   tuec as                                                                      deitsrpe-     s   e
-ttaeesd         ai  tt-i  s-t cc  isdc.teneissra
steeerleu5sadpe  Ae.        ead l  fitic ; le tttm4 as.hus.                        se.Ws.I'lltctZa srac.picta  ems   drctsa   emss
ieerctuls  ut al  tuasrice  etahllme b tieSrracle cuts55l            -eerhl,e
ulau iaet- din ci- stel ynee-   cxdi"eI Sa-
utca.reus,cI tr  I um   uiesahresmipitee I.M...                                 'sit a rsccse muses                              It *,-dr             U -
ecuereus    -ics  hasu  r,sis  u  set*rste.   1c.meeltea  elmmcnetlariuat   cet  -ace--  ar-.a
dccc-             `                                                                      u Ir _ -ydeh-it.i
ret   s cI e  dIkh t       e tltu a j l4csi ist             e   eaee     ctteee                      ra estsel         e  u.i    d    5 ta    u d. Le i        sn   .  
daceecr5d      samd      t de  Ists   e   rs,t   a    sliuehn    tte   eet   su   asie   acidc    aertsrc
-cti    c.7 date   ts    uettleu  lieti  use.  Mt laeted-.sesiltsihecer.ittttsiedteirmseeeu
1-9. _~~~~~~~~~~.,A_  d.u.!tIt  deems  Fe    l   mt  t eseet.-,de  res
IM   .1  .. pIa.tiat-rueIscchtc aeit  esrtlua  ea  resul- te



- 27 -                                                    ANNTX T
page 4of 6
Population        1,0on  dullton (mid-1982)
GNP per Capita: T1S$310 (1982)
OlINA -  .OnNOMTr INTCATflRS
Annual Growth (2) at Constant Price
Indicstor                                      1957-70   1q7n-77   1478         1979      3080       1981       19R2       19A1       1qR4
(estimate)
*         Production
Cross output
A[ttculture                                  2.2        1.4        4.0      R.6        3.9        ,.6        1.1n       q.          *-
LiRht industry                               R.3        7.R       i.8       9.6       1R.4       14.1        5.7       R.7
Heavy industry                              11.6        9.3       15.6      7.7        1.4       -4.7        4.9       12.4
Net Material Product (NMM)                     5.2        4.,       12.4      7.0        6.1        4.R        7.4        4.1
1957      IQ70       1q77       1978       3979       1980      lon       19P2       183
Prees
Retail price index 11970-100)   42.2        Inn.n      102.7      103.1     1n5.6      111.7      114.,      116.8f    115./h
NMP deflator        (1970-100)   90.7       jon0.0      99.1      10n.5    I14.5       1nR.4      11n.5      11n.o      11I.7t
Exchange rate       (7/1iSS)       2.4fi      2.46       1.R6       1.6P      1.55        .5sn      1.71       1.R9       1.9i7i
Amount                                                               Averape Annual Growth
1982                  Shares of cnP (x)                           (7) at ronstant 'rices
National Accounts           TS bIn)       1957      197Q     19R2      IqR5      iqon     1957-70   1970-79   197"-R2   1982-90
-7;ra- -7--r,     
CDP                           264.5       111.0   100.0    Inn.11    10n.0   11.n S10.                 S.8        5.1        6.S
Agricultiere                 q7.5          .    32.5       3fi.q     14.0     29.4          1.6       3.2        S.1        1.2
Industry                    107.0         .,    41.5       4n.4     41.11     45.7        12.1        R,        7.4       R.'
Other                        6n.0                ?4.n      22.7      21.0     14.9          1.5       4.1        n.0        7.R
Consumption                   184.4        76.4   fi8.4      89.7      70.0     71.0          2.7       5.4        5.8        6.R
Investment                     76.0        23.2    12.5      28.7      311.1    20.8          9.R       6.R        n.9        7,n
Exnorts CNFS                   21.5         1.7/b   6.0       8.9       4*n       9.8         1.6bh   R8./h    19.0           7.5
lwports rNFS                   19.4         3.571;   8.8      7.1       9.1     In..         2.17T      9.471;     7.7       11.1
Ilationl savings              8n.1        21.6/c  31.9      3n.3      111.0    29.0
As  nOF rClP
Public Finance                                                         157             197q            19R            19
Current revenues (exclueding foreign horroining)                     28.7            16,S            11.9            2Q.1
Current expenditures                                                1.t             22.R            23.1            21.1
Surplun (+) or deficit C-)                                         +12.6            +11.7      ^      ..6            +7.R
Capital expenditures                                                 11.4            16.4             9.9             9.4
Foreign borrowing /d                                                 n07              0.9             I,A             n.7
Other Indicators                                                     107-79         1979-R2         IqR2-9n
ClIP growth rate (2)                                                  9.8             S.l             6.5
CDP per capita trowth rate (Z)                                        3.8             3.9             5.1
Fnerty consumotion growtb rate (7)                                    R.5             1.9
ICOR                                                                  5.4
Marginal savings rate                                                 n.42
Import elasticity                                                     1.fi            1.5
(a lMP basis.
7T7 Goods only.
7i- rons.



ANM 
-28-                                                 Pls  5 of 6
Population    z  1,008 million (mid-1982)
CNP per capita:  US$310  (1982)
CHINA -  ICTERMAL TfAD
Amount
(mlclion USS at               Annual grovth rates (22 (at constant 1980 priess)
current prices)                    Actual                               Prolected
Indicator                             1983         1980       1981        1982        1983      i84         198S        1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports               22.223          17          16          6          10        14            5            5
Energy                           4,466          ..         ..
Other primary                    4,947                                             ..
Manufacturas                    12,557
Other                              253
Merchandise imports               18,970          17          9          10         29         30           8             8
Food                             2,735                                            ..
Energy                              99
Machinery and equipment          3,537                     ..          ..         ..
Other                           12,599                     ..
Prices
Export price index (1980-100)                    100        103          99         89         86          90            95
Import price index (1980-100)                    100        105          91         79         76          80            85
Terms of trade index (1980-100)                  100         98         108         113       113         112           112
Composition of merchandise trade (')                    Average annual increase (2)
(at current pricea )                                (at constant prices)
1980     1981      1982     1983     1985      1990     1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                 ID0.0    100.0    100.0    100.0       10o       100         1.6      8.0     12.9       9.6        4
Energy                 25.1     22.9      23.8     20.1       11         0         ..        ..
Other primary          28.4     24.1      22.8     22.3       24        24         ..        ..
Manufactures          46.5      47.8      50.5     56.5       60        71                   ..       ..
Other                   0.0      5.2      2.9       1.1        5         5         ..        ..
Imports                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0       100       100        2.3       9.4      5.4     21.9         7
Food                            19.6     22.5      14.4       16        17
Energy                 0.0       0.0      0.0       0.5        0         8         ..        ..
Machinery and
equipment            27.5     24.2      19.1     18.7       24        25         ..        ..
Other                           56.2     58.5      66.4       60        50         ..        ..
Share of trade with          Share of trade with        Share of trade -with countries with
industrial countries (2)      developing countries (2)    centrally planned economies (2) /a
1978    1981    1983         1978    1981    1983             1978       1981      1983
Direction of Trade lb
Exports                       37.3    45.9    42.1         51.6    50.2    53.1              11.1       3.9        4.7
Imports                       73.3    76.8    68.1         17.5    18.7    24.2              9.2        4.5        6.4
/a  Includes the Soviet Union; Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mbngolia.
/b  Based on IMF:  "China - Recent Economic Developments," October 1984. p. 90b.



ANNEX I
- 29 -                                        rPa.ge 6 of 6
Population    :  1,008 million (mid-1982)
CUP per capita: US$310 (1982)
CRINA - BALANCE OF PAUNENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Million  USS at current prices)
Actual                                    Projected
Indicator                                             1979       1980      1901       1982       1983       1984.      1995       1990
Balance of Paym nt.
Export. of goods and services                    15,351    20,901    25,157    25.989    26.389    29,060    32,000    53.300
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                  13,658    18,492    22.027    22,476    22.223    24,450    27,000    45.700
I-ports of goods and services                    18,204    24.752    24,380    20.793    22.448    28.060    31.900    62.60n
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                  16.212    22.049    21,047    17,830    18.970    23,710    26,900    52,600
Net transfers                                        596       500        680        412        511        600        700       800
Current account balance                          -2,257    -3,351       1,457      5.608      4.442      1,600        800    -8.500
Foreign direct investment (net)                        -        57        265        359        4J8        670       800      1.500
MLT Loans (net)                                     800      1,130        416        426        899      1,000      1,200     4,000
Official                                           350       446        479        557        789
Private                                           450        684        -63      -11         110
Other capital                                     2,054      2,555        365       -102    -2t481    -1,070    -1,100        1,000
Change in net reserves  ("-" - inerease)           -597       -391    -2.503    -6.291    -3,338    -2.200    -1.500          2.000
International reserves                            7.274      7.665    10,168    16,459    19,797    22,000    23,500
of which:  gold                                 5,120      5.120      5,120      5,120      5,120
Reserves as months imports                           4.8        3.7       5.0        9.4       10.6        9.4        8.8.
External Capital and Debt
Cross disbursements                                   ..         ..
Concessional Loans                                    ..         ..
DAC                                                 ..        ..
OPEC                                                ..        ..
IDA                                                ..         ..
Other
Nonconcessional Loans                                 ..         ..
Official export credits                             ..        ..
IBRD                                                ..        ..         .           ..
Oth'er multilateral                                 ..        ..
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding & disbursed                        .      5,433      5,785      6,058      6,397
official
Private
Undisbursed debt                                    ..        ..
Debt serviee
Total service payments                              ..        ..         .          .
lnterest
Payments as Z exports GNFS                          ..       5.8        8.6/a    10.9/a       5.5/a
Average interest rate on new loans (Z)                ..         ..
Average maturity oE new loans (years)
/a Including some early repayment of principal.



ANEX 11
- 3D -
STATUS OF 0ANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THZ PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1985)
Loan or                                                                                      US$ million
Credit                                                                               Aount (less cancellation)
Number     Year    Borroser                      Purpose                              Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2021/1167  1981    People's Republic of China  University Development                 100.0    100.0        50.6
1261    1982    People's Republic of China  North China Plain Agriculture            -       60.0        19.6
2207    1982    People's Republic of China  Three Ports                            69.0        -         49.6
1297    1982    People's Republic of Chtin   Agric. Education & Research             -       75.4       28.1
2226/1313  1982    People's Republic of China  Industrial Credit                      40.6      30.0        56.4
2231    1983    People's Republic of China  DOqing Petroleum                       162.4       -        110.1
2252    1983    People's Republic ef China  Zhoncuan-Nenliu Petroleum             100.8        -         91.2
2261/1347  1983    People's Republic of China  Heilongjlang Land Reclamation           35.3     45.0        41.1
1411    1983    People's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV University                -       85.0       77.5
1412    1983    People's Republic of China  Technical Cooperation                    -       10.0         8.0
1417    1984    People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                       -      100.0       74.6
2382    1984    People's Republic of Chins  Lubuge Pydroelectric                  145.4        -        141.6
2394    1984    People's Republic of China  Railway                               220.0        -        178.1
1462    1984    People's Republic of Chtin   Rural Credit                            -       50.0       41.1
1472    1984    People's Republ:c of China  Rural Health & Medical Educ.             -       85.0       76.1
2426    1984    People's Republic of China  Karamay Petroleum                     100.3        -        100.1
2434/1491  1984    People's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit               105.0     70.0       170.2
2444/1500  1984    People's Republic of Chtin   Second Agricultural Education         45.3      23.5        65.5
1516    1985    People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research             -       25.0       24.1
1551    1985/a  People's Republic of China  Second University Development            -      145.0       145.0
2493    1985Tis     People's Republic of Chine  Second Power                      117.0        -        117.0
2501    1985/c  People's Republic of Ctina  Chsngcun (Luan) Cowl Mining           126.0        -        126.0
Total                                                          1,367.1    903.9    1,791.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                 1,367.1    903.9
Total Undisbursed                                              1,181.5    610.1
8. STATEMENT OF lFC INVESTHENTS
(as of March 31, 1985)
None
ta Signed on March 15, 1985, but not yet eEfective.
/b  Signed on March 15, 1985, but not yet effective.
7T  Approved on March 14, 1985, but not yet signed.
Notes:  (1)  Credits of $40.0 million (Seeds Development Project) and $80 million (Rural Water Supply
Project) were approved subsequent to the above date of Statement A.
(2) The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financial projects in execution, which is updated Nwice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 31 -                            ANNEX III
- 31 -                          Page 1 of 2
CHINA
FERTILIZER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I
Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Borrower to prepare the project: One year
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:         MCI, LNGCC, YNGCC,
CCFC, LCFC, NCIC and
CFDC
(c) Date of first presentation to che Bank
and date of tie first mission
to consider the project:                          September 1983
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal missions:           July 1984 and.
January 1985
se)  Date of completion of nego:iations:               April 15, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    August 1985
Section II
Special Bank Implementation Actions: None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Measures to be taken by the Borrower include:
(a) Cause CFDC to review its four-year (1986-1990) plan, and annual
plans with the Bank (para. 57).
Cb)  Appointment of the procurement advisor for MCI (para. 67).
Cc) Development and implementation of CFDC's training program (para.
68).
(d) Continue to take, or cause to be taken, all measures which, under
conditions of efficient plant operation, would enable each of the
companies to at least meet all operating expenses from revenues, and
service its debt from internal cash retention (para. 70).



- 32 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
2.   Measures to be taken by the companies include:
(a) Take all measures, which, under conditions of efficient pLant
operation, would enable them to at least meet all operating expenses
from revenues, and service their debt from internal cis% retention
(para. 71).
(b)  Review five-year production, investment and financial plans annually
with the Bank (para. 71).
(c) Development and implementation of training programs (para. 68).
(d) Carry out and submit to the Bank environmental safety case studies,
in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 75).



~~~~~~~-*   * ...  *1I  ..~          r,*~*
F                             W~~~~~~~~~~."
Se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S  O  V  I E T         U  N  I C
./ 
LI>                        M O   N  G
j                             *   Urumql                     7
+~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                  ~        ~~~~~~~~~~ ir'- ...'-
tFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                           NCI
t -                                       "          r t >    Yi
RESEARCH AND DESIGN INSTITUTES  _-t                                                                                  Xining 0
2 S-ANtHAW RESEARCH INstITuE or CHEMIACAL PaxSTRY  j                                            0  A G H A I                           L Lanzii*
3 DESIGN AND RESEARCH ISTITUTE OF CHEMICAL USES                                                                                    r A
4 SOUTHWEST RESEARCH SISTIrUTE OF CHEMICAL IIOTSlTh                                                                            jO'
5 NtAJINr RESEARCH INSTrrLTTE OF CHEMICAL INDUSTRY 
6 RESEARCH I11NSTUTE OF CHEMICAL MAACIIECRY                                 _t
7 RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF CHEMICAL fERTILIZER mIpUSTIy 
a WUHAN DESIGN INSTITUTE OF CHEMICAL INDUSTRY
9 DESIGh NSTITUTE IIMII NGC CHEMICAL NDUSTI,S 
I                                                                 EEC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N            
PANTS  AND C1tt
MAJOR FERTILIZER PHANTS AND RESEARCH AND   II]                                                                             Ylt9
DESIGN INSTITUTES                                                                    1 1
Under          To Be Rehabilitated                                                                              _
Existing       Construction        Under The Project                                                 I                 '         *   I
_                                                 *                Ull                      U            LARGE SIZE NITROGEN PLANTS G  L                                 SHUIFU  '
MEDIUM SIZE NITROGEN PLANTS                            V u                * h A A o
A   KunmIn6
A    LARGE / MEDIUM SIZE PHOSPHATE PLANTS                                                       U
@)5   RESEARCH AND DESIGN INSTITUTES (See List)                               {                   A  r
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                     _ 1
- - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES r
Jt) LAO PEOPLEt'
IW?h. p-n. -ed E. ft- VbA LskI! f-h-.* .  t_ DEMOCRATI;
Wd oRf*.4IWNU NAt'S. 5,90' TIlt INIINIIMI* a OW hi hROIkI                                   'S REPUBLIC
'r.c Ca    ,   d .... .-   n ad    b. 7h.Sn 0- - IN  p a W
sap  I!w'fl if Th W.&    a   s.snh-t AJns IFsmn CkwODh. -1,                                           V iENTIANE -_.
- IN SrI  EMS df lr hnifor _t s1 ..asnInswI d SteARsn. eoi SIrS flC , 94 1r 
I _   FN                                              94e                                     X f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(I



Itn''   .___   a:W                                       t>d'    ~~~~~~~IBRD  18561
GP ULAANI)AATAII                                        ;               ,Harbin       
L    I     A                   p,-i                                              ,s 
~~ t   z                       ~~~~changchun   _f A
f             r          ~~~~~~I LAOHE *if   * 
/ /               *            v }    . : . .  ;         _rI "  DEMOCRATIC
Hohhol                                                ol '    _ '     PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC                         <
.'t i'A-Zunhuai                          FKR  
*   n     W- lLtJIINC;            R         ~~~~PYONGYANG , 
'tf * - (:ANGZHEd * tI +~~~~~~0 SFOUL bTtr
eg-            *   t . ~~~Shpi}azhung--                                    RPBI
\_    8  <  O-  \of . 11! /r    ^-                         ~OF KOREA
n ~ ~ ~~~aya                    jenno         0    
9~~ ~   ~~~~ t   / _       _            <- Liangyungang
- ,. ~~~~Zhengzhou t4W
X Lintonig,1  
n_  we                         ~~~~~~~NANJING
~~ r7 ~2 ~~ - Heetel *   -   BA;
J   B         O~~Wunlin              OHangzhou
LUZHOUg                       \      r                -."   --
k [      t^,   ~~Nanchang*
!  .' ~~A -                  ri
^  ; .. .:    t    .:hangsha,       o
Guyn            ..
a   N A M  , ,                            .-"A 
X~~~~~~~OunZo
A,     ,0 Naig                      3-ON   ON.
MACAO.~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECME PORT
0  200  4w  600    800     low~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
KIL0161ETERS                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






