Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10825
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
FERTILIZER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECT
(LOAN 254 1-CHA)
JUNE 22, 1992
:M.- ., : ..-::.. .
Industry, Trade and Finance Division
Technical Department
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAIENTS
Currency Name = Rehminbi
Currency Unit o Yuan (Y)
1991          US$1.00           -         Y5.4 (Y1.00 - US$0.185)
1990          US$1.00            .        Y5.2 (Y1.00 - US$0.192)
1989          US$1.00                     Y4.7 (Y1.00 - US$u.21)
1988          US$1.00            -        Y3.7 (Y1.00 - US$0.27)
1987          US$1.00            .        Y2.8 (Y1.00 - US$0.36)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (h)                                       -      2.47        acres
1 metric ton (ton, t)                                a     1,00        kilograms or 2,205 pounds
1 kilometer (kIn)                                   u      0.621       miles
1 cubic meter (mi3)                                        35.315      cubic feet
1 liter                                             D      0.2642      US gallons
1 kilocalorie (kcal)                                -      3,968       British Thermal Units (BTU)
1 megawatt (mw)                                     -      1,000       kilowatts
1 kilocalorie per kilogram (kcal/kg)                a      1.80        British Thermal Units per pound
1 kilowatt (kw)                                     .      1,000       watts
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AN     -    Ammonium Nitrate                     LNGCC   -   Luzhou Natural Gas Chemical Company
BTU    -    British Thermal Unit                 CCFC    -   Canghou Chemical Fertilizer Company
i3     -    cubic meter                          MCI     -   Ministry of Chemical Industry
CFDC   -    China Fertilizer Development        mg/l    -   milligram per liter
Center
CIF    -    Cost, Insurance and Freight         MWK      -   The M.W. Kellog (US)
CNCCC  -    China National Chemical             mWh      -   megawatt hour
Construction Company               N        -   Nitrogen Content in Fertilizers
C02    -    Carbon dioxide                       NCIC    -   Nanjing Chemical Industry
FOB    -    Free on Board                        Nm3     -   Normal cubic meters
GOC    -    Government of the People's           p.a.    -   per annum
Republic of China                  P205    -   Phosphorous Pentoxide Content in
HG     -    Humphreys & Glasgow (UK)             PCR     -   Project Completion Report
ha     -    hectare                              ppm     -   parts per million
kcal   -    kilocalorie                          SAA     -   State Audit Administration
kg     -    kilogram                             SAR     -   Staff Appraisal Report
KCN    -    Kellogg Continental
(Netherlands)                      SO2     -   Sulfur dioxide
km     -    kilometer                            SPC     -   State Planning Comlission
K20    -    Potassium Oxile Content              tpd     -   tons per day
(Potash) in Fertilizers            tpy     -   tons per year
KWh    -    kilowatt hour                        typn    -   tons per year of nutrients
LCFC   -    Liaohe Chemical Fertilizer           YNGCC   -   Yunnan Natural Gas Chemical Company
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Direciaoe.Ceefi
Opiatiom EbskautKm
June 22, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Project Completion Report on China
Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energv Saving Project (Loan 2541-CHA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on China - Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project
(Loan 2541-CHA)" prepared by the Industry, Trade and Finance Division, Technical
Department, Asia Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR,
CifiNA
FERIZER REHABILITATI-ON A-ND ENERGY SAVING PROJECT
(Loan 2541-CHA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page _N_.
Preface          ............................ .................. i
Evaluation Summary.                                                                                         iii
Part  I          PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ................  1
Project Identity   ..........................................1
Background ......................................... 1
Project Objectives and Description  ..........              ....................  3
Project Objectives .................................... 3
Project Description .................................... 3
Project Design and Organization   .......              ...................  4
Project Implementation ......................................   5
Loan Effectiveness and Project Schedule   .....................  5
Implementation Schedule   ...........              ....................  5
Procurement  .......................................   S
Project Costs   ......................................   5
Disbursements  ......................................   6
Loan Allocation  .....................................   6
Project Results ........................................                                    6
Project Objectives   .      ..................................  6
Physical Results  . ....................................  6
Economic and Financial Rates of Return   .....................  7
Financial Performance .................................. 8
Impact of Project  . ...................................   8
Project Sustainability  .     .................................   8
Bank Performance .................................... 9
Borrower Performance ................................ 10
Project Relationship .................................. 10
Consulting Services . .................................. 10
Project Documentation and Data   .......               ................... 10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
,1 :r,eir o(Aicial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Part Ii       PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...........  11
Borrower's Comments .                                                       11
The Plan for Further Energy Saving .12
The Comparison B"ween Bank Allocation and Actual Disbursement .14
The Function of CFDC .14
Bank Performance .14
Borrower Performance .15
The Relationship with the Bank.                                             15
The Relationship with Other Agencies .                                      15
Part m   STATISTICAL INFORMATION.                                                         17
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits .17
Project Timetable .18
Loan Disbursements .18
Project Implementation .19
Project Cost and Financing .20
Project Costs .20
Project Costs by Components .21
Project Financing .21
Project Results .22
Direct Benefits .22
Economic Benefits .22
Financial Impact .23
Studies .23
Status of Covenants .24
Missions .25
ANNEXES
1. Physical Performance of the Companies .26
2. Company Financial Statements .27
3. Assumptions used for Financial and Economic Analysis .32
4. Present Status of the Fertilizer Sector in China .34



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CMINA
FERTILIZER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECT
(Loan 2541-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy
Saving Project in China, for wiich Loan 2541-CHA in the amount US$97.0 million was
approved on May 15, 1985. The loan was closed on December 31. 1990, 18 months behind
schedule. The loan was disbursed to the extent of US$96.32 million and an amount of US$0.68
million - which remained undisbursed, was canceled. The last disbursement under the loan was
on May 3, 1991.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared by the Industry,
Trade and Finance Division of the Asia Technical Department, based substantially on
information provided by the borrower and the beneficiary companies. The Bank received Part
II from the Borrower in early February 1992 for inclu3ion in the PCR.
Preparation of the PCR was started with the presentation of draft PCRs for the different
components by the beneficiary companies in mid-1990 and during the sunervision mission of the
project in October 1990. This was followed by a project completion mission to China in July
1991. The PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Project Agreements;
Supervision reports; the draft PCRs prepared by the beneficiary companies and discussions
during the project completion mission in July 1991.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
FERTILIZER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECT
(Loan 2541-CHA)
EVALUATIQN SU\MARY
Objectives
1.    This project developed into the first of a series of Bank operations in the fertili7er sector (as of
FY91/92: under implementation - Fertilizer Rationalization Project, Phosphate Development Project,
Hubei Phosphate Project, and Shenxian/Weixian Fertilizer Components under the Hebei Agricultural
Development Project; and under preparation - Fertilizer Component under Sichuan Gas Development and
Utilization Project and Fertilizer Restructuring Project) and has aimed at assisting China establish an
efficient fertilizer industry by improving the productivity and international ceonpetitiveness of its existing
plants and comprised rehabilitation and energy conservation in nitrogenous fertilizer plants at five
locations. The plants assisted under this project include four large and one medium size ammonia/urea
plants (i.e. large plants: Liaohe Natural Gas Chemical Company (LNGCC), Yuinan Natural Gas
Chemical Company (YNGCC), Cangzhou Chemical Fertilizer Company (CCFC) and Luzhou Chemical
Fertilizer Company (LCFC)) based on internationally adopted technologies; medium size plants: Luzhou
Chemical Fertilizer Company (LCFC) and the ammonia plant at Nanjing Chemical Industry Company
(NCIC) which is based 4,n locally developed technology.
2.    In addition the project has supported the sector ir. improving technical and management skills in
the production plants and in strengthening the research, development and design skills in the research and
design institutes. A study of the production costs of medium size plants in China - carried out under the
project, intended to identify further options in the subsector for efficiency improvements.
3.    By pursuing these objectives, the project also attempted to establish demonstration models for the
modernization of other existing large size ammonia and urea plants with the purpose of conserving
energy, reducing industrial pollution and expanding capacity.
4.    The second Bank operation in the sector (Fertilizer Rationalization Project, Loan 2838-CHA)
aimed at optimizing existing medium-size nitrogenous fertilizer plants by upgrading their products and
improving their efficiency. The subsequent third and fourth operations (Phosphate Development Project,
Loan 2958-CHA, and Hubei Phosphate Project, Loan 3066-CHA) were designed to develop the deficient
Chinese phosphate subsector. In continuation of its involvement in the sector, the Bank is currently
focusing on the restructuring, upgrading and modernization of existing small and medium size fertilizer
plants aiming at improving the sector's overall efficiency by conserving energy, controlling industrial
pollution, transferring and up-grading technology, enterprise restructuring, and pricing reform. The
proposed Sichuan Gas Development and Conservation Project and Fertilizer Restructuring Project that
are currently under preparation would be the vehicle for introducing these improvement and establishing



- iv -
demonstration models for a large number of potential follow-up and repeater projects under government
sponsorship.
Implementation Experience
5.    Details on appraisal and actual completion dates of the various components of the project are
presentf c; in para 4 of Part 11' and reviewed in para 5.02 of Part I. Due to the realistic assumption of
zero dats in the SAR, loan processing did not result in any project delays. There were small delays in
the completion of modifications of the large ammonia/urea plants mainly due to some variations in project
scope. The medium size ammonia/urea plants at Luzhou were delayed by about 18 months due to delays
in finalizing the designs and procurement caused by difficulties in coordinating the work of the foreign
and local engineering firms - not envisaged during appraisal. The Nanjing ammonia plant and utilities
were delayed due to holdups in finalizing the scope, siow procurement and damage during shipment of
the ammonia compressor. The training program on research and development - proposed under the
project, was drastically pruned by the Ministry of Chemical Industry.
Results
6.    During the test runs, except for the Nanjing ammonia plant, all the components achieved and even
exceeded the benefits envisaged under the projewt. The Nanjing ammonia plant could not improve its
ammonia production level dti to a deterioration of the quality of coal now being supplied. rhe Luzhou
ammonia plants are unable to operate at their full potential due to gas supply constraints and as a result,
the ERR of the medium size plant has suffered and is only 13.3%. While the financial position of the
companies under the project is satisfactory, some of them have suffered a decline in profitability. This
has been mainly due to (a) lower production levels caused by gas supply shortages, and (b) increases in
input prices often not matched by corresponding increases in product prices. The China Fertilizer
Development Center (CFDC) was promoted under the project to become the overall coordinating agency
for research and development work in the fertilizer subsector in China. However, this responsibility
continues to remain with the Ministry of Chemical Industry.
7.    Encouraged by the attractive benefits experienced under the project, the Ministry of Chemical
Industry and some individual enterprises have followed the models established and introduced similar
rehabilitation schemes in other plants.
Sustainability
8.    To derive and sustain the full benefits of energy saving/optimization investments, it is necessary
for the plants to maximize their production levels based on adequate gas supply and efficient operation.
Several of the beneficiary plants are lacing gas supply constraints. Gas supplies are being committed
beyond the supply capabilities resulting in gas allocations which are inadequate to operate the production
facilities at their optimum levels. There is need for achieving a better match among capabilities for gas
production, transportation and utilization. The Nanjing ammonia plant, which has suffered from lower
coal quality, is installing three more gasifiers to provide adequate gas. With this investment, the company
expects to produce at the designed levels.



Findings and Lessons Learned
9.     The project has once again confirmed the importance of flexibility in defining the project scope
of optimization schemes - decisions to evaluate more ecoaomic alternatives for the hydrogen removal
unit at Liaohe for implementation after project completion and the addition of converter internal
modifications, when an appropriate technology l ecame available, have helped to improve project
economics On the other hand, the project has also brouglit out the difficulties in optimizing the older
medium size plants, whether based on offshore cr local technologies. Both at Luzhou and at Nanjing,
there were delays in finalizing the design and procuring th'n supplies. Such optimization projects are best
carried out under the total responsibility of a single experienced contractor.
10.   The benefits foregone due to the limited gas supplies to existing plants are substantial and this
issue needs to be addressed at the policy levels in China. Therm is a strong need to achieve a better Match
among investments in gas production, transportation and gas consuming industries to coordinate the
material balances in these linked sectors so that Inefficienci^s in the use of investment resour.es could
be minimized.
11.   It is understood that the gas supply constrair .s are mainly d& 3 to over-co, mitment of available
gas and limitations in the transmission systems. Su?aplV commitments are being made in anticipation of
projected investments that often P-t delayed. It would also appear that gas allocations are apparently
made against fertilizer quotas, plants are required to deliver. Additional gas supply is eithler not available
for production beyond the production quota, or eharged fer at levels which do not support its use as
feedstock for fertilizer mnanufacture. In this cottext, ther-e is some concern tha; e plarts use the
allocated gas to the best financial advant.ge of the corapanios. often for purposes oti;e; than the often
marginally profitable fertilizer production. The gas supply constraint appears to be especially severe
during winter when there is an increased demand for hleat genera.ion.
Potential Impact on Future Bank Operations
12.   The experience with the project brings out several points which may prove very use,ful to the
Bank's future operations in the Chinese fertilizer sector. Experience shows that the Chinese institutions
are usually not strong enough to formulate on their own revamping programs for existing plants. This
has been mainly due to limited capabilities in evaluating alternative options, both technically and
economically, and in finalizing the project scope early in the projecl cycle. This has been especially
evident in the Nanjing ammonia and utilities sub-components.
13.   Revamping of older existing plants is especially difficult as field changes of process or equipment
(i.e. the up-to-date state of a plant) are frequently not fully documented. The lack or conflicts of data
and consequent revisions may lead to significant delays in project implementation and procurement
activities as weil as escalations in investment costs. The problems get even more complicated if
responsibilities are split between a foreign contractor providing the technology and local design institutes
providing detailed engineering. A more unified approach to such projects needs to be developed that
should support an integration of strong technical assistance with transfer of technologies and equipment
supplies.



-vi -
14.   The attractive benefits of optimization investments should not be jeopardized by constraints in raw
material/feedstock supplies. In future projects, this aspect should be evaluated more carefully and
provisior. of sustained critical input supplies ensured.
15.   Despite notable improvements in the performance standards of most project related entities
through technical assistance and institutional development, the full anticipated strengthening process could
not be achieved due to major cuts by the Ministry of Chemical Industry of the contemplated training
programs. Similar cuts have also been experienced under other projects. This issue is of particulae
importance as increasing complexity and size of future operations will demand a high degree of
proficiency.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
fIUNA
FERTILIZER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECT
(Loan 2541-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name         :      Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project
Loan Number         2541-CHA
RVP Unit            Asia Region
Country             China
Sector              Industry
2. Backsround
2.01         Fertilizer production subsector in China has played an important role in the growth of
Chinese agriculture. It has contributed to the growth in food grain production in China from 164 million
tons in 1952 to 371 million tons in 1989 - an average annual growth rate of about 3.1%. This has been
achieved, in spite of China's limited share of arable land, mainly through improved farming practices
which emphasize increased fertilizer application. In 1988/89, the level of fertilizer application per hectare
averaged about 262 kg in China compared with the world average of 99 kg, but well below the levels
in several other countries such as Egypt (400 kg), S. Korea (400 kg), Japan (415 kg) and New Zealand
(732 kg). In the last decade, fertilizer consumption in China has grown annually at an average of 6.2 % -
stimulated by government policies which ensured adequate and timely fertilizer avai:ability (from both
increased domestic production and imports).
2.02         As a result, China is presently the world's third largest producer of chemical fertilizers,
next only to USSR and USA. The present status of the fertilizer production subsector in China is briefly
reviewed in Annex4 and summarized below. In 1990, China met about 73% of the country's fertilizer
requirement of 25.9 million nutrient tons through domestic production. Of the total nutrient production
of about 18.8 million tons, nitrogen formed about 78% and phosphates about 22%. Nearly all the potash,
most of the phosphates and a significant share of the nitrogen requirements continue to be imported.
China's nitrogen production comes from 18 large scale plants, 55 medium size plants and about 1063
small plants. Their shares in ni; -,en production are about 23%, 21% and 56% respectively. The larger
nitrogen plants - built mostly in the 1970s, have relatively lower energy efficiencies compared with the
present generation plants and, in several cases, operate at relatively low capacity utilizations due to
natural gas/naphtha supply constraints. The medium size plants have poor overall efficiency and high
productien costs due to the technologies adopted by them and their vintage. The small size plants - based
on locally developed technologies, operate with locally available coal, fuel oil or gas as feedstock and



-2-
produce, mostly, ammonium bicarbonate. Generally, they have poor energy efficiency and low
production levels.
2.03         In the above context, the government's current priorities for the subsector are (a) in
nIkitr , aiddition of new capacity and rehabilitation and energy saving in existing capacity; (b) in
nnhnshAk, rapid capacity expansion based on locally available rock phosphate; and (c) in pQtnh,
identification and development of domestic resources. The present project addressed item (a) above as
a first step in the Bank's support through technical and financial assistance of the Government's major
efforts in the sector. Specifically, the project supported (a) technical renovation and energy saving
measures in nitrogen fertilizer plants; (b) improvements in the nutrient balance through capacity expansion
in the phosphate fertilizer subsector; and (c) institution building and training.
2.04         Following approval of the present loan, the Bank has continued and expanded its dialogue
with the Chinese authorities and participation in further projects in support of the above priorities.
Although the Government has taken a cautious approach to overall price reforms due to concerns about
their inflationary implications, market-influenced prices negotiated within the limits of guideline retail
prices set by local pricing authorities prevail for production outside the state plan quota. This two-tier
pricing system is viewed as an intermediate step in the evolution of sectoral pricing policy. The
Government's strattgy is to continue gradually reducing its administrative control while simultaneously
dismantling central annual production planning and allocation. Guidelines for future policy reforms are
being developed with due consideration to the close inter-relationship between the fertilizer and
agricultural sectors and the potential for disruption if the allocation and pricing arrangements for
fertilizers were to be liberalized in isolation.
2.05         The se'ection of the project scope was based on an attempt to combine the high economic
benefits of rehabilitation schemes comprising energy conservation and capacity expansion in existing
plants and using predominantly international technologies with a relatively simple implementation. As
most of the plants under the project are based on international technologies, the selection of engineering
contractors and the procurement of equipment and materials were by and large straight forward. The
result was a project that could be executed without major delays despite deficiencies in experience with
Bank guidelines and ICB procedures within the Chinese agencies affiliated with the project.
2.06         A further reason for rehabilitating the selected large size plants under the project was their
profound impact on the performance of the nitrogen fertilizer subsector as result of their magnitude of
operations and the resulting savings in feedstock and increased output rates.
2.07         The accumulation of wide ranging experience and data under the project as well as
agreements reached between the GOC and the Bank during project appraisal on medium to long term
sector developments and continued economic reform were expected to establish a firmer basis for
continued Bank participation in the further development of the sector including increases in size, diversity
and complexity of forthcoming operations.



-3 -
3. Project Obiectives and Description
3.01         PrQject Objectives: The main objectives of the Project were to assist China in (a)
implementing rehabilitation and energy saving measures in nitrogenous fertilizer plants of the five
companies located at Luzhou (one large and one medium size plant, Sichuan province), Shuifu (Yunnan
province), Cangzhou (Hebei province), Liaohe (liaoning province, and Nanjing (locally designed medium
size ammonia plant, Jiangsu province); (b) strengthening the capabilities of the above companies for
project implementation, plant operations and financial management; (c) strengthening the newly
established China Fertilizer Development Center (CFDC) and the fertilizer research and design institutes
for improved research, development and engineering capabilities in the fertilizer industry; and (d)
developing strategies for modernization of the medium size nitrogen fertilizer plants through a study of
this segment of the subsector. As mentioned in para 2.03 above, these objectives are in line with the
priorities of the government for improving the overall competitiveness of the subsector.
3.02         Project Description: The Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project (Loan
2541-CHA) included:
(a)    Energy saving modifications of the large 1,000 tpd ammonia plants at Luzhou, Shuifu,
Cangzhou and Liaohe.
(b)   Installation of hydrolysis units to reduce pollution and recover additional urea from the
large urea units in the above four locations.
(c)   Installation of a low pressure absorption unit to reduce pollution at Luzhou and a carbon
dioxile gas dehydrogenation unit to improve plant safety at Liaohe - simultaneously
producing additional urea.
(d)    Revamping and energy saving modifications of the medium size ammonia and urea plants
at Luzhou to increase their capacities by about 50%.
(e)    Modification of the medium size coal based ammonia plant at Nanjing to reduce energy
consumption and increase production by more than 25%.
(f)    Modification of the ammonium nitrate plant and addition of facilities to increase industrial
grade porous ammonium nitrate production by 50,000 tpy.
(g)    Replacement of existing sulfuric acid production with a new more efficient and less
polluting 200,000 tpy capacity plant based on locally available pyrites.
(h)   Improvements to the utility system of the Nanjing industrial complex.
(i)    Upgrading production efficiency in the five plants through training and other measures.
(j)    Provision of research equipment, scientific instruments, computer facilities and training
to expand the capabilities of eight member research and design institutes and of CFDC
for research and design work.



-4-
(k)    Technical assistance to the project implementation coordination unit of the Ministry of
Chemical Industry in international procurement for the overall Project.
(1)    Assistance in carrying out a Nitrogenous Fertilizer Production Cost Study to evaluate the
operational and energy efficiencies of medium size nitrogenous fertilizer production and
to develop strategies for modernization of the fertilizer industry.
3.03         Except for an earlier technical assistance credit, the project was the first Bank group
operation in the fertilizer subsector in China. The Bank missions had, therefore, reviewed in considerable
detail the status of the subsector and identified the range of options appropriate for strengthening the
subsector. These findings have supported the present project and further Bank involvements in the
subsector in China.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.01         The Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project was decigned mainly to optimize
the overall performance, reduce energy consumption and achieve better pollution control in selected
fertilizer plants in China. Based on a Bank mission review of the Chinese fertilizer subsector and
discussions with the Ministry of Chemical Industry (MCI). the Project was designed around the selected
large and medium sized fertilizer plants. This design was based on the conlcusion that other large
ammonia/urea plants, built in the 1970's using well known offshore technologies, could benefit from
subsequent international experience with similar optimization programs. It was also agreed that the
project should include one medium sized ammonia/urea plant based on offshore technology and one
medium sized ammonia plant based on locally developed technology, so that the experience gained from
these components could have a demonstration effect on other medium size plants in China. It was agreed
that more work was needed before improvement measures could be developed for the large number of
smaller coal/anthracite based plants for which the potential for improvements is very large.
4.02         For the large ammonia glants, the M.W. Kellogg Company (USA), which had
engineered and supplied the original facilities and has built a large number of similar facilities all over
the world, prepared plant modification proposals based on their experience with similar projects
elsewhere. These proposals were evaluated and the project scope defined by the companies, MCI and
the Bank missions based on detailed technical and economic analysis. The project scope was further
modified during implementation when additional options became available such as the modification of
ammonia converter internals. Hydrolyzer units, to reduce the liquid effluent pollution levels of the large
urea plants to the currently acceptable tighter standards, were procured, following competitive bidding,
from Snamprogetti (Italy) - a major urea process licensor. Humphreys and Glasgow (UK), which had
originally engineered and supplied the medium size ammonia plant at Luzhou, provided the basic design
and part of the engineering for the modifications. Basic design and part of the engineering for the
medium size urea plant at Luzhou was obtained through competitive bidding from Tecnimont (Italy).
Lurgi (Germany) provided the technology support for the pyrites roaster and waste heat boiler for the
Nanling sulfuric acid plant. All other aspects of project implementation were carried out by the Chinese
design institutes, the beneficiary companies and the project implementation coordination unit of MCI.
4.03         The performance results that have been achieved and the adoption of similar optimization
projects - in several cases Bank financed, in other countries indicate that the project objectives were
timely and appropriate. As a result, China has continued the program with additional investments in
which the Bank has participated or intends to.



-5-
5. Project Implementation
5.01         Loan Effectiveness and ProJect Schedule: Based on progress made with engineering
arrangements by the time the appraisal was completed, it was expected that most engineering contracts
would have been awarded by June 1985. However, the SAR conservatively scheduled project completion
based on award of all engineering contracts by December 31, 1985. The loan agreement was signed in
August 1985 and became effective in December 1985. The loan processing schedule, therefore, did not
result in any project delays.
5.02         Implementation Schedule: The appraisal and actual completion dates of the various
components of the project are presented in para 4 of Part III. The modifications of the large ammonia
piants in the four companies were completed with delays from I to 5 months. The delays were mainly
due to the inclusion of ammonia converter internal modification - now being adopted extensively
internationally, in all the four plants and the addition of energy saving rotors for the compressors at
Luzhou. The converter internal modification was proposed to the Bank in early 1987 and the contract
with Casale (Switzerland) was signed only in December 1987. The medium size ammonia/urea plants
at Luzhou were delayed by about 18 months. These plants were originally set up in the mid-60s and had
undergone several modifications which were not always reflected in the drawings maintained by the
company. As a result, frequent design revisions were necessary when modified drawings conflicted with
field conditions. The split in responsibility between the offshore and local engineering agencies further
complicated the progress of engineering work and procurement of supplies. These difficulties were not
anticipated at the time of project preparation and, in retrospect, the SAR completion schedule for this
component was possibly optimistic. There was, however, good cooperation among the offshore and local
engineering firms, the companies and the MCI which helped to minimize the resulting delays. The
Nanjing ammonium nitrate plant was completed ahead of schedule. The NanJing sulfuric acid plant
was delayed only by about three months. While the new gas generator, synthesis system and waste heat
boiler for the Nanjing ammonia plant were completed in time, the installation of the ammonia storage
and pumps and the gas purification modifications were delayed by 7 to 9 months. However, due to
damage in transit of the ammonia compressor and delays in receiving the replacement parts, this
component was completed only by the end of 1990. With the Nanjing utility Rlants, there has been a
delay of over one year for the medium pressure boiler and the turbo-generator due to design changes and
delays in delivery.
5.03         Procurement: Since the Project was the first Bank operation in China and the Chinese
companies were not familiar with the Bank's procurement procedures, MCI's project implementation
coordination unit coordinated the procurement of all equipment and materials. MCI was assisted in this
task by an experienced procurement x -isor from UNICO (Japan). The Bank's procurement guidelines
were generally accepted by the companies, who have stated that the guidelines helped efficient
procurement. There were no significant procurement problems during project implementation.
5.04         Project CQos: The final project cost was about US$177.78 million equivalent against
the appraisal cost estimate of US$186.86 million equivalent. Significant increases in local costs have been
more than offset by changes in exchange rates. The Luzhou medium size anmnonia/urea plants was the
only component with a significant cost overrun - about 32%. This was mainly due to delays in
implementation of the component and difficulties in establishing the details of the project scope during
appraisal when the engineering studies were not yet completed. The Nanjing components were
implemented at the appraisal estimated costs. Generally, the actual costs of the large ammonia/urea plant
modifications have been below appraisal estimates, even with the addition of the ammonia converter



-6 -
internal modification. This has been due to the favorable international prices under ICB procurement,
reduced procurement of spares and changes in exchange rate. The project components have achieved -
in general, favorable actual costs through efficient implementation management by the various Chinese
institutions.
5.05         Disbursements: The appraisal and actual loan disbursements are given in para 3 of Part
III. The actual disbursements were delayed significantly compared with the appraisal estimates, in spite
of the fairly satisfactory project implementation schedule. The original closing date was June 30, 1989;
but the loan was actually closed on December 3', 1990 after two extensions of closing dates.
Disbursements against already committed items were made till May 3, 1991 and an outstanding loan
balance of US$0.68 million was canceled.
5.06         Loan Allocation: The original allocations and actual disbursements for the loan are
shown in Table 5C of Part III. There was significant reduction in the requirement of Bank funds for
Engineering, Licensing and Technical Services for Project Management. The available surplus was
reallocated to Equipment, Materials and Spares to finance the ammonia converter internal modifications
and the increased cost of the Luzhou medium size ammonia/urea plants.
6. Proiect Results
6.01         PrjLect Qbjectives: The project has been successful in meeting its main objectives of
improving the competitiveness of selected plants in the Chinese fertilizer subsector. In the large
ammonia/urea plants, energy consumption has been significantly reduced, although full benefits of the
optimization investments are not available due to natural gas supply constraints.  However, the
investments have helped to maximize urea production with the available limited gas supply.
Contamination of liquid effluent from the urea plant has been reduced to internationally acceptable levels
including the recovery of the pollutant as valuable ammonia. Though the medium size ammonia/urea
plant at Luzhou has been successfully revamped to increase its capacity by about 50%, this additional
capacity is not fully available due to natural gas supply constraints. The Nanjing ammonia plant has not
been able to reach good production levels mainly due to poorer quality of coal now being supplied.
Project management capabilities - especially for ICB, have been developed within the MCI, the companies
and the design institutes. On the institutional side, the Project expected to build up the China Fertilizer
Development Center (CFDC) as the overall coordinating agency for the research and development
program relating to the fertilizer subsector. However, this has not happened and the MCI continues to
play this coordinating role.
6.02         Physical Results: The physical results achieved by the Project are summarized in Table
6A of Part III. These indicate that, except in the case of the Nanjing ammonia plant, the physical targets
of the Project have been substantially achieved and, in some cases, even exceeded. The large ammonia
plants at Luzhou, Yunnan and Cangzhou have been able to utilize the gas conserved through energy
saving investmnents, for additional nitrogenous fertilizer production. The additional productions were
67,500 tpy of urea in Luzhou, 42,800 tpy of urea and 3,200 tpy of ammonium nitrate in Yunnan and
45,800 tpy of additional urea and 2,200 tpy of ammonia at Cangzhou.
6.03         All the five large ammonia plants revamped under the project suffer from gas supply
constraints. Only the Liaohe plant is able to operate at its normal capacity, mainly due to the gas
conserved under the project. When the ammonia and urea plants are operating at full capacities, the
benefits of the energy saving investments are reflected as reduction in the cost of gas used. This is



-7 -
because the conserved gas cannot be further processed to marketable products. However, if as result of
constraints in the gas supply the plants operate below their achievable capacities, the conserved gas can
be used to increase production of ammonia and urea and such a plant obtains increased benefits on the
incremental investment. A quick analysis indicates that a plant operating at about two-third of its rated
capacity (base case) will gain an annual benefit (at economic prices) of only about US$2.0 million through
energy saving. However, if the conserved gas is used to maximize ammonia/urea output, the benefit
increases to US$;0 million per year. If a plants' full gas needs are met, the plants will gain an additional
net benefit of US$34 million over the base case.
6.04         Even though the newly added tenth gas generator in the Nanjing ammonia plant has
demonstrated the capability to produce raw gas required for 12,000 to 13,000 tpy of ammonia, the total
ammonia production at Nanjing has remained below 110,000 tpy. This has been reported to be due to
a deterioration in the quality of available coal, i.e. lower fixed carbon content and increased fines during
feed preparation. Even if the pre-revamp capacity of the plant is assumed to have declined by about 10%
due to poorer coal quality, the additional ammonia production due to the revamp is only about 11,000
tpy against the planned increase of 30,000 tpy. The company is adding three more gasifiers - scheduled
to be commissioned in 1991, to utilize the full capacities of the plant of 150,000 tpy of ammonia. The
porous ammonium nitrate plant has proved to be capable of producing 50,000 tpy. However, porous
ammonium nitrate production comes mostly by diversion from crystallized ammonium nitrate already in
short supply in the domestic market. The sulfuric acid plant operated only at about 66% of its capacity
early in 1989, mainly due to market constraints. The production has, however, reached 184,000 tons
in 1990 and is expected to be maintained at least at that level.
6.05         The Nanjing ammonia plant is based on locally developed technologies and uses coal as
feedstock. At the time of SAR, the plant had an installed capacity of 120,000 tpy of ammonia. The
anthracite coal for the plant comes from the Zhencheng (Shanxi province) and Jinzhuo (Hunan province)
coal mines located from the plant at about 900 km and 800 Ian, respectively. The plant coal requirement
was originally 285,000 tpy, while the mines had a combined capacity of seven million tons. The Nanjing
component under the Project allowed for the expansion of the ammonia plant and included an additional
gasifier to increase overall ammonia capacity by 30,000 tpy. When the gasifier was commissioned, a
significant decline in the qualitv of the coal occurred leading to diminished performance. Currently, the
plant can only produce about 110,000 tpy of ammonia, even after the revamp. It was stated that mining
operations in the two mines have been mechanized and as a result there has been a decline in coal quality
due to admixture of overburden. This has lead to a higher ash content in the coal, lower heating value
and more fines. Consequently, the coal consumption per ton of ammonia has increased from 2.05 tons
to 2.50 tons per ton of ammonia while the ammonia output has declined. The power consumption has
also increased from about 1545 kWh to 1732 kWh, mainly for processing the additional coal required
to maintain previous production rates. To cope with the low grade feedstock, the company is adding
three more gasifiers and the coal handling facilities needed for the increase in throughput. However, it
is questionable whether ammonia production at Nanjing is economical, if coal (including its
transportation) and power are priced at economical rates using proper conversion factors.
6.06         Economic and Financial Rates of Return: The various assumptions used in estimating
the economic and financial rates of return are summarized in Annex-2. Appraisal and actual economic
rates of return (ERR) of the various investments under the Project are summarized in Table 6B of Part
III. The actual ERR's are estimated using recent (June 1991) preliminary Bank projections for fertilizer
and energy prices, which are generally lower than the projections used in the appraisal. In the ammonia
plant at Nanjing the incremental benefits barely match the costs, resulting in a negative ERR. This has



-8 -
been mainly due to the substantially reduced (because of the lowver coal quality) additional ammonia
production attributable to the new investment. The ERR could improve if with the three additional
gasifiers now being installed, the additional production can reach 30,000 tpy. The Nanjing sulfuric acid
plant will have an ERR of 30.2%, if it can continue to operate at no lower than 85% of its .apacity in
the future years. The medium size ammonia/urea plant at Luzhou has a significantly lower ERR of
13.8%. This has been mainly due to constraints in gas availability, the higher capital cost and the
implementation delays. If the gas use in the large plant at Luzhou is maximized to improve the
profitability of the company, the ERR of the medium size plant will decline further. The other
components have achieved ERRs comparable with or better than the appraisal estimates. For the large
ammonia/urea plants, the ERRs on an incremental basis improve if plant conditions allow the conserved
gas to be utilized for increasing nitrogenous fertilizer production. However, the ERR will be higlier if
gas supplies are adequate to optimize the production levels. The appraisal and actual financial rates of
return (FRR) of the various components are summarized in Table 6C of Part III and reflect a similar
situation. The Nanjing ammonia and porous ammonium nitrate plants and the Luzhou medium size plants
have low FRRs for the reasons mentioned earlier. In addition, input prices have increased substantially
and have not oeen fully reflected in product prices.
6.07          Financial Performance: The production levels in the beneficiary companies in 1989 and
1990 are summarized in Annex-l. The financial performance of the beneficiary companies has continued
to be satisfactory, though the profitability has generally declined due to changes in input and product
prices. The investments carried out under the project will help, except at Nanjing, to improve the
performance, though only in a limited way, due to t;ie relatively small size of the investments. A
summary of the recent financial statements of the beneficiary companies is presented in Annex 2 (A) to
4 (E) in Part III.
6.08          Impact of Project: The project has demonstrated the potential that exists in the Chinese
fertilizer industry for efficiency improvements in both production and energy. rhe success of the present
Project and the demonstrated benefits derived from it, have created interest in China for preparing and
implementing other similar projects with Bank assistance.  Experience through the project has
demonstrated to the Chinese institutions the benefits of international competitive bidding for obtaining
high quality supplies at competitive prices. In several locations facing gas supply shortages, the project
will help to increase fertilizer production without further demand on the scarce natural gas supplies
Through its training and R&D components, the project aimed at enhancing the technical and management
capabilities of the Chinese professionals and their contributions to overall subsector efficiency
improvements. However, the full anticipated benefits of these components could not been achieved, due
to due to MCI's decision to significantly cut the original training program.
7. Project Sustainabilitv
7.01          The energy conservation/optimization investments in nitrogenousfertilizer plants generally
have very attractive rates of return. However, these benefits can be sustained only under certain
situations. The plants which can process the conserved gas to finished fertilizers derive the maximum
benefits. It is, therefore, necessary to ensure that the gas supply is maintained at an adequate level - in
any case not below the present levels, to optimize production and achieve best benefits. The benefits can
also be sustained only if the plants continue to be operated at very efficient levels through sound operation
management and good preventive maintenance. This is especially so since the existing plants have
already been in operation for several years. The project has provided for training and procurement of
critical spares to support efficient plant performance. The inclusion of ammonia converter internal



9 -
modification to the large ammonia/urea plants will not only conserve energy but also increase ammonia
production capabilities. The Luzhou plant has modified the rotors of the major machines to benefit from
this potential. Similar possibilities should be explored in other plants. While the plants have benefitted
from known options which were available in 1984 and evaluated, further options are now available for
energy saving investments based on more recently developed and proven techniques. These should be
examined for the large ammonia/urea plants in China.
8. Bank Performance
8.01         The Bank missions played an important role during project preparation in developing the
project scope and evaluating the available options. Different options were identified based on proposals
from offshore engineering firms, thinking of different Chinese institutions and the Bank's own experience
in other countries. These options were reviewed for their technical feasibility and evaluated for their
economic attractiveness. Only those options which were considered practical and economically attractive
were included in the project.
8.02         Both Bank missions and Nanjing plant officials failed to recognize fully the difficulties
in optimizing ammonia production in a plant based on solid feedstocks, especially the potential risks of
deteriorating input quality. In retrospect, investments in the Nanjing nitrogen facilities should have been
more carefully planned and preceded by adequate detailed studies.
8.03         It is not unusual in optimization and energy saving projects, that the project content
undergoes revision during implementation for several reasons. For example, the hydrogen removal unit
at the outlet of the carbon dioxide compressor at Liaohe - proposed to improve plant safety, could not
be installed. Similarly, ammonia converter modification - given up after evaluation of the option available
during project preparation, was included when better technologies became available. The flexibility of
the Bank in such cases enabled the plants to achieve increased energy savings within the planned
investments.
8.04         Since this Project was the first Bank operation in China in the fertilizer subsector, the
beneficiary companies were not fully familiar with various Bank requirements. The Bank missions spared
no efforts to work with the beneficiary company managers to get them familiar with landk procedures and
their contribution to project implementation efficiency.
8.05         The difficulties in modifying the Luzhou medium size ammonia plant, i.e. increasing
significantly its capacity, were not fully recognized during appraisal. This component could have been
more efficiently implemented - at a lower cost and shorter time, if the total responsibility had been
entrusted to a single institution. The implementation delays were mainly due to coordination difficulties
among the various institutions.



- 10-
9. Borrower Performance
9.01         With full knowledge of their plants and their performance, the beneficiary institutions
participated constructively in project preparation. In spite of some initial difficulties in familiarizing
themselves with the Bank procedures, the project components were implemented efficiently. Their
performance was coordinated by MCI's Project Implementation Coordinating Unit with offshore technical
assistance for international procurement. Project progress was closely watched at the management levels
and problems with potential adverse effects on project implementation were identified in time and
discussed constructively with the concerned agencies including the Bank.
10. Project Relationship
10.01        The Bank's relationship with the Government and the project beneficiaries has been good.
Discussions on various project issues were always constructive and positive.
11. Consultine Services
11.01        The Project utilized offshore consultancy services for different purposes as summarized
below:
Assignment                              Company      Country
International Procurement               UNICO        Japan
Large Ammonia Plants                    Kellogg      USA
Ammonia Converter Retrofits             Casale       Switzerland
Urea Hydrolysis                         Snamprogetti  Italy
Medium Size Ammonia Plant               H & G        UK
Medium Size Urea Plant                  Tecnimont   Italy
Sulfuric Acid Plant (Limited)           Lurgi        Germany
11.02        A large part of the detailed engineering, procurement and construction work were carried
out by various Chinese design institutes and companies. On the overall, the consultants performed
satisfactorily, except, as mentioned earlier, for some coordination difficulties encountered at the Luzhou
medium size ammonia plant.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01        The Loan agreement for Loan 2541-CHA was adequate and appropriate for achieving the
project objectives in all the key areas. The staff appraisal report - along with the documentation in the
project files, provided an adequate background to the Bank missions for efficient review of project
implementation. The beneficiary companies have provided draft completion reports for their individual
components. They have also provided the additional information requested for by the Bank. This Project
Completion Report has been prepared by a Bank mission in July 1991 consolidatir3 the above
information.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
FERTILIZER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECT
(Loan 2541-CHA)
Part II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Per the requirement of providing the Borrower's views in the second part of PCR for
2541-CHA, we present you our following comments through discussion with project entities for your
information.
The Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving Project (2541-CHA) was the first project
in fertilizer sector in China with the World Bank's financing, which comprises five companies located
at Luzhou, Shuifu (Yunnan), Cangzhou, Liaohe and Nanjing as well as newly established China Fertilizer
Development Centre (CFDC). The whole project had spent 5 years for completion from the beginning
to loan closing date generally with construction period of 3 or 4 years. This project was efficient and
successful with result of energy saving, production expansion, good training of various personnel,
addition of research and design equipment and improvement of enterprises' efficiency at five companies
and one centre. All beneficiary agencies and the departments concerned are satisfactory with the project
achievements and consider the Bank's involvement in supervision and supporting rehabilitation project
fruitful and efficient.
We reviewed the parts of PCR prepared by the Bank on the basis of draft PCRs and
information and data provided by the MCI and all beneficiary companies as well as the discussion made
during the meeting between the Bank supervision mission and project entities; and find it revealed the
practical situation. We and the beneficiary companies have no objection to the basic content of the Bank
prepared PCR, but would like to make additional comments as follows:
1.         The four large size fertilizer plants obtained fruitful result in energy conservation with
modification of converter internals and addition of energy saving rotor for the compressor, achieving
maximum energy conservation at 1.02 mill. Kcal and maximum production expansion at 15% (generally
at 10%). The whole project proceeded basically as projected construction schedule.
2.          The rehabilitation of medium size ammonia plant at Luzhou was also efficient with
remarkable energy saving results. The maximum daily capacity reached to 200 ton. It was delayed by
about 18 months due to the difficulties in cooperation between foreign and local engineering agencies on
design work and the removal of 50% of the old equipment and 80% of pipings during the construction
as well as equipment modification, readjustment of process layout and utilities, which the latter one were
the major reasons causing large delay. These points were not anticipated at the time of project appraisal
and increased the volume of work by 8 months. The current poor efficiency at Luzhou medium ammonia
plant is mainly due to gas supply constraints not envisaged before, which caused the plant is unable to
operate at its full potential.



- 12 -
3.         The upgrading equipment and technology at Nanjing ammonia plant with 50 year history
originally based on our own financial sources. Due to financing shortage at that time, this project
component obtained positive support from the Bank and once again make the old plant modification
successful. This project component was finalized as four items, i.e. (a) Modification of ammonia plant,
(b) replacement of existing poor sulfuric acid plant with a new more efficient plant, (c) Addition of
facilities to increase industrial grade porous ammonium nitrate production replacing crystallized
ammonium nitrate, (d) Improvements to the utilities. The above component was proposed in 1983 and
finalized to use the World Bank financing at the end of 1985. During appraisal there were some changes
in project scope and this caused the delays in following engineering design and procurement work.
3.1        One coal gasifier was in operation in December 1986 and convertor with 1.6 M diameter,
waste heat boiler and synthesis unit installed at the end of 1987 and put into production on May 9, 1988.
It is one of the largest system with our own design and equipment fabrication. The execution of the
above two items followed the Bank's schedule. 1000 M3 ball tank and liquid ammonia pump were in
operation in October 1988, which removed the liquid ammonia storage constraints. The appraisal on
pressure shift and decarbonization units were not completed until July 1988, which caused about nine
months delay in processing the project. Due to the damage in transit of the ammonia compressor and
delays in receiving the replacement parts, the goods was delivered to Shanghai port from USA till
February 1990, which caused overall delay in ammonia plant modification. The reason for Nanjing
ammonia plant could not improve its ammonia production level is a deterioration of the quality of coal
now being supplied. To cope with this situation, Nanjing decided to add three more gas generators and
the ammonia production level and tne consumption index have fully meet the Bank appraisal requirement
upon the completion and operation of newly-added gasifiers in December 1991. The efficiency on
modified part of ammonia plant has been reflected to some extent. The capacity has been expanded by
12,000 T/Y and the recovered steam exceeded 100,000 ton every year after rehabilitation.
3.2        The  design institute under Nanjing Chemical Industry Company carried out overall
arrangement and detailed engineering of building new sulfuric acid plant except for roaster, waste heat
boiler and electric precipitator supplied by Lurgi and procurement of some other critical equipment such
as blower and acid cooler with anode protection with a view to develop its capability in design large size
sulfuric acid plant. The institute completed all design work of sulfuric acid plant in May 1986 and started
construction work in third quarter of the year 1986. Well organized procurement work ensured the
project proceeding as per expected schedule. Nanjing sulfuric acid plant was commissioned on March
8, 1988. In year 1989 the plant only produced 131,540 T sulfuric acid due to market constraints, but
operated at 91.8% of the design capacity to produced 183,582 ton sulfuric acid, exceeding the Bank test
figure 78.57%. Rock consumption for per ton acid production was also reduced *o 0.9766 T/T
(calculated at 35% sulfur content in pyrite). The porous ammonium nitrate and utilities items were
completed in time. The success of these items indicates that the institute under Nanjing Chemical
Industry Company and the construction firms have the capabilities to undertake engineering and
construction of large size fertilizer plant.
3.3        The plan for further energy savine
(a)   To improve the energy application efficiency by increasing steam pressure of gas generator
and waste heat boiler from 8 kg/cm2 to 20 kg/cm2 recovering additional heat energy
produced by pressure differential; to preheat boiler feedwater with fume coming from waste
heat boiler achieving better waste heat recovery.



.. ., ,.   ,                          .,    .  i  ~.I............................... 1 ..,b1_
- 13 -
(b)   To obtain energy saving at conversion system by selecting low steam ratio catalyst for
conserving steam; to heat copper wash liquid with hot water generated by recovered
remaining heat at conversion system. Rough calculation shows that per ton ammonia
production can save steam by 0.4-0.5 T/T.
(c)   About 300 ton hot water with 90 C can be recovered at per hour acid prciuction. Now
only about 100 ton hot water has been utilized and they try to achieve better application of
hot water in following steps.
4.         The established CFDC is fruitful and efficient, which mainly reflect as follows:
4.1        Many institutes have upgraded their equipment level by adding a batch of necessary
apparatus (including computer).
(a)   Four institutes purchased computers and CAD systems, which are prerequisite conditions
to conducting modern design. The application of CAD svstem not only improved the
working efficiency, but also can process those design work which are beyond manpower
(such as three dimensional layout drawing).
(bj  There were poor facilities for catalyst research at the institute in the past. The newly added
computer with automatic control and data processing has precise control over the job and
easy operation and achieves quality research work as well.  This ensures large
improvements of catalyst research and development work with complete engineering data
and experiences.
(c)   The technical personnel can conduct any testing work with newly added large analytical and
experimental apparatus and small testing instruments. The new testing facilities facilitate
our lab work and also improves the preciseness of our research work and expedite our
working progress.
(d)   The institute also purchased some soft wares including process simulation and engineering
design soft ware, while upgrading the existing facilities. Some purchased soft wares has
fully showed their efficiency and some are under second development, which will soon
show their efficiency.
All these indicate the purchased hard and softwares with the Bank financing improved the
equipment level of CFDC members.
4.2        The Bank loan played positive role in improving the professional quality and research ability
of scientific and technological personnel at each institute. A batch of middle-aged backbone at institute
were designated to go abroad for advanced study. The benefits show: (a) the understanding of the world
development trend in each field; (b) The study and application of most advanced experimental apparatus
and method. Many people has completed research task abroad- (c) A batch of backbone at each member
institute has been well trained in the field of fertilizer research such as high pressure phase balance,
absorption engineering catalyst theory and research development, chemical mining and beneficiation,
nitrogenous fertilizer process, chemical equipment development, multi units in chemical engineering,
chemical technical and economic analysis with application of computer.



- 14 -
In a ward, there are large improvement, after training, in professional knowledge and quality
among the technical forces of the institutes. These technical forces will play significant role in further
development at each research field and also will benefit the nther people by sharing advanced new
technology.
Based on the above overall situation, we can say we have realized the projected loan
objectives. The enhancement of equipment level and the upgrading of technical personnel quality will
make more contribution to the development in fertilizer sector.
4.3        The comparison between Bank alloation and actual disbursement
(Unit: Mill. USD)
Bank Loan         Actual          Percentage between
Allocation    Disbursement       Column Two and One
1. instruments and
equipment procurement        8.25            9.12                110.5%
2. Personnel training          1.54            0.38                24.7%
3. Consultation and
others                      0.21             0.01                4.8%
TOTAL                     10.00            9.51                 95.1%
4.4        The Function of CFDC
CFDC is a technical development institute established based on state reform policy on
scientific research system in 1984. Although it didn't become overall coordinating agency as previously
projected for research and development work in the fertilizer sub sector in China, CFDC has played
positive role in promoting technical advance in fertilizer industry. Besides organizing seminar on
introduction of advanced foreign and local technologies, CFDC also recommends suitable new technology
for specific nitrogenous fertilizer plant modifications, which help the plant to have better benefits. CFDC
has become the bridge between the institutes and the enterprises for spreading locally developed
technology. CFDC has large involvement in organizing and preparing feasibility study as well as
evaluation of key construction projects; and also enjoys good reputation. CFDC has many contacts with
foreign engineering firms and overseas fertilizer development companies and also selectively recommends
suitable overseas technology for local technical rehabilitation projects. Now CFDC members has
expanded from early 9 to 19. Most of fertilizer enterprises consider it's a wise selection to technically
rely on CFDC and try to become CFDC member.
Generally speaking, there have been large improvement in capability of CFDC and its 8
members with the Bank loan. They are playing positive role in technical advance and fertilizer Industry
expansion.
5.         Bank Performance
The Banig's supervision played major role in smoodi implementation of the project and the
Bank has made great effort to ensure the project following the schedule. The selected project components



- 15 -
based on the Bank's evaluation during appraisal stage were reasonable and were consistent with the real
situation of project entities. We obtained timely procurement guidance and assistance from the bank so
that we can purchase both economic and advanced equipment and materials. The Bank's procedures and
methods for project management are rigorous and scientific. The Bank's requirement to project entities
are also reasonable. The evaluation personnel and project operators of the Bank are professional,
competent, conscientious to the work and also very easy to get along with.
6.         Borrower Performance
The project entities have attached great importance to the project and closely followed the
project progress. Competent and experienced professional personnel were selected to take care of project
at each beneficiary company. They were diligent, conscientious and eager to learn; efficiently fulfilled
the work as per the specified requirements of the Bank, MCI Loan Coordination Group and CNCCC.
Having been getting involvement in project, they are familiar with the Bank procedures and requirement;
and improved their abilities to handle Bank financed project. However, because this is the first time for
us to handle the project with the Bank financing, they know very little about the Bank's approach e.tc.
Thus, there are still room for further improvement in planning and projection while carrying out project
implementation.
7.         The Relationship with the Bank
We maintained good relationship with the Bank during project implementation. Our people
worked together with the Bank project operators and had close cooperation. All the discussion on specific
points between both sides were always constructive and positive.
S.         The Relationship with the Other Agencies
There were many agencies involved in this project. The coordination work among so many
organizations became very difficult.  However, the beneficiary companies still maintained good
relationship with each agency and strictly executed the contracts under the guidance of MCI and CNCCC.
They closely worked with other companies and learned from each other to achieve mutual advance. Any
problems arisen during implementation were properly solved through timely and friendly discussion. This
ensured the smooth project completion.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMMLEMON 1REEORT
CHINA
(Loan 2541-CHA)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits: Loan 2541-CHA is the first Bank Group operation in
China in the fertilizer production subsector. Other Bank Group operations in the subsector in China are
summarized below.
Loan/Credit                                           Year of             Status
Title             Purpose                           Approval
Cr. 1412-CHA        Testing of phosphate                1983              Completed
Technical           rocks in Hubei and Guizhou
Cooperation         provinces and studies for
Credit              exploiting them.
Ln. 2838-CHA        Improve production efficiency      1988               Proceeding
Fertilizer          of medium and small size                              satisfactorily
Rationalization     plants through renovation
Project             phosphate capacity expansion.
Ln. 2958-CHA        Establish first large size local    1988              Proceeding with
Phosphate Develop-   phosphate mine and beneficiation                     some
ment Project        plant for high grade phosphates.                      implementation
delays
Ln. 3066-CHA        Set-up demonstration models for     1989              Proceeding
Hubei Phosphate     large and medium size integrated                      satisfactorily
Project             phosphate mining and fertilizer
manufacture.
Cr. 2159-CHA        As project sub-components, establish   1990           Implementation
Hebei Agricultural   two models for the rehabilitation                    started recently
Development Project  of existing small size nitrogenous
and phosphate fertilizer plants.



- 18 -
2. Irolet Timetable
Date                Date
Item                                    Planned             Actual
Preparation                             Sep. 1983           Sep. 1983
Prm.-apraisal/Appraisal                 Jul/Aug. 1984       Jul/Aug. 1984
Follow-up M.ission                      Dec. 1984           Dec. 1984
Loan Negotiation                        March 1985          April 1985
Board Approval                          April 1985          May 1985
Loan Signature                                              August 1985
Loan Effectiveness                                          Dec. 1985
Loan Closing                            June 30, 1989       Dec. 31, 1990
Loan Completion                                             May 3, 1991
3. Loan Disbursements
Disbursements (in US$ Million)
Bank Fiscal Year          Estimated            Actual       Actual % of
And Semester              Cumulative      Cumulative        Estimated
1986
03/31/86                  4.0               0.5                 13
06/30/86                 13.0               1.3                 10
1987
12/31/86                 27.0               5.9                 22
06!30/87                 52.0               11.7                23
1988
12/31/87                 82.0               32.2                39
06/30/88                 92.0               61.7                67
1989
12/31/88                  97.0              71.4                 74
06/30/89                   -                 88.1                91
1990
12/31/89                  -                 91.7                 95
06/30/90                                     95.8                99
1991
05/03/90                                     96.3                99
Based on the World Bank Disbursement lformadon.



- 19-
The original closing date for the Project was June 30, 1989. The closing date was extended to
June 30, 1990 in October 1989 in view of delays in the implementation of some of the components. The
closing date was further extended to December 31, 1990 in June 1990. An amount of about US$0.7
million was canceled.
4. Proiect Implementation
Indicators                                      Appraisal           Actual
Completion          Completion
i)  Energy Improvement            Luzhou        June 1988           November 1988
in large ammonia              Yunnan       June 1988            July 1988
and urea plants               Cangzhou     June 1988            September 1988
Liaohe       June 1988            October 1988
ii) Liquid effluent               Luzhou        June 1988           December 1988
treatment for large           Yunnan       June 1988            August 1988
urea plants with urea         Cangzhou      June 1988           September 1988
recovery                      Liaohe        April 1988          November 1988
iii) Large urea plant             Luzhou        June 1988           November 1988
improvements with             Liaohe       June 1988            Not Implemented
additional urea output
iv) Modification of Luzhou        Ammonia    June 1988              November 1989
medium size plants            Urea          June 1988           January 1990
v)  Modification of Nanjing       Ammonia       December 1987       July 1990
ammonia and other plants      Amm.Nitrate  December 1986        December 1985
Sulf. Acid    December 1987       December 1987
Utilities    June 1987            September 1989
vi) CFDC Component                              December 1987       End 1989
Comments on Project Implementation
There has been about 3 to 4 months delay in the implementation of the lage
ammonia/urea plant modifications. This has been mainly due to the addition of converter internal
modifications to the project scope based on improved technology that became available. The hydrogen
removal unit for the Liaohe urea plant was not installed due to the expected long installation time and the
resulting production loss. Implementation of the Luzhou medium size ammonia/urea plants was delayed
by about 18 months. Given the complexity of the project and the potential difficulties in coordinating
the joint design efforts of the foreign and local firms, the appraisal schedule was optimistic. The delay
could have been less if the project had been implemented under the total responsibility of a single
contractor. The Nanjing ammonium nitrate and sulfuric acid plants were implemented well within
schedule. The ammonia plant and utility modifications have been carried out over time and some items



- 20 -
have been delayed due to various factors often outside the control of the company. Some training under
the CFDQ Component spilled into 1990.
5. Prlect Cost and Finandog
A. Prflject Costs
(in US$ millions)
Apriusal Estimate                Actusl Costs
Local    Pomign      Total      Local    Foreign    Total
Cost      Cost       Cost       Cost      Cost      Cost
Plant Rehablbitation and
Enemy Savlne Comooneol
Enginering and Licensws                        4.92       7.07      11.99       3.51       8.87    12.38
Equipment and Materials                       14.97      51.28      66.25      20.04      68.50    88.54
Taxes                                          1.60                  1.60       0.10                0.10
Freight and Insurance                          4.54       5.05       9.59       1.51       1.85     3.36
Civil Works and Etection                      22.43       1.19      23.62      36.33               36.33
Project Management                             0.56       5.33       5.89       2.28       1.97    4.25
Sparm Parts                                    0.51       7.56       8.07                  4.05    4.05
Training Aids                                  0.10       1.52       1.62       0.01       1.24     1.25
Trining                                        0.04       1.52       1.56       0.01       0.44     0.45
Others                                                                          2.83                2.83
Bae Cost Estimate                          49.67      80.52     130.19      66.62      86.92   153.54
Physical Contingency                           4.95       7.19      12.14       0.64                0.64
Price Contingency                              7.77      12.64      20.41
Installed Cost                             62.39     100.35     162.74      67.26      86.92   154.18
Working Capital                                0.29                  0.29       0.07                0.07
Subtotal                                   62.68     100.35     163.03      67.33      86.92   154.25
Fertlizer Research and
Develogment (CFDC) Comoonent
Equipment                                      0.35       4.10       4.45       0.73       5.70     6.43
Computer Hardware and Software                 0.10       3.24       3.34       0.37       3.41     3.78
Trining                                        0.30       1.49       1.79       0.02       0.39     0.41
Project Management                                        0.06       0.06                  0.01     0.01
Subtotal                                    0.75       8.89       9.64       1.12       9.51    10.63
Contingency                                    0.09       1.11       1.20
Subtotal                                    0.84      10.00      10.84       1.12       9.51    10.63
Interest During Consruction                    0.58      12.41      12.99       3.69       9.21    12.90
Total Financing                               64.10     122.76     186.86      72.14     105.64   177.78



-21 -
S. Olec Costs by Components
(in US$ millions)
AimmL       ai                            Acdal
EPrioc  CWL om                                   L=ocl    Foisign       Total      Local    Foreign    Total
Cost      Cost        Coat        Cost       Cost      Coat
Piq IRehbll8b~ Ed
* Luzhou                                      15.59      46.31      61.90       18.32      48.23    66.55
- Yunnin                                      5.57       13.84      19.41        2.58       10.50    13.08
- Cangzhou                                    5.27       12.97      18.24        4.49       13.15    17.64
- Liaohe                                      5.95       11.79      17.74        4.00       7.55    11.55
- Naujing                                    30.88       27.85      58.73       41.63       16.70    58.33
SubtotA                                      63.26      112.76     176.02       71.02      96.13   167.15
FerAlier R & D (CG                                0.84      10.00       10.84       1.12        9.51    10.63
Total Financing                                  64.10      122.76     186.86      72.14      105.64   177.78
Above pejct cost daa psokidd by I. bmnsfiisy comanies, CFDC and CNCCC.
C. lml     iai
(in US$ millions)
Planned
(Lan 2541-CHA)         Acald Finming
Agmeia
IBRD FlAoan
(Expendtur Catgre)
Equipment, Materials anW Spa                       78.86                   84.51
Engineering, LicaninS and Toeh. Svieec             14.08                   10.65
for Project Mabnagmu
Overseas Visit by Local ltdf for                    0.63                    0.33
Engineoin and P      _ourmt
Overseas Training                                   3.19                    0.66
Consultant Services for Trawin                                              0.17
Subtotal                                        97.00                  96.32
lioaw Fla~
Dometic Dank Lon                                   22.80                   14.90
Own Funds                                          67.04                   66.56
Total fUndoe -                                    186.84                  177.78
IBRD loan of about USSO.6S mioe ow  cuussd.



- 22 -
6.  irieBt Resut
A. Diret Benefits
Indicators                                     Appraisal         Actual (eat)
a) Energy Improvement            Luzhou       0.76 kcal/t        1.26 kcal/t
in large amnonia              Yunnan       0.76 kcallt         1.05 kcallt
and urea plants               Cangzhou     0.76 kcal/t         1.10 kcait
Liaohe       0.76 keal/t        0.83 koal/t
b) Liquid effluent               Luzhou        5000 tpy            5000 tpy
treatment for large           Yunnan         5000 tpy           2000 tpy
urea plants with              Cangzhou       5000 tpy           5000 tpy
urea recovery                 Liaohe         5000 tpy           2000 tpy
c) Effluent Quality                            < Sppm             < 2ppm
d) Large urea plant              Luzhou         3000 tpy           3000 tpy
improvements with             Liaohe         3000 tpy
additional Urea output
e) Modification of Luzhou        Ammonia    49,500 tpy           49,500 tpy
medium size plants            Urea         82,500 tpy         82,500 tpy
1) Modification of Nanjing       Ammonia    30,000 tpy           11,000 tpy
ammonia and other plants      Amm.Nit.   50,000 tpy            50,000 tpy
Sulf. Acid   200,000 tpy       200,000 tpy
Utilities       -
The above achieved result. are based on the test runs.
B. Economic Benefits
Appraisal          Estimated
Estimate             Actual
Luzhou          Medium Size Plant.               44.7%               13.8%
Large Size Plant.                27.5%              53.4%
Yunnan          Large Size Plants                38.8%               63.4%
Cangzhou        Large Size Plants                27.2%               43.8%
Liaohe          Large Size Plants                26.8%               25.5%
Nanjing         Nitrogen Plant.                   17.8%
Ammonia Plant                                      (274.3%)
Porous Ammonium Nitrakt                             21.9%
Sulfuric Acid Plants             28.7%              28.7%
Total Project                                    30.8%               24.9%



- 23 -
C. Flandlal InUt
Appraisal                Etimated
Estimate                  Actual
Luzhou           Medium Size Plants                 25.8%                     (1.4%)
Large Size Plants                 18.4%                     22.7%
Yunnan           Large Size Plants                  31.4%                    22.4%
Cangzhou         Large Size Plants                  12.6%                     22.1%
Liaohe           Large Size Plants                  16.0%                     16.5%
Nanjing          Nitrogen Plants                    18.4%
Ammonia                                                     (9.3%)
Porous Ammonium Nitrate                                      8.3%
Sulfuric Acid Plans               19.1%                     11.8%
D. Studies
Purpose as
Defined at                                 Impaet of
Appraisal                 Status            Study
Nitrgenous Festilizer              To study production       Completed         Has helped to
Production Cost Study              costs of selected                           locate options
medium-size plants                         for efficiency
for which potential                        improvements
for efficiency
inprovement is
subsanti



- 24 -
7. Status of Covenants
Section      Covenant                         Deadline            Status
Loan Agreeinent
3.06 (i)     Provide its 4 year R&D develop-  Oct. 31, 1985       Completed
ment plan and allocation of work
among institutes for 1986-9C
3.06 (ii)    Provid- annual R&D for next      Oct. 31 of          Completed
year by Oct. 31 each year        each year
from 1986 to 1990
3.07         Cause CFDC to develop its        Sept. 30, 1985      Completed
Training Program
Projet Agreements
2.07         Carry out and provide the Bank   Dec. 31, 1985       Completed
with environmental safety case
studies
2.06         Develop company training programs  Sep. 30, 1985     Completed
Provide Bank each year with      October 31 of       Completed
projected financial statements   each year
for the next five years



- 25 -
8. Missions
Stage of              Month/ Number of  SW Specialization     Performance Rating      Types of
Project Cycle   Year    Persons  in field  Represented'             Status            Problems
Through Appraisal
Prenaration 9/83         4       8             Eng.,Eco./FA
Preappraisal 3/84        5      14             Eng.,Eco/FA
Appraisal                                    Fert.Mktg.
Follow-up   1/85         4      10             Eng.,Eco.,FA
Supervision
1   9/85        2        5             Eng.,FA                1
2    5/86        3       2             Eng.,Eco.,FA            1
3    9/87        1       2             Eng.                    1
4   10/88        1       2             Eng.                   2
5    9/89        1       2             Eng.                   2
6   10/90        2       4             Eng.,FA                2
Project Completion
1   7/91        2        2
Eng .   Engineer
Eco .   Economist
PA . Fa ncial Analyst
Pert.Mkig. Fenilizer Marketing Specialist



- 26 -
Annex - 1
FERTILIZER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECT
Physical Performance of the Companles
(in thousand tons per year)
Projected       199i             1990
A.   LNGCC (Luzhou)
Large Size Plant Ammonia                 270             346              334
Urea                      478             539             503
Med. Size Plant Ammonia                   72              38               82
Urea                      210             37               99
B.   YNGCC (Yunnan)
Large Size Plant Ammonia                 270             314              328
Urea                      475             463             500
C. CCFC (Can zhou)
Large Size Plant Ammonia                 270             237              253
Urea                      475             384             418
D.   LCFC (Liaohe)
Large Size Plant Ammonia                 270             330              322
Urea                      478             530             526
E. NCIC (Nanling)
Ammonia                   150             102              103
Methanol                   45             40               41
Ammonium Nitrate           85             84               81
Ammonium Nitrate (IG)      50             30               28
Ammonium Bicarbonate       97             62               64
Sulfuric Acid (100%)      180             132              184



- 27 -
Annex - 2
Pane 1 of S
LNGCC - Flnanclal Statements
(in million Yuans)
<           A-- Appraisal -------------->   < ------ Actual ----->
1984      1989   1990            1989    1990
A. INCOME
Gross Sales Revenue             235.6   311.2   328.0            305.9   319.9
Less: Product Tax                 6.4    62.2    65.6             55.2    50.6
Net Sales Revenue               229.2   249.0   262.4            250.7   269.3
Cost of Goods Sold              138.8   179.1   186.3            215.4   247.9
Add: Other Incorme                3.0      3.4      3.5            6.8      6.4
Less: Financial Charges           0.2      9.4      8.5
Less: Loan Amortization                    3.9    19.1            29.5    25.8
Net Taxable Income               93.2    60.0    52.0             12.6      2.0
Less: Taxes and Remittances      87.1    53.7    46.5              2.0      2.0
Retained Profits                  6.1      6.3      5.5           10.6    (0.0)
B. BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets                  102.1   145.9   162.4            168.6   174.9
Net Fixed Assets                258.2   308.9   283.0            394.8   369.7
Works in Progress                 1.8      3.4      3.5           16.4    65.6
Long Term Bonds                   9.8      9.8      9.8           14.6    17.0
Total Fixed Assets              269.8   322.1   296.3            425.8   452.3
Total Assets                    371.9   468.0   458.7            594.4   627.2
Current Liabilities               7.6    28.1    25.2             63.9    74.4
Long Term Debts                          107.7    91.7           100.2   102.5
State Funds                     299.7   223.6   216.8            317.5   319.0
Reserves                         64.6   108.6   125.0            112.8   131.3
Total Equity                    364.3   332.2   341.8            430.3   450.3
Total Equity & Liabilities      371.9   468.0   458.7            594.4   627.2
C. RATIOS
Net Profit/Sales (96)            39.3    20.5    21.7              8.7    13.8
Operating Income/                24.7    17.0    19.6              3.9      7.2
Average Assets (%)
Current Ratio                    13.4      5.2      6.4            2.4      2.6
LT Debt/LT Debt & Equity         24.5    21.2    18.9             18.5    18.9
Total Liabilities/Total Assets (%)  2.0    29.0    25.5           28.2    27.6
Debt Service Coverage            97.5      2.7      1.8            2.3      2.1



- 28 -
Annex - 2
Page 2 of S
YNGCC - Financial Statements
(in million Yuans)
<  -~~  Appraisal --         >    <--- Actual-->
1984      1989   1990            1989    1990
A. INCOME
Gross Sales Revenue             172.2   227.2   234.1           255.6   284.1
Less: Product Tax                 5.2    45.4    46.8            40.9    45.6
Net Sales Revenue               167.0   181.8   187.3           214.7   239.1
Cost of Goods Sold              117.8   138.1   141.5           173.6   187.5
Add: Other Income                                                 (0.4)    1.5
Less: Financial Charges                   2.1      1.9
Less: Loan Amortization                    1.2     2.8            9.2    15.0
Net Taxable Income               49.2    40.4    41.1            31.5    38.1
Less: Taxes and Remittances      46.2    31.3    31.8            15.2    16.1
Retained Profits                  3.0     9.1      9.3           16.3    22.0
B. BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets                   93.7   131.2   144.9           116.6   160.5
Net Fixed Assets                226.9   187.6   168.7           216.0   205.2
Works in Progress                 2.5     2.3      2.3           24.6    30.9
Long Term Bonds                   5.7     9.7    10.5            76.6    89.0
Total Fixed Assets              235.1   199.6   181.5           317.2   325.1
Total Assets                    328.8   330.8   326.4           433.8   485.6
Current Liabilities               3.0     6.3      6.7           33.0    53.3
Long Term Debts                          22.4    19.3             6.7    26.7
State Funds                     262.0   197.5   181.4           250.5   227.4
Reserves                         63.8   104.6   119.0            143.6   178.2
Total Equity                    325.8   302.1   300.4           394.1   405.6
Total Equity & Liabilities      328.8   330.8   326.4           433.8   485.6
C. RATIOS
Net Profit/Gross Sales (%)       28.6    18.3    18.8             15.8    18.4
Operating Income/                19.5    17.4    19.5             13.5    16.7
Average Assets (%)
Current Ratio                    21.2    20.8    21.6             3.5      3.0
LT Debt/LT Debt & Equity                  6.9      6.0             1.7     6.2
Total Liabilities/Total Assets (%)  0.9    8.7     8.0            16.5     9.2
Debt Service Coverage                     7.1      5.4            6.2      4.5



- 29 -
Annex - Z
Palle 3 of 5
CCFC - Financial Statements
(in million Yuans)
<C-~ Appraisal               >    <--  Actual ->
1984      1989   1990           1989    1990
A. INCOME
Gross Sales Revenue             148.5   220.7   227.4           228.1   267.7
Less: Product Tax                14.0    44.1    45.5            28.7    32.2
Net Sales Revenue               134.5   176.6   181.9           199.4   235.5
Cost of Goods Sold              99.6   129.1   132.2            175.1   225.8
Add: Other Income                0.9                             14.9    36.4
Less: Financial Charges          0.2      2.7      2.5
Less: Loan Amortization                   1.3     3.1            9.2    15.5
Net Taxable Income              35.6    43.5    44.1             30.0    30.6
Less: Taxes and Remittances     28.8    39.1    39.7             12.9    15.4
Retained Profits                 6.8      4.4      4.4           17.1    15.2
B. BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets                  116.3   145.0   154.8           145.7   191.1
Net Fixed Assets                146.4   126.4   111.4           207.7   189.0
Works in Progress                0.6      1.1      1.2            2.2    11.5
Long Term Bonds                  4.1      7.6      8.3           14.4    14.0
Total Fixed Assets              151.1   135.1   120.9           224.3   214.5
Total Assets                   267.4   280.1   275.7            370.0   405.6
Current Liabilities              5.9    12.4    13.0             33.6    23.9
Long Term Debts                          24.6    21.1            26.8    26.2
State Funds                     180.1   133.7   121.8           206.2   207.9
Reserves                        81.4   109.4   119.8            103.4   147.6
Total Equity                   261.5   243.1   241.6            309.6   355.5
Total Equity & Liabilities     267.4   280.1   275.7            370.0   405.6
C. RATIOS
Net Profit/Gross Sales (%)      24.0    20.3    20.8             17.2    17.2
Operating Income/                16.3    21.4    23.7             7.1     3.0
Average Assets (%)
Current Ratio                    19.9     1.7    11.9             4.3     8.0
LT Debt/LT Debt & Equity                  9.2      8.0            6.9     8.0
Total Liabilities/Total Assets (%)  0.9    13.2    12.4          12.4    16.4
Debt Service Coverage           110.0     4.3      3.4            5.3     6.1



- 30 -
EagcAOf5
LCFC - Finandal Statements
(in million Yuans)
< ---- Appraisal--- >  <-Actual->
1984     1989   1990            1989    1990
A. INCOME
Gross Sales Revenue            235.1   222.5   229.2           273.1   300.9
Less: Product Tax               19.4    44.5    45.8            52.3    54.8
Net Sales Revenue              215.7   178.0   183.4           220.8   246.1
Cost of Goods Sold             113.2   137.4   140.5           186.0   209.4
Add: Other Income                                               (7.4)
Less: Financial Charges          0.1     2.6      2.3
Less: Loan Amortization                  3.2      5.4            6.8     4.2
Net Taxable Income             102.4    34.8    35.2            20.6    32.5
Less: Taxes and Remittances     96.1    33.4    33.8            12.1     8.5
Retained Profits                 6.3      1.4     1.4            8.5    24.0
B. BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets                  91.8   135.6   148.0           154.1   183.1
Net Fixed Assets               220.1   215.7   196.6           268.9   277.1
Works in Progress               38.1     0.7      0.7           43.6    45.7
Long Term Bonds                  2.8     6.3      7.0            9.4    10.2
Total Fixed Assets             261.0   222.7   204.3           321.9   333.0
Total Assets                   352.8   358.3   352.3           476.0   516.1
Current Liabilities              8.5    13.3    14.1            51.4    65.9
Long Term Debts                          30.8    26.1           14.7    15.7
State Funds                    267.3   228.1   213.0           317.6   326.4
Reserves                        77.0    86.1    99.1            92.3   108.1
Total Equity                   344.3   314.2   312.1           409.9   434 5
Total Equity & Liabilities     352.8   358.3   352.3           476.0   516.1
C. RATIOS
Net Profit/Gross Sales (%)      43.6    17.1    17.7            10.0    12.2
Operating Income/               30.1    14.0    15.8             8.6     8.4
Average Assets (%)
Current Ratio                   10.8    10.2    10.5             3.2     2.8
LT Debt/LT Debt & Equity                  8.9     7.7            3.0     3.5
Total Liabilities/Total Assets (%)  2.4    12.3    11.4         13.1    15.8
Debt Service Coverage          159.0      4.3     3.8            6.1    13.6



- 31 -
Annex - 2
NCIC - Financial Statements
(in million Yuans)
<-- Appraisal -->   <- Actual ->
1984     1989   1990            1989    1990
A. INCOME
Gross Sales Revenue           326.7     400.2  416.6          653.6   705.2
Less: Product Tax              22.7      28.2   29.3           35.2    36.3
Net Sales Revenue             304.0     372.0  387.3          618.4   668.9
Cost of Goods Sold            247.8     278.4  287.8          541.7   615.9
Add: Other Income              (0.8)     1.0     1.0          (18.1)   (22.8)
Less: Financial Charges         0.7      5.0    4.7
Less: Loan Amortization                  3 n     5.3
Net Taxable Income             54.7       ,.6   90.5           58.6    30.2
Less: Taxes and Remittances    20.0      64.9   67.9           15.0    15.0
Retained Profits               34.7      21.7   22.6           43.6    15.2
B. BALANCE SHEET
Current Assets                200.2     190.7  204.3          407.4   463.6
Net Fixed Assets              205.7     318.2  303.6          394.5   513.6
Works in Progress              64.4      52.1   52.5           68.9    87.3
Long Term Bonds                                                 7.1    11.9
Total Fixed Assets            270.1     370.3  356.1          470.5   612.8
Total Assets                  470.3     561.0  560.4          877.9  1,076.4
Current Liabilities            43.1      49.6   50.4          328.5   410.3
Long Term Debts                 3.0      38.0   32.4           56.1   145.8
State Funds                   301.9     341.2  331.9          461.1   483.7
Reserves                      122.3     132.2  145.7           32.2    36.o
Total Equity                  424.2     473.4  477.6          493.3   520.3
Total Equity & Liabilities    470.3     561.0  560.4          877.9  1,076.4
C. RATIOS
Net Profit/Gross Sales (%)     16.7      22.4   23.0            9.0     4.3
Operating Income/              17.7      20.6   22.4            9.9      5.6
Average Assets (%)
Current Ratio                   4.o      3.8    4.1             1.2      1.2
LT Debt/LT Debt & Equity        1.0      7.4     6.4           10.2    21.9
Total Liabilities/Total Assets (%)    10.0  15.6   14.8        43.8    48.1
Debt Service Coverage          66.4      5.4     4.6            5.9      4.9



- 32 -
Annex - 3
Palge I of 2
Assumptions used for Financial and Economic Analysis
A. .General
1.         The financial and economic rates of return for all the components except the Nanjing porous
ammonium nitrate and sulfuric acid plants have been calculated on incremental basis. All calculations
are in constant 1991 US dollars. The life of the investments have been assumed to end in year 2000 with
no salvage value for the assets. Duties and taxes have been excluded from all cost and benefit streams
for economic analysis. Appropriate conversion factors have been applied to convert the financial pr.ces
of local currency components of the capital cost, non-traded goods and other items to economic prices.
B. Production Levels
2.         The production levels and benefits now projected for the various components are summarized
in the table below.
Production Levels and Benefits
(in thousand tons unless otherwise stated)
Phnot            Produ                      ProducdnQ                           heneflb
Before      Aftr
Luzhou (Large)   Aumonia                233.8      270.0                  Urea            67.5
Urea                   359.9      427.4
(Modium)    Ammonia                96.8       114.8                 Urcs            40.8
Urea                   153.7      194.5
Yunnan           Ammfonia               273.3      300.0                  Urea            42.8
Urea                   437.2      480.0                 AN               3.2
Cangzhou         Anmonia                221.4      250.0                  Urea            45.8
Urea                   354.2      400.0                 Ammonia          2.2
Liaohe           Anumonia               322.0      322.0                  Ammonia          1.5
Urea                   526.0      526.0                 Gas (Million kcal)  1.15
Nanjing          Porous AN                          35.0                  Porous AN       35.0
Sulfuric Acid                     180.0                 Sulf.Acid      180.0
Ammnone.               99.0       110.0                 Ammonia         11.0
3.         All the four locations, where energy saving investmnents have been carried out under the
Project, are now encountering gas supply constraints. Despite concerns about adequacy of gas supplies,
the Liaohe plant is expected to operate at its normal levels taking advantage of the conserved gas. At this
location, the benefit is reflected as the value of gas conserved. At the other three locations, the ammonia
plants will operate at below their achievable production levels because of continuing gas supply



t
- 33 -
Annex - 3
Page 2 of a
constraints. Production losses are especially severe in the winter months. Due to the energy saving
investments under the Project, these plants are able to produce more fertilizers than they could have
before the renovations. For these plants, the energy conservation benefits are reflected through additional
production of ammonia, urea and/or ammonium nitrate obtained using the conserved gas.
4.        At Nanjing, the ammonia plant continues to produce only about 110 thousand tpy of
ammonia, even after the investmeints. This is reported to be due to the deterioration in the quality of coal
supplies following mechanization of the coal mining operations. It is now estimated that the Nanjing
ammonia plant would have produced only about 99 thousand tpy of ammonia without the investments
under the Project.  The company expects that production can reach 150 thousand tpy with the
commissioning of three more gasifiers expected to be commissioned in 1992. This has not been taken
into account in the analysis. In all cases, the analysis has been carried out using actual production up to
1990, expected production in 1991 and the above projected levels for the subsequent years.
C. Capital Cos
5.        The capital costs and their phasing are as estimated by the companies and have been
converted to 1991 US dollars using average exchange rates prevailing in the year of disbursement and
the preliminary international inflation rates as projected by the Bank in June 1991. Interest during
construction, cost of spares and cost of training (including training aids) have been deducted from the
project costs. Due to the nature of the investments, there is no significant increase in working capital.
D. Benefits
6.        Financial product prices obtained from the companies have been converted to 1991 US
dollars using an average exchange rate for 1991 of US$1 = Yuan 5.5. Economic product prices have been
obtained - wherever available, from the June 1991 preliminary Bank Commodity Price Forecasts, suitably
adjusted for the locations. Ammonia and ammonium nitrate prices have been derived from the urea
prices using the same assumptions as in the Staff Appraisal Report.
E. Operating Cos
7.        Financial costs for the different components have been obtained from the production costs
sheets of the companies. Economic costs of inputs such as coal, pyrites and natural gas have been
derived adopting the same assumptions as in the SAR. Other costs - both variable and fixed, have been
converted to economic costs using appropriate conversion factors.



- 34 -
Annex - 4
FERTILIZER REHABILITATION AND ENERGY SAVING PROJECT
Present Status of the Fertilizer Sector in China
1.         Fertilizer continues to play an important role in China's agricultural production. Between
1952 and 1989, foodgrain production has increased from 164 million tons to 371 million tons - an
average annual increase of 3.1 %. National development plans envisage that China's foodgrain production
will increase to 447 million tons by 1995 and 500 million tons by the year 2000. However, China shares
only about 8% of the world's arable land, though required to support about 22% of the world population.
Continued emphasis on intensive agriculture based on improved farming practices and high fertilizer
application levels is, therefore, important to China's food self-sufficiency programs. China's fertilizer
consumption in 1989 was about '52 kg. per hectare of arable land compared with the world average of
99 kg. However, fertilizer application intensity in China is still lower than several countries, such as
Egypt (351), S. Korea (422), Japan (415) and New Zealand (732).
2.         Historical and projected consumption and production of chemical fertilizers in China are
sumrnmarized in the table below.
CHINA - Fertilizer Consumption and Production
Past and Proiected
(in thousand tons per tear of nutrients)
NITRO4GEN            PHOSPHATE              POTASH                TOTIL
Consumption Production Consumption Productlon Consumption Production Consumption Production
1975          4.71      3.75        1.92      1.92       0.05       0.04       6.68       5.67
1980         11.53      9.99       2.38       2.31       0.34       0.05      14.25      12.34
1985         12.93      11.50      2.34       1.76       0.41       0.05      15.68      13.31
1986         12.97      11.59      2.58       2.33       0.82       0.05      16.37      13.96
1987         15.55      13.42      3.47       3.24       1.12       0.05      20.14      16.71
1988         16.94      13.61      3.66       3.61       1.33       0.03      21.93      17.27
1989         17.23      14.24      3.67       3.61       1.01       0.04      21.91      17.88
1990         17.60      14.64      5.84       4.12       2.46       0.07      25.90      18.80
1995         16.70      15.71      7.90       4.86       3.10       0.23      27.70      20.80
2000         18.00      17.63      9.00       6.26       4.60       0.60      31.60      24.50
Source: Miniatty of Chemical Induatriea, China
The consumption of all fertilizers has increased from 6.68 million tons per year of nutrients
(tpyn) in 1975 to 25.90 million tpyn in 1990 - corresponding to an average annual growth rate of 9.5%.
The actual 1990 consumption was higher than the Seventh Five Year Plan (SFYP) projection of 21.40
million tpyn by about 21%. As a result, imports formed about 29% of the 1990 consumption, as
compared with 20% projected in the SFYP. During the period 1985 to 1990, the consumption of
nitrogen. phosphates and potash grew at an average rate of 6.4%, 20.1% and 43% per year respectively
compared with 1.2%, 7.0% and 21.6% respectively projected in the SFYP. The ratio of nutrients



- 35 -
Annex - 
consumed in 1990 of 100:33:14 - though short of the SFYP target of 100:50:20, shows an improvement
over the 1983 ratio of 100:32:5 especially for potash. Further efforts are, however, required to obtain
a better balance.
3.         Chemical fertilizer production in China has increased from 12.34 million tpyn in 1980 to
18.80 million tpyn in 1990. The increase in production consisted of 4.65 million tpyn of nitrogen and
1.81 million tpyn of phosphates against 3.00 million tpyn of nitrogen and 1.69 million tpyn respectively
projected in the SFYP. As tavisaged in the SFYP, the additional production has come from both
capacity additions and improved performance of the existing plants. During the SFYP period, five large
nitrogen plants and two large phosphate plants have been brought into production. The average capacity
utilization has improved from 81% in 1983 to 87% in 1991. About 137 of the small nitrogen plants have
stopped production. The share of low nutrient ammonium bicarbonate continues to be about 58%, but
the share of urea has increased to about 34%. About 94% of the phosphate production continues to be
in the form of low nutrient products. On the overall, there has been some improvement in the energy
efficiency of the plants - partly through energy saving investments and partly through improved operation.
4.         The share of nitrogen output based on natural gas has declined from 23% in 1983 to about
19.5% in 1991. This is indicative of the gas supply restrictions faced by several gas based plants
including some of the beneficiary companies under the present Project. It would appear that gas supplies
are being committed beyond the supply capabilities resulting in gas allocations being inadequate to operate
the production facilities at their optimum levels. For optimum use of investments in these facilities, there
is need for achieving a better match among capabilities for gas production, transportation and utilization.
5.         China's national plans project for the production of about 24.5 million tpyn of fertilizers by
the year 2000. This is expected to include about 17.6 million tpyn of nitrogen and about 6.3 million tpyn
of phosphates. Several projects are being planned and/or being implemented to achieve the required
capacity. In addition, efforts will be continued to improve the productivity of the subsector. Investments
are being planned to upgrade the products of small and medium size plants from low nutrient ammonium
bicarbonate to higher nutrient urea. Small coal based ammonia plants are being revamped to reduce
energy consumption from about 14.3 million kcal per ton to about 12.0 million kcal per ton. While there
are plans to add phosphate capacity for high nutrient ammonium phosphates, there are no defined plants
for improving the existing plants - especially those producing low nutrient phosphates, and for developing
alternative sulfur supply sources such as sulfuric acid production based on phosphogypsum.



