Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15391-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nay 15, 1996
Energy and Project Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region



CUlRRENCY [ (lIlVAL ENT
(May 1996)
CurrencN Unit-Sri Lankan Rupee (SL R)
US$ 1-SI,R 54.73
Sl R I million-USS18.272
F:IS('AI YEAR
l'or l'SIDC
Januarv I - I)ecemher 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS ANI) ACRONYMS USkD
ADB            -       Asian Development Bank
BID            -       lureau for Infralstrlcturc D)evelopmernt
B01            -       Board of Investments
BOO            -       13uild Ow%n Operate
BOT            -       Iuild On Transfer
CLA            -       Central Environmental Authorit,
CEB            -       Ceylon Electricity Board
('AS           -       Countr% Assistance Strategy
C)          C'ommllonvwealth Development Corporation (Canadian)
I'A            -       Environienital Assessments
1I1C'(                 I ngineering Plrocurement and Construction (contract)
FDI            -       Foreign D)irect Inmestment
(iDP           -       (iross D)omestic Product
(iOS           -       (iovernment of Sri Lanka
IA             -       Implementation Agreement
IBRI)          -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA            -       International D)evelopment Association
ILC            -       International Financc Corporation
JFXIM          -        [he Export-lmport Bank ol'Japan
KtW            -       Kreditanstait liir Wiederaulbau
LO[            -       Ietter of Intenit
MIGA           -       Multilateral Insurrance Guaranltee Agency
M(O            -       Ministrv of' F:inance
NE A           -       National L:n\ ironilienit Act
N\SI)DB        -       National Water Supply and D)rainage Board
O &                    Op -  Operations and Maintenance
O()C,          -       Oerseas E conomic Cooperation Fund of'Japan
l'AA           -        'roject Approv ing Agenc\
I'Al           -       IPreliminarv Acceptance letter
PERC           -       Public E1nterprise Reforimi Comimiliission
I'SA           -       Private Sector Assessment
'SIDC          -       P'rivate Sector Iiifrastructure D)ekelopnient Company
PSED)F         -       Private Sector Lnergy Development Fund (IPakistan)
PSHI)I'        -       Private Sector Infrastructure De\,elopment Proqject
RDA            -       Road Development Authority
Sll)l          -       Secretariat for Intrastructure Development and Investment
SDR            -       Special l)ra%king Rights
SLIPA          -       Sri Lanka Ports Authioritv
Sll'           -       Sri Lanka 'l'eecom
SLIA           -       Sri Lanka 1'elecommilunications Authority
LJSAID         -       I nited States Agencv Ibr International Development



SRI LANKA
PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrowsr:                   The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Implementing                Private Sector Infrastructure Development
Agency:                     Company Ltd. (PSIDC)
Beneficiaries:              Special purpose entities established for the construction,
operation and ownership of commercial infrastructure projects;
public sector agencies.
Poverty Category:           Not Applicable
Amount:                     SDR 52.9 million (US$77.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:             0.50 percent oni undisbursed credit balances beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
On Lending Terms:           From the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) to PSIDC on the
same terms as the IDA credit.
From PSIDC to the various private sector sponsors of
infrastructure projects, up to 22 years maturity, including up to 8
years of grace, in US dollars with the private sponsor carrying
the foreign exchange risk. The two options for interest rates are
initially:
(a)  Variable. based on 6 month US$ LIBOR,
plus a premium of 3 percent (LIBOR + 3
percent); or
(b)  F[xed based on the term of the loan and the
US dollar swap rate, plus a premium of 3
percent.
Financing Plan:             See Paragraph 3.23
Task Identification Number: LK-PA-10517






SRI LANKA
PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary
1.  INTRODUCTION ...........................................................I
11. POLICY ENVIRONMENT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR
FINANCED INFRASTRUCTURE ...........................................................2
A. The State of Sri Lanka's Infrastructure ...................2.......................................2
B. Infrastructure and Competitiveness ...........................................................3
C. Constraints to Efficient Public Sector Infrastructure Provision .................... .....................4
D. GOSL Policies for Attracting Private Infrastructure Investments ......................................4
E. IDA's Operational Lessons and Strategies for Supporting Private Sector
Infrastructure Development ...........................................................7
111. THE PROJECT    ..10
A. Project Origin .10
B. Project Objectives .10
C. Project Description and Technical Assistance                           .II
D. Project Design .12
E. The Long-term Debt Facility .14
F. Financial Arrangements .16
G. Project Costs and Financing .20
H. Project Implementation and Supervision Strategy .21
IV. THE SUBPROJECTS .22
A. GOSL Subproject Pipeline .22
B. Environmental and Social Impact Requirements and Economic Analysis
for Subprojects .25
C. Procurement and Disbursements .26
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..30
A. Benefits .30
B. Risks .....                                                                                   30
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .32
This report was based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited Sri Lanka in March/April 1995. Follow-
up missions with respect to legal, environmental and resettlement issues were undertaken during August/September
1995. The report was prepared by Mrs. Jane Walker (Private Sector Development Specialist, Task Manager), Messrs.
P. Kyle (Senior Counsel), S.V. Iyer (Financial Consultant), J. Sachs (Financial Consultant), D. Knott (Engineering
Consultant), M. Stanfield (Private Sector Transport Consultant), A. Salaam (Resettlement Consultant) and S. Pilapitiya
(Environmental Engineer - Resident Mission). B. White assisted in the production of the report. Peer reviewers were:
Messrs./Mmes. P. Guislain (Principal Private Sector Specialist, PSD), K. Siraj (Advisor, FSD), A. Mody (Principal
Financial Economist, CFS), and F. Mazhar (Senior Financial Officer, CFS ). Mr. Per Ljung is Chief, Energy and
Project Finance Division, SAI and Ms. Mieko Nishimizu is the Director, Country Department 1, South Asia Region.



Page No.
Annexes:
1.    Private Sector Infrastructure Development Company Ltd . .................................................... 36
2.    The Security Package ........................................................ 42
3.    The Project Pipeline ....................................................... 46
4.    Financial Projections of PSIDC  ....................................................... 57
5.    Environmental and Social Assessment Framework:  Environmental Aspects ............                                    ............. 68
6.    Environmental and Social Assessment Framework: Resettlement Aspects ...............                                  .............. 74
7.    Legal Aspects  ....................................................... 85
8.    Technical Assistance to PSIDC: TORs for General Manager .................................................. 86
9.    Technical Assistance to PSIDC: TORs for Technical Advisor ................................................   89
10. Technical Assistance through PSIDC: TOR for Feasibility Studies .97
II  Implementation and Supervision Schedule .100
12. Performance Indicators .104
13. Disbursement Arrangements .106



SRI LANKA
PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1     Sri Lanka's US$10 billion economy is built on a richly endowed and varied agricultural
resource base with a low population growth rate and exceptional social indicators. Its per capita
income, at US$550, is the highest among countries in South Asia. Although the country's recent
history has been marked by political upheavals, including assassinations of key public figures
and shifting prospects for peace in the ongoing armed conflict in the North, there have been two
periods of high economic growth (1977-84 and 1989-1994).  Both periods have followed
significant reform initiatives, deregulation and a shift towards market orientation. The focus of
the reform effort has nlow shifted to addressing fundamental growth-limiting factors, such as the
overextended and poorly performing public sector and infrastructure constraints.
1.2    The present Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL)i has largely maintained the progressive
economic reform and private sector investment policies of the previous government. However,
the Government's ability to maintain the pace of economic growth at a level of six percent per
annum  is strongly predicated both on sustained macroeconomic confidence and the speed and
efficiency with which critical infrastructure services can be upgraded and delivered. For several
years, public investment in and execution of infrastructure projects has been below expectations.
New construction and the rehabilitation of the existing infrastructure stock have been supported
almost exclusively by donor funding. The effectiveness of this lending has been diminished by
chronic operational weaknesses of line agencies which have led to procurement and
implementation delays. As a result, serious bottlenecks are evident in the delivery of power,
transport and water/sanitation services.
1.3    Government policy since 19922 has been oriented towards enhancing the efficiency of
infrastructure provision, improving managerial expertise and securing more modern technology
through private sector participation. GOSL's initiatives to seek private sector investments, both
in the form of privatization and greenfield projects, have been heightened by the increased
pressure on budget resources imposed by the civil conflict. The progress in actually closing
deals with private sector investors has been slow. However, the successful privatization of the
Colombo Gas Company, followed by the finalization of the Build-Own-Transfer (BOT) project
The present Government came to power through elections in the latter half of 1994. Led by the People's Alliance, it
replaced a government led by the United National Party since 1977.
2 This policy initiative for private sector participation in infrastructure was strongly supported by a USS10 million
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) technical assistance project (ongoing) which includes
institutional building, training, market outreach and a comprehensive public education program. Similar USAID
initiatives have contributed to successful private sector infrastructure investment programs in Pakistan. the
Philippines, and Indonesia.



-2-
agreement for a 51 MW diesel-fired power generation plant with a private consortium in
December 1995 has set the stage for further private sector initiatives.
1.4    The proposed project seeks to develop a modern and efficient infrastructure system in Sri
Lanka by promoting significant participation of the private sector in the investment, operation,
ownership, and maintenance of infrastructure facilities. The project will enable potential investors
to access long-term  financing (the lack of which presently hinders infrastructure project
development) through a single purpose government owned company, the Private Sector
Infrastructure Development Company (PSIDC). PSIDC will provide long-term subordinated debt
at rates based on prevailing market conditions for infrastructure projects in tandem with additional
private sector debt and equity. The leveraginig of private sector financing will also induce
operational efficiency and techniology transfer inhierent in private sector operations.  In
collaboration with USAID, techniical assistance provided under the proposed credit will help
strengthen GOSL's ability to evaluate and negotiate private infrastructure projects.
1.5    The proposed project will supplement rather than replace traditional sources of funding.
Thus, sub-borrowers will be encouraged to maximize the use of export credits and seek the
assistance of institutions with a mandate to support private investments in infrastructure facilities
such as International Finance Corporation (IFC), Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
(MIGA), Asian Development Bank's (ADB) private sector wing, and Canadian Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC). PSIDC is expected to work very closely with these agencies
and with commercial lenders in reviewing and finanlcing subprojects to provide complementary
financing.
II. POLICY ENVIRONMENT FOR PRIVATE SECTOR
FINANCED INFRASTRUCTURE
A. The State of Sri Lanka's Infrastructure
2.1    Sri Lanka has registered impressive achievements in non-traditional exports and
maintained a consistent growth path. Value-added in manufacturing has grown by 8.8 percent
per annum on average during 1990-94, contributing a third to gross domestic product (GDP)
growth. However, sustaining this growth requires immediate attention to infrastructure
deficiencies. In the power sector, the absence of new generation capacity is causing shortages.
In the road subsector, rapid expansion in traffic volume, fueled by rising industrial and
commercial activity, has led to serious transport bottlenecks, especially in the Greater Colombo
area. The capacity expansion of key traffic corridors, such as Colombo-Katunayake, Colombo-
Galle and Colombo-Kandy, has become critical to sustaining the competitiveness of Sri Lanka's
agricultural and manufactured exports. The unsatisfied demand for telecommunication services
is estimated to exceed the number of currently connected subscribers.
2.2    Per capita availability of power, measured by households with access to electricity,
shows that Sri Lanka lags behind India. It fares much worse when compared to East Asian
countries  (see Table 1).  System  losses are comparable to India's, but quite high when
compared with Thailand's or Malaysia's. Despite Sri Lanka's smaller size and plentiful water
resources, access to safe drinking water is marginally worse than  in India. In the
telecommunications sector, Sri Lanka has 12 phone lines per thousand people compared to 31 in
Thailand and 111 in Malaysia. Although call completion rates in Sri Lanka are better than in its
South Asian neighbors, there is need for improvement as compared with the more progressive



-3-
East Asian countries. In the road subsector, although Sri Lanka has a good network, years of
neglect and under-investment have eroded the infrastructure stock, resulting in poor rankings in
terms of paved roads in good condition.  Over the last decade, Colombo Port, which is
acknowledged as the best run port in the region, has emerged as a major transshipment center for
containers. However, it lags far behind its main competitor, Singapore, in terms of efficiency.
B. Infrastructure and Competitiveness
2.3      Several studies conducted in Sri Lanka in the recent past have underscored the
importance that industries and business establishments attach to adequate and reliable provision
of infrastructure services. The Bank's Private Sector Assessment (PSA) conducted in 1994 and
the Industrial Infrastructure Assessments carried out in 1992 and 1994 reveal that industries and
businesses face high economic costs due to infrastructure deficiencies, such as rescheduling
production and providing stand-by generation and timely movements of inventory and products.
With the increasing trend towards the outsourcing of intermediate production to areas of skilled
and inexpensive labor, a new dimension has been added to cost competitiveness: businesses are
seeking facilities where comparative logistical costs of manufacturing and marketing are lower.
In this regard, studies reveal that logistical costs as a percentage of sales value for garment
industries, for example, are seven to ten percentage points higher in Sri Lanka than in the
Philippines, implying that Sri Lanka's export competitiveness is critically dependent on
infrastructure improvements.3
Table 1: Infrastructure: How does Sri Lanka Compare?
Indicator                  Sri Lanka    India       Pakistan     Philippines      Thailand       Malaysia
% Households with
Electricity                      33       54           3 1            46               43             64
System Losses
(% of output)                    1 8      1 9          24              1 9             1 I            16
Average tariff
US cents                        5.8       4.8          6.2            7.6             7.1             na
Population with safe access
to drinking water (%)            60       73            55             81              77             78
Telephone Density
(Lines/1000)                     12       8             16             10              31            III
% Calls completed
(Local calls)                    60       40            na             68              93             na
Paved Road Density
(km\million persons)            536      893          229            242              513             na
Percent Paved Roads in
good condition (%)               10       20            18            31               50             na
Notes:  (I) Data generally pertains to the years 1990-94.
(2) Sources for data - The World Development Report 1994, A Survey of Asia 's Energy Prices, and International
Telecommunications Union (ITU) reports.
3(i) "Private Sector Assessment - Sri Lanka," SAICO, the World Bank, March 1994.
(ii) "Greater Colombo Infrastructure Assessment," SAIEF paper, September 1994.



-4-
C. Constraints to Efficient Public Sector Infrastructure Provision
2.4    The operation and ownership of the vast majority of Sri Lanka's infrastructure is in the
public sector.   The private sector participates  in the provision  of bus and  ancillary
telecommunication services. Over the last three decades, both the creation of new infrastructure
and maintenance of existing assets has been under-funded, leading to serious supply constraints.4
Countries developing at the pace of Sri Lanka require annual investments of five to six percent
of GDP to maintain and renew infrastructure stocks. The ratio of investment in economic
infrastructure to GDP has never exceeded five percent, even during periods of high GDP growth.
This has led to insufficient investments in new capacity, as well as poor attention to maintenance
of existing assets. The situation has been compounded by poor management, over-staffing and
inefficient operations in most utilities. Although estimates vary, conservative projections of
required investments in energy and infrastructure indicate a need for US$2 billion in new
investments over the next seven to ten years. Securing financing for and timely implementation
of projects of this magnitude is clearly beyond the scope of the public sector. Hence, there is a
significant need to involve the private sector in the financing, operation and management of
infrastructure assets. Besides leveraging more resources and mitigating under-funding of new
investments, the country would also realize significanit efficiency gains from the injection of new
technology and managerial expertise.
D. GOSL Policies for Attracting Private Infrastructure Investments
2.5    Responding to this situation, GOSL adopted a policy in 1992 to promote private sector
participation  in infrastructure provision.  The policy had three main objectives: (a) to
complement public investment; (b) to provide additional capacity in critical areas through
privately-led investments; and (c) to mobilize private sector management resources to improve
efficiency. Despite the shift in government policy in favor of private participation, translation
into real transactions has been a difficult and contentious process.
2.6    One of the foremost reasons for slow progress in policy implementation stems from the
entrenched interests of different players in the public sector monopolies.  The absence of
capacity to deal professionally with private sector investors and to facilitate and promote
transactions also has hindered progress. Furthermore, the lack of a comprehensive legal and
regulatory framework that sets out the full policy and incentive package for private sector
investors has slowed the investment process. The lack of professional capacity to efficiently
manage project transactions involving private sector investments and the scarcity of appropriate
financing that matches the investment requirements of large infrastructure projects have also
contributed to slow progress. Table 2 revisits the constraints to the private sector provision of
infrastructure investment and sets out the current set of coordinated GOSL and donor activities
that are in train to mitigate these constraints.
2.7    In 1992, the Government established the Secretariat for Infrastructure Development and
Investment (SIDI), now the Bureau for Infrastructure Development (BID), as the institutional
instrument to interface with the private sector and promote their participation in line with the
policy objectives. BID, with technical assistance from USAID, has carried out a series of
initiatives aimed towards awareness-building, education and training and capacity-creation in
4For purposes of this paper, irrigation investments have been excluded.



-5-
government agencies for identifying, developing and evaluating private sector projects. The
policy has been successful in raising awareness among line ministries and public utilities to the
possibilities of private sector financing. The Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB), the National
Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) and the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) are
exploring project processing through Build-Own-Transfer (BOT)/Build-Own-Operate (BOO)
mechanisms directly; in so doing, they are building up their own capabilities. Currently all the
major government agencies with responsibilities for infrastructure development have explicit
private sector development programs that involve at least one project that is suitable for private
sector financing.
Table 2: Constraints and Mitigation Policies and Actions
for Private Sector Infrastructure Investment
Constraints                              Mitigation Policy and Actions
Lack of capacity to facilitate, promote  *   Creation of SIDI (BID) as the central GOSL coordinating and
and negotiate infrastructure project     promoting agency (USAID)
transactions                         *   Technical assistance to build capacity in the line
ministries/agencies to solicit, negotiate, and evaluate private
infrastructure projects (the proposed International Development
Association (IDA) credit)
Public sector ownership and entrenched   *   Outreach and extensive education and training to line ministries
interest groups seeking to maintain the  provided by BID (USAID)
status quo                           *   Workshop(s) on project finance with line ministries and
agencies (IDA)
Lack of enabling legal, regulatory and  *   Preparation of draft Private Sector Infrastructure Regulations to
institutional framework                  Board of Investments (BOI) Act (USAID)
*   Preparation of regulatory framework for private sector
participation in the power sector (IDA)
*   Identification of potential private sector participation
possibilities and preparation of a framework for private
participation in the transport sector (IDA)
*   Liberation and strengthening of the regulatory framework for
the telecommunication sector (Telecommunications Sector
Regulatory Support Project financed by IDA)
*   Solicitation and evaluation of proposals for private sector waste
water treatment plants and creation of a framework for
implementation and operation of such facilities (The Colombo
Environment Improvement Project financed by IDA)
Lack of institutional capacity to manage   *   Establishment of the Private Sector Infrastructure Development
and perform infrastructure project       Company with ability to build an appropriate skill base in
transactions                             project finance transactions (proposed IDA credit)
Lack of appropriate term financing   *   Establishment of the Private Sector Infrastructure Development
Company with the ability to provide appropriate term financing
(proposed IDA credit with co-financing from Kreditanstalt for
Wiederaufbau)
*   Debt and equity financing through IFC



-6-
2.8    Recent examples of private sector infrastructure development include the solicitation of
proposals for power generation through barge-mounted power plants and a 150 MW combined
cycle generation plant near Colombo. In the port sector, proposals have been invited through
open solicitation for refurbishment of the Queen Elizabeth Quay in the Colombo Port. Requests
for proposals for two wastewater treatment plants on a BOT basis are also to be issued soon.
Bidding for two wireless. basic telephone licenses that will compete with Sri Lanka Telecom's
(SLT) basic services is in its final stages. Table 3 summarizes progress in private sector
involvement over the last four years.
Table 3: Chronology of Development of Private Sector Infrastructure
Date                                         Activity
Mid 1992            a  Cabinet Decision to promote private sector participation in infrastructure
through BOO/BOT mechanisms and approval to set up SIDI under the
Ministry of Policy and Planning
Late 1992           .  Establishment and staffing of SIDI as "one-stop shop" for liaison with
private sector investors
1993-1994          *  SIDI's education and outreach to line ministries in the development of
private sector infrastructure projects; building up of potential project
pipeline
. Training and capacity-building for GOSL through SIDI for project
identification, negotiations with project sponsors, and financial and
technical review of potential projects
1995              .  Public Enterprise Reform Commission (PERC) created
. SIDI moved to the more commercially oriented BOI and a new management
structure was created as BID.
. Finalization of the first BOO power project (51 MWs)
* Solicitation for BOT for Colombo Port
* Solicitation for BOO for 150 MW combined power station
. Invitation for the two (wireless) basic telephone licenses that will compete
with SLT
2.9    Notwithstanding the progress on private sector involvement with infrastructure, as
illustrated in Table 3, both private investors and the Government realize that the lack of long-
term financing constitutes a significant barrier to closing these transactions. Box I highlights
these financial constraints. Furthermore, in line with experience from other high-risk country
environments, project sponsors seek the comfort of a multilateral presence to bolster risk
mitigation mechanisms. These factors have led GOSL to request IDA support, both for project
facilitation and financing. IDA is coordinating with USAID to firm up the institutional side of
project facilitation, and with IFC and KfW to establish appropriate financing arrangements for
maturing projects.



-7-
B2xLJ: Sri Lanka - Infrastructure Financing Constraints
It has become increasingly apparent that the inability to mobilize debt for infrastructure projects
has become a key impediment to their financing. Accounting for nearly 75 percent of a typical financing
package, the availability of debt, in terms of volume and maturities necessary for large scale infrastructure
projects, is an area of growing concern. Commercial banks have exposure limits to countries and sectors,
and find it difficult to lend at maturity terms suitable for infrastructure projects (12-15 years or more).
Other potential sources of debt, such as provident funds or insurance companies, are typically averse to
undertaking equity-like risks often associated with long-term infrastructure debt financing in developing
countries. Furthermore, if commercial lenders include the necessary risk premium to compensate fully for
the perceived riskiness of the transaction, sponsors and/or governments will often deem the price
prohibitive.
In the case of Sri Lanka, these constraints to long-term debt mobilization are compounded by the
international financial community's relatively low regard for the nation's credit-worthiness. A developing
country like Sri Lanka with balance of payments constraints cannot rely exclusively on foreign capital to
finance its infrastructure. However, with an under-developed financial sector, Sri Lanka is likely to face
severe constraints in securing long-term domestic funding for private sector infrastructure projects. The
volume of funding sourced from the local market (debt and equity) for private investment expenditure in
Sri Lanka has been quite small, only 20 percent of total new private sector investment in 1992.
Currently IDA is supporting reforms in the financial sector through the ongoing Private Sector
Development Project (PSDP) which includes the privatization of state-owned banks and insurance
companies. IFC has also been active in supporting the commercialization of pension funds and in the
development of a secondary market for government bonds. The debt market, however, remains ill-
equipped to accommodate the volume of financing necessary to support domestically financed
infrastructure projects. Private sector access to long-term domestic funds has been limited by a very strong
market for funds with short maturity terms (dominated by government paper) and a corresponding absence
of market instruments to attract funds with longer maturity terms. The situation is exacerbated by the high
retums on treasury bills, relatively risk-free instruments, that keep funds out of other instruments. The lack
of a secondary market in debt instruments further compounds the problem. There are no long-term
government bonds; and, as a result, there is no market-determined reference point to establish a yield
curve.  Furthermore, savings institutions, such as the Provident Fund and National Savings Bank,
contribute to the diversion of term savings away from the private sector since there are mandatory
placements in government securities.
E. IDA's Operational Lessons and Strategies for Supporting Private Sector
Infrastructure Development
2.10   In the past, IDA has supported infrastructure development in Sri Lanka through lending
to public sector agencies. The effectiveness of this lending has been diminished by the chronic
operational weaknesses of these agencies. Significant funding amounts under several IDA credits
for infrastructure operations in the road and power subsectors have been cancelled due to the
inability of public sector agencies to implement these credits in a timely manner, often as a
result of procurement delays. The diminished fiscal position of the public sector as a whole has
also exacerbated these operational weaknesses.



-8-
2.1 1   GOSL has articulated its intention to follow the rest of Asia in supporting the increasing
demands for rapid infrastructure development through the use of the private sector. If acted
upon, sorely needed operational efficiencies, technology transfer and increased financial
resources will result.  Though it must be recognized that the private sector can only develop
projects selectively and public investment will remain extremely important, a major objective of
the World Bank Group is to influence and accelerate the transitional process from public-
dominated infrastructure to private operation and ownership. The Bank Group's proactive role in
Sri Lanka is seen as an innovative one for the promotion of private sector opportunities, given
the main emphasis on public sector lending for infrastructure by the other major donors -
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) and ADB. Furthermore, in countries eligible for
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) lending partial risk guarantees
are suitable instruments for Bank support of private infrastructure projects. However, in "IDA
only" countries other types of operations must be used. The limited credit-worthiness of these
countries means that a greater degree of direct donor support is needed to encourage private
infrastructure investments.
2.12   Over the years, the Bank has provided some financial support for private infrastructure
investments (especially in power). However, this support has generally been in the form of loans
to existing utilities and not for greenfield BOO/BOT projects financed on a limited recource
basis. The Private Sector Energy Development Fund (PSEDF) in Pakistan that was created with
the assistance of the Bank (Loan 2982-PAK) provides the most relevant experience for the
design of the proposed operations. PSEDF (see Box 2) clearly demonstrates the effectiveness of
a public-private approach at the beginning of the transitional period from public sector monopoly
to widespread private sector participation in infrastructure provisions. PSEDF gave the Bank and
other donors the ability to influence the process of private investment in infrastructure early on.
The background work and technical assistance provided under PSEDF provided the foundation
for Pakistan's policies supporting private power and infrastructure investments. The main
lessons learned from PSEDF can be summarized as follows: (a) there is a need for a central
focal point in the Government for promotion of private infrastructure projects; (b) the concerned
line ministries and agencies need to be actively involved in the solicitation and negotiation
process; (c) the financing agency needs to be independent and apply sound commercial criteria;
(d) the fund management should not provide senior loans and/or equity in order to avoid
possible conflict of interest situations; (e) it is essential to employ high caliber international
legal, financial and technical consultants for the evaluation and negotiation of the subprojects; (f)
the mere existence of the Fund can provide a strong incentive for private sponsors to make the
necessary investments in project development; (g) the initial projects should not be too large in
order to facilitate the mobilization of external financing; and (h) in low income countries with
limited credit-worthiness, the commercial lenders require the additional protection provided by
the subordination of the donor financing.



-9-
BoxL2: The Privale Sector Enera Development Fund (MED]0_ Pakintan
PSEDF was designed to address a fundamental constraint to greater private sector
involvement in the energy sector in Pakistan. Specifically, PSEDF was then, and continues to be
today, a means to successfully address the issue of a lack of long-term finance for power and
energy-related infrastructure projects with relatively long periods of gestation and economic life.
PSEDF provides a source of long-term subordinated debt from which private sector sponsors can
borrow. Terms for PSEDF for subordinated loans include: (a) maturities of up to 23 years; (b)
grace periods of up to 8 years; and (c) a minimum equity of 20% in the proposed project. PSEDF
was established with Bank assistance in 1988 (Loan 2982-PAK) and was replenished in 1994
(Loan 3812-PAK). Under the former loan, an institutional framework was created for the
promotion, negotiation and financing of private energy projects. Private Power Cell was
established in the Ministry of Water and Power as the focal point for negotiation with project
sponsors, and Private Energy Department was created in the National Development Finance
Corporation (NDFC) to appraise subprojects and  manage PSEDF. Additional technical
assistance to the Government of Pakistan (GOP) was provided by USAID.
The first subproject financed through PSEDF, the Hub Power Project, took over 5 years
after the initiation of the start of construction, largely due to factors beyond the control of GOP
and project sponsors. When construction started in early 1993, the 1,292 MW Hub Project was
the largest private power plant being built in a developing country. The construction is on
schedule and start of commercial operations are expected to occur before the end of June 1996.
The negotiations for the Hub Power Project gave GOP valuable experience that led to a
fine-tuning of the institutional arrangements and the announcement of a Private Power Policy in
early 1994. Under this policy, that many developers have described as the most transparent and
best prepared in any developing country, five more power projects--with a total capacity of about
1,100 MW-- have reached financial closure. Another five projects are expected to reach
financial closure before the end of June 1996. PSEDF has also been successful in augmenting its
resources from donors, for example, in additional to the World Bank, who have contributed
US$390 million, JEXIM has contributed US$400 million.
2.13   The project incorporates these lessons and is tailored to support a selected program of
private sector investment that will: (a) leverage IDA's reduced lending involvement with private
sector resources; (b) improve operating efficiency in infrastructure; and (c) act as a catalyst for
further project development. Initiated at the beginning of the transition period when private
sector operations will be introduced into traditionally public sector managed and controlled
activities, the project will be able to influence the process of private investment, much as in
PSEDF. To date, several potential BOO/BOT-type transactions have been seriously delayed in
the very early stages which in part underlines the inexperience of GOSL in dealing with these
types of transactions. Furthermore,  Sri Lanka's poor record of attracting overseas non-
guaranteed debt will make it difficult for private sector sponsors to mobilize the required
financing for larger infrastructure projects that are urgently required. Lessons from countries in
the region indicate that for long-gestation, private sector energy and infrastructure projects, the
necessary financing can probably be mobilized only with significant support provided by the



-10-
Bank Group, other multilateral development banks and bilateral agencies. The subordination of
the long-term debt proposed under the project will give added comfort to prospective lenders,
most specifically at the initiation of the program of private sector transactions in infrastructure.
2.14   The innovative nature of the proposed operation is consistent with the World Bank
Group's country assistance strategy (CAS) as it is in support of GOSL's various efforts to ease
infrastructure constraints through significant involvement of the private sector. The project is
specifically directed at supporting large infrastructure projects, the lack of which hinders the
country's growth.  Sri Lanka's current uncertainties and the lack of confidence of the
international financial community in the country make it necessary to bring to bear the full range
of the Bank Groups' complementary financial products in order to attract private sector
investment.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
3.1    The project originated with a growing acceptance that the private sector has a significant
role to play in infrastructure development which led to GOSL's adoption in 1992 of a policy of
encouraging private BOO/BOT operations and the creation of SIDI (now BID). Technical
assistance provided by USAID to BID has helped create awareness of private sector options in
the ministries and agencies responsible for infrastructure development and helped develop a
pipeline of potential projects. Recognizing the difficulty of mobilizing sufficient commercial
funds for private infrastructure projects once such projects are identified, GOSL requested IDA's
support in establishing a long-term subordinated debt facility. The debt facility will complement
GOSL efforts by identifying and capturing private sector resources, efficiencies, and technology
transfer in typically large-scale infrastructure projects. The project was prepared with the
assistance of a Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant provided by the
Government of Japan.
B. PiQ-jct Objectives
3.2    The overall objective of the project is to develop a modern and efficient infrastructure
system  in Sri Lanka by promoting significant private sector participation.  More detailed
objectives of the project are to:
(a)    establish a GOSL facility for the placement of long-term debt that will work in
tandem with private sources of capital to facilitate potential private sector
investment;
(b)    encourage significant participation of the private sector in the investment,
implementation, operation and maintenance of new infrastructure facilities; and
The most recent CAS for Sri Lanka is dated June 13, 1996.



-1 1-
(c)    strengthen GOSL's ability to attract, negotiate and close private sector sponsored
infrastructure projects by increasing capabilities to evaluate and negotiate
projects with private sponsors.
C. Proiect Description and Technical Assistance
3.3    The Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project (PSIDP) would support the
establishment of a long-term debt facility and associated technical assistance consisting of:
(a) The Long-Term Debt Facility: The proposed IDA credit would provide long-term
subordinated debt for private sector infrastructure projects.6 The recently created
Private Sector Infrastructure Development Company, Ltd. (PSIDC), a public
sector company, would act as the executing agency for the project. It would
administer project funds received from official development sources, on behalf of
GOSL, and place these funds in selected private sector subprojects up to a
maximum of 40% of the total subproject cost. Subproject sponsors, who would
prepare individual subprojects, would provide the equity and arrange for the
remainder of the debt financing from  commercial sources.  Planned as a
transitional mechanism, the facility would have available US dollars for long
maturities that match new infrastructure investment needs. The facility has been
planned to accommodate additional multilateral and bilateral financing to increase
the total availability of funds. In addition to the US$70 million provided by IDA,
KfW will also provide DM 20 million or about US$14 million. ADB and OECF
have also expressed interest in supporting the project. A Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) of US$700,000 has been secured to assist with start-up costs of the
project; and
(b)   Technical Assistance: (US$7 million) Technical assistance (TA) is provided
under the project to assist in the organization, operation, management and
consultancy services for PSIDC, training and funds to support project preparation
for solicited projects in association with the line ministries and agencies. The TA
funds will be passed on as a grant from GOSL to PSIDC. Full details of the
project's TA components are set out in Annexes 4, 8, 9 and 10 and are summarized
below:
TA to support PSIDC (US$3.5 million). In order to meet project objectives, it is
necessary to ensure that requisite technical, financial and managerial
competencies are provided within PSIDC to attract serious private sector interest
and to be able to process and negotiate projects with private sector sponsors.
Besides meeting the expenses of setting up the Company office, the TA would
provide management expenses for the Company, including salaries and other
operating expenses for an initial period. The Company brochure and the
operational manuals of PSIDC would be prepared under this TA. This also
includes the provision of a long-term consultant as advisor to the General
Manager. The TA would also be used to retain the services of a consortium of
consulting firms to provide the technical, financial, legal and environmental
6At the mid term review for the project, consideration will be given to expanding the financial products offered by the
project to include takeout finance, senior debt, etc.



-12-
expertise on an "as required" basis to appraise, evaluate and negotiate project
proposals. The TA would also provide training and professional development for
PSIDC staff. The TA would be operative for a period of four years from the
start of operations of the Company.
TA  in support of Line Ministries (US$3.5 million). The credit would also
provide funds to support project preparation of individual subprojects that have
been (or will be) identified by the line agencies as suitable for private sector
investment and participation. This TA will be used in cooperation with the line
agencies to support evaluation and negotiation of subprojects. The TA will also
support the further development of existing pre-feasibility studies or the
commissioning of entirely new studies. The objective of the studies will be to
provide complete documentation to enable the solicitation of high caliber
BOT/BOO bids for infrastructure projects. The TA would also support limited
work on sectoral policy and regulation, if these are necessary to advance private
sector transactions in specific sectors, especially in areas where other
multilateral or bilateral assistance is not available.
D. Proiect Design
3.4    D.asi& Rational. The rationale for PSIDC stems from the need to address constraints
experienced by project sponsors in raising long-term debt for projects in Sri Lanka. Typically
sponsors will choose non-domestic private sector financing of infrastructure projects on a non- or
limited-recourse basis, with the projects being formulated under BOO/BOT arrangements. This
means that the lenders' ability to seek payments from the sponsors and other equity holders is
limited. Since the liquidation of infrastructure assets is extremely difficult, lenders have to rely
primarily on the revenue stream of the enterprise to ensure the repayment of the loans. Since
equity participants take a higher risk, they typically demand higher returns than debt holders to
invest in developing country projects. In the infrastructure sectors, projects with a large share of
equity in the capital structure are usually not viable since the higher returns demanded by equity
holders raise the price of the output beyond the local market's paying capacity. Therefore,
infrastructure projects tend to be highly leveraged with debt-equity ratios in the range of 70:30 to
80:20. This means that they have a limited ability to adapt to changing market conditions. In
view of this risk and the large proportion of debt in the capital structure of such projects, it is
typically the willingness of commercial lenders to place debt for the project that determines its
viability. IDA's participation, in the form of long-term subordinated debt, will lessen the
transaction risks perceived by sponsors and lenders and facilitate the mobilization of senior
commercial debt.
3.5    Subordination and Limits to PSIDC Funding. Private sector infrastructure projects in
developed countries are financed with long-term debt that reasonably matches the long economic
life of the assets. For power plants, maturities typically are in the range of 15 to 20 years while
the financing for toll roads in some cases has extended as far as 40 years. In the case of Sri
Lanka, commercial debt sources typically operate on terms of three to four years, extending to
seven years in very special cases and often require government guarantees. These maturity terms
do not match the typical financing profile of infrastructure projects, where capital costs are high,
construction times are long and the projects do not generate sufficient cash flow in earlier years
to service large amounts of short-term debt. In order to provide longer maturities (up to 12



-13-
years), commercial lenders insist on export credit insurance coverage for sovereign risks. Other
alternatives sources for long-term debt are IFC, ADB's private sector window, and CDC. The
maturities of these loans tend to be in the range of 10-12 years.
3.6    For infrastructure projects, it is essential to structure at least a portion of the debt as
loans of long maturity with a grace period in the earlier years of the project. Recovery of
principal for the long-maturity loans commences after the bulk of commercial, shorter term debt
is retired. Thus in order to provide maturities of 15 to 17 years, PSIDC would provide loans with
maturities of up to 22 years and with grace periods of up to eight years. Maturities would be
linked to the cash flow and construction periods of the subprojects, expected economic life of the
assets and the maturities of senior loans. The inclusion of senior commercial debt in the
financing package is important, since it lowers the overall financing cost of the project and
brings to the project a high degree of commercial diligence, both to financing decisions and in
structuring the security agreements.
3.7    The design of the project is significantly influenced by the experience gathered from a
wide range of international project financing transactions. The main sources of financing for
private infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka are likely to be export credit agency (ECA)
guaranteed debt, A and B loans from IFC and, to a minor extent, loans from ADB and CDC. The
extent of ECA coverage depends on the sourcing of the equipment and the country and project
ceilings that various ECAs apply for risk management purposes.7 Direct loans from IFC, ADB,
and CDC are subject to similar limitations.  IFC's B loans are further subject to market
limitations. For some smaller projects it might be possible to mobilize commercial debt with
minimal PSIDC participation. However, for high-risk "first" projects in each sector, or those of
a larger magnitude, the support of PSIDC financing is likely to be required. The project design
envisages flexible participation by PSIDC with PSIDC playing the role of the "lender of last
resort." PSIDC financing in any subproject would be limited to a maximum of 40 percent of
total project cost. Thus, the overriding objective would be to maximize leverage of private
capital sources and minimize PSIDC involvement.
3.8    Location and Governance.   The design of the facility has been guided by two
principles. Firstly, the facility would complement existing market sources of financing, i.e.,
equity and short- term commercial debt. Secondly, while respecting GOSL's important policy
oversight role, the facility would be organized and operated in a relatively autonomous fashion.
PSIDC would be professionally managed, equipped and empowered to make decisions on clearly
established commercial principles at arms length from GOSL. The project preparation process
extensively examined the viability of channeling IDA's funds through an existing financial
institution, but the size of its potential loans were seen as incompatible with the current operation
strategies of the existing institutions. The requisite size of the facility would have meant that the
repository financial institution would violate its single borrowing and capital adequacy
requirements.  Furthermore, the option of having one of the two existing private sector
development banks manage the fund was examined. However, a major objective of the proposed
project is to involve these development banks in the mobilization of the senior local debt for
subprojects. There is clear conflict of interest between the senior debt position and the
subordinated debt position if either of the domestic development banks were to act as a
A review of six recent private power projects in Pakistan showed that ECA financing ranged from 20% to 47% with
an average of 34%. The situation for Sri Lanka is expected to be similar.



-14-
contractor or agency for the Government in the placement of the subordinated debt. The option
of having a commercial bank manage on a fee basis or contract base was explored. Possible
conflict of interest with existing large customers and the involvement with public sector funds
were cited as reasons why this type of arrangement was not appealing to the private banking
sector.
E. The Long-Term Debt Facility
3.9    Organizational Structure. PSIDC was incorporated as a public company in August
1995. It will be the executing agency for the project on behalf of GOSL. PSDIC will have
available IDA and other donor funds, received from GOSL, to place in financially and
economically viable infrastructure subprojects. PSIDC has the responsibility to identify.
evaluate, approve and supervise suitable subprojects as set out in its Articles of Incorporation.
PSIDC has been incorporated with a nominal share capital basis of 2,000 SLRs. All shares of
PSIDC are held in trust for GOSL; the Secretary of Finance is the majority shareholder with 70
percent of the shares. Decisions on the allocation of PSIDC loans will be vested in the Board of
Directors, who are appointed by GOSL, and would be taken in accordance with criteria agreed
by IDA. Following approval by PSIDC and subsequently by IDA, PSIDC will enter into a
subproject loan agreement with, and make loan funds available to, the sub-borrower. Funds
designated for use as long-term subordinated debt and their repayment will be maintained in an
account at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (the Fund account). This account will be independent
from PSIDC's operating account (OP a/c) which will be established only for meeting its day-to-
day operating requirements. In accordance with normal practice, Government entities have the
right to operate accounts with the Central Bank. PSIDC is expected to follow this practice and
the Fund account is recommended to be housed in the Central Bank. The Central Bank has no
special oversight functions with respect to the account.
3.10   The Board of Directors of PSIDC currently has a majority of non-civil servant directors.
The GOSL confirmed that it will maintain this policy of a majority of non-civil directors over the
life of the company. This will help insure the autonomy and creditability of the PSIDC in
dealing with the international and local private sector. PSIDC's General Manager will serve as
the Secretary of the Board of Company. The duties, legal authority and obligations of the
Company have been set out in the draft of the subsidiary loan agreement (SLA) between GOSL
and PSIDC. As a condition of effectiveness of the Credit, GOSL will enter into a legally binding
SLA with the PSIDC that is satisfactory to IDA. Further, GOSL agreed that the operating
procedures of the PSIDC will be set out in the SLA in such a way as to assure PSIDC's
autonomy and give it the ability to function on a commercial basis. The procedures for staffing
and for staff benefits are therefore expected to be comparable to existing private sector financial
institutions currently operating in Sri Lanka. It was agreed at negotiations that this would be
accomplished by September 15, 1996.
3.11   The financial resources managed under PSIDC will be supplemental to those existing
resources available to Sri Lanka. PSIDC will work closely with sub-borrowers to make the most
of traditional sources of project finance. Sub-borrowers will be encouraged to maximize the use
of export credits and seek the assistance of IFC, the MIGA, ADB's private sector wing, the
CDC and other similar purpose institutions when putting together the funding package for
proposed projects.



-15-
3.12   PSIDC's operations will be directed by the General Manager with a small staff which
initially will include a financial analyst, an accountant and an infrastructure project specialist.
These professionals will be supported by consultants hired on a retainer basis to assist in legal,
technical, financial and environmental aspects of subproject evaluation and financial risk
assessment. Normally, reputable international firms with extensive experience from private
sector infrastructure projects would be employed. The Manager will be supported by a long-
term resident advisor who will help coordinate all activities and identify the need for the short-
term subject specialists. Loan disbursements and collections will be handled by accounting
experts within PSIDC. The Government agreed that the evaluation of the proposals for the
shortlisted consultants would be completed by September 1, 1996, and the award of this contract
would be accomplished by October 1, 1996. The long-term advisor is expected to be in place by
January 1997.
3.13   Subproject Eligibiity Criteria. Subproject processing will be carried out by PSIDC's
General Manager and his staff under the overall direction and control of the Board of Directors.
PSIDC will approve subprojects for financing only after ensuring that the proposals are
consistent with Sri Lanka's national priorities. In particular, PSIDC would ensure that policy and
regulatory frameworks for private sector participation that would take account of end user
benefits would be in place.8 The subprojects will meet technical, economic, financial and
environmental viability criteria and national or IDA environmental standards (including criteria
for involuntary resettlement, should it arise) in case of IDA-supported subprojects.9 Ordinarily
the question of a subproject being compatible with national planning priorities will be examined
by the line ministries and BID before being recommended for financing. In fact the Letter of
Intent (LOI) issued by GOSL, which forms the basis of the project financing, implies that the
subproject has met all national criteria. However, it is still incumbent on PSIDC to examine the
proposed private sector subproject in this regard. The subproject eligibility criteria that have
been agreed to by Government for projects to be financed by PSIDC are set out in Box 3.
3.14   Subproject Approval Procedures. PSIDC has two points for project approval. Early on
in the process, the subproject sponsor submits a loan application to PSIDC. At this time the GM
will carry out a preliminary assessment to ascertain if the subproject is likely to meet the
eligibility criteria for PSIDC funding. This early vetting will be done is association with IDA.
As the subproject develops, PSIDC's staff will prepare an appraisal report. To assist with these
due diligence processes, PSIDC will employ reputable international legal, financial,
environmental and technical consultants. At this time, the PSIDC will be involved with the
detailed discussions of the Security Package (SP). During negotiations, the Government agreed
to the generic conceptual framework as described in the SP for the undertaking of privately
supported subprojects in the infrastructure sector.  The appraisal report, along with a
recommendation to make a loan, will be forwarded by the General Manager to the Board of
Directors, who will be responsible for sub-loan approvals. In order to ensure that the subprojects
meet IDA's requirements regarding quality and viability, the appraisal report prepared by PSIDC
will be reviewed and approved by IDA. IDA's approval is a condition of disbursement of the
sub-loans. Once the recommendation of a sub-loan is accepted, the General Manager and staff,
including consultants, will be responsible for loan documentation and negotiation, as well as
Table 2 sets out a list of regulatory and policy frameworks at various stages of preparation for different subsectors.
See Annexes 5 and 6 on the Environment and Social Assessment Framework for the project.



-16-
supervision, monitoring and fulfilling reporting and auditing requirements.  The sub-loan
approval process is set out in Box 4.
Box 3: Subproject Eligibility Criteria
*: GOSL 's Priority Plan: Public and private sector investments should form an integral
part of the priority plan for the relevant subsector. This would also ensure that
public and private investments are complementary.
*  Regulatory and Policy Framework: Policy and regulatory frameworks for private
sector participation that adequately protect benefits to end users should be in place:
before subproject approval.
*  Uset of Proven Technologies: The technology proposed for a project should have a
track record of demonstrated success in countries at a similar level of technological
development and infrastructure support, as in Sri Lanka.
*  Viability: Sponsors should possess a proven capability to develop, finance and
operate the infrastructure projects in countries at a similar level of development as
Sri Lanka. To ensure commitment, sponsors equity would need to represent at least
20 percent of the project cost with the main project sponsors holding a minimum of
35 percent of the equity for at least five years after start up of commercial
operations.
* Limited Recourse Financing: Private investors and lenders should not require direct.
sovereign guarantees. Lenders should rely on the security package (see Annex 2),
future cash flows from the project and the value of the assets for comfort. The debt;
financing must include some portion of non-recourse commercial senior debt.
PSIDC will not cover more than 40 percent of the project's total costs.
* Economic Rate of Return: The economic rate of return will exceed 12 percent and,
where applicable, the subprojects will form part of the least-cost development plan.
*  Environment and Social Assessment Criteria: All projects will necessarily meet
GOSL's environmental and social assessment criteria as set: out in the National
Environmental Action Plan as well as IDA's environmental and social assessment;;
guidelines.
Source: Annex 1, 5 and 6
F. Financial Arrangements
3.15   Lenuding Tern,. GOSL will pass through all credits from donors to PSIDC on the same
terms as the original credit. Thus, IDA funds placed in PSIDC would carry an interest rate of
0.75 percent per annum and a maturity rate of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years.
However, the loans to PSIDC would be denominated in US dollars and, in the case of the IDA
credit, GOSL would take the SDR - US dollar exchange rate risk (see para. 3.22-3.23). PSIDC
will provide debt to sub-borrowers in US dollars and will arrange for loan maturity periods not



-17-
exceeding 22 years, including a grace period of up to 8 years. Maturities and grace periods will
be determined on a case-by-case basis taking into account the nature of the subproject. Interest
during construction would be capitalized and form part of the financing provided by PSIDC to
subprojects. In order to protect PSIDC's cash position during the start-up period, the loan from
GOSL to PSIDC would have a five-year moratorium on the payment of interest.
Box 4: Sub-Loan Approval Process
Summary
*  GOSL issues a Letter of Intent (LOI) to the selected Private Project Company.
.  The Private Project Company submits a Loan Application to PSIDC together with the Loan
Application Fee.
*  The General Manager (GM), in collaboration with IDA, will carry out a preliminary assessment
based on the information received in order to ascertain the eligibility of the subproject by PSIDC.
.  The GM will submit a recommendation to the Board of Directors to accept the loan applications
and for the authorization to commence negotiations.
.  If the Board of Directors clears the operation, the GM will issue a Preliminary Acceptance Letter
(PAL) to the Private Project Company including a draft-term sheet and sub-loan agreement.
.  The Private Project Company will convey their acceptance of the PAL and deposit the Sub-loan
Appraisal Fee
.  If the proposal was unsolicited, the Private Project Company will complete the project's
Feasibility Study in accordance with the LOI and the PAL.
*  The GM, supported by consultants, will participate in the negotiations of the Security Package
(SP) with the Private Project Company.
*  At the same time, preliminary negotiations of the Sub-loan Agreement will take place and be
evaluated by the GM, supported by consultants.
.  Once the SP is initiated, the GM will undertake the subproject appraisal and prepare an Appraisal
Report including Due Diligence.
.  The GM will seek approval of the loan by the Board of Directors.
  The GM will send the Appraisal Report, Draft Sub-loan Agreement and Engineering,
Procurement Construction (EPC) contract (if needed) to IDA for concurrent approval by the
Board of Directors.
*  The GM will finalize negotiations of the Sub-loan Agreement with the Private Project Company.
*  The GM will sign the Sub-loan Agreement with the Private Project Company.



-1 8-
3.16   The determination of initial lending rates has been led to a large extent by the limited
market for long-term lending in Sri Lanka at present. A variable rate option has been determined
on the basis of IFC's proposed lending rate for US dollar debt, which is 6 month US$
LIBOR+250 basis points for a term of 10-15 years, for an independent power project in Sri
Lanka. In the case of PSIDC, a premium of 50 basis points has been added to reflect the
subordinate nature of the lending. The variable-rate basis has been discussed with international
bankers in Sri Lanka who concur that the pricing of PSIDC's proposed lending rate appears to
be appropriate for attracting equity and commercial debt resources.
3.17   In view  of the rigid end-use tariff structure in most sectors in Sri Lanka, most
infrastructure project sponsors also desire a fixed-rate interest option for PSIDC debt. The fixed
rate being proposed for PSIDC is based on the prevailing rates for swaps between variable and
fixed interest rates on US dollar debt at the time of subproject loan negotiation. A premium of
300 basis points would be charged as additional premium to reflect country risk.10 The borrower
would have a choice between the variable and fixed-rate options at the time of negotiating the
loan. IDA and GOSL would retain oversight on loan decisions and lending terms and would revisit
offered rates annually. To summarize, the two options available to the subproject borrower are:
Variable interest rates based on 6 month lJS$ LIBOR, plus a premium of 3
percent (LIBOR+ 3 %).
Fixed interest rates based on the term of the loan and the market swap rate between
variable and fixed interest rates for US$ debt at the time of subproject loan negotiation,
plus a premium of 3 percent.
3.18   Fesc,  It is envisaged that the recurrent management costs of PSIDC shall be partly
covered by fees charged from borrowers. The proposed fee structurel l is as follows:
*  one time loan application fee of US$5,000;
*  documentation fee of 0.50 percent of the loan amount, subject to a maximum of
US$300,000 plus out-of-pocket costs of international travel and fees for consultants
employed for the due diligence process;
*  commitment fee of 0.75 percent of the committed funds; and
*  project monitoring fee of 0.25 percent of the yearly outstanding balances, subject to
a ceiling of US$50,000 per annum plus out of pocket costs.
3.19    Nature and Extent of Spread Income and its Deployment  Credits from IDA to GOSL
carry a service charge of 0.75 percent per annum and a term of 40 years with ten years grace.
These terms are passed on to the Company. However PSIDC places debt at significantly higher
rates, for maturities varying between 15-22 years and a maximum grace period of eight years.
The differences between the funding and placement terms of PSIDC will result in cash surplus in
the Fund account over time. Indicative financial projections show that, with an initial
capitalization of US$70 million, accumulated interest spread reserves are upwards of US$ 9
The lending spread over LIBOR would be reviewed annually for new subprojects in order to reflect changing market
conditions.
The fee structure will be based on commercial practices and market rates.



-19-
million in year 6. In addition to interest spread, the difference in the maturity and grace periods
of loans placed by PSIDC and the credit from IDA to GOSL also leads to cash retention in the
Fund account. The principal repayments on the project loans placed by PSIDC commence from
year 8 onwards. The accumulated surplus in PSIDC available for placement would be around
US$25 million in year 8 and over US$40 million by year 10. The income resulting from interest
spread and the amounts arising from principal retention would be partly deployed to cover
operating expenses and for financing other new projects. The resulting surplus can be used to
finance up to 40 percent of costs for new projects. Thus, additional projects of about US$100
million could again be financed by PSIDC by the tenth year. (Full details are set out in Annex
4.) During negotiations, the Government agreed to the above lending arrangements including
lending rates, fees, grace periods, and maturities. It was also agreed that PSIDC will carry out a
review of these lending terms and conditions each year and adjust the terms and conditions for
new loans in line with market based criteria. During negotiations, it was also confirmed that the
main purpose of retaining the spread income within PSIDC was to support future lending for
infrastructure projects. Operating expenses of PSIDC would also be supported from the spread
income and PSIDC Board will approve this allocation through the operating budget of the
PSIDC. This mechanism will be set out in the SLA as part of the operating procedures of the
PSIDC.
3.20   Future of PSIDC. PSIDC is a single purpose Company which will act as a catalyst in
promoting private sector sponsored projects.  PSIDC has been designed as a transitory
mechanism, and not a permanent institutioni. PSIDC's role as a lender will continue only as long
as the international capital markets are still unable to meet Sri Lanka's requirements for long
term finance for infrastructure projects. During negotiations, it was agreed that a plan would be
prepared by GOSL jointly with IDA for the future of PSIDC during the closing months of the
project, i.e., before June 2002. This would include the provisions for a range of options for
PSIDC, including restructuring, privatization, as well as closure. The future of PSIDC as a
lender will be determined on the basis of: (a) GOSL and IDA agreeing that there is no further
need for such a lending mechanism; or (b) when Sri Lanka achieves a sovereign investment
grade rating from an internationally recognized credit rating agency and keeps this rating for at
least two years. The latter would establish a bencihmark for the winding down and closure of
PSIDC as a lender as such a credit rating would imply that projects could secure long-term credit
in a commercial basis without PSIDC's support.
3.21   Foreign Exchange Implications. Foreign exchange risk implications arise primarily
from the transactions occurring between PSIDC and the sub-borrower. The subproject revenue
streams will most likely be in local currency, whereas the debt service to PSIDC will be in US$
(rupee dollar equivalent).  In typical project finance transactions, the sub-borrower project
company would be able to mitigate a part of the risk arising from this situation through currency
depreciation pass-throughs in the offtake agreements. It is expected that the sub-borrowers
would mitigate the exchange-rate risks, especially during construction, through hedging and/or
exchange rate insurance which would be included in the rate or tariff base. Thus, ultimately it is
expected that the buyers/customers who carry the cost associated with the exchange rate. In
principle, the exchange rate risk would be the responsibility of the sub-borrower.
3.22   There are exchange-rate risk implications for GOSL and IDA as well. Although the
lending and repayment currency for PSIDC is US dollars (rupee dollar equivalent), as is the
currency of repayment to GOSL, the obligations of GOSL to IDA are denominated in SDRs and
repaid in dollars by GOSL. Risks arising from an adverse movement of the dollar against SDRs



-20-
are normally bome by the borrowing government, in this case GOSL. Given the wide spread
between lending rates to the sub-borrowers and the IDA lending rate and the closure of PSIDC
after 10 years when principal repayments to IDA would start, GOSL would have ample revenues
to compensate for this rather modest risk.
G. Project Cost and Financing
3.23   The facility would initially be funded with part of the IDA credit amounting to US$70
million and a KfW credit of approximately US$14 million.  Because no subprojects are at a
stage where they require financing under this facility, the figures presented below are
preliminary and illustrative. However, based on Bank experience in the region, the facility, as
initially funded, is expected to leverage an additional US$141 million in private sector
investment, both foreign and local, in the form of debt and equity. Therefore, the estimated costs
of the subprojects are expected to be approximately US$225 million. Both a project cost and
indicative financing plan are presented below.
Project Cost:
(US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total
Infrastructure Project (s)      45        180      225
Project Management & TA           1         6        7
Total                            46       186      232
Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total       %
SUBPROJECTS
Long-term Debt Facility
Proposed IDA                  10          60         70           33
Proposed KfW                   2          12          14           6
Commercial Sources
Local Commercial Banks        10                      10           4
Export Credit Agencies                    80         80           35
Foreign Equity                19          28         47           20
Local Equity                   4                       4           2
Sub Total                     45         180        225          100
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE
IDA  (Sub Total)               1           6           7         100
TOTAL                         46         186        232          100
12 KfW has scheduled an appraisal for mid 1996 with the expectation of a credit agreement by September 1996. The
effectiveness of KfW credit is a condition of IDA credit.



-21-
H. Project Implementation and Supervision Strategy
3.24   PSIDP is an umbrella project, under which infrastructure subprojects from a variety of
subsectors will seek financing in the form of long-term subordinated loans. This two tiered
structure predicates that project implementation will have two separate phases. Phase I will be
the setting up of PSIDC, the appointment of the staff, the Resident Advisor and supporting
consultants, the compiling of the Company Brochure and the preparation of the operating
manuals. Phase 11 of project implementation is the placement of PSIDC loans in subprojects.
(Annex 1 I-A  sets out the Implementation Plan  and Annex I I-B sets out the Supervision
Strategy).
3.25   The project management will be undertaken by the General Manager and staff of PSIDC
with the assistance of consultant advisors. The General Manager will be responsible for the
preparation of the company brochure and the operations manual(s) for PSIDC. The preparation
of the company brochure and operation manual(s) will be a condition of disbursements for the
sub-loan component.
3.26   The implementation of the project, that is the placement of loans in subprojects, will be
undertaken by the General Manager and the PSIDC staff.. For each subproject, the reporting
package will include the appraisal report, quarterly progress reports and annual audited financial
statements. A Project Completion Report (PCR) will be required following the completion of
each subproject.  Supervision by IDA will be most critical during the initial loan application
approval process and during the negotiation of the sub-loan agreements at the following points in
the loan application and processing schedule:
*      Submission of the subproject loan application to PSIDC;
*      The subproject loan application will include the statutory GOSL and IDA/World
Bank environmental clearances before processing; and
*      Submission of the final draft of the subproject appraisal report and loan
documentation to which is attached the conditions offered to the sub-borrower.
3.27   IDA appreciated the statutory requirement of the Auditor General to audit the accounts
of the PSIDC, however the government agreed during negotiations that due to the complex
nature of the sub-project accounts and foreign exchange implications, the PSIDC will also
appoint an independent external auditors in consultation with IDA, and with the concurrence of
the Auditor General to provide annual audited financial statements. The audited accounts of the
PSIDC will be presented no later than four months after the end of each financial year. The
GOSL has agreed that the PSIDC will also furnish to IDA a quarterly progress report in a form
satisfactory to IDA. In addition the Government agreed that a mid-term review would be
undertaken to review the implementation of the project, jointly with IDA, by June 1999 and that
an operations plan that will include an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be
prepared within six months after the closing date of the proposed project on June 30, 2002.
3.28   During the first phase of the project--during which operating manuals for PSIDC are
written, staff is hired and formal reporting and accounting procedures are being established--IDA
supervision will concentrate primarily on institutional arrangements, ensuring that the proper
operating framework and environment is set to facilitate a subproject lending program. Once



-22-
this is in place the supervision of PSIDC's arrangements will focus on the effectiveness of the
institution in meeting the needs of the market, to ensure the design in practice actually functions
as envisaged. Part of the supervision will address the development impact of the project in terms
of the adequacy of policy frameworks for private sector participation that will ensure end user
beniefits in subprojects. Phase two of the supervision component would essentially review the
implementation of specific subprojects financed by PSIDC under a two stage process. The first
stage will largely focus on the subprojects and PSIDC's review of the loan applications and
subproject appraisals. This review will include an examination by IDA of the subprojects in
terms of environment, resettlemenit, procurement, economic viability, consistency with IDA's
subsector strategy, etc. The second stage of the supervision will focus largely on the subprojects
in PSIDC's loan portfolio. It will include a review of the timeliness and quality of subproject
implementation,  compliance  with  standards  specified  for  construction,  procurement,
environment and resettlement, and operations and maintenalce. PSIDC would be required to
employ technical advisors for in-depth monitoring of the subproject implementation. These
technical advisors would, inter alia, ensure that the subprojects are being constructed in
accordance with agreed international standards and that progress payments and associated
PSIDC disbursements reflect actual progress. In order not to duplicate efforts, PSIDC and the
senior lenders can employ the same advisors. The reports of these advisors would be forwarded
to IDA and provide important input into IDA's own supervision efforts. IDA's staff input for
supervision is expected to average about 20 staff-weeks per year. Ways will be sought to
augment these resources throughi use of co-finianicier resources and project technical assistance.
IV. THE SUBPROJECTS
A. GOSL's Subproject Pipeliie
4.1    At present GOSL, in association with the Iine ministries and SIDI, has developed a
pipeline of projects that are potential candidates for private sector sponsorship. These
subprojects illustrate GOSL's desire for broad based private sector participation in infrastructure
development rather than constitutling a specific lending pipeline endorsed by IDA or PSIDC.
Total value of these projects over the near term, to the year 2001, is over US$600 million and
range in size from about US$10 million to US$200 million. Four major areas of infrastructure
development--power, toll roads, ports and urban services (water, wastewater and solid waste)--
are expected to dominate potential private sector investments financed through PSIDC.
Subprojects described in this section are possible candidates for PSIDC financing. Until
appraisals have been undertaken that meet IDA's requirements, subprojects will not be eligible
for PSIDC funding.
4.2    As more fully discussed below, some of the power subprojects are expected to
materialize early, as might also be the case for a ports operation. Subprojects in other sectors are
likely to take one or two years before they reach financial closure. This assessment is consistent
with international experience. However, projects in the water, wastewater and roads subsectors
are generally seen by private investors and lenders as more risky and more difficult to finance.
Thus, in these cases PSIDC's financing facility can play an important catalytic role in giving
both GOSL agencies and private sponsors increased confidence that financing will be available
for soundly structured and economically attractive infrastructure projects.



-23-
4.3    Po     There is a growing demand for electricity; failure to provide a reliable supply
will act as a deterrent to potential investors and a constraint on economic development. At
present levels of coverage, CEB estimates an annual eight to ten percent rate of demand growth
for power. Most of the demand is spurred by industrial expansion in the vicinity of Colombo. In
the near term, it is this market that is likely to provide the basis for thermal capacity expansion.
4.4   In terms of capacity, there is an immediate need to establish 200 MW by 1997/98 and an
additional 300 MW by the year 2000. A further 1,000 MW of thermal capacity will be required
by the year 2010. Apart from some small and mini hydro-projects, new hydro capacity needed
over the next 20 years is at an advanced planining stage, and a potential willingness to finance
these projects has been expressed by some of the traditional donor agencies. Thermal projects,
on the other hand, represent an important long-term opportunity for private participation in the
power sector. The Government and CEB have clearly indicated a preference for establishing new
thennal capacity in the private sector.
4.5    At the present time, a number of solicited and unsolicited proposals in the power
subsector are under active consideration and/or negotiation. An unsolicited bid for a 51 MW
diesel thermal plant near Colombo (thie KHD project) has been approved, and the project
agreement was concluded in December 1995. IFC has been closely involved in developing and
negotiating the project and is expected to finance debt and equity. The sponsors of the project
have also expressed an interest in exploring PSIDC funding for the project. Furthermore, bids
for a group of nine mini-hydro projects totaling 51 MW were solicited and concessions have
been awarded to two sponsors: Biwater Hydro for seven of the projects and Stothert Power for
the remaining two. The sponsors are presently in the process of developing the projects;
feasibility studies prepared by the sponsors are under review by CEB. Both groups of sponsors
have expressed a desire for PSIDC funding. CEB has recently issued a request for proposal for a
150 MW oil-fired combined cycle power plant, to be located near Colombo. Bids closed on
January 26, 1996. It is understood that a number of internationally reputed sponsors have
submitted bids. Evaluations of the proposals are being carried out by SIDI and CEB.
4.6    Toll Roads. The Road Development Authority (RDA) has ambitious plans for 400 km
of new highways at a cost of $600 million. They include the Airport Expressway (Colombo to
Katunayake), the Southern Highway to Galle and Matara and the Outer Circular Highway to
Colombo. The economic merit of these roads has still to be fully determined. Furthermore, it is
unlikely that any new road development could be financed by tolls alone, but such projects could
be attractive to the private sector if some elements of real estate development were included. The
Airport Expressway appears to be economically viable and is probably the project which would
be the most interesting for developers on a BOT basis. A feasibility study for this project is
being undertaken by RDA, as a prelude to its possible solicitation on a BOT basis.
4.7   paris. Based on experience elsewhere in Asia, the port sector is viewed as a strong
candidate for private sector participation. There are plans to further develop the capacity and
facilities at the Port of Colombo. BOT proposals were invited to refurbish and increase the
capacity of the Queen Elizabeth Quay from 350,000 TEUs (twenty feet equivalent units) to
1,000,000 TEUs. The bids are presently being evaluated. Proposals for bunkering facilities and
inland container depots are also under development.
4.8    Requests for proposals were also invited for new construction and operation of container
terminals in the Galle port, and the bids received are being evaluated. The Government views



-24-
the development of Galle Port in the Southern Province as a way to relieve Colombo's
congestion and stimulate badly needed economic activity in the south, but major investments by
SLPA  are needed in breakwater construction and dredging before the private sector will
seriously consider a BOT arrangement for capacity improvements and a transshipment terminal
for the port. Total public and private project cost for the Port of Galle is US$600 million. IDA is
currently in discussion with GOSL about providing support for a port optimization study that
would establish a rational basis for a national port investment strategy over the medium term.
4.9    Urban Servs. The opportunities for private sector provision of water supply will be
restricted to Greater Colombo for the time being because of the current low domestic tariffs
levels and limited commercial/industrial base in other areas. The average tariff levied by
NWSDB is about half the average cost of supply. NWSDB is able to perform financially due to
a government grant that supports about 50% of its investmenit requirements. Furthermore, much
of the funding is on a concessionary basis. Until major sector reforms are implemented and
tariffs are set at appropriate levels to ensure cost recovery,  some form  of public/private
partnership will be the principal mechanism  for involving the private sector.  Under the
continuing program of assistance to the sector, IDA is exploring options with GOSL and
NWSDB to delink Greater Colombo from NWSDB's operatioiial jurisdiction and to encourage
the provision of water supply and sanitation services by the private sector.
4.10   Wastewater treatment facilities for industrial estates, where joint facilities are more
economic than single-user facilities, are possible candidates for private sector financing. Such
enclave schemes could be built, owned and operated by (transferred to) a private party, who
would look to the fees charged to the industrial estates for debt repayment and return on equity.
There are at least six industrial areas in or near Colombo where tills approach could be adopted.
Two industrial areas, which include the possibility for private sector investment for wastewater
treatment plants, are the subject of feasibility studies that are financed under the recently
approved IDA credit for the Greater Colombo Environmental Improvement Project. The total
cost of these proposed treatment plants is about US$10 million.
4.11   In addition to the possible projects indicated above, the creation of PSIDC is expected to
encourage further project candidates.  As an indicative  measure of the scope of PSIDC
financing, the following table sets out the magnitude of the potential demand for long-term debt
and the potential amount of this debt that PSIDC could fund, given that this funding is limited to
40% of the total project costs. With an estimated near-term project pipeline of approximately
US$600 million, these potential investments could absorb over US$200 million of PSIDC
funding (see Annex 3). With a present allocation of US$84 million, PSIDC has considerable
scope for expanding its program. The near-tern private sector investment program (over the
next six years) could include:
Sector               Total Cost (US$ million)    From  PSIDC  (assume
40% of cost provided)
Power                            314     _126
Transportation                   290                        116
Urban Services                     0                          4
Total                            614                        246
Source: Annex 3



-25-
B. Environmental and Social Impact Requirements and Economic Analysis for Subpro.ects
4.12   Environmental and Social Impact Requirements. No specific subprojects have as yet
been identified for PSIDC financing under the credit. Thus no specific Environmental
Assessments (EA) is available. However, most larger-scale infrastructure projects that would be
funded by PSIDC are expected to have a category "A" rating under the Bank's Operational
Directive (OD) for environmental screening (OD 4.01 and BP 17.50). Thus, the operation has
been given  an  "A" rating, and an Environmental Assessment Process Document'3 was
distributed to the Executive Directors on December 14, 1995. This summary sets out the
framework for environmental clearance in Sri Lanka and the policies and procedures that would
be followed for subprojects to be financed under the credit. Any subproject that would involve
IDA funding through PSIDC would need to meet the Bank's environmental guidelines. Annex 5,
which is part of the Environmental and Social Assessment Framework for the project, sets out an
outline of the requirements and process for environmental clearances that would need to be met
for each subproject. An EA satisfactory to IDA would be required to enable the loan application
from the sub-borrower to PSIDC to proceed. Likewise, all subprojects that entail acquisition of
private property (legally owned or customarily used) will be required to assess their impact on
people living in the affected areas. This impact assessment will be carried out as an integral part
of the EA. When applicable, it would meet the requirements for involuntary resettlement as set
out in the Bank's Operational Directives (OD 4.30). Annex 6 elaborates on the current part of the
Environmental and Social Assessment Framework that applies to involuntary resettlement.
Specific requirements for the EA as it is applied to subprojects would be set out in the
operational manuals of PSIDC. The consortium of consultants, that are accessed through the
supporting TA by the General Manger of PSIDC for project evaluation, will also include a
strong, internationally recognized firm of environmental and resettlement specialists.
4.13   All subprojects, both solicited and unsolicited, are legally required to have an EA under
the amended National Environment Act (NEA) of 1993. Detailed resettlement plans will be part
of the EA as mandated under NEA regulations. Under these provisions, line agencies and
ministries are designated as Project Approving Agencies (PAA). The Central Environmental
Authority (CEA) appoints a PAA who has the authority over the project as the agency
responsible for drafting the terms of reference (TOR) of the EA and chairing the meeting of
experts who evaluate the EA. The EA is undertaken by the private sponsor under the direction of
the PAA's TOR. EA approval is contingent uppn public consultation and a positive response of
the Technical Evaluation Committee approved by the CEA. These processes would need to be
completed before securing GOSL approval and before any subproject is approved for financing
by PSIDC.  During this process provision will be made for supervision of the agreed
environmental standards during subproject implementation and operation.14  For those projects
13 Sri Lanka: Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project: Environmental Assessment Process Document
SecM95 1255
4 The project will take advantage of the work of the IDA Environmental Action I Project (under preparation) which
seeks to establish appropriate standards for environmental due diligence, revamp existing environmental laws and
regulations, and build capacity in environmental and related institutions (mainly CEA) for preparing and
implementing environmental assessments and carrying out effective enforcement.



-26-
where the line ministries take advantage of the project preparation TA provision in the credit, the
EA would be designed according to IDA requirements.
4.14   Economic Analysis. The economic analysis of the project will be carried out at the
subproject level, on a case-by-case basis. As indicated earlier in the subproject eligibility
criteria, the minimum acceptable economic rate of return is in excess of 12 percent for a
subproject and this is considered consistent with other IDA funded projects in Sri Lanka. The
methodology that would need to be followed to prepare the economic analysis for the subprojects
will be set out in the operating manuals of the PSIDC. This analysis would include: (a) the
consistency of the subproject with the priority plans of the subsector; (b) the existence of suitable
policy and regulatory frameworks that will enable final consumers to benefit from private sector
efficiencies, (c) valuation of economic benefits and costs using appropriate economic pricing,
and (d) identification of the risks of the subproject and the associated mitigation measures. The
economic analysis will be part of the PSIDC's subloan appraisal documentation and will be
approved by IDA.
C. Procurement and Disbursements
4.15   Procurement for Subprojects.  Where PSIDC is financing the cost of a subproject
procured under the BOO/BOT arrangement, two procurement procedures could be used. In the
case of a solicited proposal, the investor or project sponsor would be selected under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) or Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures acceptable to
IDA. This procedure would review several factors in order to arrive at the optimal combination
of evaluation criteria, such as the cost and magnitude of the financing offered, the performance
specifications of the facility offered, the cost charged to the user or purchaser, other income
generated by the borrower or purchaser of the facility, and the period of the facility's
depreciation. The sponsors selected in this manner shall then be free to procure the goods, works
and services required for the facility from eligible IDA members, using their own procedures. In
this case, the type of expenditures to be financed shall be specified in the SLA.
4.16   In case of unsolicited proposals, when the sponsors have not been selected on a
competitive basis, the goods, works or services required for the subproject and to be financed by
IDA shall be procured in accordance with ICB or LIB procedures in accordance with the Bank's
procurement procedures, subject to the exception referred to below. Up to 20 percent of the cost
of the subproject can be procured with (i) due attention to economy and efficiency, and (ii) in
accordance with sound commercial practices. Goods, works and services financed from the
proceeds of loans and mixed credits made by another multilateral agency or a cofinancing
government would be procured in accordance with the procurement rules and procedures of the
bilateral agency or the multilateral cofinanciers.  All procurement for civil works, equipment
and materials undertaken by sub-borrowers for contracts estimated to cost more than
US$ 1,000,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review.
4.17   Under limited recourse financing, lenders generally insist that subproject companies
have access to standby financing to meet any unanticipated financial obligations, and that it is
available for deployment as needed rather than being tied to specific procurement packages.
Standbys are provided by the major equity holders and both senior and subordinated lenders.



-27-
They are drawn down o0i a pari passu basis irrespective of the cause of the cost overrun with a
strong economic rationale. If the standby commitments of different lenders were earmarked for
different project components, the " law of averages" would not apply and the total amount of
standbys would have to be increased to provide risk protection and which would increase overall
project financing costs. Furtherimiore, if cost overruns occurred and PSIDC (and IDA) did not
participate equally in the standby facilities, the commercial lenders would have to finance a
higher percentage of the project. They would increase the risk premium incorporated in their
interest rate, so the overall cost of the project would go up, and its viability decrease.
4.18   Consequently, the provision of standby facilities and the pari passu draw down of these
facilities arc essential to ensure the overall economy of the project. Failure to do so would
invariably lead to greater difficulties in mobilizing the total financing and in incurring a higher
cost of the subprojects financed through PSIDC. The standby financing provided by IDA would
be disbursed against goods, works and related services. Some of these funds might be disbursed
against the same items that are covered under the subproject's base financing and which shall
have been procured strictly under tile Bank's procurement rules. However, because of the
pooled nature of the standbys, part of the standby financing might cover cost increases on items
that have not been procuired following the Bank's guidelines. It is proposed that the proceeds of
the proposed IDA credit be used for such goods and works so long as certain safeguards are
applied. These safeguards are that the disbursements be for contracts that hlave been awarded:
(a) in accordance with sound commercial practices; (b) with due attention to economy and
efficiency; and (c) in accordance with the Bank's eligibility requirements. In addition, such
disbursements would not be made against goods and services provided by a subproject sponsor
or shareholder. As a general rule, the maximum percentage of IDA funds eligible for standbys
for any subproject would not exceed 20%.
4.19   Proceeds from  the proposed credit would also be used to finance insurance that is
procured competitively off-shore. This follows limited recourse project finance practices which
place major emphasis on the identificationi, allocation and mitigation of risks in a transparent
manner. In order to ensure that the potential proceeds of any claims would be available to the
lenders and that the cover is adequate, the commercial banks typically insist that the owner
procures all the insurance for the construction phase (rather than relying on the insurance cover
normally obtained by contractors and suppliers). To obtain the lowest possible price, insurance
financed under the proposed credit would be procured through LIB from firms that have the
highest rating.'1
4.20   Procurement by PSIDC and Line Agencies.  Consultants would be selected in
accordance with IDA's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Contract packages for equipment
and materials costing less than US$30,000 could be procured through local shopping with an
aggregate of not more than US$250,000. Contracts with consulting firns estimated to cost more
than US$100,000 and contracts with individual consultants costing more than US$50,000 would
be subject to prior review.
Companies should have a Best's Insurance Reports rating of at least "A" or equivalent, have an Insurance Solvency
International Limited rating of at least "A" or equivalent, or receive the highest financial condition rating of any
other independent insurer rating organization that issues ratings on not less than five hundred (500) insurers.



-28-
Summary of Procurement Arrangeinents for IDA Component
(Indicative)
ICB           LIB            LCB           Other          Total
Indicative Project(s)      55             10             5                             70
TA                                                        1             6              7
Total                      55             10             6              6              77
4.21   Disbursements.  Prior to the disbursement of any IDA funds for a subproject, IDA
would review and approve the followinig documenits:
*  the appraisal report prepared by PSIDC to ensure that the subproject is technically sound,
and economically and financially viable;
*  the procurement documentation to ensure that l[)A's guidelines have been followed;
*  the environmental assessment, and its applicability to the resettlement action plan; and
*  the key documents in the security package with special emphasis given to PSIDC sub-loan
agreement.
4.22   PSIDC would be the lender of last resort.  Depending on the availability of other
financing, PSIDC's contribution would vary from case-to-case. Tlhus, disbursement percentages
would also vary, depending on the contract packaging of the subproject and PSIDC's share of the
financing. The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as follows (See Annex 13):
subprojects competitively awarded after international solicitation:
(a)    100 percent of EPC contract payments, determined on a case-by-case basis;
(b)    100 percent of foreign expenditures (ci f. cost) and  local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) for ancillary equivalent and materials (not included in the EPC
contract), determined on a case-by-case basis; and
(c)    100 percent of interest during construction and other charges accrued on the
amounts of the sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of the credit;
eligible contracts on other subprojects:
(a)    100 percent of foreign expenditures and 85 percent of local expenditures for
works, determined on a case-by-case basis;
(b)    100 percent of foreign expenditures (c.i.f. cost) and local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) for equipment and materials, determined on a case-by-case basis;
(c)    100 percent of foreign expenditures on off-shore insurance, determined on a
case-by-case basis; and
(d)    100 percent of interest during construction and other charges accrued on the
amounts of the sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of the credit;



-29-
technical assistance and institutional strengthening:
(a)    100 percent of expenditures on consultant services and training;
(b)    100 percent of foreign expenditure (c.i.f. costs) and local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) for equipment and materials;
(c)    70 percent of other items procured locally; and
(d)    100 percent of incremenital staff costs up to the end of June 1999 and 70 percent
througih June 30, 2001.
4.23   The disbursement of funds by the cofinaniciers (if any) would be in accordance with their
respective guidelines. Disbursement would be fully documented, except for expenditures under
contracts for goods costing less than US$30,000 equivalent procured for the use of consultants,
for contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent and
contracts with individual consultants estimated to cost less than US$50,000. Such disbursements
would be made against statements of expenditures (SOE), the documentation for which would
not be submitted to IDA but retained by PSIDC for inspection by the supervision missions. The
standard procedures for auditing SOEs would apply. In order to expedite disbursements, a
Special Account would be established in a commercial bank, in accordance with terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The initial deposit in the Special Account would be equivalent to
four months of expected expenditures or about US$400,000. The indicative disbursement
schedule has been projected to cover a six-year period and is set out in Annex 4. The estimated
disbursement profile takes into consideration typical subprojects and the indicative composition
of the portfolio to be financed from the proposed credit.  The cut-off date for new loan
commitments financed under the credit from PSIDC would be June 30, 2000. The credit closing
date would be June 30, 2002.
4.24   An indicative disbursement table is set out below:
Disbursement
(US$ millions)
Year                 1         2         3         4         5         6      Total
TA                  1.3       2.1       1.7       1.9        0          0       7.0
Project            2.0       12.0     20.0      20.0       12.0       4.0      70.0
Total              3.3       14.1     21.7       21.9      12.0       4.0      77.0
Source: Annex 4



-30-
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1    The proposed project will facilitate the expansion of infrastructure while helping to
mobilize financial, technical and managerial resources from the private sector. As indicated in
Chapter 11, additional infrastructure investmenits are essential to the Sri Lankan economy to fully
realize the benefits of its potential economic growth.  By removing bottlenecks in power,
transport, water and other infrastructure sectors, the proposed project would facilitate the growth
of the industrial and commercial activities of the country, and particularly the competitiveness of
its agriculture and manufactured exports. In the power sector, considerable benefits are expected
to be derived from the project throughi a reduction of the high economic cost of power shortages
(estimated in the range of US$0.3-US$0.5/kWh), mainly reflecting losses in the manufacturing
industry. Similarly, the expansion of transport services and water supply would enhance the
commercial and industrial activities, including the tourism industry. The proposed project would
also have a beneficial impact on poor households, not only by stimulating the overall economic
development, but also by improving reliability of power, access to water supply, transport
mobility and facilitating growth of new economic activities.
5.2    Additional benefits are expected to be derived from the involvement of private sector
technical and managerial expertise. In particular, savings would be achieved by raising the
efficiency of operation of infrastructure services. Bank and worldwide experience indicates that
private sector infrastructure participation results in lower costs, higher output, and higher
reliability of services.  At present, private sector investment interest is increasing, yet the
inability to finance long-term commercial debt continues to be an impediment to the successful
initiation of new infrastructure projects. The project would address this financing gap and act as
a catalyst to realize the private sector investment strategy for infrastructure. The involvement of
the private sector will provide a positive model for existing and future projects. It would assure
the quality control of the pipeline of projects identified and supported by GOSL by providing
autonomy in decision making on projects assisted under PSIDP. This will help to ensure
transparency in funding decisions.
5.3    From the macroeconomic point of view, the proposed project would have a positive
impact in the form of fiscal relief obtained from the decrease in public sector expenditures in
basic infrastructure.  The project would allow the mobilization of a large portion of the
infrastructure investment cost outside the budget, since PSIDC would contribute up to 40% of
the investment cost with the balance provided by the private sector through long-term
commercial debt and equity. Furthermore, the ability of PSIDC to retain its spread income will
ensure that the proposed project will be supportable through its own resources. Further all
subprojects should yield an economic rate of return exceeding 12 percent to comply with IDA
guidelines for PSIDC.
B. Risks
5.4    Prgject Risk,  A clear risk for the project is the slow implementation by the line
ministries of the policy of private sector participation in infrastructure. This policy has been
articulated in the establishment of SIDI and has been strengthened in recent policy directives



-31-
which place SIDI under the direct control of the Board of Investment. It has been reinforced
more recently by the President in her public policy statements, particularly in her recognition
that infrastructure development is not keeping pace with the accelerated growth of Sri Lanka's
economy and could prove to be a bottleneck to sustained growth. There is a risk of not enforcing
this policy due to: (1) natural reluctance of the line ministries to fully embrace private sector
participation in infrastructure investments; (2) line agencies' preference in seeking the support of
traditional donor financing and thereby crowding out private sector approaches; (3) the recent
reorganization of SIDI and its lack of a robust track record; and (4) possible constraints imposed
by a myriad of government regulations and bureaucratic inertia that might slow down the
development of sound project proposals and delay financial closure. The incursion of such risks
would possibly slow down the commitment and disbursement of project funds. The strong
political support for private infrastructure investments underlined by the increasingly apparent
infrastructure bottlenecks and significant public debt burden will mitigate against this risk. The
active leadership of the Public Enterprise Reform Commission as the Board of Directors of
PSIDC gives the project an enihanced institutional profile, given the recent successes of the
Commission in privatizing a range of public assets. The recent conclusion of the negotiations
concerning the 51 MW power plant (IFC supported) and the active pursuit of the concerned line
agencies of the program to cover various infrastructure enterprises indicate that the traditional
resistance by the bureaucracy has been overcome.
5.5    A further risk is that the success of the project relies on the activities and decisions of
private sector entrepreneurs and investors who are not under the direct influence of IDA.
Although care will be taken to appraise subprojects to be financed under the Company and pre-
qualify potential investors, the lead time in negotiating the security arrangements of putting
together a satisfactory financial package of additional debt financiers and equity partners is long.
Such development risks experienced by similar private project initiatives have resulted in delays
in financial closure and commissioning. The long gestation period required in public-private
projects should be realized since such delays cause increases in costs, lost revenues, and
consumer dissatisfaction. A number of these risks will be addressed through technical assistance
with the provision of an experienced long-term advisor and well designed operating criteria for
PSIDC, and through adequate supervision of the project.  For the latter, a high level of
supervision resources has been allocated.
5.6    Su4pEj.c1 Risks.  Subproject risks or risks for individual lending operations under
PSIDC will be managed under well established principals of risk mitigation for non- or limited-
recourse projects.  The leading principle of risk allocation is that it is most economically
efficient to allocate risks to the party that is in the best position to manage and control them. In
general, political, legal and force-majeure risks are allocated to the Government; commercial,
market, construction, operation and maintenance risks are allocated to various commercial
partners. All risks under the subprojects are identified and allocated through the various legal
agreements and contracts under the security package (See Annex 2). For example, construction
risks under the project are allocated to the contractor under the turnkey contract; operation and
maintenance risks are allocated to the operator of the plant under an operation and maintenance
agreement.
5.7    During the early years of its operations, PSIDC's assets would be concentrated in one of
a couple of subprojects, and its reserves would be non-existent or fairly small. The failure of one
of these subprojects could result in losses for PSIDC that would be passed on to GOSL. This



-32-
risk would be partly mitigated through provisions in the Implementation/Concession Agreements
that would allow GOSL, under certain circumstances, to take over the Company if it failed to
perform successfully.
VI. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements:
6.1    Agreement has been reached with the Government, as follows:
(a)   that it will maintain a policy that the PSIDC will have a majority of non-civil
servant directors over the life of the company (para 3. 10);
(b)    that the operating procedures as set out in the SLA of the PSIDC will assure
PSIDC's autonomy and give it the ability to function on a commercial basis. The
norms for staffing and for staff benefits, therefore, will be comparable to
existing private sector financial institutions currently operating in Sri Lanka and
this will be accomplished by September 15, 1996. (para 3.10 );
(c)   that the evaluation of the proposals of the shortlisted consultants would be
completed by September 1, 1996, and the award of this contract would be
accomplished by October 1, 1996 with a view to the long-term advisor being in
place by January 1997. (para 3.12);
(d)    on a set of eligibility criteria for approval of subprojects (para 3.13 and Box 3);
(e)   that the sub-borrower would have a choice between the variable and fixed-rate
options at the time of negotiation the loan with PSIDC and these options are
(3.17):
Variable interest rates based on 6 month US$ LIBOR, plus a
premium of 3 percent (LIBOR+ 3 %).
Fixed interest rates based on the term of the loan and the market swap
rate between variable and fixed interest rates for US$ debt at the time of
subproject loan negotiation, plus a premium of 3 percent.
(f)   that the recurrent management costs of the PSIDC would be partly covered by
fees and the fee structure will be based on commercial principals and market
rates (para. 3.18)
(g)   that PSIDC will provide debt maturity periods not exceeding 22 years, including
a grace period of up to 8 years (3.19).
(h)   that the main purpose of retaining the spread income within PSIDC was to
support future lending for infrastructure projects; operating expenses of PSIDC
would also be supported from the spread income and the PSIDC Board will
approve this allocation through the operating budget of the PSIDC (para 3.19);
(i)   that a plan would be prepared by GOSL jointly with IDA for the future of the
PSIDC during the closing months of the project, i.e. before June 2002, and
would include the provision that when Sri Lanka achieves a sovereign
investment grade rating from an internally recognized credit rating agency and



-33-
keeps this rating for at least two years, this would establish a benchmark for the
winding down and closure of the PSIDC as a lender. ( para 3.20);
(j)    that a mid-term review would be undertaken to review the implementation of the
project, jointly with IDA, by June 1999 and an operations plan that would
include an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared within six
months after the closing date of the project on June 30, 2002. (para 3.27);
6.4    Conditions of effectiveness of the Credit will be that:
(a)    GOSL will hlave entered into a legally binding sub-loan agreement (the
subsidiary loan agreement) with PSIDC that is satisfactory to the association.
(b)    KfW loan agreement has been executed and is ready to be declared effective.
6.5    Conditions of disbursements for the subloan component of the credit will be that:
(a)    PSIDC will have prepared a brochure and operational manual(s) satisfactory to
IDA; and
(b)    IDA will have reviewed and approved each subproject.
Recommendation
6.6    With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for an IDA Development Credit of SDR 52.9 million (US$77 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.






-34-
ANNEXES



-35-
Page No,
Annexes:
I .    Private Sector Infrastructure Development Company Ltd . .................................................... 36
2.    The Security Package ......................................................... 42
3. The Project Pipeline...                                                                                                      46
4.    Financial Projections of PSIDC ........................................................                                   57
5.    Environmental and Social Assessment Framework: Environmental Aspects ............                                ............. 68
6.    Environmental and Social Assessment Framework: Resettlement Aspects ..............                             ............... 74
7.    Legal Aspects  ........................................................ 85
8.    Technical Assistance to PSIDC: TORs for General Manager .................................................. 86
9.    Technical Assistance to PSIDC: TORs for Technical Advisor ................................................ 89
10. Technical Assistance through PSIDC: TOR for Feasibility Studies .97
I I Implementation and Supervision Schedule .100
12. Performance Indicators .104
13. Disbursement Arrangements.                                                                                                106



-36-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 6
Private Sector Infrastructure Development Company Ltd.
1.     The Project   The proposed IDA project seeks to develop a modern and efficient system of
infrastructure in Sri Lanka by promoting significant participation of the private sector in the investment,
operation, ownership and maintenance of new infrastructure facilities.  The project would enable
potential investors to access long-term financing, the lack of which inhibits project development.
Introduced under the project is a government executing agency, the Private  Sector Infrastructure
Development Company (PSIDC or Company). The PSIDC is created to provide long-term subordinated
funds to selected private sector infrastructure projects in conjunction with commercial sources of funds.
In addition to their own equity contributions, project sponsors and investors would resort to commercial
banks for the remainder of the project debt. Given the thinness of the commercial debt market in Sri
Lanka, and based on World Bank experience of other debt funds, providing a source of long-term
subordinated debt will increase the sponsor's ability to attract non-recourse financing.
2.     Location and Governance.     A   public  company,  The  Private  Sector  Infrastructure
Development Company (PSIDC) was incorporated in August 1995. It will be the executing agency for
the project and will make available funds received from GOSL to viable infrastructure sub-projects.' To
do this, PSIDC has the mandate and will have the capacity to identify, evaluate and approve suitable sub-
projects. The mandate has been vested under the Articles of the Company. The PSIDC has a share
capital of 2,000 Rupees divided into 20 shares of 100 Rupees each, of which 14 are held by the Secretary
of Finance and the others by individual shareholders, all in trust, for the GOSL. Decisions on the
allocation of PSIDC funds will be vested with the Board of Directors and would be taken in accordance
with IDA criteria. Following approval by the PSIDC, and where appropriate by IDA, the PSIDC will
enter into a sub-project loan agreement with, and make loan funds available to, the sub-borrower. Funds
designated for use as long term subordinated debt and their repayments will be maintained in an account
at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, the Fund Account. This account will be independent from the PSIDC's
Operating Account.
3.     Organization and Management. The PSIDC's operations would be managed by a  General
Manager with a small staff including a financial analyst, an accountant and an infrastructure project
specialist. These professionals would be supported by short term consultants, mostly likely on retainer, to
assist in legal, technical, financial, economic and environmental aspects of sub-project evaluation and
financial risk assessment (see Annex 9). The manager would be supported by a long term resident
consultant, who would help coordinate all activities and identify the need for short term subject
specialists. Disbursements and collections would be handled by the accounting expertise within PSIDC.
In view of the skill mix required for the PSIDC to meet its proposed mandate, it would be necessary to
seek external expertise.
4.    The General Manager will have the resources to provide for specific legal, technical, financial,
economic, and environmental2 short-term  consultants as needed for the appraisal and negotiations,
supported by a technical assistance component of the proposed IDA credit. The TA requirements are
The idea of having one of the development banks manage the debt facility was rejected due to potential conflict of interest
between it's fund management role and its own lending activities. Subprojects under the PSIDC will likely provide
opportunities for local equity and senior debt investments to complement the foreign funds.
2 Inclusion of expertise on resettlement issues, as appropriate - See Annex 5 and 6.



-37-
Annex I
Page 2 of 6
estimated at about US $ 3.5 million for a 4 to 5 year period. The General Manager would also have
access to a TA component of US$ 3.5 mission to support project development activities by the line
agencies to improve preparation of projects that will likely receive subordinated debt from the PSIDC.
5.   Onlending Terms and Conditions. The PSIDC would be financed through donor resources--IDA,
and KfW. The initial loan funds of the PSIDC are to be about US$ 84 million. IDA credits made to
GOSL, to be passed through to the PSIDC, would be accounted for in the consolidated fund like other
public sector loans. The GOSL would pass through all credits from donors to the PSIDC at the same
terms as the original credit. Thus, IDA monies placed in PSIDC would carry an interest of 0.75 percent
per annum and have a maturity of 40 years and 10 years grace. The on-lending of funds to private
companies would be governed through a subsidiary agreement between PSIDC and the private company.
Note that for IDA supported sub-projects, the appraisals would be required to follow IDA guidelines on
environment and procurement and to be submitted to IDA for review. The proceeds of IDA credit will
be disbursed against expenditures for equipment, material, civil works and services procured under
procedures acceptable to IDA.
6.     The PSIDC's on-lending to sub-projects would be denominated in US Dollars and would be
repaid either in US dollars or equivalent SL Rupees. The PSIDC's on-lending interest rates would be
either variable (6 month US$ LIBOR + 3%) or fixed. The fixed rate would be based on the term of the
loan requested and the market swap rate plus 3%. The foreign exchange risk vis-a-vis US$ or interest rate
risk would be assumed by the private borrowers.
7.    The repayment period for PSIDC's onlending to sub-projects would be no greater than 22 years,
including a maximum grace period of 8 years. Sub-loans from the Company would cover up to 40% of
the total project costs and it is expected that at least 20% of the total project cost would be mobilized as
equity by the project sponsors. Sub-loans from the PSIDC would be fully subordinated to commercial
loans made to sub-projects.
8.    The PSIDC Fee Structure. The cost to PSIDC as lender would include the cost of staff, including
salaries, transport, insurance, etc. These costs for the initial four years would be covered by the TA
component of the Project.
PSIDC Fee Structure
*  Application Fee: US$5,000.00 non-refundable to be submitted at application
*  Documentation Fee: 0.5% of the loan amount, non-refundable, subject to a maximum of
US$300,000 plus out of pocket costs of international travel and fees for consultants
employed for the due diligence process.
* Commitment Fee: 0.75% per annum of the unutilized loan amount.
* Project Monitoring Fee: 0.25% of the yearly outstanding, subject to a ceiling of
US$50,000 per annum plus out of pocket costs.
9.     The proposed fee structure is in line with fees charged by IDA for its conventional lending
programs. Preliminary financials, including sources and uses of funds, for the PSIDC is presented in
Annex 4. The financial analyses have been prepared on the basis of indicative sub-projects representing
a total disbursement of US$70 million (IDA component of PSIDC financing) over the first six years of
the Company's operation. The fees charged from borrowers, as per the proposed fee structure above,



-38-
Annex I
Page 3 of 6
only partially cover the operating costs of the Company. Therefore, in order to be self-sustaining, the
PSIDC would have to earmark a portion of its interest income toward operating costs.
Operating Procedures
10.    Sub Project Eligibility Criteria. Sub-project processing would be carried out by the General
Manager and his staff under the overall direction and control of the Board of Directors. The PSIDC
would approve sub-projects for financing only after ensuring that the proposals are consistent with Sri
Lanka's national priorities. The subprojects would meet technical, economic and financial viability
criteria and national or IDA environmental standards (including criteria for involuntary resettlement,
should it arise) in case of IDA supported sub-projects. Details of environment and resettlement criteria
are set out in Annexes 5 and 6, respectively. The proposed private sector sub-projects are expected to
fulfill the following criteria:
Eligibility Criteria
* GOSL 's Priority Plan: Public and private sector investments should form an integral part of
the priority plan for the relevant sub-sector. This would also ensure that public and private
investments are complementary.
*  Regulatory and Policy Framework: Policy and regulatory frameworks for private sector
participation that adequately protect benefits to end users should be in place before
subproject approval.
*  Use of Proven Technologies: The technology proposed for a project should have a track
record of demonstrated success in countries at a similar level of technological development
and infrastructure support, as in Sri Lanka.
*  Viability: Sponsors should possess a proven capability to develop, finance and operate the
infrastructure projects in countries at a similar level of development as Sri Lanka. To ensure
commitment, sponsors equity would need to represent at least 20 percent of the project cost
with the main project sponsors holding a minimum of 35 percent of the equity for at least 5
years after start up of commercial operations.
*  Limited Recourse Financing: Private investors and lenders should not require direct
sovereign guarantees. Lenders should rely on the security package (see Annex 2), future
cash flows from the project and the value of the assets for comfort. The debt financing must
include some portion of non-recourse commercial senior debt. PSIDC will not cover more
than 40 percent of the project's total costs.
*  Economic Rate of Return: The economic rate of return will exceed 12 percent and, where
applicable, the subprojects will form part of the least-cost development plan.
* Environment and Social Assessment Criteria: All projects will necessarily meet GOSL's
environmental and social assessment criteria as set out in the National Environmental Action
Plan as well as IDA's environmental and social assessment guidelines.
II.    Sub-Project Approval Procedures. The General Manager would prepare an appraisal report for
each subproject on the basis of a financial, technical and environmental assessments. The appraisal
report, along with a recommendation to make a loan would be forwarded by the Manager to the Board of
Directors, who would be responsible for sub-loan approvals. In order to ensure that the sub-projects meet



-39-
Annex I
Page 4 of 6
the IDA's requirements regarding quality and viability, the appraisal report prepared by the General
Manager would be sent to IDA for concurrent review. Once the recommendation of a sub-loan is
accepted, the General Manager and staff, including consultants, would be responsible for loan
documentation and negotiation, as well as supervision and monitoring and fulfilling reporting and
auditing requirements. Sub-loan disbursements and collection would be initially handled by the
accounting specialist. Details of this procedure are set out in BOX I.
~~~~~ ~~~BoxlI
Sub-Loan Approval Process
Summar
* GOSL issues a Letter of Intent (LOI) to the selected Private Project Company.
*  The Private Project Company submits a Loan Application to PSIDC together with the Loan
Application Fee.
* The General Manager (GM), in collaboration with IDA, will carry out a prelim'inary assessment
based on the information received in order to ascertain the eligibility of the. subproject by the PSIDC.
* The GM will submit a recommendation to the Board of Directors to accept the loan applications and
for the authorization to commence negotiations.
*  If the Board of Directors clears the operation, the GM will issue a Preliminary Acceptance Letter
(PAL) to the Private Project Company including a draft-term sheet and sub-loan agreement.
*  The Private Project Company will convey their acceptance of the PAL and deposit the Sub-loan
Appraisal Fee
*  If the proposal was unsolicited, the Private Project Company will complete.the.project's Feasibility
Study in accordance with the LOI and the PAL.
*  The GM, supported by consultants, will participate in the negotiations of the Security Package (SP)
with the Private Project Company.
*  At the same time, preliminary negotiations of the Sub-loan Agreement witl take. place and be
evaluated by the GM, supported by consultants
*  Once the SP is initiated, the GM will undertake the subproject appraisal and prepare an Appraisal
Report including Due Diligence.
*  The GM will seek approval of the loan by the Board of Directors.
*  The GM will send the Appraisal Report, Draft Sub-loan Agreement and Engineering, Procurement
Construction (EPC) contract (if needed) to IDA for concurrent approval by the Board of Directors.
X  The GM will finalize negotiations of the Sub-loan Agreement with the Private Project Company.
*  The GM will sign the Sub-loan Agreement with the Private Project Company.



-40-
Arnn
Page 5 of 6
12.   In order to enable the PSIDC to prepare an appraisal report, the sponsors  (in the case of
unsolicited bids) would submit sufficient information for the General Manager to assess the sub-project.
This information would cover project design, engineering, cost estimates, implementation arrangements,
specifications of equipment and goods, a financing plan, prices, financial projections, proposed
arrangements for supply of essential commodities, services and sales of output, and proposed structure of
the Security Package (SP). The sponsors would also be required to submit an environment impact
assessment (EIA), including resettlement plans where applicable, in accordance with GOSL and IDA
guidelines. In the assessment of environmental impacts, due regard should be given to compliance with
prevailing occupational, safety and health standards. In its technical assessment the PSIDC would inter-
alia review:
(i)    site availability and its sustainability;
(ii)   availability of inputs;
(iii)   appropriateness of, and proven experience with technology offered;
(iv)   project design;
(v)    arrangements for detailed engineering;
(vi)   construction strategy;
(vii)  cost estimates;
(viii) procurement arrangements;
(ix)   arrangements for project operation and maintenance;
(x)    compliance with IDA's environmental guidelines and resettlement requirements.
13.    The PSIDC would also review: (i) adequacy of the financing package; (ii) financial viability of
the project under various scenarios; (iii) economic soundness including the calculation of the ERR; (iv)
adequacy and appropriateness of SP; and (iv) corporate structure of the sub-projects entity. In order to
ensure that the sub-projects meet the IDA's requirements regarding quality and viability, the appraisal
report prepared by the Company would be sent to IDA for concurrent review.
14.    For solicited bids, feasibility studies would most likely be prepared under the TA provided for
this purpose (see Annex 10). These studies would set out the technical criteria and undertake a selection
of these assessments in advance of detailed project preparation.
15.    Detailed methodology of the financial, technical, economic, and environmental (including
resettlement) parameters that cover loan documentation for the PSIDC will be set out in its operating
manuals. The operating manual will be prepared by the General Manager of the PSIDC and are a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit.
16.    Once the recommendation of a sub-loan is accepted, the General Manager and staff would be
responsible for loan documentation and negotiation, as well as supervision and monitoring and fulfilling
reporting and auditing requirements. Sub-loan disbursements and collection would be handled initially
by the accounting specialist.
M:\john\psidpii\\saranexs\annex I ,doc
May 6th, 1996



-41-
AnnexI%
Page 6 of 6
Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project
Flow of Funds
Agreements                                               Rate/Term
World Bank/IDA
Credit                                                 0.75%
Agreement             SDR               US$              40 Years
10 Year Grace
G.O.S.L.
Subsidiary Loan         US$                US$/SLRs.         0.75%
Agreement                                Equivalent      40 Years
10 Year Grace
P.S.I.D.C.
Fixed. Swap rate + 3. 0%
Loan                                 US$1SLR   Variable.Libor, + 3.0%
Agreement            US$                Equivalent     Up to 22 Years
USEIvalent    Up to 8 Year Grace
Project Company
m:\john\psidpiisaranexs\flow.ppt
' 6 month US$ LIBOR



-42-
Page 1 of 4
The Security Package
The sub projects would be undertaken on a build-own-operate (BOO) or on a built-operate-transfer
(BOT) model and are to be financed on a limited recourse basis in order to promote private investment in
Sri Lanka. Under this arrangemenit, the investors (or their contractors) will assume full completion and
operational risks, but the lenders will look primarily to the expected cash flow of the sub projects for
security. The cash flow, in turn, is dependent upon the strength of the agreements comprising the Security
Package (SP). The parties of the Security Package are the following:
(i)    The Government
(ii)    The Investors (Project Co.)
(iii)   The Line Agency
(iv)   The Supply Company (fuel a Power Project, bulk water if a water project, etc)
(v)    The Operator
(vi)   The Lenders
(vii)   The Contractors
(viii)  The Trustee
(ix)   The Escrow Agent
(x)    The Insurer
The Security Package consists of the following agreemenits and other documents and is described below.
Specialized agreement included in power projects are also described.
A.    General Security Package
I.         Implementation Agreement (IA)
This agreemenit will be executed by the GOSL and the Project Company and will govern their
relationship for a [22 year term]. Under the terns of the IA, GOSL will grant the Project Company the
exclusive right to design, build, own and operate the Project and will offer various forms of assistance to
facilitate construction and operation. The IA would provide for, among other things:
(a)    not impede the Project Company's ability to deal in foreign currency, transfer such foreign
currency abroad and maintain a foreign currency bank account;
(b)    to grant applications for certain specified regulatory approvals required for the Project;
(c)    to grant work permits and visas to the persons involved in the Project;
(d)    income tax holiday and other incentives in line with BOT procedures;
(e)    to guarantee the line agency's payment obligations to the Project Company under the
Purchase Agreement;
(f)    timetable for initiation and completion of construction;



-43-                                        Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
(g)    compenisation in case a take over by the Government of the Project, at which time all
Project Company's obligationis would  be assumed  by  the GOSL, includilng  the
responsibility to service debt to IDA or othier cofinanlciers, if anv;
(1h)    definitioni of force inajeure and the actions to be taken to address the occurrence of each
force majeure event;
(i)    framework for insuraiice; and
(j)    procedures for arbitration in the event of disputes betweeni the GOSL. Iine agency, and
Project Compaiy.
In addition, the initial slhareholders will promise to commit the majority of thie equity required to finance the
Project and to hold thieir slhares for a minimiium period of time, and the Project Companly will commillt to
design. build, owin and operate the Project in accordanice with the Purchiase Agreemeit.
2.           Supply Agreement (SA)
The SA defines the terms of the purchase and sale of a service, wlich is the principle source of
revenue to the Project Company. This agreement will be sigined by the line agency and the Project
Companiy for a tern of [22 years], and may be renewed upon agreemenit of the parties. LJnder the SA, the
Project Company is obligated to build an efficient and fully-operative facility. The facility must be
constrticted according to a specified schedule and may be maintainied at approved intervals. To ensure
continuity of revenue, the Project Company will receive a fixed payment stifficient to cover debt service,
fixed operation and mainteniance costs and a return on equity eachi monithi whiethier or not the facility is
operated by the line agency. Part of tie payment will be indexed for inflation, exchange rate fluctuations,
and interest rate variations. In addition, when the facility is operating, the Project Company will be
compensated for some expenses, i.e. fuel burned in case of a power plant, and for variable operation and
mainitenianice expenses and will be indexed for inflationi and for fuel price variations, if it is a power plant.
The line agenicy will post a revolving letter of credit to ensure timely payment of tiese amouits.
On thle otlier hiand, tile line agency will ensure proper performance by the Project Companiy by
meanis of the following requirements: (a) the Project Company must post security deposits beginning with
the signinig of tile SA unltil its expiration; (b) liquidated damages will be imposed on the  Projected
Companiy if it delivers the project late, with insufficienit performance, or is unable to meet designated
operating levels. and (c) the line agency may terminate the SA if the Project Company defaults and may
purchiase the Project under specified conditiolis.
3.          Constructioni Contract (CC!
If the Project Companly so desires, it may delegate the responsibility for constrLuctillg anid
commissioning thle plant to a contractor thirougil a CC. The CC will provide detailed specifications for the
plant. a detailed timietable for implemiienitation, and detailed arranigemenits tor equipmenit procuremilenit and
coonstructioll mianiagemienit. The Contractor inust complete thie work on a fixed price basis and will be
subjected to liquidated damages for late completion or bonuses for early completion.  Similarly, the
Contractor must pay liquidated damages if it fails to meet certain  output. To ensure paynienit of these
liquidated damages. the Contractor must post a perforimianlce bond and provide an unlimilited completion
guaranitee.



-44 - ~   ~         ~        Aa~
-44-                        ~~~~~~~~Anniex 2
Page 3 of 4
4.         Operation and Maintenance Agreement (O & MA)
The Project Company may also choose to enter into an 0 & MA with a contractor if the Project
Company is not capable of operating the plant itself. The 0 & MA would provide for the operation and
maintenance of the Projects. More specifically, the O&MA would specify the procedures for operation and
maintenance and the staffing of these functions. The contractor would be paid a fee relating to the
compensation received under the SA and would share liability for any liquidated damages imposed under
the SA. Ordinarily, the contractor would be asked to post a bond to ensure performance.
5.         Shareholders' Agreement (SA)
This agreement will establish the Project Company under the [Sri Lankan Companies Act] for the
purpose of constructing, operating and maintaining the Project. Under the SA, the shareholders will be
obligated to commit certain sums of money and will be entitled to corresponding shares of revenues and
liabilities. The SA will also provide for the management of the Project Company.
6.         Escrow Agreement (EA)
A number of entities, including the Project Company, the lenders, the contractors, the line agency,
the local petroleum company (in case of a power plant) and GOSL, will execute an EA for the Project. The
EA will establish one or more escrow accounts into which all Project revenues will be deposited and from
which all Project revenues will be distributed. Principle among these escrow accounts will be a debt service
reserve and an operation and maintenance reserve.
7.         Land Agreement (LA)
Executed between the Project Company and (if needed) the local Government provides for, inter
alia:
(a)    Project Company to purchase, lease or rent land for the site of the project under existing
rules and regulations;
(b)    if Government wish, issuance of shares to it in compensation for publicly owned land on
which the project will be built;
(c)    improvement of access roads to the site to be undertaken by the Project Company;
(d)    extent of liabilities; and
(e)    consents and approvals required from the Government for the implementation of the
Project.



-45-
Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
8.          Trust Deed (TD)
It is expected that the Security Package will be held by a Trustee on behalf of the Lenders. All
security to be made available to Lenders will be vested in this Trustee under the terms of a Trust Deed to be
entered into between the Project Company, an agent bank acting on behalf of the Lenders (if more than one
lender) to coordinate administration of the Project's loans and the Trustee. The Trustee may be the same
party as the Escrow Agent.
9.          Insurance
An overall project insurance program, embracing the major areas of exposure both during
construction and over the operating life of the Project has been arranged by the Project Company in
consultation with the Contractor, the Operator, the Lenders and GOSL.
m:\john\psidpii\saranexs\anex2.doc
May 6th, 1996



-46-                                       Annex 3
Page 1 of 11
SriLanka
GOSL's Sub-Project Pipeline
3.1        This annex provides an overview of some of the projects which have been identified by
GOSL as potential candidates for private sector investment. Three areas of infrastructure development-
-power, transport (toll roads and ports), and urban services (water supply, waste water and solid waste
management)-- were considered for potential private sector investment. This portfolio was produced by
SIDI and the respective line agencies and ministries, and none of the sub-projects have been appraised
by IDA in terms oJf economic or fiancial viabiliXy. Other infrastructure projects, such as those in
telecommunications and those involving cross-sector investments, although not delineated in the annex,
can also be considered as potential beneficiaries under the project.
3.2        Given the critical need for infrastructure development, but realizing the constraints
imposed by tariff policies, land acquisition problems, and the relatively new concept of private sector
investment in traditionally financed public infrastructure, the annex delineates GOSL's pipeline of
possible private sector led projects. These projects could act as the core private sector development
program and provide a catalyst to further private sector investments. The successful closure of any
private sector BOO/BOT project will necessarily enhance investor confidence and increase the chance
of successfully financing some of the longer-term projects
SHORT TO MEDIUM TERM
POWER
PROJECT                          DESCRIPTION                    US$ COST
(in million)
Kuru Ganga & Gin Gaga                     Hydro 12 mw                   US$30 million
Seven Mini-hydros                         Hydro 39 mw                   US$68 million
Hapugastenne Plantation                   Hydro 3.5 mw                  US$4 million
Dick Oya                                  Hydro 1.3 mw                  US$2 million
Sapusakanda Diesel                        Thermal 51 mw                 US$60 million
Kelanatissa                               Thermal 150 mw                US$150 million
TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT                          DESCRIPTION                   US$ COST
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  (in  m illion )
Colombo Katunayake Expressway              Highway 27 kms               US$90 million
Port of Colombo                           Queen Elizabeth               US$200 million
Quay



-47-                                           Annexa
Page 2 of 11
1JRBAN SERVICES
PROJEC                              DESCRPTION                      US$ COST
(in million)
Ekala/JA-Ela                                  Waste water                    US$3.5 million
treatment
RatmalanalMoratawa                            Waste water                    US$6.3 million
treatment
LONGER TERM
POWER
PROJECr                             DESCRIPTION                     US$ COST
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         (in   millon)
Thermal Coal Fired                           Thermal 300 mw                  US$300 million
Thermal Expansion                            Thermal 600 mw                  US$800 million
Thermal Site 2                               Thermal 300 mw                  US$400 million
Broadlands Hydro                             Hydro 40 mw                     US$73 million
Uma Oya                                      Hydro 150 mw                    US$350 million
TRANSPORTATON
PROJECT                            DESCRIPTON                       US$ COST
(in millin)
Southern Highway                              Highway 130 kms                US$300 million
Outer Circular Highway                        Colombo Ring Road              US$40 million
Port of Galle                                 Port Expansion                 US$600 million



Annex 3
Page 3 of 11
GOSL'S LIST OF POTENTIAL PROJECTS
Short to Medium Term
POWER SECTOR
PROJECT DETAILS          1DESCRIPTON                                      FINANCING                      STATUS                               COMME-NTS
m Two  small hydro projects with aboua 6  No firm financing in         Feasibility study carried     This project is include in CEB's planing and
mw capacty each. Estimated annual       place.                       out by Stothert              identified as a project that could be developed on
Kuru Ganga and Gin Ganga           output of about 25 Gwh/each                                          Engineering Ltd.              a BOO/BOT basis.
Proposals suggest 70/ 30     (Canada)
debt:equity ration in both                                This project is relatively high cost per installed
US$30 million                                                              projects                     Negotiations being            kilowatt, excess of US 6 cents/kWh
conducted with CEB
Developer proposing to
contribute 1/3 of the
Two years                                                                  project equity
90
PROJECT DETAILS                       DESCRIPllON                         FINANCING                      STATUS                               COMMENTS
Small hydro projects with combined      No firm financing in         Feasibility study being       These projects are included in CEB's planning.
total of approx 39 MW capacity.         place.                       carried out by Biwater     *GOSL awaits results of fe-asibility study.
Seven Mini Hydros                                                          Proposals vary from          following solicited           Project may be viable if energy cost is less than
Puwakmnalclla Waterfalls 4.6 MW           20/80 to 45/55 debt          proposals                     6 US cents/kWh
Rawana Ella           5.4 MW              equity ratios.
LQEL                   ~~~~PariaOya            3.9 MW
Maha Oya              9.2 MW
US$68 million                   Kurundu Ella          11.0 MW
Dena ganga            1.8 MW
Construction Period*            Kumbukkan Oya          3.1 MW
Two years



Page 4 of 11
GOSL'S LIST OF POTENTIAL PROJECTS
PROJECT DETAILS                        DESCRIPTION                          FINANCING                      STATUS                               COMMENTS
Name;                               Upgrading of existing hydro plant of     No firm financing in          Unsolicited proposal        As this project substitutes for electricity
105 kw and utilization of other hydro   place                                                      purchases from the grid, it could be attractive to
Hapugastenne Plantation             resources available at the estate for                                                              the sponsors.
3.5 MW plant                                                          LOI to be issued
Most likely financed from
* Surplus power to be sold to CEB          local sources
US$4 million
Conrstructio  Period:
Two years
PROJECT DETAILS                        DESCRIPTION                          FINANCING           1          STA I US                             COMMENTS
Nae:                               A miii hvdro project with capaait) ot    No tuir financin  m          Studies hake beeli carried  It iniplcrientcd. this will be the first hydro
1.3 MW                                  place                         out and negotiations         project developed on a private sector basis
Dick Oya                                                                                                   completed with CEB
Most likelv financed from
local private sources        Agreements have been
US$2 million                                                                                               submitted for cabinet
approval
Cot           Pear
Two years



Annex 
Page 5 of 11
GOSL'S LIST OF POTENTIAL PROJECTS
PROJECT DETAILS                       DESCRIPTION                       FINANCING                      STATUS                               COMMENTS
An original proposal for a 44.4 MW     70:30 debt/equity ratio is  Negotiations continuing       This project is included in the CEB long term
diesel plant to be located near        being proposed. Equity      with CEB                      plan formulated in 1993.
Sapusakanda Diesel                Colombo. Now increased to 51 MW         to come from KHD,
with an 80% offtake                    CDC and IFC. Debt will
Ced:                                                                      also be provided from                                     Issues have arisen regarding offtake level and
these sources.                                           tariff structure
US$60million                                                             It is understood that
.QW10i2l, .Wod-,                                                necessary financing is in
place
Two years
PROJECT DETAILS                       DESCRIPTION                        FINANCING                      STATUS                              COMMENTS
Name:                              3x33 MW gas turbines plus Ix50 MW      70:30 debt/equity ratio is   Pre-bidders meeting was      This project is included in the CEB long term
steam turbine; utilizing naphtha and   being proposed.              held in November, 1995 in    plan.
Kelanauissa                       secondary fuel heavy diesel from CPC                                 Colombo
It is understood that a
financing gap may exist                                  Based on size and concept, this could be a
US$1 50-200million                                                        within most of the                                        strong candidate for funding under the proposed
proposals.                                                PSIDP debt fund
Two years



AnneiL 3
Page 6 of 11
GOSL'S LIST OF POTENTIAL PROJECT
TRANSPORT SECTOR
PROJECT DETAILS                       DESCRIPTION                         FINANCING                      STATUS                               COMMENTS
n The Colombo-Katunayake                  No firm financing in         In development                It appears that this road cannot be financed by
Expressway (CKE) is planned as a        place.                                                    tolls alone, i.e. some element of land
Colombo-Katunayake                 four-lane toll road access toll between  The original proposal was   Feasibility study required    development rights and/or GOSL Suppo  will
Expressway                         the airport and downtown.              to be financed by OECF.       Frbe required
The distance will be approximately 27   RDA is seeking private
_____                              kms, with several interchanges and      sector participation for
toll plazas.                           the new trace
US$100 million                     The present two-lane road to the
airport serves 30,000 vehicles per
ConQstruction Period:              day, along with pedestrians and
livestock, with significant delays for
Three years                        commercial users and safety hazards
for all occupants of the right-of-way.
When opened, CKE will significantly
reduce this congestion and should cut
by 50% the 45-60 minute travel time
to the airport.
PROJECT DETAILS                       DESCRIPTION                         FINANCING                      STATUS                               COMMENTS
Nam:                               Development of container terminal       Details not available, but   Proposals are being           Efforts to further develop Galle Port with the
facilities at the existing Queen        assistance is being sought   evaluated by GOSL             private sector may complicate the financing of
Port of Colombo                    Elizabeth Quay, including container     from private sponsors        (Ministry of                  projects at CAombo Port, unless twinning
Q.E. Quay                          berths, container handling capacity,                                 Shipping/SLPA)                arrangements are in place or guarantees are
yard space, handling equipment, etc.                                                               offered by GOSL
Tentative Estinmate:               Additional capacity is sought, from
US$200 million                    the existing 350 TEU, increasing to I
million TEU
Contrctionl Period:
n.a.



Aiwn
Patge 7 of 11
GOSLS LIST OF POTENTIAL PROJECTS
URBAN SERVICES
PROJECT DETAILS                        DESCRIPTION                         FINANCING           ]           STATUS                               COMMENTS
N  A centralized treatment plant to serve  Feasibility report           A list of firrms to provide    This is a good example of a small project which
73 operations using the conventional    recommends a BOO              consultancy for               could be developed on a private sector basis
Ekala/Ja-ela                        activated sludge method of treatment:   arrangement, where a          preparation of documents
capacity of 3,500 m3/day                limited liability company     has been submifoed to
is established and           World Bank for approval
All users would have pre-treatment      managed by the
US$3.5 million                      facilities                              participating industries,
with possible GOSL
Cgonstmcb'io Period:                                                        shareholding
18 months                                                                   Costs to be recovered by
an effluent tariff
PROJECT DETAILS                        DESCRIPTION                         FINANCING                       STATUS                                COMMENTS
Name;                            Joint collection and treatment of        Some form of public/private    Furher detailed studies for  This s anote eampl o  s     pr     which
industrial and domestic wastewater and  sector partnership with       ddei   Eetc. reuired.    coul be develope ona     s ect bais.
Ratmalana/Moratawa Effluent      disposal via an ocean outfall. Primary   NWSDB responsible for the    ddesign, EcA, etc required.    could be developed ona private sector basis.
Treatment Plant                  treatment capacity of 45,000 m3/day.     collection network and a     Cominedt wtanh Eulae
TreatMent Plant                                       ~~~~~~~~~BOO/BOT companyt     treambienwth plant   Jael
CodL                             Outfall would extend 2,000 meters into    responsible for the financing,
the ocean and industry would provide    design construction and
US$6.3 million                   pre-treatment                            operation of the plant.
Constru allon Pe_iod:                                             70:30 debt/equity suggested
18 months



Annex 3
Pagf 8 of 11
GOSL'S LIST OF POTENTIAL PROJECTS
Long Term
POWER SECTOR
PROJECT DETAILS                        DESCRIPTION                          FINANCING                      STATUS                               COMMENTS
A 2 x 150 MW thermal coal base load      Need for long-term sub-      All feasibility studies      Negotiations were progressing slowly and there
facility to be located at Trincomalee.  debt indicated in proposed    complete                     were a          number of issues outstanding, including
Large Termal                                                                 financing plan.                                            tratnsmission line and the tariff structure.
Substantial transmission facilities also                              GOSL LOI appears to
S;                                  required.                                Financial model indicates     have expired
US$400 million                                                               a 75/25 debt/equity ratio.
Expected commissioning date near                                      Sponsor is seeking
2000                                                                  confirmation
3.5 years
PROJECT DETAILS                        DESCRIPTION                          FINANCING                       STATUS                               COMMENTS
* Expansion of the Large Thermal coal   In accordance with the        No studies yet undertaken     These projects are for the longer term, but
fired plant (see short term project list  CEB policy statement,                                     studies and preparation of proposals for
Large Thermal Expansion             above) by 600MW forms part of the        these plants would be                                       BOO/BOT will need to be initiated within the
CEB long-term expansion plan up to       developed by the private                                    next 5 years
Cost:                               2009                                     sector under BOT
arrangements
US$800 million for expansion of     An additional 300 MW is also being
existing site                       considered in the long-termn expansion
US$ 400 million for new site        plan
Co     rion Piod:
3.5 years



Annx
Page 9 of 11
GOSL'S LIST OF POTENTIAL PROJECTS
PROJECT DETAILS                        DESCRIPTION                         FINANCING                       STATUS                               COMMENTS
Name.  A 40MW hydro power plant capable    No details available         An unsolicited proposal        At present fuel costs. the project is not likely to
of generating 140 Gwh per year                                        has been received from a      he commerciallN v'iable. but this could chliage in
Broadlands Hydro Power Project                                                                            local sponsor. LOI has        the future
been approved by Cabinet
CnSt:
US$74 million
Construction Period:
4 years
PROJECT DETAILS                        DESCRIPTION                |        FINANCING                       STATUS                                COMMENTS
Name:                               A 150 MW hydro power plant with         No details available          Dropped from CEB long-        The feasibility of the project is largely
multi purpose: provision of power and                                 term plan. hut included in    dependent on the irrigation component of the
Ulma Oya                            water for irrigation                                                  SIDI's list of potential      project
projects
US$35G million
Contruction Period:
n.a.



Annex 3
Page 10 of 11
GOSL'S LIST OF POTENTIAL PROJECTS
TRANSPORT SECTOR
PROJECT DETAILS                      DESCRIPTION                       FINANCING                      STATUS                              COMMENTS
Namei                             The Colombo-Galle-Matara Southem       Presently unspecified.      The trace has been           The project could not be financed exclusively
Highway would serve a number of        RDA is using local funds    selected and RDA             from tolls and will probably be a pubic sector
Southem Highway                  tourist and commercial destinations in  for the survey and          proposes to proceed with     project initially.
the country's Southem Province,       detailed engineering of      design when the survey is
C06t:                             currently accessed only by a narrow,   the project.                completed
two-lane road.
US$300 million
The full length of the highway will be
Colstruction Period:              130 kms when eventually completed.
Unknown
15.
PROJECT DETAILS                      DESCRIPTION                        FINANCING                     STATUS                              COMMENTS
Elements of the Galle Port expansion   Not definite. One option    Four proposals are being     Development of Galle Port should be
consist of a 850 m breakwater to       would entail breakwater     evaluated                    coordinated with development of Colombo Port.
Port of Galle Expansion           protect the harbor, dredging to a new  construction and dredging
harbor depth of 16 meters with        financed by the
C06t:                             construction of three additional       government through                                       Considerable road/rail infrastructure connecting
berthing facilities for large bulk and  donor assistance or other                               Galle and Colombo will be required
US$600 million                    break bulk carriers, and a modem       means.
commercial transhipment terminal.      Additions to berthing                                    Port optimization study for Sri Lanka should be
Construction Period:                                                     capacity and container
transhipment terminal                                    undertaken to maximize utility of port sector
Indefinite                                                               could be funded privately
with repayment from user
fees.



Annex /
Page 11 of 11
_OSL'S LIST OF POTENTIAL PROJECTS
PROJECT DETAILS          T              DESCRIPTION                1         FINANCING           [           STATUS                                COMMENTS
Nme:                      ~~~~~~~A ring road around Colombo as part
Outer Circular Highway to          Aof the highway nework development         Not specified                 One route has been             May be a good candidate for private sector
Colomnbo                            oftehgwyntokdvlpetselected form the five                                                               development if linked with land development.
original alternatives
US$ 40 million
n.a.
m:%jo\I\psAsxs\wu=x3.dDc
May 6di. 1996



-57-
Annex 4
Page 1 of 11
SRI LANKA
PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PSIDP)
Organization. Financial Operations and Projections
1.    Introduction. The Private Sector Infrastructure Development Company, (PSIDC or the
Company) has been established as a public company with the specific objective of functioning as
the executing agency for the PSIDP. It will, on behalf of GOSL, make decisions on placement of
multi-lateral and bilateral credit resources as debt for eligible private sector infrastructure projects.
At present, the only lending instrument contemplated under the PSIDP is the provision of long
term subordinate debt, as a way to catalyze private investments in infrastructure and to mitigate
the constraints arising from lack of sufficient long term commercial credit and export credit cover
for Sri Lanka.  This would enable sound commercial projects to be financed, even in an
environment of high country risk, through long tern credit support under non - or limited -
recourse project financing mechanisms. PSIDP financing would increase the total amount of
financing available for projects in Sri Lanka by providing comfort to banks and commercial
institutions, which typically lack the appetite for lending and/or offer short tenors on loans, if
made. Sponsors draw comfort too, since the provision of subordinate debt, with longer grace
periods, increases the internal financial rates of return of economically sound, but commercially
risky projects and improves debt service cover ratios.  This annex describes the financial
organization and operation of the PSIDC in order to meet these objectives.
Design and Organization
2.    Desin. The basic rationale for the financial design of the project stems from the need to
make sound financing decisions in respect of sub-projects that apply for loans. Thus, it is
necessary that the institution charged with making these decisions, operate on commercial
principles and be perceived as fair and transparent. The organizational arrangements under the
PSIDP have evolved in line with these principles. The executing agency, the PSIDC will be
organized to make placement decisions in an autonomous and transparent manner, with adequate
information, and on the basis of sound evaluation criteria.
3.     Other Options for the Facilitv. The project preparation process extensively examined the
viability of placing the facility in an existing financial institution, but its sheer size and impact
were seen as potential problems. The size of the facility and average loan size envisaged would
have meant that the repository financial institution would violate single borrowing and capital
adequacy requirements.  In addition, the concept of having one of the two 'privatized'
development banks manage the debt facility was rejected due to potential conflict of interest
between acting as custodian of public funds and its own lending activities.
4.      Organizational Structure of the PSIDC   The PSIDC was incorporated as a public
company in August 1995. It will be the executing agency for the project. It will place IDA funds
received from GOSL as debt in viable infrastructure sub-projects. The PSIDC has the mandate to
identify, evaluate, approve and supervise suitable sub-projects under the Articles of Incorporation
of the Company. It has been incorporated with a nominal share capital of 2,000 Rupees divided
into 20 shares of 100 Rupees each, of which 14 are held by the Secretary of Finance and the



-58-                                  Annex 4
Page 2 of 11
others by individual shareholders, all in trust, for the GOSL. Placement decisions will be vested in
the Board of Directors and will be taken in accordance with criteria agreed with IDA. Following
approval by the PSIDC, and subsequently by IDA, the PSIDC will enter into a sub-project loan
agreement with, and make funds available to the sub-borrower. Funds designated for use as long
term subordinated debt and their repayments will be maintained in an account at the Central Bank
of Sri Lanka (styled as the Fund A/c). This account will be independent from the PSIDC's
operating account (OP a/c) which would be established only for meeting its day to day operating
requirements.
5.      Operating Procedures   The PSIDC's operations would be directed by the General
Manager, with a small staff, which initially would include a financial analyst, an accountant and
an infrastructure project specialist. These professionals would be supported by short term
consultants, on retainer, to assist in legal, technical, financial and environmental aspects of sub-
project evaluation and financial risk assessment. The manager would be supported by a long term
resident advisor, who would help coordinate all activities and identify the need for short term
subject specialists. Loan disbursements and collections would be handled by accounting expertise
within PSIDC. Sub-project processing would be carried out by the PSIDC's General Manager
and his staff under the overall direction and control of the Board of Directors. The PSIDC would
approve sub-projects for financing only after ensuring that the proposals are consistent, both with
Sri Lanka's national priorities and with IDA's requirements on sub-sector policies. The sub-
projects would meet technical, economic, financial and environmental viability criteria and
national or IDA environmental standards (including criteria for involuntary resettlement, should it
arise) in case of IDA supported sub-projects. Ordinarily the question of a sub-project being
compatible with national planning priorities would be examined by the line ministries and SIDI,
before recommending it for financing. In fact the Letter of Intent (LOI) issued by the GOSL,
which forms the basis of the project financing, implies that the sub-project has met all national
criteria. IDA will be consulted on the adequacy of the sub-sectoral policy framework. It would be
incumbent on the PSIDC to conduct these adequacy and consistency tests while screening
potential private sector sub-projects.
Financial Structure and Operations
6.     The underlying principles for structuring the PSIDC have been evolved on the basis of
Bank experience with PSEDF in Pakistan, modified to suit the specific country situation in Sri Lanka.
The basic elements of the financial structure are; (a) the size and capital structure of the PSIDC, (b)
lending terms to sub-projects - maturities and pricing, (c) financial projections of loan placement,
servicing and repayment, (d) nature and extent of spread income and its deployment, (e) foreign
exchange implications, and (e) financial management, accounting, monitoring and oversight
arrangements. Each of these aspects is discussed in the following paragraphs.
7.      Size and Capital Structure  Appraisal of sub-project possibilities show that the near term
pipeline could consist of about $300 million investment in power generation, $ 300 million in
transport and ports and about $ 15 million in other sectors. The initial size of the fund, including
possible cofinancing, has been geared to partially finance this pipeline. The $70 million IDA funds
and $15 million KfW contribution would provide the initial corpus for PSIDC. Later, other
multilateral and bilateral sources of financing are anticipated. On the assumption that on average
about 30 percent of total project costs would be placed by PSIDC as subordinate debt, projects worth
nearly $250 million can be developed. Depending on the success of initial transactions, GOSL, IDA



-59-                                 Annex 4
Page 3 of 11
and the cofinanciers will review the future funding of the PSIDC. There will be substantial resources
generated by lending operations over time, due to the spread between borrowing and lending rates. It
is proposed to use these resources, which will accumulate in the Fund a/c, for financing new projects.
8.      Lending Terms The GOSL will pass through all credits from donors to the PSIDC on
terms similar to the original credit. Thus for PSIDC, IDA funds would carry an interest of 0.75
percent per annum and a maturity of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years. The PSIDC
will provide debt to sub-projects for maturities not exceeding a period of 22 years, including a
grace period of up to 8 years. Maturities and grace periods would be determined on a case-by-case
basis taking into account the nature of the sub-project. The maturity ceiling of 22 years has been
determined on the basis of prior experience in Pakistan and discussions with private sector players
and lenders. Considering the fact that maturities on commercial loans raised on project finance
basis would be 7-8 years, which with export credit cover, could possibly be stretched to 12 years,
the average maturity of the debt (both commercial and PSIDC) would be in the range of 15-17
years. This maturity profile then closely matches the concession periods of typical BOO/BOT
infrastructure projects, thereby rendering these projects financiable. Furthermore, interest during
construction of sub-projects would be capitalized and form part of the financing provided by
PSIDC to sub-project borrowers. In order to protect PSIDC's cash position during the start-up
period, there would be afive year moratorium on payment of interest by PSIDC to GOSL.
9.     Project funds are not earmarked for particular projects, thus allowing the PSIDC to
respond flexibly to market demands and to analyze each project on its own merits. A variable rate
option has been largely determined on the prevailing, albeit limited, market for foreign currency
loans in Sri Lanka, i.e. on the basis of IFC's proposed lending rate for an independent power
project in Sri Lanka -- for US dollar debt, a variable rate is envisaged at 6 month US$ LIBOR+250
basis points, for approximately 12 years. For pricing the debt under this project, a premium of 50
basis points has been added to reflect the longer maturities and the subordinate nature of the
lending. The variable rate basis has been tested in discussions with financial market players in Sri
Lanka and is appropriate to catalyze commercial sources of lending to participate in the sub-
projects.
10.    In view of the rigid end-use tariff structure in most sectors in Sri Lanka, infrastructure
project sponsors would have little or no flexibility to pass-through capital cost changes via the
pricing and tariff mechanism. Hence, it appears desirable to have a fixed rate interest option as
well for PSIDC debt. The fixed rate option would offer sub-project borrowers the choice of
pegging their interest rates to the prevailing rates for swaps between fixed and variable interest
rates or US$. A premium of 300 basis points would be charged as additional premium to reflect
the risk imposed due to country factors. Clearly, the interest basis risk would rest with the
borrower in the variable rate option. To summarize, the two options available to the sub-project
borrower are:
Variable interest rate based on 6 month US$ LIBOR, plus a premium of 3
percent (LIBOR+ 3 %).'
At present IFC is the market for long term US$ lending, as sole lender contemplating long term (10-12
year) loans for private sector sponsored infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka. Early IFC estimates of what
commercial lenders will expect for a variable rate on senior loans suggest a rate of 6 month US$ LIBOR +
250-275 basis points. Due to the subordinate nature of the loans under PSIDC and longer maturities being



-60-                                 Annex4
Page 4 of 11
Fixed  interest rate based on the term  of  the loan, the currency in which debt is
denominated, and the market swap rate between fixed and variable interest rates, plus a
premium of 3 percent.
Financial Projections of loan placement, servicing and repayments.
11.    From  an accounting perspective, the PSIDC  will account for capital funds and
administrative funds separately. The Fund a/c would serve as the instrument of custody for donor
funds received from GOSL and their management. The Operating Account (OP a/c) of the
Company will deal with its administrative functions, such as receipts on account of fees etc.,
execution of technical assistance (TA) and routine management expenditure. The Fund a/c has
been placed in the Central Bank for reasons of transparency, as the Central Bank has no trustee or
oversight responsibilities.
12.    Funding and Execution of the Fund a/c. The account would be initially funded from
donor resources: IDA and KfW and possibly the ADB. The terms of the credits would be
determined between the respective donors and GOSL. PSIDC would be entitled to enjoy the same
maturity and interest rates for credits, as applicable to GOSL. The IDA portion of the funding
carries a service charge (interest rate) of 0.75 percent per annum and 40 year term (including a
grace period of 10 years). Funds placed in the Fund a/c would be placed in as debt in eligible
private sector companies for specific sub-projects. The initial corpus of available funds for
placement is anticipated to be US$84 million - $70 million from IDA and $ 14 million equivalent
from the KfW.
13.    Sub-loans made by the PSIDC would be repaid by borrowers in US dollars. The spread
resulting from interest rate differentials between those on PSIDC borrowings and on loans made
by the Company, as well as the capital accumulation resulting from different maturities on
borrowings and lending will be retained in the Fund a/c. These accumulated proceeds can serve as
funds for further placement in other projects. A specified portion of the spread income would be
deployed to defray operating expenses of the Company, once the TA funding is exhausted.
14.    Funding and Execulion cf the Operating a/c. The Operating account (OP a/c) would be
funded out of resources provided by GOSL, as share capital and transfers of TA grants, fees and
service charges and a pre-determined share of the interest spread income. The TA resources
would help the Company to meet most of its initial fixed costs and the costs of hiring professional
staff and consultants and for training and staff development. However, the TA would only be in
place for the first four years and the Company is expected to be self-sustaining thereafter. The
PSIDP envisages an initial TA of US$3.5 million for meeting the cost of setting up the Company,
management expenses, legal technical environmental and financial appraisal of projects,
negotiations of placement agreements etc. In addition, another TA component of US$3.5 million is
envisaged to fund feasibility studies, environmental assessments and other preparatory work
related to project promotion and development activities, including evaluation and negotiation
expertise as required by the line Ministries.
contemplated, an additional premium was placed on the LIBOR based loans to arrive at the 6 month US$
LIBOR + 300bp.



-61-                                Annex 4
Page 5 of 11
15.   The indicative expenditures on these items are detailed below. An initial expenditure of
US$ 300,000 is envisaged for setting up the office of the PSIDC. Recurrent management
expenses, such as the costs of hiring a resident technical/legal advisor for the PSIDC, local staff
salaries, short-term consultancy services for specific project evaluation work, transport, premises
and office expenses and training and staff development are expected to cost US$ 835,000 per
annum. The expenses for the first two years would be fully covered by the TA, but in the
following two years, only 70 percent of staff and personnel costs, office expenses and
contingencies would be met by the TA. The GOSL/PSIDC would meet the remaining 30 percent
of costs for these items. Against a total expenditure of US$ 941,000 on these items over the four
years that the TA is effective, IDA loan covers $800,000 and the GOSL/PSIDC share is $141,000.
Resident Advisor Team (expatriates)              US$ 250,000
PSIDC Company Fund Manager                             35,000
Technical Staff (3 @ $20,000 each)                     60,000
(Technical, Accounting and Financial specialists)
Secretarial Staff (5 @ $10,000 each)                   50,000
Total personnel costs                             US$395,000
Short term Consulting Services                        100,000
Annual training and staff development                 250,000
Premises, Office expenses and Transport                40,000
Contingencies                                          50,000
Annual Total                                      US8$35.090
16.   The components of the proposed TA are summarized in the following table.
Component 1: US$3.5 million
Initial capital expenses for PSIDC establishment              US$ 0.3.
Management Expenses ($800,000 p.a.), 4 years                      3.2
Total                                                         US$ 3.5



-62-
Annex 4
Page 6 of 11
Table 1: PSIDC Technical Assistance Component - Management costs
Project Years               1         2         3        4      Total
SOURCES OF FUNDS
TA Component           1.13       0.83       0.77     0.77     3.50
Total                         1.13       0.83       0.77     0.77     3.50
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Fixed Costs
Setting up PSIDC                     0.30       0.00       0.00     0.00     0.30
Management Costs
Resident Advisor (expatriate)-@      0.25       0.25       0.25     0.25     1.00
US$250,000 p.a
General Manager (@ US$35,000 p.a.)   0.04       0.04       0.02     0.02     0.12
Technical staff (3 @ $20,000 p.a)    0.06       0.06       0.04     0.04     0.20
Secretarial/support staff (5 @ $10,000)   0.05  0.05       0.04     0.04     0.20
Sub-Total (Personnel costs)   0.40       0.40       0.35     0.35     1.50
Premises, Office Expenses and Transport 0.04    0.04       0.03     0.03     0.14
Contingencies                        0.04       0.04       0.04     0.04     0.16
Sub-Total (Management Costs)  0.08       0.08       0.07     0.07     0.30
Consulting and Training
Short term consultants - Legal, Technical  0.10  0.10      0.10     0.10     0.40
and Financial
Training and Staff Development       0.25       0.25       0.25     0.25     1.00
Total-TA Component 1          1.13       0.83       0.77     0.77     3.50
Notes:  (i) Totals may not be strictly correct due to rounding
(ii) Personnel & Management costs reduced in years 3 and 4 to account for GOSL/PSIDC contribution of 30%
Component 2: US$3.5 million
17.   To be used for feasibility studies, environmental assessments and other preparatory work
related to project promotion and development activities, aimed to support the line Ministries. It is
envisaged that this TA would be spent over a four year period, commencing from the date PSIDC
is established.
18.   Fee Structure: Following the initial period of four years, it is envisaged that the recurrent
management costs of the Company shall be partly covered by fees charged from borrowers. The
proposed fee structure is as follows:



-63-
Annex 4
Page 7 of 11
*  One time loan application fee of US$ 5,000.00.
*  Documentation fee @ of 0.5 percent of the loan amouiit, subject to a maximum of
US$300,000.
*  Commitment fee @ of 0.75 percent of the committed funds.
*  Project monitoring fee @ of 0.25 percent of the yearly outstanding balance, subject to
a ceiling of US$50,000 per annum.
19.   Financial Projections: The financial projections for the PSIDC, covering a period of 15
years have been prepared on the basis of four indicative infrastructure projects for a total cost of
US$ 210 million. The subordinate debt financing for these projects has been assumed to be in the
30-40 percent range, amounting to US$84 million, or the initial size of the Fund. However, the
financial projections indicate only the subordinate debt portion to be met from IDA funding, which
is US$ 70 million.
20.    The key assumptions underlying the financial forecasts are:
(a)    Interest rates and maturities for donor loans are similar to IDA terms, i.e. 40 years,
including 10 years grace and a service fee of 0.75 percent per annum.
(b)    For sub-project financing, interest rates are based on six month US$ LIBOR+3
percent. Maturites for the indicative sub-loans vary from 15 to 20 years, with a
maximum grace period of eight years. Interest during the construction period of
the sub-project is capitalized and paid in four annual instalments, commencing in
the year following completion of construction.
(c)    Cash surplus with the PSIDC's Fund a/c  account resulting from the interest
spread is retained in the Fund a/c account of the Company.
(d)    PSIDC reinvests cash surplus at the end of each year and receives a return of 4.5
percent per annum.
(e)    The PSIDC has an assumed tax rate of 15 percent, which is in line with the
corporate tax rate offered under Sri Lankan law to companies that qualify for
Board of Investment (BOI) status. The PSIDC is expected to meet the criteria for
receiving BOI status.
(f)    Nominal share capital of the PSIDC (amounting to nearly Rupees 2,000) is not
included in the financial projections.
21.    Nature and Extent Qf spread income and its deplovment: Credits from IDA to GOSL carry a
service charge of 0.75 percent per annum and a term of 40 years with ten years grace. These terms
are passed on to the Company. However the PSIDC places debt at significantly higher rates, for
maturities varying between 15-22 years and a maximum grace period of 8 years. The differences
between the funding and placement terms of the PSIDC will result in cash surplus in the Fund a/c
over time. In addition to interest spread, the difference in the maturity and grace periods of loans
placed by the PSIDC and the credit from IDA to GOSL also leads to cash retention in the Fund
a/c. The principal repayments on the project loans placed by PSIDC commence from year 8



-64-
Annex 4
Page 8 of 11
onwards. Indicative financial projections show that, with an initial capitalization of US$70
million, accumulated interest spread reserves are US$ 12 million in year 6, increasing to US$40
million in the tenth year of operation.  It is envisaged that accumulated reserves would be
principally deployed for financing other new projects, with a small share being used to cover
operating expenses. Since the fund finances upto 40 percent of project costs, additional projects to
the tune of US$160 million can be financed by PSIDC by the tenth year of operation. The spread
deployment would thus enhance PSIDC's ability to leverage more private investment.
22.    Foreign Exchange Implications.  Foreign exchange risk implications arise from a) the
transactions occurring between the PSIDC and the sub-project borrower; b) the PSIDC and the
GOSL, with its obligations to IDA. In the placement transaction, between PSIDC and sub-project
borrower, loans from PSIDC (and debt service repayment) are denominated in US dollars, whereas
project revenues will most likely be in local currency. As in typical project finance transactions,
the sub-project borrower may be able to mitigate a part of the risk through currency depreciation
pass-throughs in the purchase agreements, or hedging and/or exchange rate insurance.
23.    There are exchange rate risk implications for IDA and PSIDC also.  Although the
placement and repayment currency for PSIDC are US dollars, as is its currency of repayment to
GOSL, the obligations of GOSL to IDA are denominated in SDRs and repaid in dollars by GOSL.
Risks arising from an adverse movement of the dollar against SDRs are normally borne by the
borrowing government.
24.    Financial management. accounting, monitoring and oversight arrangements: The PSIDC
would conduct its business in accordance with international standards and its accounts would be
audited by a firm acceptable to IDA. IDA oversight arrangements in respect of proposal evaluation,
project appraisal and lending decisions would apply to all sub-loans. IDA will ensure that the
projects qualifying for PSIDC loans satisfy Bank guidelines with respect to environment,
resettlement and procurement and meet the test of consistency with agreed sub-sector policies and
objectives.
25.   Financial Proiections for the PSIDC
Attached: PSIDC's
I.     Financial Projections Summary of terms and indicative disbursements
2.     PSIDC Sources and Applications of Funds
3.     PSIDC Technical Assistance Sources and'Applications Statement
m:\iyer\slyc\gc-annx4.doc
May 6th, 1996



SRI LANKA: PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Projections for the Private Sector Infrastructure Development Company Limited (PSIDC)
Basic Data
1. Terms from IFIs to the GOSL
IDA     ADB       KfW
Initial Capitalization   US$ million        70         0        14
Maturities         Years                    40     .           40
Grace              Years                     10    ..           10
Interest           % p.a.                  0.75    ..         0.75
2. Terms from GOSL to PSIDC same as IDA
Drawdowns based on actual project disbursements
Maturities         Years                    22 Max
Grace              Years                     8
3. PSIDC financial indicators
Initial capital    Rupees                 5.000
Fees charged for services
(a) Application fee   per proposal US$    5.000                                                                                                      L
(b) Documentation fee % of loan            0.50 max        300,000
(b) Commitment fee  % of commited funds    0.75
(c) Monitoring fee    % on avg. outstandin  0.25 max     50,000.00 p.a.
Interest Rates    Year              0        1         2         3        4         5        6         7        8         9       10
Average annual Interest     LIBOR+3%       9.80     9.80      9.80      9.80     9.80      9.80     9.80      9.80     9.80      9.80
Return on investments of reserve cash      4.50     4.50      4.50     4.50      4.50     4.50      4.50     4.50      4.50      4.50
Administrative and Personnel costs for IDC - Actuals until year 4, 10% annual escalation thereafter
4. PSIDC Disbursements
(in USS mlilions)  Year     Total             1        2         3        4         5        6         7        8         9       10
Maturity   Disbursed  Flnanced
Project 1       20        1    12.00       2.00     6.00      4.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Project 2       18        2    28.00       0.00     6.00     12.00    10.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Project 3       14        3    20.00       0.00     0.00      3.00     5.00      8.00     4.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Project4        12        3     10.00      0.00     0.00      1.00     5.00      4.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00            I
Project 5        0        0      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Project 6        0        0      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Project 7        0        0      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00               M
Project 8        0        0      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00               e 
Total                           70.00      2.00    12.00    20.00     20.00     12.00     4.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00       K



SRI lA%NKA: IbRIVA'I'E SE.CI'R INIltASl'RUCI'URIC I)ED'EI,0P1'lCNi  P'ROJECI'
PSIDC: Sources and Applications Of Funds
Year          1        2         3        4         5        6         7        8         9       10
Sources of funds              11197     11109   199       2000     2t0l      2002     2teJ      2004     2005      2006
Fund Account
GOSL Drawdowns                2 00    12 00     20 00     20 00    12.00      4000      000      0 00     0 00      0 00
Repayments-Prmncapal          0 00      0 00     000       0 00     0 00      0 00      0 00     0 00      100      3 80
Repayments-Interest           000       000      0.00      1 25     4.43      5.27      8 21     969       924      8.05
Inlerest eamed on reserves    0 00      0 02     0.02      0 02     0 07      0.16      0 17     0 28      0 34     0.37
Other Transfers               0.00      0.00     0 00      0 00     0 00      0 00      0 00     0.00     0 00      0 00
Sub Total Sources             2.00    12.02     20.02     21.27    16.49      9.43     8 38      997    10 1      1222
Operating Account
TechnicalAssistance I         128       2 08     1.72      192      0.00      0 00      0 00     000      000       000
TechnicalAssislancell         0.15      125      095       1 15     000       000      000       000       000      000
Transters from GOSL           0 00      000        ' 0     0 00     0 00      0.00      000      000       000      000
FeesandCommissions            016       0.33     035       021      018       016       016      0.16      015      0.15
Sub Total sources             1.59    3a66       32        3 28     0.18      0.16      Q.16    Qj1       0.15     0.15
Total Sources                 3.59    15.68    23.04      24.55    16.88      9.59     8.54    10.12    10.73      12.37
Applicatons of Funds
Fund Account
Loan disbursements            2 00    12.00     20 00     20 00     12 00     4.00      0 00     0.00      0 00     0 00
Debt Service to GOSL
Principal          0 00     0 00      0 00      0.00     0.00      0 00     0 00      0.00      0.00     2.33                                           ON
Interest          0.00     0 00      0.00      0 00     0.00      0 51      0.53     0 53      0 53     0.52
Other GOSL obligations        0000      000      0 00      0 00     0 00      0 00      0.00     0.00    0C00       0 00
Sub Total Appolcatlons        2.00    12.00     20.0Q     20.00    12.00      4.51      0.53    Q053       Q.53     2.85
Operating Account
AdministrativeiOffice         0 78      0 48     0 42      0 42     0 46      0 50      0 55     0.61      0 67     0.74
Apprausal. consunancy elc     010       010      010       010      0.10      010       0.10     010       010      010
Trainng & Stahf Development   0 25      0 25     0 25      0 25     010       0 10      0 10     010       0.00     0 00
Feasibility Studies etc       015       1 25     095       1 15     000       000       000      000       0.00     0 00
Sub Total ApDlications        1.28      2.08     1.72      1.92     0.66      0.70      0.75     0,81      0 77     0.84
Tax payments         15%      0 06      0 09     0 09      0 26     0 62      0 67      1 10     1.33      127       1.08
TransferloReserve             025       151      123       237      340       370       616      746       817      7.60
TotalApplications             3.59    15.68     23.04     24.55    18.88      9.59     8.54     10.12    10.73     12.37
Year                      1        2         3        4         5         6        7         8        9        10
Interest Retalned    Year     0 00      0 00     0 00      1.25     4.43      4.76      7 69     9.16      8 71      7.53
Prtncipal retained   Year     0 00      0 00     0.00      0 00     0 00      0 00      0 00     0.00      100       1.47
Total Retention               0.00      000      0.00      t 25     4.43      4 76      7.69     9 16      9 71     900
Charge on Fund a/c (2)       -0 31    -1 58      -1.30    -1 36     0.47      0 54      0 60     0.65      0 62     0 69
Net surplus retalned          025       149      121       235      3.34      355       599      7.17      783      7.23                                     3
Cumulative Surplus            0.25      1.74     2.95      5.30      8.64    12.18     18.17    25.34    33.17     40.40                                    la
_ >
(2) bcgikn.s grjj~I~ral htmls 11zZ11 11f1IlWChlNIf1 qellkLmfi awhIw Iz telult qmruilig CIIWlb0f
t'StOC Fium-,2ul Yct,. Janus) I t I.i.iu.c.......... -.t II                                    !1
'-"a



-67-                                                Annex 4
SRI LANKA: PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                         Page 11 of 11
PSIDC Technical Assistance - Sources and Applications
Million US dollars
Years 1997 to 2000
Project years                      1        2         3         4   Total
SOURCES OF FUNDS
TA Component I                    1.13      0.83      0.77     0.77      3.50
TA Component II                    0.15      1.25     0.95      1.15      3.50
Total                                       1.28     2.08      1.72      1.92      7.00
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Fixed Costs
Setting up PSIOC                   0.30      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.30
Management Costs
Resident Advisors (expatriate)-@ US$250,000 p.a.                0.25      0.25      0.25     0.25      1.00
Trust Fund Manager(@ US $35000 p.a.)                    0.04      0.04      0.02      0.02     0.12
Technical staff (3 @ $20,000 p.a)                0.06      0.06     0.04      0.04      0.20
SecreteriaUsupport staff (5 @ $10,000)                0.05     0.05      0.04      0.04      0.17
Sub-Total (Personnel costs) see note        0.40      0.40      0.35     0.35      1.49
Prerr.'ses, Office Expenses and Transport                0.04      0.04     0.03      0.03      0.14
Training and Staff Development                  0.25      0.25      0.25     0.25      1.00
Contingencies                   0.05       0.05     0.04      0.04     0.17
Sub-total Management Costs                             0.73      0.73      0.67     0.67      2.80
Consulng and Accounting Management
Consulting Firm (Legal, Financial and Technical)              0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10      0.40
Local and Foreign consultants
Feasibility studies, support to line ministries etc.           0.15      1.25      0.95      1.15      3.5
Total                                       1.28     2.08      1.72      1.92     7.00
Note: For Ome frti two yews, staff and personnel costs, office expenses and rontingencies are met 1 00% from TA. and in the succeeding two years. 70%.
PStDC/GOSL win meet the remaining 30% in years 3 and 4.



-68-
Page 1 of 6
ENVIRONlMENT AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT FRAMF,WORK
Environmental Aspects
A. Purpose
1.    A list of sub-projects, outlined in the SAR, which is comprised of candidates for private sector
participation and potential borrowers from the proposed facility, is being prepared in close consultation
with the GOSL. The projects include power stations, port developments, toll roads and waste water
treatment plants. As no project is at an advanced enough state to require financing from the proposed
facility at present, a full environmental assessment (EA) for sub-projects is not possible at the outset. In
such circumstances, OD 4.01 (para. 9) required that arrangements be made whereby the project
implementing institutions undertake the functions of subproject screening, EA review and
implementation of mitigation and monitoring plans. This document describes the arrangements and
procedures proposed for the project. It is being submitted to the Board in lieu of a project EA and will be
the basis of the environmental aspects of appraisal. It is also being made available for public review in
appropriate locations in Sri Lanka and in the IDA's Public Information Center in accordance with BP
17.50 requirements for disclosure. Detailed EAs for individual sub-projects in Category A and other
appropriate analysis for those in category B will be carried out by the private sponsors and cleared by
IDA prior to any disbursements (on-lending) to the sub-projects.
B. GOSL Environmental Regulations & Procedures
2.    In 1981 the GOSL passed the National Environmental Act (NEA) and in 1982, created the
Central Environmental Authority (CEA)-as a regulatory and enforcement agency. The CEA's statutory
and enforcement powers were strengthened significantly in 1988, by an amendment to the NEA. A
cabinet level ministry to handle the subject of environment was created in 1990, with the appointment of
a Minister of Environment to ensure that environmental issues would be given the required attention.
The GOSL also developed the Environmental Protection License (EPL) Scheme, with the CEA as the
enforcing agency, as a regulatory instrument to set industrial pollution standards and control their
discharges. The GOSL issued its National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) in 1991, which was the
first of any Asian country. The NEAP identified the main environmental issues that need to be addressed
in Sri Lanka.
3.     Under provisions of Part IV C of the NEA No 47 of 1980 as stipulated in Gazette (Extra
Ordinary) No 772/22 dated June 24, 1993, the GOSL made Environmental Assessment (EA) a legal
requirement for a range of development projects. The list of projects requiring an EA are prescribed in
the above Gazette notification (Attachment 1). In addition, the Gazette notification includes a list of line
ministries and agencies that are designated as Project Approving Agencies (PAA). With the change of
government in August 1994 and the resulting reallocation of Ministries, a new list of PAAs were
specified--under subject area rather than with name of the Ministry as listed originally--in Gazette (Extra
Ordinary) No 859/14 dated February 13, 1995 (Attachment 2)
4.     According to GOSL procedure, any activity that falls within the domain of a prescribed project is
subject to an environmental impact assessment (EIA). The EIA approval/disapproval can be granted by
the PAA with jurisdiction over the project activity, only with concurrence of the CEA. However, the



-69-                                   Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
project proponent is not permitted to perform the functions and duties of a PAA. Therefore, in the event
of a PAA becoming a project proponent, the CEA will designate an appropriate PAA. In instances where
the project would fall within the purview of more than one PAA, the CEA will determine an appropriate
PAA. Any functions of the PAA related to the approval of the project can be devolved to a Provincial
council only with written concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Environment.
5.    The proponent of a prescribed project is required to submit preliminary information on the
project--by filling out a questionnaire--to the PAA, as early as possible in the project cycle. The PAA in
consultation with CEA is responsible for subjecting the preliminary information to environmental
scoping, in order to set the Terms of Reference (TOR) for the EIA. The TOR is prepared by a Technical
Committee (TC) comprising experts in the relevant field, appointed by the PAA. In developing the TOR,
the regulations provide for the PAA to consider the views of state agencies and the public.
6.    Upon submission of the EIA by the proponent, the PAA is required to determine whether issues
referred to in the TOR have been addressed and notify the proponent of any inadequacies within 14 days.
In the event any inadequacies are identified, the proponent is required to make necessary amendments
and resubmit the report. Once accepted, in addition to the EIA being forwarded to the CEA by the PAA,
notice is also placed in the government Gazette and in a national newspaper published daily in Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages inviting the public to make written comments, if any, to the PAA within 30
days. The notification would specify the times and places at which the EIA would be made available to
the public. As a minimum, the report would be available at the CEA, PAA and in a GOSL agency in the
locality of the proposed project. The environmental regulations have provisions for public hearings on
the project, although it is not mandatory. The PAA is required to forward all comments--either written
or raised during the public hearing--to the project proponent for review and response within 6 days of
completion of the public comment period. The proponent is required to respond to all such comments in
writing to the PAA.
7.    The TC appointed by the PAA would then evaluate the EIA and require the project proponent to
respond to any queries raised by the TC. The TC would also evaluate the adequacy of the proponent's
response to any comments raised during the public comment period. Upon completion of the evaluation
of the TC, the PAA, with the concurrence of the CEA, would grant approval for implementation of the
proposed project subject to specified conditions or refuse approval for implementation of the project,
with reasons for doing so. This notification must be made within 30 days of receipt of responses from
the proponent. The PAA is required to specify a period within which the approved project should be
completed. In the event the proponent is unable to complete the project during the specified period,
written permission for an extension has to be obtained from the PAA, 30 days prior to the expiration
date.
8.    The PAA is responsible for forwarding a report which contains a plan for monitoring the
implementation of the approved project, to the CEA, within 30 days from granting of approval. It is also
the responsibility of the PAA to publish in the government Gazette and in one national newspaper
published daily in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the granting of approval for the project.
9.    It is mandatory that the project proponent inform the PAA of any alterations to the project as
approved and/or the abandonment of the project. The PAA shall, where necessary , obtain fresh approval
in respect of any such alterations that are intended to be made to the approved project. The PAA, in
consultation with the CEA, would also determine the scope and format of the supplemental report
required to be submitted for such alterations.



-70-                                    Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
10.   In addition, the Coast Conservation Act (CCA) of 1981 also specifies an EIA procedure for
projects to be located in the coastal zone of the country. This preceded the CEA requirement, and has
been previously applied for a limited range of development projects--hotels, land reclamation and power
plant. This CCA defined procedure will continue to apply for projects proposed in the coastal zone.
11.    Adequacy of GOSL Environmental Clearance: The composite GOSL environmental clearance
process (EIA, EPL, CCA), in principal, is consistent with the Bank's environmental and public
disclosure requirements. The exception being the screening criteria adopted in the GOSL process, where
project thresholds are used to determine the type of clearance required and the content of public
consultation. Given the recent origin of the CEA regulated EA procedure, implementation experience is
yet evolving.  Thus reliance cannot be placed on it entirely.  In the initial years of project
implementation, IDA will review the sub-project EA reports for all A rated projects prior to approval.
IDA will at least initially also review the environmental analysis for Category B projects as well.
C. Justification for IDA Review of EA
12.    Due to the institutional situation in Sri Lanka and certain unique aspects of the project, the IDA
will rely on its full internal review of the sub-project EAs for A rated projects, to ensure that they are
consistent with OD 4.01. IDA will at least initially also review the environmental analysis for Category
B projects as well. GOSL EA regulations and procedures, as described above, meet generally accepted
standards, but their implementation has not evolved to the point where they can be relied upon to provide
adequate environmental safeguards for the sub-projects. Ordinarily this would be remedied by including
an institutional strengthening component in the project to improve implementation of GOSL EA
regulations or, if that were not possible, by developing environmental assessment and environmental
credit risk management capacity within the financial intermediary.  Institutional strengthening for
environmental management in Sri Lanka is being administered through several IDA supported projects
(SMI-IV. PFDP, CEIP and EAIP), in addition to USAID's NAREPP (see description of these initiatives
below.) This institutional strengthening work has fully engaged the absorptive capacity of Sri Lanka's
core environment agencies. Moreover, it is of necessity a medium- to long-term undertaking. It is
therefore unlikely that sufficient progress will be made to meet the EA needs of the earlier sub-projects
under PSIDP. However, strengthening PSIDC's environmental assessment capabilities would not in the
long run strengthen the environmental capabilities of GOSL, nor would it be appropriate, as PSIDC has
been devised as a transitional instrument, with a finite life. Thus, relying on IDA review of A rated sub-
projects will necessarily provide the best method of ensuring consistency with OD 4.01. IDA will at
least initially also review the environmental analysis for Category B projects for OD 4.01 consistency.
13.   The Bank-supported TA components in SMI-IV, PFDP and CEIP, USAID's NAREPP (all
currently under implementation) and the proposed Bank-supported EAIP (currently under preparation)
include the following extensive institutional strengthening measures: In addition to civil works for
industrial wastewater treatment and solid waste management and a Pollution Control Abatement Fund,
SMI-IV has financed preparation of a comprehensive Industrial Pollution Management Strategy,
including: i) a 5-year strategic plan; b) a laboratory accreditation scheme; c) laboratory equipment,
including provisioning for eventual certification of CEA's lab as a reference lab; and d) a private labs
window to promote accreditation of private labs. Implementation of these activities is proceeding under
PFDP and CEIP.
14.    USAID's NAREPP has supported a range of environmental policy development and institutional
strengthening activities, including: a) support for application of environmental economics to policy,



-71-
Page 4 of 6
planning and program analysis; b) assistance for updating and revision of the National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP); c) analysis and improvement of management at the Ministry of Transport,
Environment and Women's Affairs (MTEWA) and the Central Environment Authority (CEA); d)
support for MTEWA's interagency coordination and development of environmental cells in key agencies
(Project Approving Agencies), including TA and training to improve conduct and oversight of EA by
CEA and the PAAs; and e) development of graduate environmental education programs in four leading
universities in Sri Lanka.
15.   EAIP proposes complementary support for core environment agencies at the national level. The
institutional component of NEAI will strengthen the national policy formulation role of MTEWA, the
policy implementation role of CEA, the environmental management capacity and the environmental
planning and assessment capabilities of selected PAAs. Proposed initiatives to strengthen CEA include
building a stable and competent environmental cadre through improvements in remuneration,
recruitment and training; prioritization of CEA's Corporate Plan; strengthening industrial licensing,
laboratory, monitoring and enforcement capabilities; and improving EA through coordination with
NAREPP's comprehensive EA training program and targeting selected PAAs for focused environmental
planning and EA capacity development.
D. Procedures for IDA EA and Sub-loan Approval
IDA EAA prova
16.   EAs of A rated sub-projects and initially B rated projects would be subject to IDA review and
approval, and because these sub-projects are not yet known, the environmental review and approval
process will take place during project implementation. To ensure consistency of sub-project EAs with
OD 4.01, an environmental consultant would be retained by PSIDC to assist and provide technical
guidance to the Private Project Companies (PPCs) during the loan application and approval process.
17.   There are two principal stages of EA preparation and environmental review that are integrated
into PSIDC's sub-project review and approval process. They are: i) review and agreement on the TORs
of the EA; and ii) review, comment and approval of the EA report. Review of TORs. The PSIDC will
make its environmental consultant available to the PAA to advise on the scoping and drafting of TORs.
The consultant have access to detailed information about the proposed sub-project activities and sites at
this stage. Review and approval of the EA report. The PPC will submit the EA report to the PSIDC and
PAA: i)first submission; ii) adequacy verification; iii) resubmission. PSIDC forwards the EA to IDA.
IDA's comments are forwarded by PSIDC to PAA and incorporated into EA requirements of PPC. PAA
conveys decision on EA. The package the GM sends to IDA for final approval should include the
internal appraisal report, PPC's feasibility study, the draft sub-loan agreement and security package and
the PAA approved EA.
The GOSL requirements for advertisement and public comment on sub-project EAs will meet the
requirements of BP 17.50 for local disclosure. The sub-project EAs will also be placed in IDA's Public
Information Center when formally received for IDA review.



-72-
AmS
Page 5 of 6
Sub-loan Approval Process and Environmentakl Clearance
51w   GOSI EA Pros=             PSIDC Project Cycle        IDA Environmental
Refview
I     PPC submits preliminary   PPC submits Loan           PSIDC checks consistency
information to PAA        Application to PSIDC      with OD 4.01 screening
2     PAA conducts scoping
session
3     Drafting and issuing TOR    PSIDC issues Preliminary    PSIDC obtains IDA
for EIA by PAA            Acceptance Letter         clearance for EIA TOR for
all A rated projects and , as
appropriate, for B rated
4     EIA study by PPC          Internal appraisal report
5     PPC submits EIA report to
PAA:
-first submission
-Adequacy verification
-Re-submission
6     Public participation and  PSIDC forwards PPC         IDA review of documents
review of EIA report by   feasibility study, draft sub-  for all A rated projects and,
PAA                       loan agreement, internal  as appropriate, for B rated.
appraisal report and PAA  IDA places report in PIC
approved EIA to IDA
7     Finalization of                                     Incorporation of IDA
environmental mitigation                            comments in EA report and
plan                                                other project documents for
all A rated projects and, as
appropriate, for B rated
8     PAA conveys decision to                              Agreement on
PPC                                                 environmental mitigation
plan between PAA, PSIDC,
PPC and IDA
9     Implementation of         Project implementation     Supervision by IDA during
mitigation plan                                     implementation
E. Scope of Work for PSIDC EA Consultan
18.   The environmental consultant (see Annex 9 for TORs for Technical Advisors) would assist
PSIDC to ensure that sub-loan applications for IDA funding include an EA that meets the requirements
of OD 4.01. The consultant would report to the General Manager, PSIDC and would provide the
following services to Private Project Companies (PPCs) applying for IDA funding:
a)    assistance to PSIDC with the EA process for proposed sub-loans,
including:



Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
i)   screening proposed sub-loans in accordance with the Bank's A-B-C classification
scheme;
ii)  assisting PAA in the development of TORs that meet the Bank's requirements
through review of project description documents and, if necessary, site visits, and
securing agreement between the PPC and PSIDC on appropriate phasing of EA
preparation with the sub-loan application process;
iii) reviewing and commenting on interim outputs and drafts, when requested by the
PAA, during preparation of the EA;
iv) providing detailed review and comments on the draft EA before submission to the
General Manager for forwarding to IDA; and
v)   assisting PSIDC in ensuring that responses are provided to IDA and that the
environmental mitigation plan is incorporated in the final appraisal report.
b)     general environmental services to PSIDC, participating PPCs and local
environmental consultants, including:
i)    training of PSIDC and PPC staff in oversight of EA preparation
and management of environmental risk in their credit and
commercial operations;
ii)    training of local consultants in EA preparation;
iii)    monitoring and supervision of EA mitigation plan implementation
m:\john\psidpii\envanex5.doc



-74-                                   Annex 6
Page 1 of 11
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK
Resettlement Aspects
A.    Background
I.    The PSIDP is expected to attract private sector investors in the development of infrastructure
and public utilities by providing long term subordinated debt facilities to prospective investors. The
project represents a departure from the traditional, public sector financing and operation of infrastructure
facilities, and would introduce the private sector into domains hitherto controlled entirely by
government. Hence, it will be necessary for the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) to develop
appropriate policies to safeguard public interest, particularly with regard to environmental and social
impacts of such private sector projects. The framework for the processing and implementation for
environmental assessment aspects of the project to address environmental concerns has been prepared
separately. This note outlines a strategy developed in consultation with the Ministry of Environment
(MOE), the Central Environmental Agency (CEA) and the Ministry of Land, Forestry and Natural
Resources (MOL), to deal with adverse social impacts of infrastructure projects that will be planned and
implemented by private sector sponsors under the PSIDP.
2.     The sub-projects likely to be financed under the PSIDP could involve expropriation of private
lands and other properties. In general, land requirements for individual sub-projects are likely to be small
and large scale resettlement is not envisaged. It is also anticipated that where only small blocks of non-
residential lands are needed (e.g. gas/oil powered thermal power stations, effluent treatment plants), the
project sponsor would make use of the normal land market mechanism and purchase lands directly from
the owners. However, for more land-intensive projects, such as highways and hydroelectric projects,
where the nature of the project limits flexibility with regard to location, it may not be possible to avoid
economically important lands (i.e. lands with productive potential and/or of residential value.) Road
projects, if passing through densely populated urban areas, could entail substantial resettlement. In such
cases it will be necessary for GOSL to acquire land under the country's land expropriation laws and to
make it available to the project sponsor. Irrespective of the mechanism employed for securing lands for
private sector projects, principles and policies under the PSIDP should seek to ensure that both GOSL
and World Bank guidelines are met.
3.    In World Bank assisted  projects, borrowers are expected to take all necessary measures to
mitigate adverse social and environmental impacts. The same principle would apply in the case of
borrowers under the PSIDP. In the conventional World Bank project the Government or a public sector
agency is the borrower/executing agency, whereas in the PSIDP, the borrowers are private sector parties.
The costs associated with resettlement measures would also be met by the private sector borrower and
would constitute a part of the project costs. The PSIDP would thus require general guidelines to be
followed in all projects involving resettlement, and specific resettlement plans will be required for each
sub-project, based on these guidelines. The plans and their implementation will be mandated in project
related agreements among the private sector borrowers, the on-lending agency (The Private Sector
Infrastructure Development Compnay or PSIDC) and the GOSL. This memorandum describes a set of
resettlement principles, objectives, policies and processing requirements, recommended to be adopted for



-75-                                     Annex 6
Page 2 of 11
all sub-projects under the PSIDP, which involve involuntary resettlement of project affected persons
(PAP).'
B.    The Legal Context
4.     The acquisition of private properties for public purposes in Sri Lanka is governed by (a) The
Land Acquisition Act (LAA - 1956), (b) State Land(Recovery of Possession) Act (1979) and (c) Urban
Development Projects (Special Provisions) Act (1980).  Other legislation related to land tenure and
agricultural lands, such as the Land Reform Law (1970), Agricultural Services Act (1979) and the Paddy
lands Act (1958), also have direct or indirect implications for involuntary resettlement. In addition, the
National Environmental Act of 1988, incorporates issues related to involuntary resettlement through its
broad-based definition of environment and covers impacts of a development intervention on population
living in the area, or at least, CEA has been interpreting so with considerable effectiveness.2 It is also of
major significance that in recent times, the CEA has refused to grant project approvals in cases, such as
.the Colombo Katunayake expressway and the Upper Kotmale Hydroelectric project on issues related to
inadequate mitigating measures for populatic.. displacement and resettlement.
5.     While these laws provide instruments for taking over private properties after paying a legally
determined compensation to owners. they do not set out any principles or standards to ensure that those
who lose such properties or who are displaced in the process are not subjected to social and economic
hardships. In general, the limitations of LAAs in the context of resettlement are well known.
Recognizing these limitations, GOSL in 1981, through the Ministry of Lands, issued a circular (dated
January 1, 1981) advising all ministries and government departments to limit acquisition to the bare
minimum and, where necessary, undertake relocation of people affected by acquisition of their lands and
houses. Although, this instruction does not have a mandatory status, agencies like RDA, UDA and CEB
had been undertaking limited relocation of project affected people (PAP). These efforts, however, have
remained ad hoc and appear to be inadequate in the absence of any detailed guidelines or regulatory
mechanism. The principles and mechanisms recommended in the following paragraphs, in the specific
context of the PSIDP, conform to accepted practice as enunciated by GOSL and the present legal
framework in Sri Lanka.
C.    General Principles
6.     All sub-projects that entail acquisition of land or other assets (legally owned or customarily
used) will be required to assess its impact on people living in the affected area. This impact assessment
will be carried out as an integral part of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) under specific
Terms of Reference (TORs) issued by the CEA directly or through the Project Approval Agency (PAAs)
set-up by the CEA for a specific project, and would be subjected to the same processing requirements
and regulatory mechanisms as mandated for regular EIAs under the Environmental Act.
For the purposes of the PSIDP, project affected persons are defined as "all persons residing, cultivating or
carrying out economic activities within the areas acquired for the project, prior to a formally recognized cut off
date." Lack of legal titles to the land/property would not constitute a bar to being considered as a PAP.
2The new draft National Environmental Protection Act proposes to define environment as "the physical, social and
psychological factors of the surroundings of human beings, including the land, soil, water, atmosphere, climate,
sound, odors, tastes and the biological factors of animals and plants of every description." (Section 129, in the draft
act)



-76-
Annex 6
Page 3 of 11
7.     The responsibility for planning the resettlement program and its implementation would lie with
the sub-project borrowers, subject to the approval of the plans and implementation supervision by the
PAA/CEA (on behalf of GOSL) and PSIDC/IDA. The terms and conditions related to the
implementation of the resettlement component would be mandated both in the project agreement
between the Government and the sub-project borrower and the loan agreement to be executed between
the sub-project borrower and the PSIDC, in accordance with this policy. Therefore, in effect, the PSIDC
would have the full authority of the loan agreement for ensuring implementation of the approved
resettlement plan.
8.     Wherever a proposed sub-project offers flexibility in terms of location options, all efforts will be
made to locate such projects on unoccupied/unutilized government or private lands purchased directly
from the land owners. Compulsory acquisition of economically important lands will be resorted to only
for projects with limited locational options, such as roads or hydropower projects.
9.     Wherever possible the sub-project sponsor would use regular market mechanism to obtain the
required land. No resettlement plan would be necessary in such cases. However, if the land so
purchased involves displacement of people, other than the owners of the lands, e.g. encroachers, tenants
or lease-holders, it will be necessary for the sponsors to seek clearance from PAA/CEA and PSIDC/IDA
regarding the resettlement measures that may be necessary.
D.    Resettlement of ProJect Affected Peopl
(a)    Principles and Objectives:
10.    All sub-project resettlement programs will be guided by the following principles and objectives
and the PAA/CEA and the PSIDC would ensure that the resettlement plans prepared by the project
sponsor are in concurrence with these objectives and principles.
1. Involuntary displacement will be avoided or minimized wherever possible by exploring
alternative project designs and locations.
2. Project affected people will be compensated and resettled so as to improve their living standards
or at least to maintain their pre-project level living standards.
3. Land Acquisition and Resettlement will be planned and implemented in such a way as to cause
least possible amount of social, cultural and economic disruption
4. Project affected persons will be: (i) compensated for their losses at full replacement cost (either
in cash or in replacement house/land) prior to relocation, (ii) assisted in the transfer of residence and
during the transition period at the relocation site and, (iii) assisted in their efforts to improve their
living standards at the new location.
5. Special measures will be incorporated in the resettlement plan to protect socially and
economically vulnerable groups such as women headed families, children and aged people without
support structures and, people living in extreme poverty.
6. All persons cultivating or carrying out economic activities within the areas acquired for the
project, prior to a formally recognized cut off date, will be considered as a PAP and will be entitled



-77-
Annex 6
Page 4 of 11
to resettlement. Lack of legal titles to the land a person is cultivating or using for carrying our
economic activities will not act as a bar to resettlement entitlements.
7. The previous level of community services and resources will be maintained or improved after
resettlement.
8. A project affected person will not be dispossessed of his/her property nor displaced from his/her
place of residence or employment without payment of full compensation and/ or without making
arrangements for relocation and rehabilitation. The construction schedules at any given site would
be integrated with the land acquisition and resettlement time tables, to ensure that all land
acquisition activities are completed prior to the commencement of construction at that site.
9. The entire cost of resettlement program will be considered as an integral part of the project cost
and accordingly will be budgeted in annual and overall implementation plans of the project.
Resettlement costs will be annually adjusted for inflation and cost overruns, and increases in costs
would be the responsibility of the sponsor. Safeguards in this respect would be incorporated in the
loan agreement between the sponsor/borrowers and the PSIDC.
10. The resettlement programs will be planned with the consultation and agreement of the PAP and
their active participation would be encouraged in its implementation.
I1. There will be effective mechanisms for hearing and resolving grievances during the
implementation of resettlement programs.
(b)    Entitlement Policy:
I1.   The entitlement policy aims to enable project affected people to replace the assets (land, house
and other means of livelihood) they have lost on account of the project, to recover and to improve upon
their pre project living standards within the shortest possible time. In general, a resettlement package
would consist of (a) provision for replacement assets or its cash equivalent, (b) cash grants to
compensate for the temporary disruption in life and economic activities and (c) provision for
replacement of community facilities and services at relocation areas.
12.   The entitlement policy described here is of a general nature. The resettlement entitlements
described below cover only broad categories and common situations. Sub-project resettlement
plans(RAP) will be required to translate these into project specific entitlement package according to the
nature of the sub-project resettlement issues. For the purpose of entitlements (total compensation and
resettlement package designed under the entitlement policy), the owner/occupier of the property under
acquisition and his/her immediate family (husband/wife, minor children and aged dependents without
independent means of livelihood) will be considered as a unit (affected family).
(i) Loss of agricultural land
13.    Land owning farmers: In general, farmers affected by the loss of land used for cultivation or
allied purposes will be provided with altemate farm land of equal or greater productivity at a location
acceptable to the affected person. Owner cultivators losing less than 25% of their holding will be given
either an equivalent area of land or cash compensation at replacement cost whichever is more practical.
Those losing more than 25% of their holding will be given an equivalent area of land (with the condition
that after the replacement, the total land holding would add up to an economically viable holding).



-78-                                  Annex 6
Page 5 of 11
Where the entire holding has been acquired or where the land remaining after acquisition has been
reduced to a non viable unit, area of replacement land will be subject to a economically viable
minimum, determined on the basis of the agro-climatic conditions prevailing in that area.3 Persons losing
75% or more of their holding or those who are left with a nonviable parcel of land after acquisition will
have the option of surrendering their entire land for acquisition.
14.    Landless farmers:  Landless persons affected by loss of land which they were cultivating
(registered as well as informal tenants) who are losing their cultivation rights on account of acquisition,
will be given an economically viable minimum parcel of land, which would be determined on the basis
of the agro-climatic conditions prevailing in that area.
(ii) Loss of Homestead Land
15.    Persons losing homestead land owned by them  will be entitled to an equivalent area of
replacement homestead land subjected to a minimum of 2 perches (50 sq. m) in urban areas and a
minimum of 40 perches in rural areas. Persons losing 75% or more of their homestead land will have the
option of surrendering their remaining land for acquisition. Persons losing less than 25% of their
homestead land may be given cash compensation at replacement cost or an equivalent area of land
whichever is more practical. Landless persons affected by loss of homestead which they occupied with or
without title will also be entitled to a homestead plot in accordance with these provisions.
(iii) Loss of Standing Crops, Trees etc.
16.    Standing crops, fruit trees and other commercially valuable trees that are standing on  the
acquired land on the date of dispossession will be compensated at full market prices.
(iv) Loss of Houses and Other Structures
17.    Persons who lose their houses and other structures will be given compensation reflecting the full
replacement cost of structure(s). The compensation may be in the form of a constructed house, cash or
part cash and part construction material.
18.    Tenants who lose their rented residential premises on account of acquisition of the property will
be provided with a cash grant equivalent to six months rent at current market rate in addition to the
statutory compensation the person may receive under the Land Acquisition Act.
19.    Persons whose residential premises are partly affected (such as the front portion of the house in a
road project) will have the option of (a) surrendering the entire structure and premises to the project
authority and receiving a similar replacement structure and a premise in the designated relocation area
(or its cash equivalent) or (b) cash compensation reflecting the full cost of damage and restructuring .
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
For example, one hectare irrigated land was the standard used for a economically viable family unit for
paddy cultivation in the Mahaveli Settlement Program. The size of the viable unit would vary according to the type
of land and the type of crop and, the standard viable unit need to be defined accordingly. However, it is important
to ensure that people are provided with a minimum viable unit of land sufficient to support a family.



-79-                                  Annex 6
Page 6 of 11
(v) Loss of Business or Commercial Premises
20.    Persons whose commerciallbusiness premises are acquired for project purpose will be entitled to
receive an equivalent premise in a similar commercial locality or a cash compensation reflecting full
replacement cost of the premise without depreciation. In addition, they would be entitled to a cash grant
equivalent to six months net income from business to cover the cost of disruption to business.
21.    Persons whose commercial premises are partly affected will have the option of (i) surrendering
the entire structure in return for an equivalent premise in a similar commercial locality (or its cash
equivalent) or (ii) cash compensation reflecting the full cost of damage and restructuring.
22.   Persons who are losing their rented business premises will be entitled to (i) cash grant equivalent
to six months rent at current market rate and (ii) cash grant equivalent to six months net income from the
business to cover the cost of disruption to the business activity, in addition to the statutory compensation
the person may receive under the Land Acquisition Law.
(vi) Loss of Employment Opportunity
23.   Persons who are affected by loss of employment on account of acquisition and relocation will
preferably be re-employed in the reconstructed/relocated enterprise or in the project works, if feasible.
Alternatively, they would be given (i) a cash grant to cover loss of one year's wages, (ii) assistance under
the general poverty alleviation and employment creation programs of the provincial and/or national
government.
24.    Where the project is likely to cause unemployment on a wider scale, such as in the case of
acquisition of fishing grounds for harbor development or as in the case of submergence of large areas of
tea plantations, special rehabilitation plans for full re-employment will be planned and implemented as a
part of the resettlement program.
(vii) Other Resettlement Entitlements
25.    All persons who are forced to relocate will be entitled to (i) a standard relocation grant to cover
the cost of transportation of household effects to the relocation site and (ii) a resettlement transition
allowance of a reasonable amount to cover the period during which the PAP are unable to continue
normal economic activities.
26.   Where community infrastructure such as schools, water supply, power supply, roads, sewerage
systems and places of worship are affected, these will be replaced by the project at no cost to the affected
people. Similarly relocation sites developed under the resettlement program will be provided with all
basic amenities and services at no capital cost to the relocated community.
E.    Institutional Arrangements
27.    Resettlement Plan Approvals: The EIA process mandated under the NEA will be used as the
primary mechanism to ensure proper investigation of resettlement implications and preparation of the
detailed sub-project resettlement plans (RAP). Under the NEA, all projects prescribed under the Gazette
Notification No 722/22 (dated June 24, 1993) are legally required to carry out an EIA. In order to ensure
that resettlement impacts are adequately investigated during EIA, a TOR specifically dealing with the
resettlement component will be issued along with the TOR for EIA by the designated Project Approving



-80-                                     Annex 6
Page 7 of 11
Authority (PAA) to the sub-project sponsor. The TOR for the EIA would be prepared in consultation
with the PSIDC. The main sequential steps involved in the resettlement plan approval process are
indicated below:
1. Private Project Company (sub-project sponsor) furnishes a preliminary information report on
land acquisition and resettlement associated with the proposed sub-project to PSIDC and the
designated PAA at the earliest possible stage. The preliminary report would contain basic
information on the proposed location of the project, the total area of land required and the type of
land, current land use and possible impacts of land use change and, the proposed strategy for
procurement of land (direct purchase, negotiated settlement or compulsory acquisition).
2. PAA in consultation with PSIDC carries out the scoping session based on the preliminary report
and determines whether a full assessment of the resettlement component is required. Accordingly,
PAA issues the TOR to the sub-project sponsor for resettlement assessment and preparation of the
detailed resettlement plan. This will be done normally as a part of the EIA process and, in case the
proposed project does not require an EIA, as an independent process.
3. Sub-project sponsor undertakes the assessment and resettlement planning and submits the report
(RAP) to PSIDC and the PAA. PAA verifies the adequacy of the RAP, in light of policies, principles
and procedures set out in this document, and, if found adequate, presents the RAP for public review.
Simultaneously, PSIDC submits a copy of RAP for IDA's review and approval.
4. PAA asks the sub-project sponsor to incorporate comments from public and IDA into RAP and,
if found adequate, conveys its decision on RAP to sub-project sponsor.
5. PSIDC forwards the approved RAP along with other project related documents to GOSL and
IDA with recommendation for approval.
6. After obtaining concurrence of GOSL and IDA, PSIDC executes the loan agreement which
would also contain terms and conditions related to implementation of resettlement component.
28.    The smooth and efficient operation of this approval process  will depend on resettlement
expertise available with PAA and on the content of the TOR. It will be necessary for the PAA to include
experienced resettlement specialists in its Technical Sub Committee and to prepare precise and
comprehensive TOR that clearly specify what the PSIDC resettlement policy requirements are, what the
scope and coverage of the impact assessment should be and, what the resettlement plan should contain.
PSIDC would be willing to fund consultants for this purpose out of technical assistance available with
it.,
29.    Resettlement Implementation: Although the primary responsibility for implementation of the
approved resettlement plan rests with the sub-project sponsor (sub-project sponsor), the oversight
responsibility shall vest with the CEA. The PSIDC shall also carry out regular supervision as required
by IDA, to ensure that all Bank related guidelines and agreements are satisfied. The precise nature of this
responsibility will depend on the manner in which the land required for the project is made available and
4
Under the NEA, approval by PAA is subject to CEA concurrence. This will apply to resettlement plans as
well.
5There is a concurrent initiative under the World Bank's EAI project to strengthen the institutional capacity of CEA
to deal with complex environmental and resettlement issues.



-81-                                      Annex 6
Page 8 of 11
the terms of the agreement between sub-project sponsor and the counterpart government line agency
(such as RDA for toll road projects, CEB for power projects and so on) on whose behalf land will be
acquired by MOL . There are three possible scenarios:
(i)   The sub-project sponsor purchases the required land from willing sellers with clear ownership
titles. As this is a regular market transaction, sub-project sponsor is not required to carry out
any resettlement unless the land so purchased has encumbrances such as squatter settlements
or tenants. If the land has encumbrances sub-project sponsor will seek guidance of PPA/CEA
with regard to resettlement requirements. If PAA decides resettlement is required, sub-project
sponsor will carry out planning and implementation of resettlement, under the oversight of
CEA/PAA and the PSIDC.
(ii)  The counterpart line agency, under a formal agreement with sub-project sponsor, arranges to
acquire the land under LAA and to transfer it free of all encumbrances to sub-project sponsor.
In this case, the resettlement would need to be carried out before the transfer is made and
therefore, resettlement implementation responsibility will rest with the respective line agency.
The cost of resettlement would also be borne by the line agency (It would still be part of the
total cost of the project, but could be funded by the sub-project sponsor as reimbursement to
the line agency or could form the government equity in the project). The sub-project sponsor
would also need to reach an understanding with the line agency on how resettlement planning
will be coordinated during the EIA.
(iii) The counterpart line agency, under a formal agreement with sub-project sponsor, arranges to
acquire land under LAA and to transfer it with all encumbrances to sub-project sponsor. This
arrangement is presently resorted to in projects planned and implemented by the UJrban
Development Authority in Sri Lanka. In such cases, the responsibility for planning and
implementation of resettlement will rest with the sub-project sponsor under the oversight of the
CEA/PAA and PSIDC, and the agreement between the Government and the sub-project
sponsor will clearly define the division of responsibilites.
30.    It would be possible for the sub-project sponsor to entrust resettlement implementation to an
external agency (a government or non-government agency) specifically contracted for the purpose.
Additionally, in cases (ii) and (iii) above, it is possible for the sub-project sponsor and the counterpart
line agency to enter into an agreement on sharing of the resettlement implementation responsibilities
between them.
F.     Peoples Participation
31.    The sub-project sponsors would be required to investigate the nature and extent of land
acquisition and resettlement related issues, with the participation of the people in the project area and
their representatives. A broad acceptance of the proposed resettlement measures, relocation areas and
replacement lands by project affected people will be a necessary condition for the approval of the RAP
by PPA/CEA and PSIDC.
32.    The detailed RAP document, prepared with such participation and containing full details of, sub-
project impact, resettlement and entitlement policy, eligibility criteria, method of determination of loss
and compensation, complaint and grievance procedures, etc., will be made available to the public
including PAP during the EIA evaluation process. If necessary, sub-project sponsor would also make a
summary of these details available to project affected people in the form of booklets. PAPs can formally



-82-                                    Annex 6
Page 9 of 11
register their comments to PPA, and the sub-project sponsor is required to take these comments into
account while finalizing the RAP.
Sub-loan Approval Process and Land Acquisition & Resettlement
SIt   GOSL EA Process           PSIDC Project Cycle        IDA Enironmental
Rleview
I     Sub-project sponsor (SPS)   SPS submits Loan        PSIDC checks consistency
submits preliminary       Application to PSIDC      with OD 4.30 & screening
information to PAA
2     PAA conducts scoping      PSIDC participates in the
session - decision on     scoping session on behalf of
whether EIA needs to      IDA
include resettlement
planning
3     Drafting and issuing TOR    PSIDC issues Preliminary    PSIDC obtains IDA
for Resettlement          Acceptance Letter         clearance for EIA TOR
Assessment under the EIA
by PAA
4     Appointment of Consultants  PSIDC provides lists of
IDA approved consultants
5     EIA study by SPS          Internal appraisal report
6     SPS submits EIA report to
PAA:
-first submission
-Adequacy verification
-Re-submission
7     Public participation and  PSIDC forwards SPS         IDA reviews documents
review of EIA report by   feasibility study, draft sub-   and conveys report to
PAA                       loan agreement, internal  PSIDC.
appraisal report and PAA
approved EIA to IDA
8     Finalization of resettlement                        Incorporation of IDA
action plan (RAP)                                   comments in EA report and
other project documents
9     PAA conveys decision to                              Agreement on RAP -11
SPS                                                 between PAA, PSIDC, SPS
and IDA
10   Implementation of RAP,     Project implementation    Supervision of RAP
under the supervision of the                        implementation by
CEA                                                 PSIDC/IDA during
implementation
II    Monitoring of             PSIDC may commission       Monitoring reports
Implementation            independent monitoring and  reviewed by IDA
review



-83-                                     Annex 6
Page 10 of 11
33.    Every affected family will be given an identity cum entitlement card at the earliest possible date
after the approval of the project. All disputes relating to eligibility or entitlement will be resolved within
three months after the issue of the identity cum entitlement card in camps held for that purpose in the
affected areas.
34.    During the implementation phase(or earlier if possible), the sub-project sponsor or their
designated agencies will promote formation of appropriate social organizations to facilitate participation
of affected people in the resettlement implementation. The concept of Community Development
Councils(CDC) successfully tried out in the Million Houses Program may be provide a model for such
social organizations.
G.    Resolving Grievances
35.    The LAA provides for the establishment of a "Review Board" to hear grievances related to
determination and level of statutory compensation. The common initial complaints about eligibility to
resettlement entitlement, quantum of compensation and other entitlements are expected to be resolved
during the camps specially held at the early phase of resettlement program (see under Peoples
Participation). Formation of Community Development Council and frequent interaction between the
CDCs and the implementing agencies would provide a regular forum for resolving normal grievances.
Legal remedies would be available to PAPs under the existing legal framework. Furthermore, a project
specific forum may be set-up to provide speedy remedies to PAPs to ensure that deviations from the
approved resettlement plan are adequately addressed.
H.    Resettlement Monitoring
36.    Monitoring of resettlement implementation will be carried out by the sub-project sponsor as an
integral part of the resettlement implementation plan and will cover both pre-relocation and post-
relocation activities. It will assess achievements against key implementation targets and the general
objectives and, accordingly make corrections in the implementation program where necessary. Six
monthly monitoring reports will be submitted to PSIDC and, if required under the approval conditions, to
PAA and CEA. In addition, PAA and/or CEA shall carry out implementation assessments on their own to
verify whether the resettlement plan is being implemented as it was approved. The PSIDC, may at its
own initiative, appoint special consultants to carry out monitoring and review of RAP implementation.
37.    For resettlement programs involving more than 100 families, independent monitoring and
evaluation(M&E) will be instituted by PAA/CEA in consultation with PSIDC and the sub-project
sponsor. The primary objective of the M&E is to assess the social and economic impact of the
displacement and resettlement, both during the course of implementation as well as after its completion.
A set of base line indicators(both objective as well as subjective) reflecting the social and economic
conditions of the affected communities will be established during the planning stage. The status of the
resettled families will be evaluated against these indicators during the first and third year after relocation.
The evaluation report will be submitted to sub-project sponsor, PSIDC and IDA. The cost of M&E will
be part of the resettlement cost and an integral part of the sub-project cost estimates.



-84-
Annex 6
Page 11 of 11
Corporate Resettlement Advisor - Terms of Reference
The Corporate Resettlement Advisor (CRA) would assist PSIDC to ensure that sub-loans
approved for IDA funding conform to the agreed guidelines on Resettlement Aspects under the
Environment and Social Assessment Framework (ESAF) for PSIDP. The CRA would report to the
General Manager, PSIDC and would be responsible for providing the following services:
a) Screen initial proposals received from Private Project Companies (PPCs) to ascertain the
nature and extent of land acquisition and resettlement implications, if any. Furthermore, the CRA will
review any prior assessments included in the preliminary proposals.
b) Assist PPCs in formulating terms of reference for Land Acquisition Assessment (LAA) and
facilitate its conduct. This assessment will indicate the nature and extent of R&R impacts, possible
mitigation measures and the need or otherwise of preparing a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the
proposed project.
c) Based on a review of the LAA and other R&R issues, the CRA will brief the PSIDC Board on
the feasibility of accomplishing satisfactory R&R arrangements in the project. This will be an interim
judgement, basically to rule out projects which present unsurmountable R&R problems.
d) If the PSIDC indicates a willingness to pursue the project, the CRA will then facilitate the
preparation of the RAP in accordance with the ESAF. Facilitation would include preparation of TORs,
identification of consultants and provision of clarifications on agreed guidelines.
e) The CRA will review the RAP against the ESAF and submit an assessment to the PSIDC
Board on its conformity with the guidelines (including IDA guidelines, OD 4.3) and the feasibility of its
implementation.
f) The CRA will also assist PSIDC in ensuring that responses to the calrifications sought by other
approving agencies of GOSL and by IDA are provided.
g) If the project is cleared by GOSL and approved by PSIDC and IDA, the CRAs role will
involve overseeing satisfactory implementation of the RAP.
h) The CRA will also be responsible for general R&R advice and services to PSIDC,
participating PPCs and local environmental consultants, including:
i) training of PSIDC and PPC staff in oversight of R&R;
ii) supervision and training of local consultants;
iii) monitoring and supervision of RAP implementation, if necessary facilitating
external, independent reviews.
m:\john\psidpii\sarancxs\annex6.doc
May 6th, 1996



-85-
Annex 7
Page I of I
Legal Aspects
Legal documents associated with the project include:
*  a credit agreement between the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (GOSL) -
represented by the Ministry of Finance, Planning, Ethnic Affairs & National Integration and
IDA;
*  a subsidiary loan agreement between the GOSL and PSIDC
The above documents constitute the legal documentation prepared for negotiation of the project.
Details of the PSIDC are provided below:
The Private Sector Infrastructure Development Company, Ltd. (PSIDC) is set up under the
Companies Act No. 17 of 1982 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Under the
Articles of Association of the Company its prime objects are to:
(I)    To receive and accept from the Government of Sri Lanka and/or any other
source whether foreign or local including official or semi-official development sources,
funds and moneys by way of loans, aid, donations, contribution and the like and to lend
or advance same or any part or portion thereof to any person, company, firm or
corporation or other legal entity as may be thought fit and on such terms and conditions
and with or without interest or security or otherwise as may be determined by the
company for the development of private sector infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka and
under arrangements/concessions which facilitate or enable persons to build. operate and
transfer (BOT) and or Build Operate and Own (BOO) same and generally to finance the
construction, development and use of infrastructure facilities in Sri Lanka.
(2)    To promote and encourage private sector investment in all major infrastructure
sectors including power, water and waste water, transport, solid waste management and
industrial estates and facilities and for such purpose to identify, appraise, evaluate,
negotiate, implement and supervise suitable infrastructure projects in conjunction with
private sector investors.
The amount of share capital of the company is 2000 Rupees made up of 20 shares of 100
rupees each. There are seven shareholders. Fourteen shares are held by the Secretary of Finance
and the remaining six shares are held by the six other share holders. All shares are held in trust
for the GOSL.
m:\john\psidpii\saranexs\annex7.doc
May 6th,1996



-86-
Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
Terms of Reference for the General Manager
I.     Background and Objectives
1.         Given the high budget deficit, GOSL is constrained in its capacity to meet the increasing
demand for infrastructure services. GOSL's strategy to meet this growing demand focuses on expanding
the role of the private sector through BOO and BOT schemes and subcontracting. Private sector
participation, in an appropriate regulatory environment, especially where competition is feasible, is an
effective means to improve efficiency in the sector. However, international and especially domestic
long-term financing for large scale, privately sponsored projects continues to be a constraining factor.
With the view to facilitating the mobilization of long-term funds --both domestic and international-- and
capitalizing on private sector technical expertise, GOSL has endorsed public-private sector partnerships
for infrastructure development. The Secretariat for Infrastructure Development and Investment (SIDI)
was established, in part with USAID funds, to facilitate implementation of this policy. Furthermore, the
GOSL has recently established the Private Sector Infrastructure Development Company (PSIDC) to
provide long-term financing to private sector projects.
2.         The Company would be managed by a General Manager (GM) and he/she would have a small
staff of professionals responsible for managing the consultancy resources required for the preparation of
loan documentation, supervision and monitoring of sub projects. The GM would be established and
supported by IDA for a period of approximately four years, after which time it is expected to be self-
supporting.  Preparation of request for proposals including pre-feasibility studies, environmental
assessment, solicitation of private sponsors and structuring of the security arrangements and negotiations
will be undertaken by SIDI and the appropriate Line Agency, supported by consultants in line with GOSL
requirements. Appraisal and negotiation of the security package of the sub projects would commence once
sponsors are selected. During this process, the GM will report to the Board of Directors, which will ensure
transparency and inter-agency coordination. Consultants would also assist the GM in the preparation and
negotiation of loan documentation with the selected sponsors. Disbursements and loan administration
would be handled by PSIDC staff. The sub projects to be financed by the PS]DC would be required to
meet agreed technical, financial, economic, and environmental criteria.
3.         The PSIDC will cover 40 percent of the total cost of a private sector sub-project. The funds
will be lent to borrowers in US dollars or equivalent SL Rupees at variable (LIBOR + 3%) or fixed rates.
Fixed rates will be based on the term of the loan and the market swap rate plus 3%. Repayment will be over
a period of up to 22 years, including a maximum 8 year grace period.
4.         The Company Manager will be responsible for the day to day administration of the Company
and will represent GOSL in the sub loan negotiations. The Company Manager will be responsible to the
Board of Directors. The Manager will be supported by a resident advisor and short term consultants as
required (see Annex9); both financed by the TA component of the IDA Credit.
II.        SCOPE OF WORK
5.         The GM will be appointed by the GOSL in consultation with the IDA and will have the
following responsibilities:



-87-                                     Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
A.    Establishment Phase
*             Preparation of the Company Brochure of the PSIDC
*             Preparation of the Operational Manual(s) of the PSIDC
*             Appointment of the professional staff of the PSIDC
*             Hiring of the support staff and establishment of the PSIDC headquarters office
B.     Appraisal and Negotiation Phase
Review of loan application received from the project sponsors for financial assistance
from the PSIDC, to ascertain the eligibility under the fund criteria.
Review the creditworthiniess, financial standing and resource availability to raise their
equity and to package, construct and operate the project in a satisfactory manner.
Review the financial structure and procurement plans of the project company to assess
compliance with the IDA guidelines.
Participate in the negotiation of the security package.
Appraise the sub-project from an environimental, financial, technical and economic
viewpoint in accordance with the PSIDC guidelines. To assess the need of hiring
outside consultants wherever necessary.
* Undertake due diligence evaluation of sub-projects to assess that all agreements,
concessions and permits required by the sub-project from various public and private
entities have, in fact, been obtained.
Coordinate with various agencies of the GOSL; including SIDI, BOI, the line agencies
and departments in the processing and approval of sub-projects.
Prepare credit review reports for the Board of Directors and the GOSL.
Act as the secretary of Company in the discharge of its responsibilities.
Negotiate loan agreements between the PSIDC and the project company.
Coordinate with IDA, prepare Quarterly Performance Reports and ensure compliance
with covenants.
C.    Construction Phase
*      Supervise the performance of the project companies during the construction phase to
ensure the minimization of cost and time over runs.



-88-                                     Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
*      Coordinate with senior lenders and project sponsors to ensure pari-pasu disbursement of
all the debt and equity financing facilities to the sub-project.
*      Ensure that the project company obtains and maintains the necessary insurance to cover
all construction phase risks.
D.    Oprations Pha
*      Monitor the performance of the project company to ensure smooth debt servicing and
adequate maintenance of debt service coverage ratios during the term of the loan.
*      Ensure regular interest and principal payments to GOSL on behalf of the PSIDC in
accordance with the agreed schedule.
m:\john\psidpii\saranexs\annex8.doc
May 6th, 1996



-89-                                     Annex 9
Page 1 of 8
Terms of Reference
Consultancy Services for the Preparation of Loan
Documentation. Negotiations and Monitoring of Sub-Projects
1.          The Terms of Reference set out the technical assistance provisions to the Private Sector
Infrastructure Development Project which is designed to help implement a strategy to encourage private
sector investments in infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka. The project included the creation of a Private
Sector Infrastructure Development Company (PSIDC or Company) which will provide long term debt for
infrastructure projects. The Consultant shall assist the Company in the preparation of loan documentation,
and the approval, supervision and monitoring of sub-projects in the private sector. The Consultant will be
staffed with qualified and experienced personnel specializing in finance, international banking, engineering,
legal matters, contract management and environmental assessment pertaining to the infrastructure sector.
especially in the power, transport and water supply sub-sectors.
A. Objectives
2.          GOSL's strategy to meet the economy's growing demand for high quality infrastructure
services focuses on expanding the role of the private sector in provision of new infrastructure services
through BOO and BOT schemes. Given the high budget deficit, GOSL is constrained in its capacity to
meet the increasing demand for infrastructure services. Domestic market financing, mechanisms for
long-term private investment and foreign investment in large infrastructure project has been limited. With
the view to mobilize private resources--both domestic and international --and tap the technical   and
managerial expertise of the private sector in project design, finance, implementation and operation, GOSL
recently decided to promote public-private sector partnerships for infrastructure development through both
BOO (Build, Operate and Own), and BOT (Build, Operate and Transfer). The secretariat for Infrastructure
Development and Investment (SIDI) was established, in part with USAID funds, to facilitate
implementation of this policy.
3.          The Company to be established under proposed project would be managed by General
Manager with a small staff of professionals. They would be able to access consultancy resources required
for the preparation of loan documentation, supervision and monitoring of sub-projects. General Manger and
his staff would be supported by IDA for a period of about four years, after which the company would
become self supported. Preparation of request for proposals including pre-feasibility studies, environmental
assessment, solicitation of private sponsors and structuring of the security arrangements and negotiations is
being undertaken by various government agencies and departments.
4.          The General Manager also has access to funds for the preparation of feasibility studies for
select infrastructure projects. These funds will be used in association with line ministries as preparation for
solicited bids for BOT/BOO type proposals. Funds will be used for high priority projects and those that
have a comparative advantage in terms of attracting private sector investment.
5. Appraisal and negotiation of the Security package of the sub projects would commence once sponsors
are selected. During this process the General Manager will report to the Board of Directors, which will
ensure transparency and inter-agency coordination. Consultants would also assist the Company in the
preparation and negotiation of loan documentation with the selected sponsors. Disbursements and loan



-90-
Annex 9
Page 2 of 8
administration would be handled by PSIDC staff. The sub projects to be financed by the PSIDC would be
required to satisfy agreed technical, financial, economic and environmental criteria.
6.          The PSIDC will cover up to 40% of the total cost of a private sector sub-project. the
subordinated debt financing would be available to borrowers in US dollars or equivalent Sri Lankan Rupees
at either a variable interest rate of LIBOR + 3% or a fixed rate based on the term of the loan and the market
swap rate plus 3%. Repayment will be over a period of up to 22 years, including up to 8 years of grace.
B. Organization
7.          The Consultant shall provide necessary technical assistance to the PSIDC in sub-project
evaluation, including loan appraisal, negotiation of sub-loan agreement, implementation, supervision during
the construction period and monitoring.  The scope for these activities includes the total project
responsibilities for the PSIDC and coordination with the GOSL representatives which are involved in the
project definition, review and evaluation process. The Consultant is expected to provide one resident
advisor for the initial period covering the preparation of loan documentation, approval of loan, negotiations,
and implementation of the first sub-project.
8.         It is expected that the Consultant will work closely with the General Manager. Throughout
the assignment, the Consultant would report to the Task Manager of the Private Sector Infrastructure
Development Project in the World Bank.
C. Scope of Work
1.  Assistance to the PSIDC  on Preparation  of Loan Documentation and  Supervision of
Implementation
9.          During implementation of the private sector BOO/BOT initiative by the GOSL several sub-
projects are expected to be financed by the PSIDC Company. The specialized nature of the review
requirements covering a wide range of expertise (i.e., economics, finance, engineering, environmental,
legal, etc.) will exceed the skills and the mix of the staff of the PSIDC involved in the sub-project process.
Accordingly, the consultant shall provide short-term consultants to the work with the staff of the Company
to review and appraise the financial, banking, environmental, technical and managerial viability of sub
projects as required by the GOSL. The complexity and uniqueness of each sub-project will dictate the
general level of effort for short-term consultants.
10.         The functions within the scope of responsibility of the Consultant for preparation of loan
documentation, supervision and operations and environmental monitoring of sub-projects will include, but
not be limited to:
*  Analysis and evaluation of the sub-projects' financial and technical viability including costing
of equipment, insurance and proposed debt/equity funding sources; the sub-projects
marketability to international and local private and government financing agencies. The
analyses shall include confirmation of the sponsors and the proposed builders and operators
credit worthiness and management history/capability and the adequacy of the sub-projects'
insurance plans.
*  A review of procurement proposals to ensure that they are in compliance with requirements
of GOSL, IDA and other possible co-financiers.



-9'-                                    Annex 9
Page 3 of 8
*  Analysis of proposed sub-projects to determine reasonable implementation schedules.
Proposed schedules are to be analyzed to determine critical paths and areas of major risks and
how to avoid or overcome such risks.
*  In the case of power sub projects, assessment of the proposed fuel supply for sub projects
such as: logistics for fuel delivery; fuel pricing and supply contracts; etc.
*  Analysis of the engineering review of physical interfaces for sub-projects.
*  Review of specific environmental assessments conducted by sub-project sponsors to assure
that IDA and GOSL standards requirements are met.
*  Assessment of risks to be assumed by the sub-project sponsors, the GOSL and Line Agency
during the course of sub-project construction and operation, including the implications
impacting on financial, technical, economic performance and scheduling of such risks and
how their impact on sub-project completion can be controlled and minimized.
-  Provide finance and technical related inputs to the PSIDC during negotiations of security
arrangements, Implementation Agreement, Purchase Agreement and other sub-project
documents and agreements.
*  Assistance in contract preparation and negotiation where necessary and in the review and
approval, where needed, of other contracts and legal documentation pertaining to the sub-
projects.
II. Short Term Technical Assistance
11.        Additionally, during preparation of loan documentation and project implementation, the
Corporate Unit is expected to use short-term personnel to meet objectives. The Consultant shall undertake
all reasonable efforts to expeditiously provide or recruit candidates for each need. These candidates shall be
thoroughly screened for suitability (i.e. qualification, experience, ability, aptitude, etc.) prior to submission
for approval.
ll. Annual Work Plans
12.        The Consultant shall submit a time-phased life-of-project work plan with detailed and specific
plans for the long-term resident advisor within sixty days of contract award. The work plan will be subject
to revision as often as deemed necessary by the responsible but no less frequently than once every twelve
months. This Work Plan shall contain detailed assignments for the resident advisor for the next twelve
months and general assignments for the remainder of the advisor's assignment at post.
13.        The Consultant shall include a detailed annual estimate for the level of effort for all short-
tenn advisory service expected during the following twelve months. The estimate shall be correlated with
planned and project activities (including anticipated sub-projects.) The Consultant shall clearly identify the
relationship between the proposed annual plan and the life-of-project level of effort for short term technical
services.



-92-
Annex 9
Page 4 of8
D. Reporting Requirements
14.        All reports shall be submitted in English language. The reports shall be appropriately bound
and be of a professional quality. The reports shall be distributed to IDA (and other entities if required) by
the most expeditious method.
A. Quarteryeprts
15.        The Consultant shall submit P. Quarterly Progress Report covering all contract activities. The
introductory section of the Report shall include a summary which highlights activities and the progress
under each Task. The report shall cover the assignments and objectives of the Resident Advisor and his/her
problems, constraints, and recommended solutions. The report shall provide an outline of activities planned
for the following quarter. The report shall provide a summary list of short-term services provided during
the quarter, together with a list of major accomplishments. Any activity which deviates from the projected
schedule or level of effort by more than 10 percent shall be clearly identified together with recommended
resolution of the variation.
B.       Short-Term Consultant Reports
16.        The Consultant shall submit to IDA and the PSIDC Company a letter Summary Report of
each short-term consultant's activities, accomplishments and recommendations within ten (10) calendar
days of the completion of his/her services. The report shall include any technical or professional documents
prepared by the Consultant.
C. Special Reports
17.        The Consultant be required to prepare and submit, at the request of the IDA and the Company
special reports conceming specific studies conducted under the Contract.
D. Report Distribution
18.        The Consultant shall submit the above listed reports in accordance with the distribution list
provided in Table IV 1.
Table IV- I
Reporting Requirements
Report        Requiremrnt           Frequency     Dstribution    #of Copies
I.    Quarterly ReportPara. IV A          Q             IDA              2
PSIDC            2
2.    Short-Term Con.Para. IV B           AR            IDA               I
PSIDC            I
3.    Special        Para. IV C           AR            IDA               I
PSIDC            I
4.    End of Contract Para. IV D          AR            IDA               2
PSIDC            2
Notesqr
1. Frequency codes: AR-as required, Q-Quarterly



-93-                                       Annex
Page 5 of 8
E.    Consultant Capability Requirements
19.         The specific scope of work and qualifications for the technical specialist to be provided by the
Consultant are listed below:
A. Corporate Advisor (Expatriate)
Duration: 2 to 3 years
1. General Responsibilities
The Advisor's responsibilities will be directed towards assisting the General Manager to
organize the PSIDC Company; to develop its capabilities analyze, approve (or disapprove),
monitor construction and start-up, and supervise during sub-loan life, sub projects submitted
to the Company for review and subsequently approved by it for financing through PSIDC
Company.
2. Specific Responsibilities
His/her responsibilities include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Prepare a work plan for submission to IDA and PSIDC for approval;
(ii) Identify staffing needs to carry out appropriate sub-project appraisal;
(iii) Identify expected short term consultants requirements and make sure that resources
will be available when needed
(a) computer and programmer expertise
(b) legal consultants
(c) insurance consultants
(d) environmental consultants
(e) technical consultants
(iv) Develop report schedules to meet internal needs for sub-project monitoring, and to
meet the needs of IDA and other sub-project lenders (if any).
3. Oualifications
Education: At a minimum, a BA in banking, finance, economics or international relations and
an MA (or equivalent experience) in finance, management, international economics or other
related fields.
The advisor shall be a seasoned merchant banker, or a person with a broad and varied
background in international finance and project management. He/she shall have at least ten
years working experience in financial institutions preferably in developing countries. The
advisor shall be experienced in designing and negotiating syndicated loans and loan
documentation and legal agreements related to international lending. The Advisor shall also



Annex 9
Page 6 of 8
have experience in feasibility studies and project finance. Experience in the infrastructure
sector, especially in financing private sector projects would be preferred.
B. Short-Term Advisors (Expatriate)
The following Consultant capability requirements for short term advisors are, in some
instances, interchangeable. One advisor could possibly accomplish more than one task. The
descriptions are illustrative of the general responsibilities, experience and qualifications
required of advisors performing the work.
1. Financial Analyst
(a) General Responsibilities
To (1) assist in the assessment of the type of sub-project under review (power, transport,
water); (2) act as Chief Advisor to resident advisor in designing the review process for such
a specific project; and (3) lead the project analysis team, and in coordinate the necessary
pre-approval project analysis, approval and the preparation of appraisal report and
recommendations.
(b) Qualifications
The Financial Specialist shall have a broad background in the financial analyses of either
power plants, using various sources of energy, transport, or water supply - depending on
the sub-project. This background should include actual financial management experience
in similar projects, preferably in lesser developed countries.
2. Project Assessment (General):
(a) General Responsibilities
To work with resident advisor and the Company Unit counterparts in designing non-
technical program for sub-projects under review, including review of security package,
contracts, financing and implementation planning.
(b) Qualifications
Will be determined as specific areas are identified.  To include specific technical,
environmental, etc.
3. Technical Advisor
(a) General Responsibilities
To work with resident advisor and the Company Unit technical staff in designing and
implementing a technical review of sponsors feasibility study, including project design,
economics, evaluation of equipment and construction.



-95-
Annex 9
Page 7 of 8
(b) Qualification
Will be determined as specific needs are identified.
4. Environmental Advisor
(a) General Responsibilities
To work with the resident advisor and the Company Unit in evaluating the private
sector proposals in terms of environmental impact. Specifically, the Environmental
Advisor will assist PSIDC to ensure that sub-loan applications for IDA funding
include an Environmental Assessment that meets the requirements of the Bank's OD
4.01.
(b) Qualificationa
The individual will have a B.S./B.A. in engineering, planning or equivalent discipline
with 10 years of field experience in assessment and mitigation of environmental
impacts of civil works projects or a master's degree in one of the above disciplines
with a minimum of 5 years field experience.
5. Corporate Resettlement Advisor
(a) General Responsibilities
To work with the resident advisor and the Company Unit in evaluating the private
sector proposals in terms of land acquisition and resettlement impact. Specifically,
the Advisor will assist PSIDC to ensure that sub-loan applications for IDA funding
include an appropriate assessment of land acquisition and resettlement and mitigation
measures thereof, both to meet the agreed guidelines and the requirements of Bank's
OD 4.3. He/she will also advise and facilitate preparation and implementation of the
Resettlement Action Plans
(b) Qualifications
The individual will have a B.S./B.A. in social sciences or equivalent
discipline with 10 years experience in assessment and mitigation of
land and human related impacts in energy/infrastructure projects or a master's degree
in one of the above disciplines with a minimum of 5 years relevant experience.
6. Legal Advisor
(a) General Responsibilities
To work with resident advisor and the Company Unit in preparing and negotiating the sub-
loan agreement between the Company and private sector investors. Carry out due diligence
of the security package.



-96-                                           Annex 9
Page 8 of 8
(b) Qualifications
Will be determined as specific needs are identified.
F. Budget and Fees
20.          The Consultant should provide a firn quote. Details should be provided for each grade of
staff, of the hours and rates on which the quote is based. The split between the local Sri Lanlkani and foreign
components should also be given.
M 'hohin\psidpil\saraniexs\aninex9 doc
Nla\ Oth. 1996



-97-                                    Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
Technical Assistance
Supporting PSIDC &Line Agencies in Sub-Project Preparation
The Private Sector Infrastructure Development Company (PSIDC) will have access to TA funds (US$
3.5 million) to support project preparation of individual sub-projects that have been identified by the line
agencies as suitable for private sector investment. This TA will be used in cooperation with the line
agencies to further develop existing pre-feasibility studies, undertake new studies and/or assist in sub
project preparation, evaluation and negotiation. The objective of the studies will be to provide complete
documentation to facilitate the solicitation of high caliber BOT/BOO bids for infrastructure projects.
Although these funds will be available to all sectors, they could prove most valuable in the sectors where
project preparation work is least advanced. It is envisaged that the TA funds will be utilized in support
of project preparation over a period of 4-5.
Due to the diversity of the sectors and sub-projects which may utilize the TA, it is impossible at this time
to delineate specific TORs for consultants to be funded. However, the following outline is indicative of
the type of activities that could be funded under the TA in the case of a feasibility study for the power
sector:
Technical:
I.     Collection of relevant data: the consultants shall review all relevant data available from existing
studies, reports and at site concerning the present situation of electric power supply and general
demand on future growth, particularly in regard to the following:
I.    Power consumption in the area by quality and type, the power demand, rate of growth both in
past and estimated future, typical daily load patterns with seasonal variations;
1ll.    Gross domestic product, resources and nature of consumption
IV.    System characteristics, such as frequency, voltage, power factor, load factor, diversity factor,
plant factor, load curve, peak demand, etc.
V.     Existing power generation facilities, nature and type, availability, date of installation, etc.;
VI.    A list of future power generation and transmission projects intended in the area;
VII.   Power tariffs and methods of collection;
VIII.  Operating problems such as low voltage, reliability, excessive outages, etc.;
IX.    System study;
X.    Fuel: sources, availability, calorific value, means of delivery and price;



-98-
Annex l
Page 2 of 3
Xl.    Site inspection: inspection of all possible suitable sites for the intended facility, in particular the
conditions of operations of the existing power stations in view of their interconnection with the
new unit;
XII.   Capacity of Plant: the consultants should determine the capacity and the numbers of plants most
suitable to the requirements and shall also indicate future provisions which should be kept. All
feasibility alternatives should be studied to arrive at a least cost solution in the long as well as the
short run
Xil.  Design of the Station: The consultant shall work out the basic lay out and design for the power
station and its principal components taking into consideration the following: i) site conditions;
ii) type of fuel available; iii) design and construction standard applicable; iv) environmental
pollution, site flooding, etc. v) requirements for training and manpower; vi)    preparation of
bid documents for the complete supply of power plant and its associated ancillary equipment and
electrical apparatus to facilitate tendering and evaluation.
Economic/Financial
Estimated Capital Cost: the consultants will determine the estimated capital cost of the project
both the foreign in US$ and local currency portions showing a break-down of all major
components. The cash flow requirements during the construction period should also be
determined;
I.    Working Capital: the consultants should determine required cash flow at start up of the plant and
at the end of the I st, 2nd, 3rd years to cover supplies, fuels, other consumable materials,
construction equipment, mobilization and demobilization cost and misc.;
Ill.    Annual Costs: the consultants should work out an estimate of the annual costs of proposed
project in respect to the following: i) number and cost of personnel; ii) quantity and cost of fuel;
iii) cost of maintenance and spares; iv) cost of depreciation and interest charges; v) taxes,
insurance and duties.
IV.    Estimated Annual Revenues: the consultants will work out the estimated total annual income
expected from the sale of output of the proposed plant. The income for all the years during the
economic life starting from the date of commission of the plant, based on present and future
power selling rates.
V.    Financial and Economic Feasibility: based on the findings above, the consultants will determine:
I) capacity; ii) dynamic cost of power generation per kWh; iii) the internal rate of return; iv)
present value of the investments; v) cash flow generated by the new project - financial
projections showing profits and loss; vi) analysis of financial statements showing that revenues
earned shall provide adequate return in investment and cover all estimated debt service and
operating and maintenance costs.
VI.    National Economic Benefits: the consultants will also determine-nine the list of benefits which
will accrue to the national economy owing to additional of the proposed plant.



-99-
Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
Environmental/Social Assessment:
I .   Project Backgrounld
Project context
Power supply and country
Alternative strategies to meet future power demand
Environmenital and social guidelines and regulations
I1    Project Description
Site description
Plant layout
Plant componenits
Infrastructure
Fuel supply
System interconiectioni
Water intake and discharge Project implemenitationl schedule Construction
Operation
Hazardous and toxic materials Noise
Em issions
Emergency procedures
Decommissionilg and reclamation
Ill.   Assessmenit of the Socioeconomilc Environimenit
Populationi anid settlement pattern
Land and resource use
Econiomy. emiiploymllenit and income
Facilities and services
Transportation
l ifestyle, culture and attitudes
Aesthetics
IV.   Air Quality Assessmenit
Air quality models
Meteorological data
Air quality impact asscssinenlt Compliance with air quality guidelines
Mitigation measures
m :\john\psidpii\saranexs\annex O.doc
May 6th, 1996



PSIDP
Project Implementation Schedule
1995                    1996                          Bank Project
Activity                                                 IV      I         11         III       IV                Cycle
TOR for General Manager            Accomplished
Appointment of
General Manager                                                                                            By Negotiation
Legal Establishment of PSI DC      Accomplishedt
TOP. for Long Term Advisor         Accomplished
Project Start-up Workshop                                                                                  By Effectiveness
Project Finance Workshop           Accomplished
RFP for Advisors                                                                                           By Board
Mobilization of Advisor
Preparation of Operating Manuals                                                                           By Disbursement
Hire Professional Staff                                                                                    By Effectiveness
Hire Support Saff                                                                                          By Effectiveness



-101
Annex 11- B
Page 1 of 3
Sri Lanka
Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project
B. Supervision Strategy
1.     Under PSIDP infrastructure subprojects from a variety of sub-sectors will seek financing in the form
of long-term subordinated loans. Due to the variety of sub-sectors potentially involved and the fact that
PSIDC will enter into long-term loan agreements for highly complex infrastructure projects, IDA estimates
that this project will require a significant amount of supervision. It is envisaged that about 20 staff weeks
annually will be required to adequately supervise the project at its different stages. Although the resources
necessary for the supervisory work delineated below will come largely from IDA, there exists the possibility
for joint supervision missions with existing or future cofinanciers of the project. The three primary stages of
the project, for. purposes of supervisory work, include the following: i) Institutional Arrangements; ii)
Development Impact; and iii) Subproject Review. It should be noted that, where relevant, IDA will make use
of the Project Implementation and Development Impact Indicators outlined in Annex 12 in carrying out the
supervision strategy outlined below.
Institutional Supervision
2.     Semi-Annua: The risks and potential bottlenecks for the project will vary over time, and as a result
so will the level and composition of supervisory work. During the first stage of the project--during which
operating manuals for PSIDC are written, staff is hired and formnal reporting and accounting procedures are
established--IDA supervision will concentrate primarily on institutional arrangements, ensuring that the
proper operating framework and environment is set to facilitate a subproject lending program.
3.     Mid-tern:      Once the operating framework and environment is established to the satisfaction of
IDA, supervision will focus on the effectiveness of PSIDC in meeting the needs of the market and to ensure
design actually functions in practice as envisaged. At the mid-term review, IDA will undertake supervisory
work to review the lending terms and financial products offered by PSIDC to determine whether they are
adequately addressing the private sector sponsors' needs/requirernents.
Development Impact Supervision
4.     Annual.        One potential risk with involving the private sector in the provision of infrastructure
is that the benefits of any IDA/GOSL funds used in financing these subprojects may not be passed along to
the end-user. A further risk to the project is that PSIDC, as the project implementing agency, will not be
complemented by the necessary GOSL sub-sector policies to encourage economically sound private sector
investment. PSIDC may be working in an incomplete policy environment. Therefore, the supervision of
the evolution of the policy environment will address the development impact of the project with respect to
the above risks. On an annual basis, IDA will review the progress on the various sub-sector policy
frameworks to ascertain: i) that concerns over end-user benefits, in terms of infrastructure coverage, access,
adequacy and reliability of supply and the prices paid, are adequately addressed; and ii) that new policies in
each sub-sector, formulated to increase efficiency in provision of infrastructure services and enhance private
sector participation, are sufficient.



-102-
Annex 11- B
Page 2 of 3
Subproject Review and Supervision
5.     Project Determined:1   This supervision component will essentially review the implementation of
specific subprojects financed by PSIDC under a two stage process. The first stage will largely focus on the
subprojects and PSIDC's review of the loan applications and subproject appraisals. This review will include
an examination of the subprojects in terms of environment, resettlement, procurement, economic viability,
consistency with IDA's sub-sector strategy, etc. The specific schedule and intensity of supervision for this
stage cannot be spec:fied with certainty at this point, since it will be largely dependent upon the number of
loan applications received by PSIDC and the number of subproject appraisals conducted. PSIDC will be
required to hire technical advisors for careful monitoring during the implementation of the subprojects. The
reports prepared by the advisors will be submitted to IDA for review. The second stage of supervision will
be the semi-annual supervisory mission which will focus largely on the subprojects in PSIDC's loan
portfoliolt will include a review of the timeliness and quality of subproject implementation, compliance with
standards specified for construction, procurement, environment and resettlement, and operations and
maintenance. The subproject supervision will also assess the economic impact of the subprojects, the extent
to which they might contribute to the formulation of more efficient sectoral policies, and the technical and
financial perfornance of the subprojects.  As the loan portfolio grows over time and due to the complex
nature of private sector infrastructure projects financed on a project-finance basis, it is envisaged that this
element of the supervision strategy will require the most resources.
Mid-term Review
6.     In addition to the supervision strategy outlined above, IDA will undertake a mid-term review of the
PSIDP in December 1998. It is envisaged that this review will take place approximately two years after loan
effectiveness and will be used as an opportunity to review the project in the context of subprojects financed
to date, the investment climate in the country in terms of the relevance of such a project financing facility
and products being offered, GOSL policies in the sub-sectors and their linkage to the project, and
institutional changes in PSIDC to better meet the project's objectives, etc.   This review will be quite
extensive and require input from private sector speciaiists, project finance specialists, institutional specialists,
etc.
The sub-sector component of the project involves third party participation by private sector sponsors and commercial lenders
outside the control of IDA and the GOSL.. Unlike traditional public sector projects when IDA and the GOSL agree on a time
bound supervision plan, the lack of third party input at this stage of the project precludes such detail .



Supervision Category              Schedule:         Team/Competencies                          :Year 1   Year 2   Year 32   Year4   Year& Year 6
Institutional Issues:                               Private Sector Specialist                     TDB      TBD       TBD       TBD      TBD       TBD
*   Review PSIDC's operating      Semi-annual       Financial Analyst                             TBD      TBD       TBD       TBD      TBD       TBD
manuals, administrative                         Private Sector Legal Exper                   TBD      TBD       TBD       TBD      TBD       TBD
guidelines, staffing,                           Environiiieint Specialist                       I
accounting and reporting                        Resettlement Specialist                         I
systems, etc.
*  Review lending terms offered    Mid-terin
to private sector borrowers
and examine whether
PSIDC's financial products
are adequately addressing the                                           Subtotal                9        3         5         3        3         3
market's needs.
Development Impact:                                 Economist                                     TBD       TBD      TBD       TBD      TBD       TBD
*   Review evolutioni of policies in  Annual        Private Sector Specialist (sub-sector)        TBD      TBD       TBD       TBD      TBD       TBD
each sub-sector to increase
efficiency iin private sector
provision of infrastructure.
*   Review policies that ensure
end-uscr benefits in terms of
increased access to
infrastn,ucture, price of service,
reliability, etc.                                                       Subtotal                2        4         7                  e         5
Subproiect Supervision:                             Private Sector Specialist (Sub-sector)        TBD      TBD       TBD       TBD      TBD       TBD
*   At loan application and       Subproject        Project Finanice Expert                       TBD      TBD       TBD       TBD      TBD       TBD
subproject appraisal stage,   Determined        EnvironmentlRescttlemnent Specialist            2        6         6        4         3         3
review quality of evaluation in                 Procurement Specialist                        TBD      TBD       TBD       TBD      TBD       TBD
terms of complianec with IDA                    Economist                                     TBD       TBD      TBD       TBD      TBD       TBD
requirements.
*  Review portfolio in terms of:
i)compliance with IDA         Semi-annual
requirements regarding        (as subproject
procurement, environment      commence
and resettlement, etc.; ii)   borrowing)
timeliness of implementation;                                           Subtotal                8         14       15        14       14        15      la
and iii) subproject technical
and financial performance.                       28 stairweeks have been allocated to ASTEN/ASTHR.
Total Staff Weeks                                 19    1  21    1 19                                        21        27        22       22        23    1    t
2 Staff veeks for year 3 are significaiitly higher due to the mid-term review.



P-o ject Imlplementation and Developnicnt Imniact Indicators
*   Credit to GOSL for on-lenidinig to support privatc scctor tnvestment in infrastnucture
Project.
Objectivc                      *   Facilitate the development of a modern and efficient system of infrastnicture in Sri Lanka by promoting
significant participation by the private sector in investment, operation owvnership and mainteiianice; promoting
private scctor invcstniciit by addressing a primary impedimcnt - the lack of long-terimi financing.
Input Indicators              Process Indicators            Outptit Indicators                     Developmcnt Impact Indicators
i) *inance for on-tending      Impkleentaion[                i) No and maginitude of        Infrastructure:
i T cchnical assistance to     i)  Legal establishment of       private sector              Expansion of Infrastructure with private scctor
support public sector           PSIDC;                       infrastructurc projCcts    participationi; indicative percentage increases:
company (PSIDC) in          ii)  Staffing: General          implemented, partiallI    i) Power-production (kilowxatvihour) per capita;
evaluating projcc;s and         Manager and other            financed throughi PSIDC   ii) Paved roads- kilometcrs per capita;
negotiaiting lo: n -rms;        staff hired;                 loans                      iii)TEUs hanidled per annum. (port traffic);
iii)Technical assismrn e to     :i Lending/Operating         ii) Amounit of private        iv) cubic iieters of wastc water treated.
aid line agcncics in            manuals finalizcd.           sector non-iccourse
preparation of             iv) CompanyBrochure               finance leveraged.         Economic:
solicitation packages fo.       prcpared                                                i) Efficicicy of new service
private sector projects.    Operational                                                 ii) relative cost/price of new service
i)  Magnitude of private                                    iii) cost of unserved infrastructure scrvices
sector funds lcvcraged                                    (eg. US$fkwh)
ii) No. of loan
applications received
and number reviewed;
iii) No and magnitude of
loans approved;
iv) Loan performance
mn.\jotuh\psidpii\saranexs\annex I 2.doc                                                                                                                             I



-105-                                 Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
NOTES for the Project Implementation and Development Impact Indicators
For PSIDP, indicators were selected which lie closest to the project's objectives and the
underlying measures that the project is supporting. Four categories of indicators were chosen for
PSIDP: input, process, output and impact. The choice of this framework for defining indictors is
based to a large extent on the recent work entitled " Project Performance and Development Impact
Indictors for Projects in Private Sector Development: First Editions Note, Private Sector
Development Department, October 1995".
The input indicators show what resources the project Will provide in order to achieve
specific outputs. The process indicators relate to different stages of project implementation and are
used to monitor progress towards specific project targets. The output indicators measures number
and magnitude of each subproject. For PSIDP, four or five transactions would be considered an
excellent record. In PSD projects, it appears that outputs indicators are the most important and are
linked to the direct project objectives and are used, on completion of the project, to evaluate
whether the objectives have been met. These indictors are often linked to the number of
transactions. Transactions also need to be linked to quality, and not only to quantity. The
screening process for subprojects has been carefully set up in the project design to assure that the
transactions that will result should be of the highest quality. Finally, the impact indicators are
meant to capture long-term development impact of the project and will be used for evaluation after
sometime has elapsed following project completion.
M:\john\psidpii\saranes\annexl 2A.doc



- 106-
Annex 13
Page I of 1
DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS
The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as follows:
Amount of credit
to be disbursed
Cateogy                    (USS miluion)                       Disbursement Percentage
(I) Sub-loans l/64,800,000
(to be allocated)
(a) Works                                                100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures.
(b) Equipment                                            100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(c) Interest and other charges on                        100% of amounts capitalized pursuant to Schedule 4, Part B I
sub-loans accrued during the                         (f) of this Agreement.
construction of the Investment
Project.
(d) All risk and marine insurance                        100% of foreign expenditures
(2) Technical Assistance
(a) Consultants' services &            3,500,000         100% of expenditures on consultant and training
training
(b) Equipment & materials              325,000           100% of foreign expenditure (c.i.f. costs) and local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and 70% of other items procured locally.
(c) Staff costs & administrative       2,675,000         100% through June 30, 1999; thereafter 70% through June 30,
costs                                               2001.
(3) Refunding of Project                 700,000
Preparation Advance
(4) Unallocated                         5,000,000
TOTAL                                   77,000,000      |
Subproiects competitively awarded after intemational solicitation:
(a) 100% of Engineering Procurement and Construction (EPC) contract, payments (case-by-case basis);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures (c.i.f. cost) and local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for ancillary
equivalent and materials (not included in the EPC contract) (case-by-case basis);
(c) 100% of interest during construction and other charges accrued on the amounts of the sub-loans
financed out of the proceeds of the credit.
Eligible contracts on other subproiects:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for works (case-by-case basis);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures (c.i.f. cost) and local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for equipment and
materials (case-by-case basis)
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures on off-shore insurance (case-by-case basis);
(d) 100% of interest during construction and other charges accrued on the amounts of the sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of
the credit.



I






IMAGING
Report No:      15391 CE
Type: SAR



