PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS
STUDY



Sri Lanka
Erivate Sector Tnfrastructure D2evelopment Project
Environmental Assessment Process Document
.A. Purpoe
1.    The proposed project seeks to develop a modem and efEcient system of
infrastructure in Sd Laaka by promoting significant participation of the private sector in
the ownership, operation, and maintenance of infrastructure facilities. The project will
esmablish a facility which will retail long-term subordinated debt, the present lack of
which hinders the development of private sector ifrtrcture projects. In thfs respect,
the project is intended to act as a catalyst to encourage private sector investment. The
project facility will receive funds from official development sources and da-lend fbr
selected private sector sub-projects up to 40% of the sub-project cost. Project sponsors,
who would prepare individual sub-projects, would provide their own equity and borrow
from commercial sources for the remainder of the necessary debt.
_      A list of sub-projects, which is comprised of candidates for private sector
participation, and potential borrowers from the proposed facility, is being prepared in
close consultation with the line agencies. The projects include power stations, port
developments, toil roads and waste water treatment plants. As no project is at an
advanced enough state to require financing from the proposed facility at present, a full
environmental assessment (BA) for sub-projects is not possible at the outset In such
circumstances, OD 4.01 (para 9) required that arrangements be made whereby the project
implementing institutions undertake the functions of subproject screening, EA review and
imnplementation of mitigation and monitorina plans. This document describes the
arrangements and procedures proposed for the project. It is being submitted to the Board
in lieu of a project EA and will be the basis of the environmental aspects of appraisal It
is also being made available for public review in appropriate locations in Sri Lanka and in
the IDA s Public Information Center in accordance with BP 17.50 requirements for
disclosure. Detailed EAs for individual sub-projects in Category A and other appropriate
analysis for those in category B will be carried out by the private sponsors and cleared by
IDA prior to any disbursements (on-lending) to the sub-projects.
B. GOSL Environmental Regulations & Procedures
3.    In 1981 the GOSL passed the National Environrmental Act (NEA) and in 1982,
created the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) as a regulatory and enforcement
agency. The CEA's statutory and enforcement powers were strengthened significantly in
1988, by an amendment to the NEA. A cabinet level ministry to handle the subject of
environment was created in 1990, with the appointment of a Minister of Environment to
ensure that environmental issues would be given the required attention. The GOSL also
developed the Environmental Protection License (EPL) Scheme, with the CEA as the
enforcing agency, as a regulatory instrument to set industrial pollution standards and
control their discharges. The GOSL issued its National Environmental Action Plan



(NEAP) in 1991, which was the first of any Asian county. The NEAP identified the
main environmental issues that need to be addressed in Sri Lanka.
4.     Under provisions of Part IV C of the NEA No 47 of 1980 as stipulated in Gazette
(Extra Ordinary) No 772/22 dated June 24, 1993, the GOSL made Environmental
Assessment (EA) a legal requirement for a range of development projects. The list of
projects requiring an EA are prescribed in the above Gazette notification (Attachment 1).
In addition, the Gazette notification includes a list of line ministries and agencies that are
designated as Project Approving Agencies (PAA). With the change of government in
August 1994 and the resulting reIlocation of Ministries, a new list of PAAs were
specified-under subject area rather than with. name of the Miistry as listed originaly-in
Gazette (Extra Ordinary) No 859/14 dated February 13, 1995 (Attachment 2).
5.    According to GOSL procedure, any activity that falls within the domain of a
prescribed project is subject to an environmental impact assessment (EIA). The EIA.
approval/disapproval can be garanted by the PAA with jurisdiction over the project
activity, only with concurrence of dhe CEA. However, the project proponent is not
permitted to perform the functions and duties of a PAA. Therefore, in the event of a PAA
becoming a project proponent, the CEA will designate an appropriate PAA. La instances
where the project would fall within the purview of more than one PAA, the CEA will
determine an appropriate P.AA. Any functions of the PAA related to the approval of the
project can be devolved to a Provincial council only with written concurrence of the
.Minister in charge of the suabject of Environment.
6.    The proponent of a prescribed project is required to submit preliminary
information on the project-by filling out a questionnaire-to the PAA, as early as possible
in die project cycle. The PAA in consultation with CEA is responsible for subjecting the
preliminary information to environmental scoping, in order to set the Terms of Reference
(TOR) for the EIA. The TOR is prepared by a Technical Committee CrC) comprising
experts in the relevant field, appointed by the PAA. In developing the TOR, the
re=ulations provide for the PAA to consider the views of state agencies and the public.
7.     Upon submission of the EIA by the proponent, the PAA is required to determine
wlheier issues refered to in the TOR have been addressed and notify the proponent of
any inadequacies within 14 days. la the event any inadequacies are identified, the
proponent is required to make necessary amendments and resubmit the report. Once
accepted, in addition to the EIA being forwarded to the CEA by the PAA, notice is also
placed in the government Gazette and in a national newspaper published daily in Sinhala,
Tamil and English Ianguages inviting the public to make written comments, if any, to the
PA; within 30 days. The notification would specify the times and places at which the
EIA would be made available to the public. As a minimum, the report would be available
at the CEA. PAA and in a GOSL agency in the locality of the proposed project. The
environmental regulations have provisions for public hearings on the project, although it
is not mandatory. The PAA is required to forward all comments-either written or raised
..



3
during the public hearing-to the project proponent for review and response within 6 days
of completion of the public comment period. The proponent is required to respond to all
such comments in writing to the PAA.
8.    The TC appointed by the PAA would then evaluate the EIA and requi the
project proponent to respond to any queries raised by the TC. The TC would also evaluate
the adequacy of the proponent's response to any commets raised during the public
comment period. Upon completion of the evaluation of the TC, the PAA, with the
concurrence of the CEA, would grant approval for implementation of the proposed
project subject to specified conditions or refuse approval for implementation of the
project, with reasons for doing so. This notification must be made withia 30 days of
receipt of responses from the proponent The PAA is required to speciya period within
whichi the approved project should be completed. In the event the proponent is unable to
complete the project during the specified period, written permission for an extension has
to be obtained from the PAA, 3O days prior to the expiration date-
9.    The PAA is responsible for forwardina a report which contains a ptan for
monitoring the implementation of the approved project. to the CEA, within 30 days from
granting of approval. It is also the responsibility of the PAA to publish in the government
Gazette and in one national newspaper published daily in Sinhala, Tamil and English
lanrguaaes, the granting of approval for the project.
10.   It is mandatory that the project proponent inform the PAA of any alterations to the
project as approved and/or the abandonment of the project The PAA shall, where
necessary, obtain fresh approval in respect of any such alterations that are intended to be
made to the approved project The PAA, in consultation with the CEGA would also
determine the scope and format of the supplemental report required to be submitted for
such alteradons.
11.   In addition, the Coast Conservation Act (C CA) of 1981 also specifies an EIA
procedure for projects to be located in the coastal zone of the country. This preceded the
CEA requirement, and has been previously applied for a limited range of development
projects-hotels, land reclamation and power plant. This CCA defned procedure will
continue to apply for projects proposed in the coastal zone.
12.   Adequacy of GOSL Environmenttal Clearance: The comiposite GOSL
environmental clearance process (EIA, EPL, CCA), in principle, is consistent with the
Bank's environmental and public disclosure requirements. The exception being the
screening criteria adopted in the GOSL process, where project thresholds are used to
determine the type of clearance required and the content of public consultation. Given
the recent origin of the CEA regulated EA procedure, implementation experience is yet
evolvin-. Tlus reliance cannot be placed on it entirely. In the initial years of project
implementation, IDA will review the sub-project EA reports for all A rated projects prior



4
to approval. IDA will at least initially also review the environmental analysis for
Category B projects as well.
C.    .Tustification for TDA Review of EA
13.   Due to the iistitutional situation in Sr Lanka and certain unique aspects of the
project, the IDA will rely oa its full interal review of the sub-project EAs for A rated
projects, to ensure that they are consistent with OD 4.01. MDA will at least initially also
review the eavironmental analysis for Category B projects as well. GOSL LA reguladons
and procedures, as described above, meet generally accepted standards; but their
implementation has not evolved to the point where they can be relied upon to provide
adequate environmental safeguards for the sub-projects. Ordinarily this would be
remedied by including an instimtional strengthenina component in the project to improve
implementation of GOSL EA regulations or, if that were not possible, by developing
environmental assessment and environmental credit risk managgement capacity within the
financial intermediary. Institutional strengthening for environmental management in Sri
Lanka is being administered through several IDA supported projects (SMII-IV, PFDP,
CEIP and EAIP), in addition to U-SAID's NAREPP (see descrption of these initiatives
below.) This instittional strengthenng work has fully engaged the absorptive capacity
of Si Lanka's core environment atrencies. Moreover, it is of necessity a medium- to
tong-term undertakig. It is therefore unlikely that sufficient progress will be made to
meet the EA needs of the earlier sub-projects under PSIDP. However, stengthening
PSIDC's environmental assessment caoabilities would not in the long run stengthen the
environmental cacabilities of GOSL, nor would it be appropriate, as PSIDC has been,
devised as a transitional instrument, with. a finite life. Thus, relying on IDA review of A
rated sub-projects will- necessarily provide the best method of ensuring consistency with
OD 4.01. IDA wvill at least initially also review the environmental analysis for Category
B projects for OD 4.01 consistentcy.
14.   The Barnk-supported TA components in SMvI-IV, PFDP and CEIP, USAID's
NAREPP (all currently under implementation) and the proposed Bank-supported EAIP
(currently under preparation) include the following extensive institutional strengthening
measures: In addition to civil works for industrialw astewater treatment and solid waste
management and a Pollution Control Abatement Fund, SMI-IV has financed preparation
of a comprehensive Industrial Pd1lution Management Strategy, including: i) a 5-year
strategic plan; b) a laboratory accreditation scheme; c) laboratory equipment, including
provisioning for eventual certification of CEA's lab as a reference lab; and d) a private
labs window to promote accreditation of private labs. Implementation of these activities
is proceeding under PFDP and CEIP.
15.   USAID's NAREPP has supported a range of environmental policy development
and institutional strengthening activities, including: a) support for application of
environmental economics to policy, planning and program analysis; b) assistance for
updating and revision of the National Environmental Action Plan (ONA?); c) analysis



and improvement of management at the Ministry of Transport, Environment and
Women's Affairs (MTEWA) and the Central Environment Authority (CEA); d) support
for MTEWA's interagency coordination and development of environmental cells in key
agencies (Project Approving Agencies), including TA and training to improve conduct
and oversight of EA by CEA and the PAAs; and e) development of graduate
environmental education programs in four leading universities in Sri Lanka-
16.   EAIP proposes complementary support for core environment agencies at the
national level. The institutonal component of NEAl will strengthen the nadonal policy
formulation role of M1TEWA, the policy implementation role of CEA, the environmental
management capacity and the environmental planning and assessment capabilities of
selected PAAs. Proposed initiatives to strengthen CEA include building a stable and:
competent environmental cadre through improvements in remuneration, recruiment and
training; prforitization of CEA's Corporate Plan; strengthening industrial licensing,
laboratory, monitoring and enforcement capabilities; and improving EA through
coordination with NAREPP's comprehensive EA t-aining program and targeting selected
PAAs for focused environmrental planning and EA capacity development
D. Procedures for TDA EA and Sub-loan App1roval
ID,d ES4 Aggroval
17.   EAs of A rated sub-projects and initially B ated projects would be subject to
IDA review and anproval, and because these sub-projects are not yet known, the
environmental review and approval process 'AU take place durina project
implementation. To ensure consistency of sub-project EAs with OD 4.01, an
environmental consultant would be retained by PSIDC to assist and provide technical
guidance to the Private Project Companies (PPCs) during the loan application and
approval process.
18.   There are two principal stages of EA preparation and environmental review that
are integrated into PSIDC's sub-project review and approval process. They are: i)
review and aareement on the TORs of the EA; and ii) review, comment and approval of
the EA report. Review of TORs. The PSIDC will make its environmental consultant
available to the PAA to advise on the scoping and draftng of TORs. The consultant have
access to detailed information about the proposed sub-project activities and sites at this
stage. Review and approval of the EA report. The PPC will submit the EA report to the
PSIDC and PAA: i)first submission; ii) adequacy verification; iii) resubmission. PSIDC
forvards the EA to IDA. IDA's comments are forwarded by PSIDC to PAA and
incorporated into EA. requirements of PPC. PAA conveys decision on EA. The package
the GM sends to IDA for final approval should include the internal appraisal report,
PPC's feasibilitv study, the draft sub-loan agreement and security package and the PAA
approved EA.



19.    The GOSL requirements for advertsement and public comment on sub-project
EAs will meet the requirements of BP 17.50 for local disclosure. The sub-project EAs
will also be placed in IDA's Public Information Center when fotmally received for IDA
review.
Sub-ogan Approval Process and Environmental Clenrannee
2      GOSL EA Process             PSTDC Proiect Gvcle          T1A Environmentni Review
I      PPC submits preliminary     PPC submits Loan Application  PSIDC checks consistency
information to FAA          to PSIDC                      with OD 4.01 screening
2      PAA conducts scoping session
3      Dmfting and issuing TOR for  PSIDC issues Preliminary     PSIDC obmains IDA clearance
EIA by PAA                  Acceptance Letter             for EIA TOR for all A rated
projecs and, as appropriate,
for B rared projects
4      EIA study by PPC            Internal appraisal report
S      PPC submits EIA report to
PAA:
-First submission
-Adequacy verification
-Re-submission
6      Public participation and review  PSIDC forwards PPC       IDA review of documents for
of EIA report by PAA         feasioility study, draft sub-loan  all A rated projects and, as
agreement, internal appraisal  appropriate, for B rated
report and PAA approved EIA  IDA places report in PIC
to IDA
7      Finalization of environmental                             Incorporaion of IDA
mirigarion plan                                           comments in BA report and
other project documents for all
A rated projects and, as
appropriate, for B rated
8      PAA conveys decision to PPC  .                            Agrneeent on environmental
mitigation plan between PAA,
PSIDC, PPC and IDA
9      Implementation of mitigation  Project implementation      Supervision by IDA during
plan                                                      implementation
m:\jolin\psidpit\cnivimn\<nboarl .doc



