                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 26684




                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (PPFI-P9510 IDA-28800)

                                            ON A

                                           CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 52.9 MILLION

                              (US$77.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                    DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                                            FOR A

              PRIVATE SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                     DECEMBER 23, 2003




Energy and Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region

          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2003)

            Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupee (SLR)
                   SLR 1 = US$ 0.0103
                    US$ 1 = SLR 97.12

                  FISCAL YEAR
           January 1    --   December 31

       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     -     Asian Development Bank
BII     -     Bureau of Infrastructure Investment
BOI     -     Board of Investments
BOO     -     Build-Own-Operate
BOT     -     Build-Own-Transfer
CEB     -     Ceylon Electricity Board
CAS     -     Country Assistance Strategy
CDC     -     Commonwealth Development Corporation
EA      -     Environmental Assessment
EPC     -     Engineering Procurement and Construction (contract)
EPF     -     Employees Provident Fund
ETF     -     Employees Trust Fund
GDP     -     Gross Domestic Product
GOSL    -     Government of Sri Lanka
IDA     -     International Development Association
IFC     -     International Finance Corporation
JEXIM   -     Export-Import Bank of Japan
KfW     -     Kreditanstait fur Wiederaulbau
MOF     -     Ministry of Finance
NWSDB   -     National Water Supply and Drainage Board
O&M     -     Operations and Maintenance
OECF    -     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PERC    -     Public Enterprise Reform Commission
PPI     -     Private Participation in Infrastructure
PSIDC   -     Private Sector Infrastructure Development Company
PSIDP   -     Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project
QEQ     -     Queen Elizabeth Quay
SAGT    -     South Asia Gateway Terminal
SAR     -     Staff Appraisal Report
SIDI    -     Secretariat for Infrastructure Development and Investment
SDR     -     Special Drawing Rights
SLPA    -     Sri Lanka Ports Authority
SMO     -     Statement of Mission Objectives


           Vice President:      Praful C. Patel
        Country Director:       Peter C. Harrold
         Sector Manager:        Penelope J. Brook
       Task Team Leader:        Julie M. Fraser

                                          SRI LANKA

                      Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project




                                          CONTENTS




                                                                                    Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  11
6. Sustainability                                                                      15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     20
9. Partner Comments                                                                    22
10. Additional Information                                                             22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  38
Annex 8. Review of Subproject Financed under the IDA Credit                            39
Annex 9. Studies, Consultancies and Training Financed under the IDA Credit             49
Annex 10. Environment and Social Safeguards                                            58
Annex 11. Lessons Learned                                                              60
Annex 12. Borrower's Contribution                                                      68
Annex 13. Map IBRD 27509                                                               77



The primary author of this ICR was Stephan von Klaudy (INFPI) with contributions by
Juan Costain (SASFP) and Julie Fraser (SASEI). Elisabeth Goller (TUDTR) was responsible
for Annex 8; Sumith Pilapitiya (SASES) for Annex 10; and Boonsri Kim (SASEI) for most
of the statistical annexes and editing. Ian Alexander (SASEI) was the peer reviewer.

Project ID: P010517                                                  Project Name: PVT SECT INFRAS DEV
Team Leader: Julia M. Fraser                                         TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: PVT SECT INFRAS DEV                                      L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9510; IDA-28800
   Country/Department: SRI LANKA                                                          Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: TP "Ports, Waterways and Shipping" (50%); LD "Power" (30%);
                            WC "Water Supply" (15%); and FZ "General Finance Sector" (5%)
                  Theme: (39) Infrastructure Services for Private Sector Development as
                            Primary; (44) Other Financial and Private Sector Development as
                            Secondary; and (71) Access to Urban Services for the Poor as
                            Secondary


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/21/1994                                     Effective: 11/21/1996                11/21/1996
     Appraisal: 04/25/1995                                         MTR: 10/29/1999                  10/29/1999
      Approval: 06/13/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOSL/PSIDC
                      Other Partners:      KfW

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Joseph Wood
Country Director:               Peter C. Harrold                               Roberto Bentjerodt
Sector Manager:                 Penelope J. Brook                              Per Ljung
Team Leader at ICR:             Julie M. Fraser                                N. Jane Walker
ICR Primary Author:             Stephan K.L. von Klaudy
                                Christopher Juan Costain
                                Julie M. Fraser


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1      As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, the overall objective of the Private Sector Infrastructure
Development Project (PSIDP) was to develop a modern and efficient infrastructure system in Sri Lanka by
promoting significant private sector participation. The more detailed objectives were to: (a) establish a
Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) facility for the placement of long-term debt that will work in tandem
with private sources of capital to facilitate potential private sector investment; (b) encourage significant
participation of the private sector in the investment, implementation, operation and maintenance of the new
infrastructure facilities; and (c) strengthen GOSL's ability to attract, negotiate and close private sector
sponsored infrastructure projects by increasing capabilities to evaluate and negotiate projects.

3.1.2      The objectives were logical and consistent in that they were aiming at mitigating the three
important obstacles to infrastructure development through private participation, namely lack of long-term
financing, an inadequate investment framework, and weak Government capacity to deal with the private
sector. At the same time, the objectives were rather ambitious, as they anticipated the project to encourage
significant private sector participation, to increase the Government's overall capacity of managing private
participation in infrastructure (PPI), and to develop a modern and efficient infrastructure system for the
country. By comparison, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) outlined more modest expectations
describing the project as a vehicle to assist the Government in developing its infrastructure by promoting
private participation. As such the objectives as presented in the DCA were more realistic, even though they
did not explicitly include the Government capacity goals.

3.1.3      The objectives and design of the project need to be assessed in the context of the evolving policy
and institutional framework for private investment in infrastructure existing at the time of appraisal and
which continues today. The expansion and efficient use of infrastructure remains one of Sri Lanka's key
development issues. Attracting private investment in infrastructure has been a feature of government policy
in Sri Lanka since the early 1990s. In 1992, the Government adopted a policy to promote private sector
participation in infrastructure provision with the objectives to (a) complement public investment; (b)
provide additional capacity in critical areas; and (c) mobilize private sector management resources to
improve efficiency in operations. To implement the policy, the government established the Secretariat for
Infrastructure Development and Investment (SIDI) as a one-stop shop for liaison with private sector
investors.

3.1.4      However, implementation of the policy was hampered by entrenched interests in public sector
monopolies, absence of government capacity to deal professionally with private investors and promote and
facilitate private investment opportunities, lack of comprehensive legal and regulatory frameworks, and
scarcity of financing at appropriate terms and conditions. Even though the main parastatal agencies in
infrastructure started to create their own capacity to promote private participation in their respective
sectors, an effective coordination role and relevant expertise at the key ministries remained issues to be
addressed. In 1995, the Government thus transferred SIDI, under the name of Bureau of Infrastructure
Investment (BII), to the more commercially oriented Board of Investments (BOI), created a Public
Enterprise Reform Commission (PERC) and tried to reinforce capacity building at government levels.
Notwithstanding these positive developments, both Government and private investors perceived a
continuing lack of long-term financing as significant investment barrier. This was both a result of serious
exposure limits of foreign lenders due to country risk constraints, and of insufficiencies of the domestic
financial system. Moreover, despite the efforts outlined above, Government capacity to facilitate private
infrastructure projects remained weak. These factors led the Government to request support in these critical
areas under the project.




                                                       - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1      As part of an overall portfolio restructuring, the Project was restructured on November 14, 2002
to reallocate $21 million in unutilized funds, that otherwise would have been canceled, to the Northeast
Emergency Reconstruction Program. As such, the Project was amended to extend the closing date by two
years and add the following additional project objective: "(z) assist the North East Provincial Council (or
any successor entity thereto acceptable to the Association) in carrying out a program of rehabilitation and
reconstruction in Affected Areas, including (i) assisting in the rehabilitation of Internally Displaced
Persons; (ii) restoring primary health care and water supply; and (iii) building institutional capacity of the
North East Provincial Council to implement long term reconstruction activities." This ICR pertains only to
the original project scope. A separate ICR will be written for the NE Emergency Reconstruction Program
which is being funded from reallocations of several projects.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1      The Project was designed to support a selected program of private sector investment in
infrastructure at the beginning of a transition period during which private sector operations would be
introduced into traditionally public sector managed and controlled activities. It was to provide resources for
co-financing of private infrastructure subprojects, such as power plants, toll roads, ports or urban services,
to be implemented on a build-operate-transfer (BOT) basis, or variation thereof, and expected to be started
within four years of appraisal. For this purpose, the Project provided an IDA Credit of US$77 million
equivalent to the Government which was on-lent to the implementation agency, Private Sector
Infrastructure Development Company Ltd. (PSIDC), to finance its participation in subprojects as well as
technical assistance for Project implementation and investment facilitation. It consisted of two interrelated
components:

            A long-term debt facility (US$70 million) in form of a line of credit from GOSL to PSIDC,
                the proceeds of which were to be used to provide long-term finance to special purpose
                entities established for the construction and operation of commercial infrastructure projects
                on the basis of a subproject pipeline available at appraisal.

            A technical assistance facility (US$7 million) with two sub-components:

                3     TA to support PSIDC (US$3.5 million), including management costs, salaries, and
                      other operating expenses for an initial period; company brochure and operational
                      manuals; consultants to assist in management and in project reviews; and training.

                3     TA in support of Line Ministries (US$3.5 million) for project preparation and
                      documentation, and limited work on sectoral policy and regulation.

3.3.2      The components were clearly related to achieving the development objectives. In recognition that
the project would be pioneering frameworks for BOT-type transactions in Sri Lanka where there was little
experience in the core sectors of power, roads, ports and urban services, significant funds were allocated
for subproject preparation and the institutional capacity building of PSIDC and government. While the
institutional capacity building of PSIDC was implemented in accordance with expectations at appraisal,
only part of the funds for project review by PSIDC and for project preparation by line ministries were used.
This was mainly the result of the slow development of private infrastructure activities, and the availability
of other sources for project preparation, particularly in the power sector.




                                                      - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1      The original project components were not modified in substance. However, the training and
professional development elements of the TA to PSIDC were somewhat broadened by including
representatives of line ministries and other government agencies in training courses or workshops, along
with PSIDC staff. This was fully compatible with the Project's objective of enhancing government capacity
to prepare, negotiate and monitor private infrastructure projects.

3.4.2      New components, unrelated to the original Project objectives, were introduced at the time of
restructuring of the Project in November 2002 for the Northeast Emergency Reconstruction Program (see
3.2.1 above).

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1      In August 1997, about one year after Board approval, a Quality Assurance Group (QAG) panel
carried out a post-approval assessment of three infrastructure financing projects in South Asia, including
PSIDP. In contrast to the two other projects evaluated, the QAG panel rated quality at entry for the Project
as unsatisfactory. While considering the objectives of the Project as clear, consistent with the CAS
objectives and responsive to the Government's resolve to promote private participation in infrastructure, the
main reasons for the QAG rating were:

            Inadequate Framework and Pipeline for Private Sector Infrastructure Investment: The
                panel concluded that during appraisal little analysis was undertaken on the institutional and
                policy framework for the different sectors, and the sectoral reforms that would be required
                to successfully close transactions in these sectors. Moreover, the assessment of the level of
                support of private infrastructure provision by the state agencies and local governments
                seemed insufficient. This was deemed to be the reason why the project pipeline was
                developing much more slowly than expected. QAG also pointed out that these issues had
                been raised during the project processing, but that comments to this respect had not received
                appropriate weight.

            Onlending Arrangements: It was considered incompatible with a private sector lending
                operation that the resources were passed on at IDA terms to PSIDC. This was deemed to
                create the wrong incentives as losses in lending operations would not become immediately
                apparent. Moreover, the lending rate (defined as a margin of 3 percentage points above
                LIBOR or USD swap rate) was considered too low, taking into account PSIDC's
                subordination and repayment terms. Finally, it was noted that per-project limits should have
                been established to avoid a portfolio concentration.

            Institutional Capacity of PSIDC: QAG also found that the corporate structure, staffing,
                financial controls and operating procedures had not been defined in sufficient detail during
                preparation and that better use could have been made of a PPF in place at the time.

            Pragmatism of Sunset Clause: It was noted that there was no mention of this issue in the
                subsidiary loan agreement between GOSL and PSIDC, and no analysis of how the loan
                portfolio and debt repayment obligations to GOSL would be handled on roll-up.




                                                      - 4 -

           It was proposed that new IDA credit allocations should not be made to PSIDC until the issues
outlined above would have been appropriately addressed.

3.5.2      In light of the implementation experience of the Project, in which each of the above weaknesses
became apparent, the quality of entry is rated as unsatisfactory at the time of this completion report. In an
insufficiently developed institutional and policy framework, it proved impossible for PSIDC to build up a
balanced cross-sectoral portfolio of lending operations. Fewer transactions emerged than projected at
appraisal, they took longer than expected to reach financial closure, and it took some time after Board
approval and credit effectiveness for PSIDC to become fully staffed and operational. The period available
for actively pursuing lending operations and translating them into concrete financial commitments was thus
relatively limited as measured by project finance standards. Further constraining issues QAG only
passingly touched upon were the unclear definition of PSIDC's role as "lender of last resort", the lack of
genuine private sector involvement in the institution, and the resulting need to take a reactive rather than
proactive approach. PSIDC was thus not able to become an influential player in the market, and had little
leeway to contribute to its development.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1      Overall Outcome (Unsatisfactory). Achievement of objectives and outputs under the Project
was unsatisfactory. The Project did not contribute in any significant way to develop a modern and efficient
infrastructure system in Sri Lanka by promoting significant private sector participation. In accordance with
the expectations at appraisal, PSIDC was established and operated as the GOSL facility for the placement
of long-term debt in tandem with private sector capital. However, the Project activities, implemented by
PSIDC, were not able to encourage significant participation of the private sector in infrastructure at a
larger scale. At the end of the implementation period, PSIDC had participated in one transaction
(concessioning of the QEQ terminal at Colombo port, the SAGT project) with proceeds from the IDA
Credit, and in a small power project (Wey Ganga) with proceeds from the KfW loan. Some of the other
projects PSIDC pursued either did not materialize or proceeded without its participation. In addition, a
number of infrastructure operations with private participation, mostly in the power sector, were launched
during this period without any specific input from the Project. The uptake of the resources available to
strengthen GOSL's capacity to deal with and promote private infrastructure projects was also slow and its
impact limited. With an estimated final amount of US$29 million, disbursements remained far below the
initial Credit approval of US$77 million.

4.1.2      Develop a modern and efficient infrastructure system in Sri Lanka by promoting significant
private sector participation (Unsatisfactory). The overall objective of the Project was formulated in the
SAR in an overly ambitious way which, even under a more satisfactory outcome, would have been difficult
to achieve. At the time of Project appraisal, the Government's policy to promote private participation in
infrastructure was still in its infancy. It was therefore unrealistic to expect a dramatic breakthrough as
pictured in the objective. Measured against the expectations at appraisal, the Project's impact on
infrastructure development was thus quite limited. While the SAR provided a list of 18 projects as potential
candidates for private involvement, PSIDC received requests related to only five transactions, of which it
participated in two, while two others were financed without its involvement and one did not go ahead. (See
Section 10 for additional information on the current status of the 1996 government pipeline of projects.)




                                                       - 5 -

4.1.3       PSIDC's role in accelerating infrastructure development and catalyzing private involvement was
small, even when measured against actual developments rather than expectations. The list of key
infrastructure projects implemented since 1996, as compiled by the Bureau of Infrastructure Investments
(BII), comprises eight operations. While the initial SAR list spanned transport, power and urban services
(waste water treatment), the eight key projects implemented consisted of seven power operations and one
port investment (SAGT). In addition, several small power projects were implemented under the rules of
small schemes promoted by the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB). The concrete results of private
infrastructure promotion were thus heavily concentrated in the power sector and did not reach the broad
coverage the Project was aiming for. Of the small number of key projects, PSIDC participated in only one
(SAGT) and played a facilitating role in the appraisal of the Kelanitissa power project, although it was in
the end not invited to provide financing.

4.1.4       Also the technical assistance component did not contribute significantly to the Project objective.
While the training provided for PSIDC and GOSL staff was certainly useful, neither the infrastructure
framework nor individual transactions in the areas of transport, urban/water services or
telecommunications were enhanced in any significant way through the Project. However, during the second
half of the Project implementation period, two major consultancies and a number of additional assistance
activities were launched to develop the framework for private participation in the water sector and develop
two concrete transactions. These activities were delayed by over one year due to political instability and
change of government and have not yet been completed. Howeve, they will benefit from continued support
through the IDA-financed Economic Reform TA Project and other trust-fund based sources. If successful,
these activities could pave the way for a more comprehensive involvement of the private sector in water and
waste water in the medium term.

4.1.5       Establish a GOSL facility for the placement of long-term debt that will work in tandem
with private sources of capital to facilitate potential private sector investment (satisfactory). Although
some initial delays were encountered in the creation of PSIDC, the nomination of its board, and the
introduction of the necessary procedures and systems, the institution was fully operational throughout the
Project implementation period, and was able to fulfill the functions it had been assigned. PSIDC developed
over time the capacity for credit appraisal, disbursement of loans, management of outstanding resources,
and cooperation with other official and commercial lenders, as well as with private sponsors. It has a fully
functional accounting and budgeting system and back-office, and its own human resources administration.
Although this Project objective has been satisfactorily met for the implementation period, it cannot be seen
in isolation and is overshadowed, at the time of this Completion Report, by the unresolved future of the
institution, and thus the open question of its sustainability (see Section 6).

4.1.6       Encourage significant participation of the private sector in the investment, implementation,
operation and maintenance of the new infrastructure facilities (unsatisfactory). As outlined above,
neither the lending operations nor the TA activities under the Project resulted in significant private sector
participation in infrastructure. Undoubtedly PSIDC funding was an important element in the only key
infrastructure project outside power (i.e. SAGT), which was also the largest one. However, in the power
sector, all seven key transactions since 1996 were implemented without PSIDC participation even though
PSIDC can be attributed a significant facilitating role during the mobilization of finance for the AES
Kelanitissa project, and later became involved as lender in one of the smaller power schemes (Wey Ganga).
But also measured by the capital structure of the individual transactions, the Project did not seem to have a
noticeable impact on attracting private funding. The private sponsors P&O, John Keel Holdings and
Evergreen were clearly dominant in the SAGT project, but the presence of IFC, ADB and CDC on the
sponsors side also signals the continuing need for strong support from public sources. This is reinforced by
the fact that these latter three, plus PSIDC, represented the entire lending package, which was thus based


                                                      - 6 -

on public sources. As power deals emerged over time without any support under the Project, their capital
structure became genuinely private, both on the sponsors and on the lenders side. This, however, should not
be misconstrued as a radical shift of risk allocation since GOSL, rather than external official institutions,
played an important role through guarantees or undertakings to enable the entry of these private players.
While these developments indicate some progress towards private sector participation in infrastructure,
mostly in the power sector, they do not demonstrate that the Project contributed substantially to these
trends.

4.1.7      Strengthen GOSL's ability to attract, negotiate and close private sector sponsored
infrastructure projects by increasing capabilities to evaluate and negotiate projects with private
sponsors (unsatisfactory). The Project aimed at accelerating private participation by providing resources
for targeted preparation of projects which would be taken from pre-feasibility work through the evaluation
and negotiations cycle to financial closure. In addition, limited work on policy and regulation was intended
to support this objective, which was essentially to be achieved by part of the TA component. The SAR
clearly emphasized the practical involvement of GOSL agencies in the transaction process, through which
experience with and understanding of private investors was to be built up. Some progress towards this
objective was certainly achieved during the Project implementation period. BOI and BII, and some
agencies, particularly in the power sector, were undoubtedly instrumental in taking the key infrastructure
projects forward that materialized since 1996. However, capacity to design appropriate structures and deal
with private investors seems to have generally lagged behind in areas such as transport, urban and water
supply. Also the apparently more rapid pace of progress in the power sector hinges on the traditional model
of monopoly power purchaser, which is bound to change with the implementation of reforms.

4.1.8      While thus moderate progress towards this objective has been achieved, activities under the
Project, specifically the TA component, did not in any significant way contribute to this result. Very few
project-related studies were financed (essentially one for a power scheme and two for water supply
schemes), and these were not even completed at the time when the (original) Project closed. The Project
also did not contribute significantly to enhancing the Government's role in structuring of the subprojects for
which financing was extended (SAGT and Wey Ganga) or the subproject which was facilitated (AES
Kelanitissa). On the other hand, the Project enabled the participation of numerous Government and agency
officials in infrastructure-related training courses abroad and in Sri Lanka, which increased the knowledge
on various topics including project finance and regulation. However, this could not make up for the lack of
practical exposure to the promotion of concrete private investment which the SAR had foreseen.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1      The Long-Term Debt Facility Component (US$225 million SAR, US$182.4 million actual).
This component is rated as partially satisfactory. It was designed as a line of credit through GOSL to
PSIDC, the proceeds of which would be used to provide long-term financing to special purpose entities
established for the construction and operation of commercial infrastructure subprojects in the GOSL
pipeline (as detailed in Annex 3 of the SAR). At the time of appraisal the pipeline included 18 projects of
which ten were projected to materialize over the short and medium term up to 2001. This represented a
potential pipeline of US$614 million in the range of US$10-US$200 per project. While the appraisal report
recognized the fluidity of such forecasts, it was assumed that subprojects would overall take off
approximately at the projected speed, and that pipeline projects which did not materialize would be
replaced by other opportunities. The SAR specifically stated that, in addition to the possible projects in the
pipeline, the creation of PSIDC was expected to encourage further project candidates. As outlined above
(see 4.1.3 and 4.1.6) the actual number of key infrastructure projects implemented in Sri Lanka was not
significantly different from the short and medium term pipeline, and even the total amount of about



                                                       - 7 -

US$577 million was fairly close. The Project also scores reasonably well on the total amount mobilized in
PSIDC-financed projects, which at about US$182 million reached 81% of the US$225 million projected at
appraisal.

4.2.2      However, this relatively positive score needs to be qualified since it is does not demonstrate that
the Long-Term Debt Facility performed as expected during appraisal. The appraisal assumption was that
the total of US$84 million (including KfW funds) could be used to co-finance four projects (out of ten in
the pipeline) and thus to facilitate a relatively broad range of private investment. In reality, only two
projects were co-financed with US$25 million from IDA and US$3 million from KfW, i.e. only one third of
the allocated funds were used. Moreover, the relatively high amount of total financing mobilized with
PSIDC funds was only due to the large size of the SAGT project. Finally, the fact that the number of key
infrastructure projects and the total financing mobilized for their implementation was close to the SAR
estimates, was principally the result of project promotion in the power sector, on which the Project had very
little impact, even though PSIDC's role in initially facilitating the structuring of the AES Kelanitissa project
needs to be recognized. It should also be mentioned that the appraisal report indicated good possibilities for
PSIDC to co-finance all ten projects in the short and medium term pipeline, which would have implied total
co-financing by PSIDC of US$246 million and thus the requirement to ask for additional multilateral
and/or bilateral funding. In sum, while on certain parameters the Component performed satisfactorily, its
results were different from initial expectations and did not help the Project fulfill its main objectives.

4.2.3      Technical Assistance Component (US$7 million SAR, US$4.6 million actual). This
Component is rated as partially satisfactory. It had two sub-components. TA to support PSIDC (US$3.5
million SAR, US$2.7 million actual) was implemented largely in accordance with appraisal estimates. It
financed setting up and subsequent costs, two resident advisers who fulfilled a key function to transfer
relevant management and technical knowledge, payment on a declining basis of salaries and operating
costs, and staff training and development. This sub-component should be considered as fully satisfactory. It
fulfilled the goals set at appraisal. TA support of line ministries (US$3.5 million SAR, US$2.0 million
actual) is rated as only marginally satisfactory. As outlined in 4.1.7 and 4.1.8 above, the Project through
this sub-component aimed at strengthening Government's capacity to deal with private investors. This was
to be achieved through the preparation of a series of projects comprehensively enough to negotiate
BOT/BOO-type structures and bring them to financial close. Some limited work on sector policy and
regulation would also be supported. In reality, the sub-component financed only the initial part of three
project-related preparation studies, one for a power project, and two for water supply projects. Substantial
additional work, mostly focused on various policy aspects, was carried out in connection with water
supply, and some work on power sector reform. This sub-component did thus not achieve its objective of
providing concentrated know-how to Government officials through support of a private projects deal flow,
but financed some relevant training. However, its increasing focus on the complex issues facing private
involvement in water supply, also on the policy front, presented probably a useful re-orientation given the
fact that private participation in this sector lagged particularly far behind.

4.2.4      Project Design. The design of the Project remained unchanged until Project completion, with the
exception of the major reallocation of remaining funds to the Northeast Emergency Reconstruction
Program (see 3.2) after June 2003, which is effectively equivalent to a different project. The slow pace of
pipeline development, and of preparation and financial closing of transactions could have provided the
basis for re-considering some of the basic design features, such as that of lender of last resort with the
limitation to subordinated loans, or that of an autonomous financial institution versus a facility available
for other players. A radical modification of the Project's design was not considered at any point although
some design issues were discussed in detail during and immediately following the mid-term review of the
Project. They pertained to PSIDC's lending instruments and to the coordination and management of the TA


                                                       - 8 -

sub-component in support of line ministries. During the mid-term review, regional management in fact
instructed the team to begin the process of winding down PSIDC and to decline any further subproject
financings (with the exception of the Kelanitissa power project which was under active consideration at the
time.)

4.2.5.     The lending terms of PSIDC were set at the time of appraisal at US$ LIBOR (or equivalent US$
swap rate) plus a premium of 300 basis points (using a recent IFC transaction as a benchmark), to be
revised once per year. However, the terms were never formally revised. This led to the situation that
subordinated debt offered by PSIDC was priced cheaper than senior debt and thus clearly did not reflect the
markets' risk perception. In reviewing this issue with GOSL, it was recognized that each transaction in the
complex infrastructure financing business is distinct in its risk characteristics and that pricing issues cannot
be divorced from the extent of subordination, covenants and security issues. It was therefore agreed that the
establishment of a binding price matrix was not realistic. Instead, new lending guidelines were defined
which were based on a number of principles, which essentially were aiming at introducing risk
considerations and an appropriate distinction between senior and subordinated debt into the pricing
principles of PSIDC. In addition, a number of new lending products, such as take out financing,
guarantees, domestic bond issuance, and non-dollar (principally rupee) lending were considered. These
modifications were never formally introduced in PSIDC's Operations Manual, but the Wey Ganga project,
which closed in June 2002, was funded by PSIDC in rupees, with GOSL assuming the foreign exchange
risk related to repayment of the KfW loan.

4.2.6      At the time of the mid-term review, a discussion took place between the Bank and GOSL on the
merits to split up the TA component into three subcomponents, i.e. (i) PSIDC Staff and Administrative
Costs; (ii) Training of Line Ministries and Agency Staff; and (iii) Preparation of Individual Subprojects. In
particular, Bank staff suggested that the third subcomponent be coordinated by BII, while the Ministry of
Finance preferred a direct Government coordination with allocation of responsibilities for each study to the
relevant agency. However, these tentative arrangements were never implemented and the original two
subcomponents remained in effect and continued to be managed by PSIDC. In retrospect, the bundling of
the coordination and management function, at least for the project preparation studies, if not also including
the line agency training, could have possibly accelerated the generation of project information relevant for
private investors, and could thus have created a faster deal flow.

4.2.7      Performance Monitoring. The appraisal report set out a detailed framework for the monitoring
performance although specific targets were not defined. The lack of subprojects adversely affected the
ability of the Project to meet some of the indicators developed during Project preparation, which were based
largely on the number of infrastructure transactions closed and the facilities built. The first participation in
an infrastructure project (SAGT) was signed in August 1999, and the second one in the much smaller Wey
Ganga project in June 2002. With the exception of PSIDC establishment costs and some limited training,
the TA component was virtually not utilized until the mid-term review of the Project in October 2000, and
gained speed only thereafter. Probably as a result of the initially very slow implementation progress,
Project performance was not systematically monitored up to the mid-term review. Since then, the appraisal
criteria, which were considered adequate for judging the achievements of objectives and outputs, were
monitored on a continuous basis, typically by updates included as annexes in the aide-memoires.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1      The Project was, to a large extent, designed as an onlending operation for subprojects to be
defined during Project implementation. Therefore, it was envisaged that the economic evaluation would be
carried out at the subproject level. The analysis thus pertained to the one investment that received financing



                                                      - 9 -

from the IDA Credit, i.e. SAGT. For that project, the final construction and equipment costs as of June 30,
2003 (projected to the expected completion date of August 2003), and the results of nearly four years of
operations were taken into account in generating revised forecasts of costs and benefits. The results of the
analysis are presented in Annex 8 and summarized below.

4.3.2      The economic analysis is based on the appraisal reports prepared both by PSIDC and IFC,
which co-financed the subproject. While many indirect benefits from restructuring of other ports and from
changes in shipping patterns and operations were considered conceivable, the appraisal reports took into
account only the micro-economic effects of the project, arising from improved productivity in the terminal
itself. The benefits estimated thus arise from (i) amounts ships and cargo owners pay for SAGT services;
(ii) reduction in delay costs of cargoes waiting for berthing; and (iii) for cargoes attracted from competing
ports, the savings in sailing costs that they are able to capture. Costs for the subproject are SAGT's capital
expenditures and the operations and maintenance costs for the terminal. Based on these costs and benefits,
the ERR at appraisal of the subproject was estimated at 29% over a period of 30 years. An economic NPV
was not determined at the time of subproject appraisal. At subproject completion, the ERR has not been
fully re-calculated due to a lack of information on certain parameters. Nevertheless, an attempt to assess it
in quantitative terms was made by basing the ERR calculation on the cash flows used for the financial
re-evaluation increased by the amount of sales taxes paid by SAGT. This led to an ERR estimate of 23.3%.
In addition, a number of factors are likely to affect the subproject's economic rate of return in a positive
way. These would include the application of conversion factors for labor and electricity, the foreign
exchange nature of SAGT's income, quicker turnaround time of ships, the natural advantages of Colombo
port, and the effects of tariff competition permitted from 2004.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1      Similar to the economic evaluation, the financial rate of return has been estimated at the
subproject level. Here again the final construction and equipment costs as of June 30, 2003 (projected to
the expected completion date of August 2003), and the results of nearly four years of operations were taken
into account in generating revised forecasts of costs and benefits. The results of the analysis are presented
in Annex 8 and summarized here. At the time of subproject appraisal, the FIRR projected by the Senior
Lenders' forecasting model amounted to 19% over a period of 30 years, based on SAGT's projected
revenues, and investment and operating costs. The financial re-evaluation at Project completion showed a
FIRR of 23.2%. The positive difference to the FIRR at the time of appraisal is mainly due to substantial
savings in investment costs which were 27% lower than initially projected.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1      The institutional development impact was overall much less significant than expected at the time
of appraisal. This was essentially due to the fact that the project financing activities of PSIDC remained
very limited, and even more so since the TA component did not generate the deal flow that was supposed to
get Government officials actively involved in the preparation of private sector transactions and thus to build
capacity at ministerial and agency levels. Nevertheless, the Project left a noticeable contribution to
institutional development in the following areas: (i) more than 50 individual participations of Government
officials in training courses, and several training seminars or sponsorships of conferences were organized
which all related to private participation in infrastructure in one way or another; (ii) through project
reviews, contacts with other financiers, and dealings with private investors, as well as through structured
training, PSIDC staff acquired in-depth knowledge and practical experience in project financing and private
infrastructure transactions; if PSIDC is transformed or absorbed into a new infrastructure fund, this
institutional capacity will represent a valuable asset, but even if PSIDC were to be dissolved, its staff could



                                                      - 10 -

probably make use of their acquired skills and strengthen institutional capacity elsewhere, albeit in a much
more diluted way; and (iii) the studies initiated under the TA component, particularly in the water supply
sector and to a more limited degree in power, will be continued under different financing arrangements and
can be expected to substantially enhance the understanding by government ministries and agencies of
requirements of private sector involvement in these areas.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1      Effects of international financial crises. External events negatively impacted the Project's
environment and slowed down the expected pace of implementation. The financial crises of 1997 in Asia
and 1998 in Russia, and subsequent economic instability in different regions and countries had a
detrimental effect on infrastructure project finance in emerging markets, and specifically in Asia. According
to Project Finance International statistics, new commitments for project finance debt in developing
countries decreased sharply during the initial implementation years of the Project, from a peak of US$38.3
billion in 1997 to US$17.6 billion in 1999, followed by a short recovery in 2000 which barely exceeded the
previous peak, and a further decline in 2002. Early indications are that the slump continued in 2003. The
overall trend line for emerging market project debt since 1996 is thus flat, with substantial variations by
region and a steady decline over the last three years. These international developments had a particularly
severe initial effect on Asia. The statistics show a precipitous decline for the East Asia and Pacific Region
from US$10.9 billion in 1997 to US$1.7 billion in 1999 followed by a slow, albeit continuous recovery to
US$9.7 billion in 2002. For the South Asia Region, the same data source shows a peak of project finance
commitments of US$1.6 billion in 1996, with considerable fluctuations in a wide range of US$0.11.1
billion annually thereafter, and no discernable trend. The World Bank's PPI data base, which monitors
private infrastructure investment in developing countries on a broader basis, shows similar results. The
implications of these external factors for the Project's environment were both a reduced availability of
international commercial financing and increased risk aversion of private investors vis-a-vis infrastructure
projects.

5.1.2      Civil Conflict. Sri Lanka is just emerging from a two-decade long civil conflict.
Post-independence language, education, employment and rural development policies contributed to the
ethnic tensions. Initial skirmishes between the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) and the
Government in the early 1980s gave way to full-scale conventional battles in the late-1980s and 1990s. The
Central Bank of Sri Lanka in its 1999 Annual Report estimated that the conflict had reduced Sri Lanka's
annual economic growth by 2 to 3 percentage points a year. The Government spent nearly US$1 billion on
defense in 1999, which exceeded the amount allocated for education and health combined. The heavy
borrowing to finance the war over such a long period has left Sri Lanka with an overall public debt of
103% of GDP, of which domestic debt is 55% of GDP and the servicing of this domestic debt is now the
largest item in the budget. While a cease fire concluded in early 2002 appears to be holding up, most of the
Project implementation period was subject to the effects of the conflict. It is quite obvious that this had a
number of negative effects on the developments that the Project was designed to promote, including (i)
exclusion of the conflict areas from any development prospects and thus a reduction of infrastructure
project opportunities; (ii) decline of economic growth, and trade between the conflict areas and the rest of
the country, resulting in lower infrastructure needs; (iii) lower availability of private and particularly public
resources for infrastructure financing; and (iv) greater political and economic uncertainty, reducing the
country's attractiveness as investment location and availability of private capital, and thus increasing risk
premium and capital costs.




                                                     - 11 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1      Inadequate framework for private infrastructure development. The origin of recent trends in
private participation in infrastructure can be traced back to policy shifts in the early 1990s aimed at
liberalization of infrastructure service delivery. However, the new policies took time to be implemented,
particularly in the more challenging sectors such as power and water supply/sanitation. At the time of
appraisal, private participation in infrastructure in Sri Lanka was therefore still in its infancy. A specific
regulatory and legal framework for private sector involvement did not exist, and prototype arrangements
for BOT/BOO or similar project structures, to be developed under the Project, had not been implemented
and tried yet in the country. The initial private infrastructure transactions took place in 1995-96, primarily
in the power generation sector, in which a substantial number of active international players emerged that
were pursuing business opportunities globally. Over the following four-year period, six major and a
number of smaller deals were concluded, nearly all of them in power, and one in transport (the SAGT
project). However, power did not become the most active sector because of progressive reform
implementation, but since it was possible to attract private sponsors and to mobilize financing principally
on the back of off-take agreements with Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) and Government undertakings
backing up CEB's obligations. The private power sector projects in Sri Lanka were thus designed as
independent power plants (IPPs) selling to a state utility, a concept widely used in the world before major
power sector reforms, unbundling and privatizations were initiated.

5.2.2      Virtually no private involvement existed in the other target sectors of the Project, i.e. transport
and water and urban development. Consequently, specific rules and regulations had not been worked out
and the public sector capacity to understand and negotiate private concessions for public services was
basically absent. Moreover, except for airports and ports, it is generally more difficult to generate investors'
interest and meaningful competition in these sectors than in energy and telecommunications. In absence of
these key ingredients, the development of prototype contractual and institutional arrangements, and the
mobilization of sponsors and financiers for infrastructure took much longer than expected at appraisal and
resulted in a considerably truncated deal flow compared to initial ambitious goals. The only private
transport project implemented was SAGT, for which a project-specific framework was designed on the
basis of similar arrangements in other parts of the world, with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority as major
Government counterpart and equity partner. While three possibilities for toll road schemes were already
discussed at the time of appraisal, neither the general framework for toll road developments in the context
of an overall road development plan nor the detailed studies for the individual projects progressed in any
substantive way. Similarly, neither the policy framework development nor the preparation of specific
studies for further private involvement in ports or airports have made significant progress. The water and
sanitation sector has proven to be the most challenging and slowest for private involvement.
Project-focused studies for two areas, north and south of Colombo, were initiated under the Project around
half way through implementation. In the course of these studies, the need to address the overall framework
for private involvement in water and sanitation became increasingly clear and resulted in the commissioning
of a number of additional activities to support this objective. However, as these activities are still on-going
and will be continued with financing from other sources, no concrete transaction has yet been concluded in
this sector.

5.2.3      Pipeline Development. The Project provided US$3.5 million as TA support for line Ministries
to promote subprojects for private sector investment and participation. The appraisal report specifically
stated that the objective of these studies will be to provide complete documentation to enable the solicitation
of high caliber BOT/BOO bids for infrastructure projects. In addition, the TA could also support limited
work on sectoral policy and regulation, if necessary to advance private sector transactions. The objective
spelled out in the appraisal report was not met, mainly because there was no effective mechanism for


                                                      - 12 -

coordinating the use of these funds and directing them to the purposes for which it was designed. A pipeline
of power projects was developed and implemented without use and apparent need of the TA sources
available under the Project. No attempt was made to use the funds for the design of an appropriate
framework and feasible transactions in transport, even though no coherent approach to private sector
participation had emerged yet. Furthermore, it was only decided around the mid-term review to mobilize
these, as well as other resources to address more systematically the complete absence of an adequate
framework, as well as feasible transactions, for private sector involvement in the water and sanitation
sector. A more effective use of these resources could have been achieved if a targeted approach had been
taken in line with the appraisal objectives, and if the responsibilities for coordinating and managing these
funds had been defined more clearly, with either a stronger mandate for PSIDC or the nomination of
another agency, e.g. BII, for this component. That latter possibility was discussed relatively late during
implementation, after the mid-term review, but never implemented.

5.2.4      Inadequate Development of the Financial Sector. Sri Lanka's financial sector is affected by a
number of weaknesses which have also limited its ability to play a more substantial role in mobilizing
resources for infrastructure development. Despite considerable progress in the past two decades, the
financial system continues to be dominated by state-owned institutions which control over 60% of total
financial assets. Most banks suffer from high levels of non-performing loans, inadequate provisioning,
heavy reliance on collateral security (which is often difficult to realize) and unduly high cost/income ratios,
i.e. high inefficiencies. The resources of institutional investors are predominantly invested in government
bonds, and the private securities markets remain small and illiquid. The interbank markets are subject to
large swings in systemic liquidity and large imbalances in the position of major market participants. The
market for government bonds suffers from the absence of liquid benchmark issues, limited transparency
and weak competition. Long-term savings in the economy, primarily funds managed by the Employees
Provident Fund/Employees Trust Fund (EPF/ETF) and the National Savings Bank, are yielding negative
rates of return in real terms, and savers are forced to accept low yielding bank deposits due to lack of
alternative investment opportunities in an underdeveloped capital market. On the short end, financial
markets are dominated by Government financial transactions and do not offer the depth and volumes to
reliably channel significant savings resources into infrastructure investments.

5.2.5      For infrastructure finance, the absence of a liquid interbank market has impeded the development
of longer-term markets and accurate pricing of other securities. There is no market for short-term roll-over
funding which is a common source of term lending and by international practice a widely-used basis for
project financing and transaction pricing. In Sri Lanka, a widely accepted reference point for pricing is the
prime lending rate, but some banks prefer the more market-based rate on treasury bills or even the average
weighted deposit rate. The SLIBOR is not acknowledged by most banks as a viable benchmark due to the
limitations and volatility of the interbank market. Margins for infrastructure deals, if set over prime lending
rates, are in the 200-300 bp range, which is high by international standards and is added to a base rate that
already implies a considerable mark-up due to the Sri Lankan banks' high spread of 4% to 6%. In May
2003, this would have meant an overall floating interest rate for an infrastructure project of about
13%-14%, while at the beginning of 2001, it would even have ranged between 25% and 26%. Despite the
market limitations, domestic banks have been able to contribute to a number of infrastructure transactions
over the Project implementation period as they built up understanding of project finance structures and
became comfortable with the underlying risks and longer maturities. Their participation was specifically
concentrated in power projects with concessions not exceeding 10 years, and maturities which could be
kept below 6-8 years, a threshold considered the maximum feasible commitment period by most banks.
Projects requiring longer maturities had to mobilize funding from multilateral and bilateral development
banks or export credit agencies, as well as from PSIDC, in most cases on a US$ basis with the often
resulting currency mismatch. A specific obstacle to project finance lending is the restrictive regulatory


                                                      - 13 -

treatment of the single borrower limit, which banks have been able to manage to a certain extent, but which
would prevent any rapid expansion of the business, particularly if domestic sponsors are involved.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1      Lending. It is hard to pinpoint any substantive actions PSIDC could have taken, or not taken, to
influence implementation and outcome of the Project in a major way. The project's design and PSIDC's set
up specifically called for the institution to take a reactive, and not a proactive role in financing
infrastructure projects, assigning it the function of lender of last resort. Strong governmental oversight and
presence at board level, coupled with the restrictions imposed on the institution (only subordinated loans,
fixed interest premium with the provision of only once-per-year modifications, instruction not to crowd out
commercial funding) did not leave PSIDC much room to address the major issues of slow pipeline
development for private infrastructure overall, and insufficient demand for its lending product. Due to its
narrowly defined business policy, it was thus not able to participate in the financing of eight power and two
telecom transactions that reached financial closing during the Project implementation period. Moreover, its
exclusion from most of the private infrastructure deals also prevented PSIDC from playing a more active
role in shaping the risk profile of these transactions by introducing new instruments (as contemplated
during the mid-term review), mitigating some of the risks that the Government had to assume through
undertakings and guarantees in the power projects, and offering enhancement instruments to facilitate
participation of domestic financing sources.

5.3.2      Pipeline Development. But PSIDC also did not have the means to influence the development of
conducive private-sector focused policies and regulatory frameworks, and the preparation of specific
projects, i.e. the development of the pipeline. Even though US$3.5 million was allocated for that purpose,
in addition to US$3.5 million for PSIDC's establishment, the institution did not have the mandate to
determine the use of these funds and direct them to priority activities designed for pipeline development, as
sketched out in the appraisal report. The coordinating role was not assigned to BII either, the Government
agency created for private infrastructure promotion, but was in some ways assumed directly by the
Ministry of Finance. Once a study was initiated, the respective line ministry or specialized agency would
typically take over full responsibility for implementation, like in the water and power sectors. PSIDC's
function in the use of the TA funds for line ministries remained thus limited to providing administrative
support for contracting and payment.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1      The cost of the Long-Term Debt Facility (97% of total project cost estimated at appraisal)
amounted to US$182 million, of which US$25 million was financed from the IDA Credit and US$3 million
from the KfW loan. The reasons for the relatively low utilization of the Long-Term Debt Facility, despite
an 81% achievement of total project cost in comparison to the appraisal forecast, have been explained in
more detail in section 4.2 above. Financing was provided, in line with the appraisal estimates, from a
variety of sources, including PSIDC, local commercial banks, and foreign and local project sponsors. No
export credits were used in the subprojects. However, funding from international financial institutions (IFC,
ADB, CDC) and internal cash generation turned out to be the most important financing sources
representing about 47% of total funding for the two subprojects under the Project. Total cost of the TA
component, entirely financed by the IDA Credit, amounted to US$4.6 million, of which US$2.0 million for
support of line ministries and US$2.6 million for PSIDC establishment and operations. Both
subcomponents include expenses for training of Government officials and PSIDC, respectively.




                                                       - 14 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1       PSIDC's capacity to continue to develop and finance the implementation of private sector
infrastructure projects (Highly Unlikely). The appraisal report explicitly states that PSIDC has been
designed as a transitory mechanism, and not a permanent institution. As such, the Project did not aim at
creating a lasting structure, and sustainability of PSIDC is not an issue. However, the appraisal report laid
out a course of action which contained an inherent contradiction. For practical reasons (closing of the
Credit and end of the Bank's regular supervision activities) it required that GOSL and IDA would agree,
during the closing months of the Project, on a plan for the future of PSIDC, which would specify a range of
options including restructuring, privatization and closure. On the other hand, the appraisal report also
stated that PSIDC's role as a lender will continue as long as the international capital markets are still
unable to meet Sri Lanka's requirements for long-term infrastructure finance. It was clearly specified that
this impediment would no longer be deemed to exist after Sri Lanka has obtained an investment grade
rating and kept that rating for two years. This would be considered the benchmark for the winding down
and closure of the institution. Even though this benchmark was not reached during Project implementation,
discussion between the Bank and GOSL on the range of options listed in the appraisal report (the "sunset
clause") started quite early, around the time of the mid-term review, and have continued until now without
the prospect of an imminent solution. In these discussions, the possibility of PSIDC carrying on its role as a
lender in accordance with the plan detailed in the appraisal report, was taken into account, but never
seriously considered since it was becoming clear that PSIDC's lending operations were not achieving the
Project objectives.

6.1.2       Sustainability of Subprojects (Likely). It is still too early to predict the sustainability of the two
projects financed by PSIDC, with only one in commercial operation, and one still under construction. Even
though the SAGT project investments are just now coming to a completion, commercial operation of the
container terminal by the private consortium started in September 1999. The operating and financial
performance of the company since then has been satisfactory. While its operations have been affected by
the world wide economic slowdown since 2001, SAGT has remained profitable. Substantial savings over
the initially planned investment costs have helped the company balance the slowing revenue stream on the
cost side. Moreover, before the end of 2004, SAGT will reach the point from which they will be allowed to
compete with the Sri Lanka Port Authority also on tariffs and not only on services which will provide
additional flexibility to manage their business competitively. With respect to the Wey Ganga hydro power
project, no operating results are yet available since commercial operation is scheduled to commence only
after the end of construction during the first half of 2004. One reason for concern is the increase in project
costs which is currently projected at 22%. Overall, it is likely that the two subprojects are sustainable given
the robustness of the contractual structure, the first indications of the performance of the port terminal, and
Sri Lanka's power supply requirements. But a more definitive conclusion would require a review of the
subprojects in about five years.




                                                      - 15 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1      As outlined in 6.1.1, the future of PSIDC has been considered from its inception as a key issue
with respect to the sustainability of the Project, or more specifically the sustainability of the Project's
objectives. Although this issue has been under continuous discussion between the Bank and GOSL for
nearly four years, no final decision has been taken yet. During 2002 and until early 2003, the Government
was in negotiations with an international advisory group on folding PSIDC into an infrastructure fund as
the government equity contribution. However, no agreement on a definitive structure was found and
negotiations were discontinued. In March 2003, the Government informed the Bank that it intended to
transfer the assets of PSIDC to a new Infrastructure and Corporate Restructuring Fund. This approach, as
outlined in the November 2002 Budget speech, is a departure from the previously agreed strategy to
privatize PSIDC although this approach would still be in accordance with the "sunset clause" provision
defined in the appraisal report. Subsequently the Government (i.e. BOI) entered in discussions with
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) Capital Partners to raise and manage the proposed new
fund, but these discussion have not progressed beyond a general conceptual stage.

6.2.2      The Bank's primary concern with respect to the transition and the future of PSIDC has focused
on the issues of transparency, value, and viability. In order to meet these concerns, GOSL commissioned a
valuation of PSIDC as entity and of its assets, carried out by Price Waterhouse Coopers (PWC) Jakarta.
The valuation was completed in June 2003 and provided also the results of market soundings in which
different interested parties provided alternative views on the future of PSIDC and of the Fund into which
GOSL wants it to be absorbed. However, the details of this new structure still need to be defined,
specifically how it will be owned/governed/managed/sustained, the Fund's charter, the management
agreement, and the specifics of how ongoing obligations of IDA (development objectives and financial
repayments) will be discharged. When it became clear that the transition of PSIDC will not occur before
June 30, 2003 as earlier envisaged, PSIDC agreed with the Government to extend the contracts of its
employees for an additional six months until December 2003. At the time of finalizing this ICR in late
December 2003, the team was informed by the CEO that the Government has decided to wind up PSIDC.
Although this has not been officially communicated yet, the intention is that the cash flows of PSIDC will
be assigned to the Department of State Accounts, and the staff are to be terminated. The GOSL is
interested in keeping some staff of PSIDC in a government structure to be established in order to promote
public-private partnerships particularly in the area of toll roads. No decision has been made as to whether
such structure would be part of BOI/BII.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1      The Bank's performance during the lending phase is mixed although rated overall as marginally
unsatisfactory. On the one hand, the Bank did a satisfactory job of responding to the Client's request by
preparing and appraising a complex and innovative project, which established a new institution for lending
to private sector infrastructure. Because of the challenges posed by the Project's design, this process took
nearly two years. The initial executive project summary was prepared in January 1994, the Board approved
the Project on June 13, 1996, and effectiveness was reached on November 21, 1996. The Bank's due
diligence in terms of structuring appropriate financial safeguards was satisfactory as reflected in the
Development Credit Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, including (i) financial covenants to set
prudent guidelines for the company's exposure to infrastructure projects; and (ii) financial eligibility criteria


                                                      - 16 -

for onlending to individual subprojects to contain the credit risks of individual subprojects. However, some
of the other financial aspects of the Project, e.g. mechanism for setting the on-lending rate for subprojects,
etc. which were revealed to be inadequate during implementation, may have been better addressed at the
outset by the inclusion of a financial sector specialist on the appraisal team.

7.1.2      The caliber of the peer reviewers was high, and the process elicited a valuable discussion on the
Project's risks. However, not all of the issues raised during the review process were adequately addressed at
appraisal, in particular the weakness of GOSL and its specialized agencies to formulate policy and develop,
review and negotiate concession agreements with private sector investors. As a result, the Government's
capacity to implement infrastructure projects in the pipeline at appraisal, and to develop new projects for
the pipeline, was seriously overestimated. Consequently the resources available for onlending to
infrastructure subprojects (US$70 million from the IDA Credit and US$7 million from the KfW Loan),
although deemed to be insufficient for the potential demand, proved to be oversized. In fact, PSIDC only
drew US$25 million from the IDA Credit and US$ 3 million from the KfW Loan. Another issue not
adequately addressed during appraisal was that of PSIDC's role as lender of last resort which remained,
throughout the implementation period, in conflict with the Project's objective of promoting significant
private sector participation in infrastructure. A further issue was the lack of market orientation and
discipline due to the virtually fixed margin PSIDC was charging over interest rate benchmarks, and the
provision to revise this margin only once per year (which in fact was not even carried out). Other issues
included the limitation of financial instruments to subordinated, US$-based loans, the open-ended question
of the use of the differential between PSIDC's commercial lending terms and the IDA-based borrowing
terms, and the uncertainties introduced in PSIDC's operations by its definition as transitory mechanism. In
sum, although the project was considered "cutting edge" at the time and followed similar private sector
infrastructure financing projects in Pakistan (Ln. 3812) and India (Ln. 3992) and preceded another one in
Bangladesh (Cr. 2995), it is clear in hindsight that financing was not the binding constraint to increasing
private sector participation in infrastructure in Sri Lanka. The project created a financing institution to fill
a perceived gap, but there was a dearth of customers.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1      Due to the size, relative complexity and novelty of the Project, it was agreed that the appraisal
activities for the subprojects in each sector would be carried out by PSIDC in close consultation with the
Bank. In particular, the subproject appraisal report and full documentation on the contractual framework
for the subprojects (e.g. draft sub-loan agreement and Engineering, Procurement, Construction contract)
were to be reviewed in detail by the Bank for their risk mitigation aspects. As a result, the Staff Appraisal
Report acknowledged that a "high level of supervision resources" would be required and allocated to
monitor implementation and reduce the risks frequently associated with the preparation and negotiation of
complex public-private partnerships. The Minutes of the Yellow Cover Review Meeting specified at least
20 staff weeks per year as the minimum required for an adequate supervision of the project. The
supervision strategy laid out in the Staff Appraisal Report included semi-annual and mid-term institutional
supervision, annual development impact supervision, subproject review and supervision, and a full
mid-term review.

7.2.2      The supervision by the Bank is rated to be satisfactory although the budget resources almost
never came close to the amount agreed by management at the time of appraisal, partially as a result of
region-wide budget constraints. Therefore, available budgets did not support semi-annual supervisions and
all the other supervision activities outlined in the appraisal report. Hence, with the exception of the Project
start-up phase, the team visited Sri Lanka about once each fiscal year although the team was in continuous
contract with the implementing agency, PSIDC, through e-mail. Extensive desk reviews were carried out of



                                                      - 17 -

the various technical feasibility, investment banking reports and contractual documents of subprojects
being under consideration by PSIDC, and of the supproject that was co-financed. The task leadership of the
Project changed only once in seven years, and the inclusion of a financial sector specialist as part of the
core team from the mid-term review on contributed significantly to addressing various issues that arose
during implementation from PSIDC being a financial institution and in discussing the future of PSIDC with
GOSL.

7.2.3      The team was proactive in operationalizing PSIDC through participation in workshops
marketing the availability of funds in first year of implementation both inside and outside Sri Lanka. It
also worked closely with PSIDC officials on several potential transactions (i.e. Lanka Bell mobile license,
SAGT port concession and Kelanitissa power project), all three of which were being considered at different
times prior to the mid-term review and which required extensive review of documentation. Given its
unsatisfactory rating due to low disbursement, the team held meetings with Bank management prior to the
mid-term review where it was advised to "close down" PSIDC following processing of the Kelantissa
power project which was under active negotiation at the time. Although PSIDC could not be "closed
down" technically as it was a going concern with ongoing disbursement obligations under its subloan to
SAGT, the government was informed that no further subprojects (with the exception of Kelanitissa which
in the end did not opt for PSIDC financing) would be considered for IDA financing under PSIDC as
insufficient time was available to process new transactions. The team undertook innovative work to revise
the onlending terms and conditions and draft standard covenants for subloans in the Credit Agreement.
However, once Kelanitissa decided against PSIDC financing, amendments to the DCA were dropped as no
further projects were to be considered. The team was also proactive in engaging the Government on the
future of PSIDC well before it was required under the DCA (which stipulated sic months after the closing
date). Lastly, the project received sufficient management attention as it was in "problem project" status for
the last few years of implementation and was subject to a mandatory annual review by the Regional Vice
President. It was acknowledged that the problem was one of quality at entry, but that early closure of the
project would not be an appropriate remedy given the disbursement obligations of PSIDC for the SAGT
subloan. The team met proactivity targets through the cancellation of over US$15 million in two separate
instances. It was agreed that the project development objectives would continue to be rated unsatisfactory
up to the closing date and that implementation would be rated based on the (satisfactory) performance of
the subproject. The final amounts were not cancelled as it was instead decides to reallocate any
uncommitted funds to the North East Reconstruction Program as part of an overall portfolio restructuring.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1      The overall rating for Bank performance is satisfactory. PSIDC itself has stated that the Bank
provided valuable technical advice during Project implementation. This was rendered through extensive
comments on feasibility and investment banking reports by various experts, but also through cooperation
on various institutional matters concerning PSIDC, as well as its lending policies and overarching issues,
such as the question of its future role beyond the Project implementation period. When the severe
limitations to private investment in the water sector became apparent, the Bank took a proactive role in
mobilizing further TA resources outside the Project for the water sector. The Bank also performed
satisfactorily in providing timely approvals and no objections for various TA contracts and training
requests.




                                                      - 18 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1      The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. GOSL, through the Ministry
of Finance, showed a high level of commitment to the Project and cooperated very closely with the Bank
throughout the preparation and appraisal process.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1      The Government's implementation performance pertains to the TA subcomponent in support of
line Ministries, and thus to the promotion of private sector participation in infrastructure generally.
Measured by this objective, the Government's performance is unsatisfactory. Despite the creation of SIDI,
and its subsequent replacement by BII as part of BOI, the responsibilities for this activity, and in particular
for the coordinated use of the TA subcomponent remained unclear. While PSIDC held the resources and
undertook a certain effort to place them, their use should have been coordinated in a strong and targeted
way either by the Ministry of Finance or by BII, i.e. by an institution responsible for dealing with private
investors in infrastructure or for overall policy questions. Instead, various interested agencies drew on the
resources in an uncoordinated way. For this reason, the TA subcomponent was not used to build up the
infrastructure pipeline, and to drive specific projects forward which had been identified as opportunities.
Consequently, Government capacity in private infrastructure development did not benefit as much as
intended at Project appraisal.

7.5.2      Another weak area of Government performance was the management of PSIDC's transition to
the post-Project stage. Despite the fact that the discussions between the Bank and GOSL on this topic
started around the time of the mid-term review in late 1999, it took some time until concrete actions were
considered and discussions/negotiations with potentially interested private partners were conducted.
However of the two principal concepts that so far have been proposed, one has been discarded and one has
not progressed very far. There are other options which have been indicated in PWC's recent valuation
report of PSIDC, but these have not yet been explored in depth. For these reasons, the future of PSIDC
remained wide open at the time when the Credit for the original Project components closed on June 30,
2003, and remains so as of the preparation of this ICR.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1      The performance of the implementing agency, PSIDC, is rated as satisfactory. Although the
CEO changed once during implementation, both provided leadership for the small group of staff which
comprised PSIDC. PSIDC also made good use of the technical assistance made available to them, in
particular, with the effective use of a Resident Advisor during the first few years which allowed efficient
knowledge transfer of project finance skills. The support of the Resident Advisor was indispensable during
the start-up phase of PSIDC and during the appraisal and negotiation of the SAGT subproject. Because a
robust pipeline of projects never materialized, the staff of PSIDC were proactive in working with line
ministries towards the end of the project, especially the ministry dealing with urban water supply, and were
excellent in their ability to manage and administer consultant contracts.

7.6.2      The Borrower's compliance with financial covenants (Article 4.01 of the DCA) was satisfactory.
The implementing agency (PSIDC) maintained throughout the life of the project a satisfactory financial
management system, in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act. Project audit reports were



                                                      - 19 -

received on time and did not carry out any major qualifications. PSIDC was also diligent in submitting
comprehensive, quarterly progress reports throughout the implementation of the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1      As indicated above, the overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1      Given the pioneering nature of the project design, notably with regard to the processes associated
with the identification, appraisal and financing of infrastructure projects, there are substantive lessons
learned. To attempt to capture the full value of these lessons, an additional Annex 11 has been created to
detail these findings in full, including suggested remedies. The lessons are of particular relevance for future
initiatives including implementation agencies acting as financing intermediaries. The summary lessons
learned are as follows:

8.2      The creation of an infrastructure fund was not a sufficient catalyst to increase private sector
investment in infrastructure as financing was not the binding constraint. The lack of an enabling legal,
regulatory and institutional framework prevented the development of a robust pipeline of subprojects and
was the main reason why the Project did not disburse as originally envisaged. Although technical assistance
was made available under the Project to support line ministries in project preparation of individual
subprojects that were identified as suitable for private sector participation, only limited funds were
available to support sectoral policy and regulation.

8.3      The project was hampered throughout by governance and control issues which emanated
from the attempt to establish a body which was at the same time independent of government and
transparent in its actions but ultimately responsible for public funds. While the rationale was a
perceived need to be flexible but somehow maintain transparency, this rather resulted in a lack of
clarity of function. The project operator lacked a well-defined mandate and a clear delegation of
responsibility. More fundamentally, however, was the perhaps insurmountable challenge of acting as a
fiduciary without clearly established responsibilities or a core competency in the field. The corporate
structure itself was probably inappropriate given the lack of an incentive structure to align the interests of
management with the original project objectives (or, in principle, with those of GOSL). As a result the
project team ended up with responsibility (in front of Bank management and the GOSL) but limited ability
to guide the course of events.

8.4      PSIDC was perceived to be a government agency by infrastructure promoters and by
financial sector participants and was treated as such. Although comprised largely of appointees from
the private sector, the PSIDC board has not acted in an entrepreneurial capacity but rather as agents of
government. The most experienced members of the board represented competing financial institutions and
the others lacked experience in project finance.

8.5      During project design, the core team did not include all the relevant skill groups. The project
has a significant financial component (although not technically a Financial Intermediation Loan as PSIDC
was not categorized a financial intermediary). Although the project had the benefit of peer review
comments from the Finance center, it would probably have benefited from closer involvement of a finance
specialist, given the key role of financial structuring and private sector incentives structures. This weakness
was identified by the time of the mid-term review and the project has subsequently benefited from a
multi-disciplinary approach.



                                                      - 20 -

8.6      The project design was lacking relative to the complexity of the core elements of the task
relating to project finance and lending operations. The Staff Appraisal Report specified an evolution of
project events but no explicit description of appropriate procedures for ensuring the desired outcome, nor
was there detailed guidance in the Development Credit Agreement agreed with the GOSL (which covers the
entire project framework in a few pages). Consideration was not provided to the degree to which different
procedures favored by other cofinanciers (ultimately only KfW) would be accommodated.

8.7      The range of financial products available to PSIDC was too limited and there is no linkage
between the riskiness of projects and the price or allocation of credit. The project offered only
subordinate loans and only in foreign currency for the IDA component. The interest rate pricing
mechanisms imposed upon PSIDC for subloans was impractical leading to an inability to respond to
market conditions in terms of price determination (the interest rate for subordinate debt provided by PSIDC
was lower than the rate for senior debt provided for the same project).

8.8      The aim of the PSIDC playing the role of "lender of last resort" appeared unnatural to
private sector practitioners more inclined to try to build an institution, grow business and secure
tenure. Specifically, those encharged with operating the PSIDC facility found the objective of acting as
lender of last resort to be inconsistent with trying to provide funding at market rates. The lack of clarity as
to project targets was confusing for both the prospective clients of PSIDC and for the private sector
participants recruited to executive and advisory functions. Even for Bank staff it was difficult to articulate
a scenario in which a lack of disbursement could be presented as success.

8.9      The transitory nature of the project design did not jibe well with the long dated nature of the
subloans or with the structure of PSIDC as a limited liability company with indefinite life. The
description of agreed objectives and processes for the implementation of the "Sunset Clause" in the
project documentation was too vague. There is no procedure in place for the monitoring of the
subproject loans over their full tenor. While PSIDC has monitoring rights over the subproject loans for
their life, it is not the practice of the IDA to supervise projects beyond their closing date. The limited scope
of the sunset clause has not allowed the project team to accommodate the stated wishes of the GOSL or
design a compromise. This has generated a lack of ownership of the sunset process. The role of local
financial institutions could have been more closely involved from the outset. It was inevitable that these
institutions would necessarily play a substantive role in the integration of the project into the financial
sector.

8.10     The implementing agency responsible for the technical assistance component should have
been distinct to that for the lending component. The allocation of technical assistance funding for
deserving initiatives was hampered by poor coordination between PSIDC and the relevant line ministries.
At one extreme line ministries felt they were being evaluated by PSIDC while at the other PSIDC felt that it
was merely acting as a paying agent for projects over which it had no input.

8.11     The project failed to support capital market development and particularly missed the
opportunity to promote local currency financing. The market for long-term finance for infrastructure
projects appears to have evolved, albeit in a limited fashion, despite, rather than because of, the PSIDP.
The objectives of capital market development would be better served if the combination of IDA subsidy and
sovereign credit could be utilized to allow also investment by local contractual savings institutions. The
project actually exposed the GOSL to substantial foreign exchange losses through denominating subloans
in Dollars while the IDA credit was in SDR, a currency pool.



                                                       - 21 -

8.12     The procurement requirements of the IDA credit appeared unacceptable to some private
sector contractors and potential infrastructure providers were reportedly dissuaded from using the
PSIDC facility. There are no recorded cases of potential projects which were presented to PSIDC but not
pursued on the grounds of procurement constraints and which were not ultimately completed (i.e.
entrepreneurs were able to identify alternative sources of financing). However, it is difficult to measure the
extent to which potential developers were dissuaded from applying by World Bank procurement
procedures. Projects which did proceed without PSIDC funding might not have as high standards with
regards to environmental and social impact as if they had been supported through PSIDC. This
difficulty may have been compounded by the operational rigidity of the PSIDC structure as entrepreneurs
may have been provided less guidance and support in the ICB process than if the Bank had been more
directly involved.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

         None received. See Annex 12 for Borrower's Contribution.

(b) Cofinanciers:

         No "formal" comments received from KfW, however, they shared the following observations.

         Although everyone had hoped to fund some more infrastructure projects (which apparently could
not be realized for the reasons stated in the ICR), some important impacts may remain in place. In
particular, the two projects funded by PSIDC seem to do quite well. Anyway, the overall vote seems to be
well justified. There is, however, one clarification regarding item 4 (d) on page 59 of the ICR. Although it
is correct that KfW has not cancelled its line of credit at the same time as the World Bank, KfW have
informed PSIDC that no further subloans may be funded from its credit line after the Government had
proposed to reassign remaining funds from the PSIDC project to the envisaged new infrastructure fund.
This might not be a formal cancellation of the line, but the understanding is that the effectiveness of the
loan agreement between KfW and Sri Lanka has no impact on the privatization process at all as funds are
de-facto not available to PSIDC.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

         Not applicable.


10. Additional Information

           The following provides a summary overview of (i) the status of infrastructure projects originally
in the pipeline at the time of Project appraisal; and (ii) key private infrastructure projects actually
implemented since then.




                                                      - 22 -

                            1. UPDATE OF GOSL'S 1996 PIPELINE OF PROJECTS

 Power Sector

              Project Name                                                          Comments
  Kuru Ganga & Gin Ganga                 LOI has been cancelled due to disagreement on tariffs. These two projects are to be offered
                                         to new developers.
  Seven Mini Hydros                      Some projects may have been developed before standard PPA for small projects was
                                         introduced by CEB. More specific information is not available.
  Hapugastenne Plantation                Implemented as CEB small scheme.
  Dick Oya                               Implemented as CEB small scheme. Project commenced commercial operation in January
                                         1996.
  Sapugaskanda Diesel (Asia Power)       Implemented as one of eight key infrastructure projects with private participation. Capacity
                                         was increased to 54 MW and commercial operation commenced in 1997.
  Kelanitissa  Gas & Steam Turbines     Gas turbines were refurbished under ADB and GoSL financing in 1996. Subsequently major
                                         investments implemented as one of eight key infrastructure projects with private participation.
  Large Thermal  2 x 150 MW             Feasibilities for Trincomalee and Puttalam were prepared. However, project did not
  Coal fired                             materialize due to environmental issues. The Government has indicated that a coal power
                                         plant shall be located in Hambantota. A site reconnaissance study is under way.
  Large Thermal Expansion                Not done.
  Broadlands Hydro Power Project  40    An offer by a private sector developer in 1996 to implement the project was not accepted due
  MW                                     to a political decision that required hydropower potential of more than 5 MW capacity to be
                                         solely developed under CEB auspices. Environmental reasons also played a role. A bidding
                                         process has recently been launched and EOIs have been received.
  Uma Oya                                To be developed by CEB, but no project feasibility study had been done.




 Transport Sector

              Project Name                                                          Comments
  Colombo-Katunayake Expressway          Project commenced construction as a GoSL/ADB financed project and encountered
                                         problems during implementation. It is now expected to be structured as a project on
                                         BOO/BOT basis.
  Port of Colombo  SAGT                 Commenced construction & operations in 1999/2000. Will be completed in August 2003.

                                         [Scott Wilson selected to design bidding process, which has not yet been officially
  [Port of Colombo South Harbor  not    announced.]
  included in 1996 list]
  Southern Highway                       Construction commenced in 2002 using ADB/JBIC public funding.
  Port of Galle Expansion                Not materialized; container port concept abandoned.
  Outer Circular Highway to Colombo      Feasibility study financed by JBIC. Will probably be implemented as public project.




 Urban Services

              Project Name                                                          Comments
  Ekala/Ja-ela Effluent Treatment Plant  The required bidding documents and other contract documents for the project were prepared
                                         by the Consultants. However, the project did not proceed further due to disagreements over
                                         tariffs.
  Ratmalana/Moratuwa Effluent            - same as above -
  Treatment Plant

Source: PSIDC/BII




                                                               - 23 -

     2. KEY PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS IMPLEMENTED SINCE 1996

                       South Asia     Asia Power   Colombo Power    Ace Power         Ace Power      AES Kelanitissa  Heladanavi   Ace Power
                        Gateway        (Pvt) Ltd.    (Pvt) Ltd.    Generation         Generation        (Pvt) Ltd.       Ltd.      Embilipitiya
                       Terminals      -Sapugas-                  Matara (Pvt) Ltd. Horana (Pvt) Ltd.                                 (Pvt) Ltd.
                        (Pvt) Ltd.       kanda


Capacity             300,000 to      51 MW         60 MW          20 MW            20 MW             163 MW          100 MW       100 MW
                     1M TEU's
Project Cost (US$)   240 Mn          62 Mn         72 Mn          21 Mn            20 Mn             103 Mn          62 Mn        61 Mn
Capital
Structure            70/30           64/36         70/30          80/20            80/20             70/30           80/20        70/30


Equity Participants  IFC             Deutz UK      MES            Aitken Spence    Aitken Spence     AES Corporation Lakdhanavi   Aitken Spence
                     ADB             JKH           Colombo        Wartsilla        Wartsilla         Hayleys         Hemas        Caterpillar
                     CDC             CDC           Dockyard       CDC              CDC               Benaris House
                     P&O             IFC           Kawasho                         Benaris House
                     JKH             IFU           Corporation
                     SLPA            DEG
                     Evergreen       Nissho Iwai
                                     Corporation
                                     BWSC

Lenders              IFC             IFC           Suppliers      Commercial       Commercial Bank   ANZ Grindlays   HNB/         Commercial
                     ADB             CDC           credit from    Bank             HNB               ADB             Commercial   Bank
                     CDC             IFU           Sakura Bank    HNB              People's Bank                     Bank         HNB
                     PSIDC           DEG           guaranteed by  People's Bank    BOC                               People's     People's Bank
                                                   JEXIM          BOC              HSBC                              Bank         BOC
                                                                  HSBC             Pan Asia Bank                     BOC          HSBC
                                                                  Pan Asia Bank    DFCC Bank                                      Pan Asia Bank
                                                                  DFCC Bank                                                       DFCC Bank
                                                                                                                                  NDB
                                                                                                                                  Seylan Bank

Signing of           August 1998     1996          February 1999  August 2000      August 2000       June 2000       May 2003     May 2003
Agreements


Concession Length    30 yrs          20 yrs        15 yrs         10 yrs           10 yrs            20 yrs          10 yrs       10 yrs


Financial Closure    1999            1997          July 1999      February 2001    February 2001     June 2001       Expected in  Expected in
                                                                                                                     Sept. 2003   Sept. 2003
                                                                                                                     Expected in  Expected in
Commercial           1999            June 1998     July 2000      March 2002       December 2002     February 2003   November     November 2004
Operation                                                                                            (Simple Cycle)  2004


          Source: BII




                                                                   - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
             Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Infrastructure

Expansion of Infrastructure with private
sector participation; indicative
percentage increases:

  i) Power  Production (kilowatt/hour)     Neither AES Kelanitissa nor the Didul        Didul power project has not started
     per capita                             power project have started commercial        commercial operations yet. However,
                                            operations yet. However, AES                 Didul project is expected to contribute
                                            Kelanitissa project is expected to           37.8 GWh of energy each year (i.e.
                                            contribute substantially to the energy       approx. 0.5% of the total energy
                                            generated (i.e. approx. 1,150 GWh            generation of the country).
                                            amounting to 15% of the total energy
                                            generation of the country) during the
                                            next 12 months).

 ii) Paved roads kilometers per capita      None                                         None

iii) TEUs handled per annum (port           During the year 2001 SAGT has handled        During the year 2002/2003 SAGT has
     traffic)                               320,000 TEUs and is expected to handle       handled 585,209 TEUs. Once fully
                                            over 550,000 TEUs in 2002 amounting to       completed SAGT would handle nearly
                                            over 30% of Colombo port's throughput.       1 Million TEUs per annum.
                                            Once fully completed SASG would
                                            handle nearly 1 million TEUs.

 iv) Cubic meters of waste water            None                                         None
     treated;



Economic

  i) Efficiency of new Service              SAGT has demonstrated superior               SAGT has demonstrated superior
                                            efficiency as measured by 25-30 crane        efficiency as measured by 25-30 crane
                                            moves per hour compared to 15-20             moves per hour compared to 15-20
                                            crane moves per hour recorded by             crane moves per hour recorded by
                                            stateowned Jaya terminal.                   stateowned Jaya terminal.

 ii) Relative cost / price of new service   SAGT is contractually prevented from         SAGT is contractually prevented from
                                            offering its services at a price less than   offering its services at a price less than
                                            the price charged by SLPA. However,          the price charged by SLPA. However,
                                            the relative cost advantages of SAGT         the relative cost advantages of SAGT
                                            can be discerned by the high financial       can be discerned by the high financial
                                            profits recorded by SAGT. The relative       profits recorded by SAGT. The relative
                                            cost can also be seen by quicker             cost can also be seen by quicker
                                            turnaround times of ships as measured        turnaround times of ships as measured
                                            by the number of days at berth.              by the number of days at berth.

iii) Cost of un-served infrastructure       The Colombo Port is experiencing             The Colombo Port is experiencing
     services                               congestion and long waiting times due        congestion and long waiting times due
                                            to inadequate capacity and is                to inadequate capacity and is
                                            threatened by loss of business to ports      threatened by loss of business to ports
                                            outside South Asia. SAGT's presence          outside South Asia. SAGT's presence
                                            addresses these bottlenecks and              addresses these bottlenecks and
                                            lowers the transshipment cost from           lowers the transshipment cost from
                                            South Asia.                                  South Asia.




                                                              - 25 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
             Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Input Indicators

  i) Finance for on-lending                 US$ 70.0 million *                         US$ 70.0 million (IDA) * &
                                                                                       US$ 14.0 million (KfW)

 ii) a) Technical assistance to support     US$    3.5 million                         US$    3.5 million
         PSIDC a public company in
         evaluating projects and
         negotiating loan terms,
     b) Technical assistance to aid Line    US$    3.5 million
         Agencies in preparation of                                                    US$    3.5 million
         solicitation packages for private
         sector projects.
                                            * out of which US$15 million has been      * out of which US$15 million has been
                                               cancelled and US$39 million               cancelled and US$25 million disbursed.
                                               committed.                                The remaining IDA amount was
                                                                                         reallocated to the NE Emergency
                                                                                         Reconstruction Program.



Process Indicators

Implementation

  i) Legal establishment of PSIDC           Completed                                  Completed

 ii) Hiring of Staffing: General Manager    Completed                                  Completed
     and other staff

iii) Finalization of Lending/Operating      Completed                                  Completed
     Manuals

iv) Preparation of Company Brochure         Completed                                  Completed



Operational

  i) Magnitude of private sector funds      SAGT  Debt of US$106.0 million            SAGT  Debt of US$75.0 million
     leveraged (excluding PSIDC)            consisting of:                             consisting of:
                                             US$35 million each from IFC, ADB,         US$25 million each from IFC, ADB,
                                              and CDC; plus                              and CDC; plus
                                            US$97.2 million in equity.                 US$75.8 million in equity.

                                            Didul (Pvt) Ltd  Debt of US$1.34 million  Didul (Pvt) Ltd  Debt of US$1.96 million
                                            from DFCC Bank, US$0.36 million as         from DFCC Bank and US$2.15 million
                                            Suppliers Credit and US$1.7 million        as equity.
                                            as equity.

                                            AES Kelanitissa *  Debt of US$78          AES Kelanitissa *  Debt of US$78
                                            million consisting of:                     million consisting of:
                                             ADB A Loan US$ 26 million;                ADB A Loan US$ 26 million;
                                             PRG A Loan US$ 5 million;                 PRG A Loan US$ 5 million;
                                             PRG B Loan US$ 26 million;                PRG B Loan US$ 26 million;
                                             PRI             US$ 21 million; and       PRI            US$ 21 million; and
                                            equity of US$26 million.                   equity of US$26 million.




                                                             - 26 -

                                            * Although PSIDC did not finally finance     * Although PSIDC did not finally finance
                                               the AES Kelanitissa transaction, it          the AES Kelanitissa transaction, it
                                               could be argued that the availability of     could be argued that the availability of
                                               PSIDC financing in the RFP with the          PSIDC financing in the RFP with the
                                               ability to provide long term non-            ability to provide long term non-
                                               recourse subordinated debt finance           recourse subordinated debt finance
                                               contributed to generate interest from        contributed to generate interest from
                                               reputed bidders.                             reputed bidders. PSIDC's assured
                                                                                            financing helped AES to raise
                                                                                            financing on more favourable terms
                                                                                            from other sources.

 ii) a) No. of loan applications received,  Received       4                             Received       5
         reviewed and pending               Reviewed       4                             Reviewed       5
                                            Pending         0                            Pending         0

                                            (Lanka Bell, AES Kelanitissa Power           (Lanka Bell, AES Kelanitissa Power
                                            Project, SAGT Project, Wey Ganga             Project, SAGT Project, Wey Ganga
                                            Small Hydro Power Project)                   Small Hydro Power Project, Erathna
                                                                                         Small Hydro Power Project)

     b) No. of Consultancy Study            Received       8                             Received       10
         requests received from Line        Reviewed       7                             Reviewed       10
         Agencies, number reviewed and      Pending         1                            Pending          0
         pending
                                            (Water Sector:                      4        (Water Sector:                        5
                                             Halcrow, PWC, Mr. Chandra Perera,            Halcrow, PWC, Mr. Chandra Perera,
                                             Mr. Mark Dumol;                              Mr. Mark Dumol, Bristol Water Services;

                                             Ministry of Economic Reforms:      2         Ministry of Economic Reforms:       2

                                             Power Sector:                      2         Power Sector:                       2
                                             Kerawalapitiya CCPPM/s Meritec,             Kerawalapitiya CCPPM/s Meritec,
                                             Power ReformM/s NERA)                       Power ReformM/s NERA;

                                                                                          PSIDC Valuation:                   1
                                                                                          PWC)

iii) a) No. and magnitude of loans          ApprovedUS$ 39.0 million (i.e. SAGT)        ApprovedUS$ 39.0 million (i.e. SAGT)
         approved                           ApprovedUS$ 2.2 million (i.e. Didul)        ApprovedUS$ 2.7 million (i.e. Didul)

     b) No. and magnitude of                Approved 8  US$ 3.4 million                 Approved 10  US$ 3.6 million
         Consultancy Studies approved       Pending      1  US$ 100,000
         and pending

iv) Loan performance                        Good and up-to-date                          Good and up-to-date



Output Indicators

 i) No. and magnitude of private sector     PSIDC has financed one large scale           PSIDC has financed one large scale
    infrastructure projects implemented,    infrastructure project (i.e SAGT) and        infrastructure project (i.e SAGT) and
    partially financed through PSIDC        another small mini hydro project is in       another small hydropower generation
    loans                                   the advance stage of processing.             project (i.e. Didul).




                                                               - 27 -

 ii) Amount of private sector         SAGT  Debt of US$106.0 million            SAGT  Debt of US$ 75.0 million
     non-recourse finance leverage    consisting of:                             consisting of:
                                       US$35 million each from IFC, ADB,         US$25 million each from IFC, ADB,
                                        and CDC; plus                              and CDC; plus
                                      US$ 97.2 million in equity.                US$ 75.8 million in equity.

                                      Didul (Pvt) Ltd  Debt of US$1.34 million  Didul (Pvt) Ltd  Debt of US$1.96 million
                                      from DFCC Bank, US$0.36 million as         from DFCC Bank and US$2.15 million
                                      Suppliers Credit and US$1.7 million        as equity.
                                      as equity.

                                      AES Kelanitissa *  Debt of US$78          AES Kelanitissa *  Debt of US$78
                                      million consisting of:                     million consisting of:
                                       ADB A Loan US$ 26 million;                ADB A Loan US$ 26 million;
                                       PRG A Loan US$ 5 million;                 PRG A Loan US$ 5 million;
                                       PRG B Loan US$ 26 million;                PRG B Loan US$ 26 million;
                                       PRI            US$ 21 million; and        PRI           US$ 21 million; and
                                      equity of US$26 million.                   equity of US$26 million.

                                      * See note on AES above                    * See note on AES above

1End of project

Note:   Performance parameters in second column of this table are from aide-memoire of supervision mission
        May 23-30, 2002. Thereafter they were not updated until the ICR mission May 19-30, 2003.




                                                       - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    Appraisal      Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                    Estimate          Estimate          Appraisal
                         Component                                 US$ million      US$ million
Investment *                                                         225.00              182.40              0.81
Technical Assistance                                                   7.00                 4.60             0.66

Total Baseline Cost                                                  232.00              187.00
                           Total Project Costs                       232.00              187.00
                   Total Financing Required                          232.00              187.00

*   Investment estimates were not broken down by sub-project at appraisal. The actual investments were:

    3 SAGT -Colomobo container terminal: original estimate of Credit Appraisal Report, May 17, 1999,
        was US$239.6 million; updated estimate provided by SAGT at the time of the ICR mission was
        US$175.5 million.

    3 Wey Ganga (Didul) Hydro Project: Original estimate of Credit Appraisal Report of October 2001 was
        Rs. 545 million; updated estimate of Rs. 665 million is based on Lenders Engineer Progress Review
        Report No. 2, converted to US$ at US$ 1 = Rs. 97.




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                          Other
1. Works                              0.00                0.00             0.00              0.00          0.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                              55.00               5.00             10.00             0.00          70.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                           0.00                1.00             6.00              0.00          7.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00                0.00             0.00              0.00          0.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00                0.00             0.00              0.00          0.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00                0.00             0.00              0.00          0.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
   Total                              55.00               6.00             16.00             0.00          77.00
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)




                                                     - 29 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                 ICB               NCB                     2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                  0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 25.05              0.00              0.00             0.00             25.05
                                          (25.05)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (25.05)
  3. Services                               2.70              0.00              5.78             0.00              8.48
                                           (2.70)            (0.00)            (2.27)            (0.00)           (4.97)
  4. Miscellaneous                          0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                          0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                          0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                27.75              0.00              5.78             0.00             33.53
                                          (27.75)            (0.00)            (2.27)            (0.00)           (30.02)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                    Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.       CoF.          IDA         Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Sub-projects                   70.00                   155.00        25.00                  157.00      35.7              101.3
Technical Assistance            7.00                                 5.00                               71.4



  Co-financing sources include KfW, commercial loans, export credit agencies, foreign and local equity,
  international financial institutions  such as IFC, and internal cash generation




                                                          - 30 -

                         Project Financing by Sources (in US$ million equivalent)


      Source by Component                      Appraisal      Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                Estimate          Estimate         Appraisal

1. Subprojects

   PSIDC
     IDA                                           70                25                36%
     KfW                                           14                  3               21%

   Commercial Funding
     Local Commercial Banks                        10                  2               20%
     Export Credit Agencies                        80                                   0%
     Foreign Equity                                47                27                55%
     Local Equity                                   4                20              500%
     IFIs  1/                                                        73                NA

     Other   2/                                                      32                NA
               Sub-total                         225                182                81%

2. Technical Assistance
   IDA                                              7                  5               66%

        Total                                    232                187               81%


1/  International Financial Institutions: IFC, ADB, CDC

2/  Internally generated cash




                                                     - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


         See Annex 8 which includes analysis of the economic costs and benefits for the subproject
financed under the IDA Credit, and for that financed under the KfW Loan.




                                                  - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              Fact-finding               2    Mission Leader/Private
              mission                             Sector Dev. Specialist (1)
              November 1993                   Division Chief (1)

              Preparation                2    Mission Leader/Private
              January/February                    Sector Dev. Specialist (1),
              1994                            Financial Adviser (1)

              Pre-Appraisal              9    Mission Leader/Private
              February/March                      Sector Dev. Specialist (1)
              1994                            Engineering Specialist (1)
                                              Private Power Specialist (1)
                                              Private Transport Specialist (1)
                                              Financial Inst. Specialist (1)
                                              Financial Opertns. Specialist (1)
                                              Lawyer (1)
                                              Infrastructure Specialist (1)
                                              Operations Officer (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation

              Appraisal                  7    Mission Leader/Private
              March/April                         Sector Dev. Speclist (1)
              1995                            Engineering Specialist (1)
                                              Private Transp. Specialist (1)
                                              Lawyer (1)
                                              Infrastructure Specialist (1)
                                              Financial Analyst (1)
                                              Infra. Finance Specialist (1)

              Negotiations               5    Private Sector Development
              April 1996                          Specialist (1)
                                              Financial Specialist (2)
                                              Sr. Counsel (1)
                                              Disbursement Officer (1)

 Supervision
              June 1996                  4    Task Leader/Private Sector            S               S
                                                  Specialist (1)
                                              Legal (1)
                                              Finance (1)
                                              Infras. Fund Consultant (1)

              April 1997                 4    Task Leader/Private Sector            S               S
                                                  Specialist (1)




                                               - 33 -

      July 1997        3 Task Leader/Private Sector         S    S
                             Specialist (1)
                         Legal (1)
                         Finance (1)

      March 1998       3 Task Leader/Private Sector         S    U
                             Specialist (1)
                         Financial Mgmt Spec. (1)
                         Environmental Engineer (1)

      March 1999       4 Task Leader/Sr. Financial          U    S
                             Analyst (1)
                         Lawyer (1)
                         Infrastructure Specialist (1)
                         Financial Mgnt Specialist (1)

      October 1999     5 Task Leader/Sr. Financial          S    S
      (Mid Term              Analyst (1)
      Review)            Lead Financial Specialist (1)
                         Sr. Environmental Specialist (1)
                         Procurement Specialist (1)
                         Financial Mgnt Officer (1)

      March 2001       6 Task Leader/Sr. Financial          S    U
                             Analyst (1)
                         Lead Financial Specialist (1)
                         Sr. Environmental Specialist (1)
                         Procurement Specialist (1)
                         Lead Spec. Water & San. (1)
                         Financial Mgnt Officer (1)
      May/June 2002    6 Task Leader/Sr. Financial          S    U
                             Analyst (1)
                         Lead Water Specialist (1)
                         Lead Financial Specialist (1)
                         Priv. Sect. Dev. Specialist (1)
                         Financial Mgnt Specialist (1)
                         Sr. Environmental Engineer (1)

ICR
      May 2003         6 Task Leader/Sr. Financial          S    U
                              Analyst (1)
                         PSP Water Specialist (1)
                         Finance Specialist (1)
                         Infra. PSP Specialist (1)
                         Environmntl Specialist (1)
                         Financial Mgnt Speclst (1)




                         - 34 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation         292.30                           813.40
  Appraisal/Negotiation                28.30                            85.80
  Supervision                        184.64                           629.02
  ICR                                   7.83                             6.48
                                      --------                      -----------
  Total                              513.07                         1,572.14
                                     =====                          ======




                                             - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.  Staff Appraisal Report (May 15, 1996)

2.  Memorandum of the President (May 15, 1996)

3.  Development Credit Agreement, Cr. 2880-CE (July 25, 1996)

4.  Initial Executive Project Summary (January 21, 1994)

5.  Final Executive Project Summary (June 8, 1995)

6.  Minutes of Yellow Cover review meeting (March 11, 1996)

7.  Comments from Peer Reviewers at Yellow Cover stage (February/March 1996)

8.  Summary of Negotiations and Agreed Minutes of Negotiations (April 30, 1996)

9.  Post-Approval Quality at Entry Assessment: Final Report (August 8, 1997)

10. Fact-finding mission: back-to-office report (January 13, 1994)

11. Pre-appraisal mission: back-to-office report, management letter and aide memoire (April 6, 1994)

12. Appraisal mission: back-to-office report, management letter and aide-memoire (May 17, 1995)

13. "Pre-effectiveness" mission: back-to-office report, management letter and aide-memoire (June 1996);
    Stop-over in Sri Lanka back-to-office report (November 25, 1996)

14. Supervision mission (Project Launch): back-to-office report, management letter, and aide-memoire, (April
    23, 1997)

15. Supervision mission: back-to-office report, management letter and aide-memoire (August 7, 1997)

16. Supervision mission: back-to-office report, management letter and aide-memoire (April 22, 1998)

17. Supervision mission: SMO, back-to-office report, management letter and aide-memoire (April 8, 1999)

18. Mid Term Review Report, prepared by London Economics (August 1999)

19. Mid-term Review mission: SMO, back-to-office report, management letter and aide-memoire (November
    16, 1999)

20. Supervision mission: SMO, back-to-office report, management letter and aide-memoire (March 2001)

21. Implementation review: SMO, back-to-office report, management letter and aide-memoire (June 14, 2002);

22. Supplemental implementation review: back-to-office report, management letter and aide-memoire
    (September 14, 2002)

23. PSIDC comments on supplemental implementation review (July 2002)

24. Bank letter on GOSL request for amendment to lending policies of PSIDC (September 3, 2002)

25. History of Quarterly Progress Reports from PSIDC




                                                    - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. Review of Subproject Financed under the IDA Credit


                             South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT) Limited

Project background

          As part of its National Port Development Policy, based on the Master Plan prepared by the
Japanese International Corporation Agency during the 1980s, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL)
determined that the Queen Elizabeth Quay (QEQ) at the Colombo Port should be modernized and expanded
under a private concession. This decision was based on a number of elements including the worldwide
growth of containerization, the increase in sea trade on the Indian subcontinent, Colombo Port's natural
advantages as a hub port for the region and its clear lack of capacity for handling containers.

          On July 23, 1998, the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) signed a 30-year BOT Concession
Agreement with SAGT that granted the latter an exclusive right and obligation to finance, design,
construct, equip, test, commission, operate and maintain the container terminal at QEQ, and to design,
construct, commission and transfer the passenger berth to SLPA.

          SAGT is a private consortium formed for the purpose of operating the container QEQ terminal
and has the following controlling shareholders:
           John Keells Holdings Ltd. (JKH)
           Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company Group (P&O Group)
           Sri Lanka Ports Authoirty (SLPA)
           Subsidiaries of Evergreen Marine Corporation
           International Finance Corporation (IFC)
           Asian Development Bank (ADB)
           Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)

          JKH and P&O Group own 52.5% of SAGT's shares, SPLA 15%, Subsidiaries of Evergreen
Marine Corporation 10%, and IFC, IDB and CDC about 7.5% each. Details are laid out in the Private
Sector Infrastructure Development Company Limited (PSIDC) Credit Appraisal Report dated May 17,
1999.

The Colombo Container Market

          The Port of Colombo has two container facilities: the Jaya Container Terminal (JCT), operated
by the SLPA, occupying the major part of the eastern shore of the harbor basin and the privately operated
container berths at QEQ.

          The market study carried out by Drewry Shipping Consultants in 1998 (SAGT Market Study,
Drewry Shipping Consultants/IFC, September 1998) and the PSIDC Credit Appraisal Report, 1999,
highlighted an increase in the general level of cargo flow and the container penetration of the general cargo
market, which was ascribed to the industrialization of the South Asian region coupled with the integration
of South Asian economies with the global economy. At the time of the study, about 58% of the total Indian
subcontinent's containerized cargo trade was moved by transshipment through Colombo, Singapore, Dubai




                                                    - 39 -

or other Middle Eastern ports, and the study forecasted a container penetration of 82% over the following
10 years. This led to the conclusion that an annual container volume growth rate of 8.4% for the region
could be expected, which required additional container port capacity throughout the region.

            The study also pointed out that the Colombo Port had most of the key factors for a hub port to be
successful: competitive location near major trade routes, closeness to a major market (the Indian
subcontinent) and a harbor depth of 14 to 15 meters required to serve large container ships. The major
disadvantage was identified with being located far from where major shipping routes overlap, which gives
Singapore a unique position.

            On pure cost grounds, the study considered Colombo the optimum transshipment port for the
majority of the Indian subcontinent cargo centers and indicated its potential market share with 28%.
However, in 1997 the actual market share of the Port of Colombo was only about 18% with a yearly
growth rate of 11.6% over the previous 10 years, meaning that it was permanently losing transshipment
market share that it otherwise should have had, due to lack of capacity to handle modern containers. It was
concluded that these volumes had been diverted primarily to Singapore and Dubai.

            In the same study the domestic cargo was forecasted to increase with the growth of the Sri
Lankan economy and trading volumes, from 7.5 million tons in 1998 to 27.4 million tons in 2017.

            The strong growth rates estimated before the start of the project did not materialize. In fact the
throughput at the Port of Colombo has remained static at about 1.7 million TEU since 1997 and there is
currently over-capacity in the port as a whole. The low level of service offered at JCT and the 2001
terrorist attacks in Sri Lanka and in America are indicated as two main causes of the reduced growth at the
port as a whole.

            The current capacity of JCT is forecasted to increase to over 2 million when the new Unity
Feeder Terminal is operational next year and SAGT has a capacity of 1.25 million. Domestic trade is said
to account for a little over 500,000 TEU per year and growth is projected to be modest until there is a full
peace accord and major investment and growth in the economy (Lenders Progress Report no. 7, Scott
Wilson, May 20, 2003, page 23).

            There is, however, confidence that with the improved productivity levels available at JCT and
SAGT, cheaper tariff rates than those of competitors in the region, a more stable political situation given
by the peace accord under negotiation and the greater emphasis put by the government on private
participation in port operations, the traffic in the Port of Colombo could build up again. However, it has
been pointed out that the port has to act as one entity and not as two competing terminals (Lenders Progress
Report no. 7, Scott Wilson, May 20, 2003, page 23).

Project description

            Under the above-mentioned concession agreement SAGT undertook to rehabilitate and modernize
the existing berths on the QEQ, to extend the quay by 100 m into the existing harbor basin in the Port of
Colombo and to increase the draft at the quay to permit the port to handle post-panamax vessels. In other
words, it implied:

             The design, construction, commissioning and operation of the container facilities with three
                 fully equipped berths at a new 940 m quay; and




                                                      - 40 -

            The design, construction, commissioning and transferal to SLPA of a passenger berth (180
                 m quay). This project was envisaged as a first step of a long-term development and
                 expansion plan for the Port of Colombo to be realized under different and separate projects.

           In the pre-construction phase, before having full possession of the QEQ, tenders for construction
works and the delivery of equipment were launched and awarded and other preliminary activities carried
out.

           On September 20, 1999, SAGT obtained full possession of the QEQ, which had a length of
1,025 m and a width of 120 m. The quay length was divided into 6 berths with a draft ranging from 9.2 to
10.8 m. The facilities had 3 gantry cranes with an estimated capacity of only 250,000 TEUs per year,
located towards the outer end of the QEQ with a track gauge of 27 m. Container movements and stacking
in the yard were carried out by a tractor-trailer system (10 tractor trailer sets) and 12 top lifters/fork lifters.
The container-stacking yard comprised 1,700 ground slots and containers were stacked to a maximum of
three.

           SAGT has operated the container facilities available at QEQ from the handover date of the
concession, thereby generating revenues from the outset.

           It also started with the civil works for the expansion, rehabilitation and modernization of the
existing QEQ to be completed in three stages over 42 months. All three stages of the project
implementation and the delivery and installation of equipment suffered delays. The passenger berth was
transferred to SLPA in 2002. In May 2003, stages I and II of the civil works had been substantially
completed, while works on stage III where still ongoing. Nevertheless SAGT had already beneficial use of
all berths and yard areas. The contractual completion of the civil works is envisaged for August 2003 with
minor works continuing into October (Lenders Progress Report no. 7).

           According to the implementation review mission (Aide-Memoire, May 19-30, 2003), the impact
of the delay in project implementation of about 7 months on the project's viability will be relatively small
due to the cost savings realized. However, the various delays affected the commencement of operations on
the completed parts of QEQ and caused operational difficulties for SAGT that are reflected in a throughput
below expectation (Lenders' Engineer Report nos. 5, 6 and 7).

Throughput

           Table 1 below shows the original IFC throughput projections for SAGT, the actual throughput in
the period 1999/2000 to 2002/2003 and the revised projections. While in the first two years of operations,
SAGT came very close to meeting its throughput targets, in 2001/2002 the targets were not achieved due to
the insurance surcharges imposed by Lloyds following the Colombo airport terrorist attack, and in
2002/2003 mainly due to late delivery of cranes. For the current year 2003/2004 the throughput projections
are considerable lower than envisaged at the project start mainly due to the drop in mainline and feeder
volumes experienced by SAGT subsequent to SLPA signing a Terminal Service Agreements with five
shipping lines, and also as a result of minimal growth in Colombo Port traffic. Only in 2011/2012 the
revised projections are expected to catch up with the original projections. The revised projections for the
maximum throughput at QEQ are higher than the original ones.




                                                      - 41 -

                                Table 1: South Asia Gateway Terminals Throughput


                                     Actual                                                       Total Actual      Total:

                                  Throughput              Trans-                                  throughput &   throughput
                                                                                                                 projections
                      Years        & current             shipment          O&D Volume                current
                                 projections **          Volume                                    projections      before
                                                                                                                projects begin

                                       Unit               TEUs                   TEUs                TEUs           TEUs

     1999/2000 *         1           Actual               90,797                 38,435              129,232       171,000

      2000/2001          2           Actual              239,476                 85,034              324,510       304,344

      2001/2002          3           Actual              245,885               111,583               357,468       535,350

      2002/2003          4           Actual              394,686               190,523               585,209       689,726

      2003/2004          5         Projected             346,800               163,200               510,000       974,540

      2004/2005          6         Projected             435,200               244,800               680,000     1,015,050

      2005/2006          7         Projected             468,000               263,000               731,000     1,067,820

      2006/2007          8         Projected             514,000               276,000               790,000     1,085,058

      2007/2008          9         Projected             555,000               298,000               853,000     1,102,452

      2008/2009         10         Projected             627,000               295,000               922,000     1,102,452

      2009/2010         11         Projected             693,000               297,000               990,000     1,145,259

      2010/2011         12         Projected             760,000               310,000             1,070,000     1,145,259

      2011/2012         13         Projected             820,000               335,000             1,155,000     1,145,259

      2012/2013         14         Projected             900,000               350,000             1,250,000     1,145,259

      2013/2014         15         Projected             936,000               364,000             1,300,000     1,145,259

      2014/2015         16         Projected             972,000               378,000             1,350,000     1,145,259

      2115/2116         17         Projected             972,000               378,000             1,350,000     1,145,259

          ...           ...             ...                 ...                   ...                  ...          ...

      2228/2229         30         Projected             972,000               378,000             1,350,000     1,145,259


    Source: SAGT

    *  SAGT's financial year ends on March 31st, while IFC projections refer to the calendar year.
    ** Source: IFC projection (see also PSIDC Credit Appraisal Report, page 54).




           This clearly shows that the main reasons for the reduced business in SAGT are of external
nature, i.e. the 2001 terrorist attacks with the consequent war-risk insurance surcharge, and the unequal
contractual terms under which SAGT has to compete with JCT since currently it can only match and not
undercut the tariff rates offered by the latter. However, the cease fire since February 2002 and the
Government's greater emphasis on the privatization of the port seem to provide more confidence to shipping
lines. In addition, the restrictive pricing condition in SAGT's concession agreement expires at the beginning
of September 2004 and it will have more commercial freedom.

           In the short term, volumes through SAGT will be well below original projections and the
downgrading of their projections seems correct. However, Colombo is geographically well placed and its
rates are competitive, so that a substantial increase in volume seems to be possible if new lines can be
enticed away from their existing terminals. This would lead to step increments in throughput and SAGT
volumes could improve faster than the predicted 10% growth (Lenders' Engineers Report No. 7, pages 26
and 27).




                                                                    - 42 -

Project costs

          The total project costs are estimated at US$175 million, substantially below the original
projection of US$239 million, including contingencies and capitalized interest (PSIDC Credit Appraisal
Report, May 17, 1999). The following table 2 shows the projected and the real cost breakdown. All
equipment costs are at fixed prices



                                  Table 2: Projected versus actual project costs


                                            Projected cost estimates      ual               Forecasted
                  (US$ million)                 at the beginning
                                                 of the project          as of           Final Project Cost

                                            (Appraisal Report 1999)    March 2003       (SAGT projections)


    Pre-Project Cost (Preliminary expenses)                 5              4.60                   4.60
    Civil Works                                        103.84              68.70                 78.10

    Equipment & Machinery
      - Cranes                                                             36.10
      - Rubber Tired Gantry Cranes (RTGs)                                  16.60                 45.20
      - Tractors/Trailers                                                   4.10                 25.00
      - Others                                                              6.90                  4.50

             Total Equipment & Machinery               119.59              63.70                 83.80
                                                                                                  9.10

    Goodwill on Acquisition                                                4.98                   4.98

    Contingencies

    Professional fees (design consultant)

    Interest during construction                       11.172

    Deferred Expenditure                                                   4.00                   4.00

             Total Project Cost                        239.61             145.98                175.48


    Source: SAGT


Financing plan

          The funding plan included 40% equity and 60% debt to be obtained on a "limited recourse
project financing" basis.

          Debt payment was expected to be provided in two tranches as follows:

           "Senior" debt amounting to US$104.7 million sourced from IFC, ADB and CDC (four
                 years grace period, amortization over the subsequent 7 years, interest 3.5 % p.a. above
                 LIBOR);




                                                        - 43 -

            "Limited subordinated" debt amounting to US$39 million sourced by Private Sector
                Infrastructure Development Company (PSIDC) Limited (5 years grace period, amortization
                over the subsequent seven years, interest 3% p.a. above LIBOR).


           The following table 3 shows the projected and the actual equity and debt funding.


                                  Table 3: Projected versus actual funding mix


                                          Projected cost estimates       Actual             Forecasted
                  (US$ million)               at the beginning
                                               of the project              as of         Final Project Cost

                                           (Appraisal Report 1999)     March 2003       (SAGT projections)


       Funding Mix

         Equity                                       95.85                 44.62                 44.62

         Debt                                       143.76                  79.13                 98.81

         Internally-Sourced Fund                                            22.23                 32.04

             Total Project Cost                     239.61                 145.98               175.48


    Source: SAGT




           The total subscribed equity financing was US$48.24 million. Taking into account SLPA's in
kind contribution of US$3.62 million, this amounts to a cash contribution of US$44.62 million. The
following table 4 shows the equity subscriptions, and cash and in kind contributions of the different
shareholders.


                        Table 4: Equity Subscription and Cash Contribution


                   Shareholders (%)                     % of        Subscription
                                                    subscription   (in US$ million)Cash Contribution


      IFC , ADB, CDC                  7.5  each           22.5          10.85            10.85

      JKH                           26.25                26.25          12.66            12.66

      P&O Group                     26.25                26.25          12.66            12.66

      Evergreen                     10.00                   10           4.82            4.82

      SLPA (Cash)                     7.50                 7.5           3.62            3.62

      SLPA (In kind - old cranes)     7.50                 7.5           3.62

                                                          100           48.24            44.62

      Source: SAGT




                                                      - 44 -

              The debt financing totaled US$98.81 million. The PSIDC's tranche of the financing package was
entirely dedicated to the purchase of rubber tyred gantry cranes (RTGs). While the loan commitment was
US$39 million, the contract price was US$24.7 million and the final payment amount US$23.8 after a
recovery from suppliers for delays in crane delivery. IFC, ADB and CDC contributed with US$25.0
million each.

Operating costs

              Table 5 shows SAGT's income statements for 1999/2000 to 2002/2003. It has to be highlighted
that SAGT's net profit has been increasing steadily over the years.

          Table 5: South Asia Gateway Terminals Income Statements 1999/2000 - 2002/2003

                                                           Values in current US $


                                                         1999/2000
         Financial year ends in March 31st           (refers to approx.
                                                       6 months of            2000/2001       2001/2002      2002/2003

                                                      operation only)

  Revenues
     Transhipment Income                                2,542,512                6,616,766      6,929,736    10,822,728
     O&D Income                                         5,989,661               13,763,527     18,957,816    27,768,308
        Total Operating Income (net of sales taxes)     8,532,173               20,380,293     25,887,552    38,591,036
  Interest income - US$                                   418,111                  740,284       651,360       328,896
  Interest income - LKR                                    29,335                   85,302         95,311       16,087
  Profit on Disposal of Property, Plant & Equipment/                                                -
     Insurance Proceeds                                      -                       -                          55,405

  Rental Income                                              -                       -              -           10,667
        Other operating income                            447,446                  825,586       746,671       411,055
  Costs
     Equipment Running, Hire & Related
        Operating Expenses                                823,924                2,077,372      2,653,995     3,610,736

     Equipment Depreciation                                  -                   1,603,021      1,810,101     3,913,455
     Personnel Costs:
        - Salaries, Wages & Related Expenses              576,311                1,312,848      1,527,516     1,496,336
        - Defined benefit Plan CostsGratuity               13,707                   26,483         34,694       38,383
        - Defined contribution Plan
             CostsEPF & ETF                                62,067                  125,101        147,477      149,381

        Cost of sales                                   1,476,009                5,144,825      6,173,783     9,208,291
  Marketing and Promotion                                  19,870                   82,951         86,096       48,290
  Administrative Expenses                               3,767,671                7,073,761      8,578,956    10,742,355
  Other Operating Expenses                                122,018               331,142.00     319,343.00    389,867.00
        Distribution, Administrative & Other
        Operating Costs                                 3,909,559                7,487,854      8,984,395    11,180,512

  Interest Expense on Loans                                                      1,661,789      2,942,648     3,405,288
  Commitment Fee on Loans                                 440,022                  740,653       616,101       469,073
  Security Trustee Fee, Loan Establishment Cost              2,949                  46,322         76,187      116,708
        Finance Costs                                     442,971                2,448,764      3,634,936     3,991,069
  Profit before Tax                                     3,151,080                6,124,436      7,841,109    14,622,219
     Income Tax Expense                                      -                      31,912         43,864         9,364
  Net Profit                                            3,151,080                6,092,524      7,797,245    14,612,855
     Retained Profit Brought Forward                         -                   3,151,080      9,243,604    17,040,849
     Retained Profit Carried Forward                    3,151,080                9,243,604     17,040,849    31,653,704

  Source: SAGT's financial statements




                                                                    - 45 -

Rates of return

           The overall project financial internal rate of return (FIRR) projected by the Senior Lenders'
model before the project start was 19%. The economic rate of return estimated by the IFC was 29%.

           The financial re-evaluation at project completion (July 2003) showed a FIRR of 23.16%. The
difference between the two FIRR is mainly due to the reduced investment costs that have been 27% lower
than originally projected (see table 2 above).

Financial analysis

           The financial re-evaluation is based on the following assumptions:

            The transshipment revenue projections provided by SAGT are based on their revised
                 throughput projections. Values for 2015/2016 onwards are assumed equal to 2014/2015;
            The other operating income from 2003/2004 onwards is assumed equal to the actual value
                 in 2002/2003;
            Total operating costs from 2003/2004 onwards are assumed equal to the actual value in
                 2002/2003;
            The operating profit before deducting financing costs and taxes is used as the basis for the
                 financial re-evaluation; depreciation costs are added;
            All revised projections are in constant 2003 US$;
            SAGT's financial statement figures are in US$ since the primary source of income and
                 expenditure of the company are in US$. They are in current terms with all foreign exchange
                 transactions converted into US$ at the rate of exchange prevailing at the time the
                 transaction was effected. Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rate of
                 exchange ruling at the date of the balance sheets.
            The translation of current US$ to constant 2003 US$ is based on the US consumer price
                 index.

           For details on the calculation see excel file "SAGT Calculations for ICR" spreadsheets "income -
cost projections" and "FIRR  EIRR".

Economic Analysis

           Due to a lack of information the ERR could not be calculated. Nevertheless, an attempt to assess
it in quantitative terms was made by basing the ERR calculation on the cash flows used for the financial
re-evaluation increased by the amount of sales taxes paid by SAGT. This led to a slightly higher ERR of
23.32% (see excel file "SAGT Calculations for ICR" spreadsheets "income  cost projections" and "FIRR
 ERR"). In addition, the following project-related factors are likely to affect the national economy and
thus the ERR:

            Since the project generates most of its income in foreign exchange with the Standard
                 Conversion Factor for Sri Lanka being less than 1, the total revenue in economic terms
                 from the project is greater than the financial revenue.




                                                      - 46 -

          The charge for electricity and fuel, a high recurrent cost of the project, has a Commodity
              Specific Conversion Factor of less than 1 due to the higher level of tariffs imposed on
              commercial establishments for the supply of electricity and fuel. This implies that the
              economic cost of electricity and fuel is lower than the financial costs.

          The economic cost of local labor can be considered equal to the financial cost since no large
              scale deployment of labor took place and only a sparse number of individuals employed by
              the project are required to pay personal income tax under the country's tax regulations.

          The economic cost of expatriate labor is higher than the financial cost but since the
              percentage of foreign labor between September 1999 and November 2001 was on average
              only 12% and dropped to 3.7% in November 2001 (latest figure available  see excel file
              "SAGT Calculations for ICR" spreadsheets "labor"), this difference should not have a very
              significant impact on the total economic benefit of the project.

          According to Drewry's study IFC Decision Memorandum, October 1998, page 54, the Port
              of Colombo has natural cost advantages over competing ports in serving India-bound
              cargoes in Asia  Europe trades but low productivity and delays in awaiting berthing
              diverted some 600,000 ships to competing hubs. The increased capacity, efficiency and
              service quality at QEQ and at the Colombo part in general has stopped the loss of cargo to
              other ports outside South Asia (e.g. Salalah). This is proved by the fact that shipping lines
              have been willing to commit volumes by entering into Terminal Service Agreements, which
              has never existed in the history of the Colombo Port.

          A quicker turnaround time of ships due to reduced waiting and handling time reduces ships'
              running costs, which in a competitive market, is likely to lead to lower freight rates and new
              adding value services. The establishment of logistic operations such as multi-country
              consolidation is considered certainly possible.

          SAGT is still contractually prevented from offering its services at a price less than the price
              charged by SLPA. However, the relative cost advantages of SAGT can be discerned by its
              high financial profits.

         All these factors indicate that the project would yield a higher economic return than the FIRR of
23.16%, which fully satisfies the IDA criterion of a minimum ERR of 12% as provided in the Development
Credit Agreement.




                                                    - 47 -

Factors affecting the subproject

          The factors outside the control of SAGT are the political stability in Sri Lanka and unequal
competitive conditions vis--vis JCT. However, at the end of the first five years of operation (September
2004) SAGT will be able to set its tariffs at whatever level, and charge its users for the provision of
services on whatever basis it wishes subject to the power of the port regulator, which to date has not yet
been established. This will give SAGT a chance to compete at equal conditions.

          The factors generally subject to SAGT's control that are likely to occur include:

           Improved quality of service;
           Increase in its productivity;
           Capacity to attract new shipping lines and conclude Terminal Service Agreements.

Sustainability and future operations

          The project is likely to be sustainable based on the geographical location of the Port of Colombo
and the cheaper rates that it offers compared to competitors in the region. Therefore, with the improved
productivity levels now available at the Port of Colombo there seem to be no reasons why traffic cannot
build up again. According to projections by the Lenders Engineers (Lender's Engineer Report no. 7, pages
23 and 24) at a growth of 15% with a 2002 base of 1.7 million TEUs, the capacity of the Colombo Port
(combined capacity of JCT and SAGT) could be reached by 2005 and there would be no need for
inter-terminal price cutting. If the growth were only 5%, capacity would not be reached until 2011 and the
two terminals would have to compete for their share of traffic. In the same report it was suggested that
there seemed to be a case for a joint marketing strategy, which sold the Port of Colombo as an entity and
not as competing terminals. Without a common rebate scheme, feeders would be forced to use both
terminals, which would cause delays and depress the volumes. A further issue would appear to be the high
cost of bunkering in Colombo, which is a disincentive to transshipment volumes.




                                                    - 48 -

          Additional Annex 9. Studies, Consultancies and Training Financed under the IDA Credit


                                    Consultancy Contracts--Funded through World Bank TA Component of PSIDC

                                                                              Original     Contract          Amount Paid                   Completed      Average      QCBS/

   Date               Name of Contract                Contracting Party       Contract       Price          as at 01/09/2003     Remarks     Date        Exchange      Others

                                                                              Periods        (US$)               (US$)                                      Rate

                                                                            (in months)

21-Jul-97   Contract for Consultant's Services    Pricewaterhouse LLC,          24       US$ 1,185,758.00    US$ 1,162,987.49 Completed     31.12.99                  QCBS

               Financial Advisor for PSIDC        USA

3-Oct-97    Contract for Procurement of           KPMG Ford, Rhodes,             2        SLR 100,000.00       SLR 100,000.00 Completed     30.06.97 US$1 = SLR 60.06 QCBS

               Independent Audit Services         Thornton & Company

14-Jun-99 Contract for Procurement of             London Economics Ltd           1        US$ 121,827.00       US$ 121,827.00 Completed     31.07.99                  QCBS

               Consulting Services for Mid

               Term Review Study

15-Dec-99 Contract for Consulting Services (*)    Richard K. Moss                6        US$ 160,000.00       US$ 122,984.16 Completed     31.12.00                  Sole Source

               Financial Advisor for PSIDC

8-Aug-00    Preparation & Implementation of       Halcrow Group, UK             11        GBP 585,524.00       GBP 355,313.45 Continued     30.06.03  1 = US$1.34    QCBS

            PSP in the Water Sector --                                                                                          under Econ

               Greater Negombo Area                                                                                             Reform TA

                                                                                                                                Project

19-Oct-00 Preparation & Implementation of         Pricewaterhouse LLC, UK       15       US$ 1,306,085.00      US$ 569,322.00      "   "    30.06.03                  QCBS

               PSP in the Water Sector --

               Kalutara to Galle Coastal Strip

12-Jul-01   Interim Consultancy Support           National Economic             10         GBP 98,000.00        GBP 66,951.92 Completed     16.05.02 1 = US$1.44     QCBS

               for Power Sector Reforms           Research Associates, UK

24-Dec-01 Consulting Services for Selection       Meritec Ltd, New Zealand      18        US$ 776,932.00       US$ 271,926.20    Lapsed     30.06.03                  QCBS

               of a Developer for a 300 MW                                                 GBP 75,516.00        GBP 26,430.60               30.06.03 1 = US$1.45

               Combined Cycle Power Plant on                                             SLR 8,424,900.00    SLR 2,948,715.00               30.06.03 US$1 = SLR 94.55

               BOOT Basis at Kerawalapitiya

29-Apr-02 Consultancy Support for the             Luxman Siriwardena             4        SLR 800,000.00       SLR 800,000.00 Completed     31.08.02 US$1 = SLR 96.05 Sole Source

               Ministry of Economic Reforms,

               Science & Technology

29-Apr-02 Consultancy Support for the             Rohan Samarajiva               4         US$ 50,000.00         US$ 50,000.00 Completed    31.08.02                  Sole Source

               Ministry of Economic Reforms,

               Science & Technology

10-Jun-02 Director Reforms - Water Sector         K K C Perera                  12         US$ 50,000.00         US$ 41,200.00 Completed    30.06.03                  Sole Source

            Reform Unit of the Ministry of

              Housing & Plantation Infrastructure

24-Jun-02 PSP Advisor - Water Sector              Mark A Dumol - 1            1 week        US$ 4,000.00          US$ 2,819.24 Completed    25.05.02                  Sole Source

            Reform Unit of the Ministry of        Mark A Dumol - 2              12         US$ 53,640.00         US$ 32,804.68 Completed    30.06.03                  Sole Source

               Housing & Plantation Infra.

31-Jan-03 Baseline Review of Current Levels       Bristol Water Services         3         US$ 98,985.00          US$71,941.35 Completed    20.06.03                  Sole Source

               of Service and Water Distribution  Austria GmbH

               Network Performance

5-May-03    Valuation of PSIDC                    PT Pricewaterhouse          6 weeks      US$ 99,750.00         US$ 99,750.00 Completed    20.06.03                  Sole Source

                                                  Securities Jakarta


(*) First contract with PwC lapsed in June 1999 and this contract was              Total US$      2,547,562.12       2,105,871.04

Subsequently extended till December 31, 1999. A fresh contract was entered by      Total GBP        759,040.00         429,816.97

PSICD with Mr. Dick Moss for the period January 1 - December 31, 2000.             Total SLRS    9,324,900.00        1,742,490.00

May 2003




                                                                                       - 49 -

                      PSIDC Technical Assistance Component - Actual Costs Incurred

      Year ended March 31st                                                                 (US$ '000)

                                       1997    1998     1999   2000    2001    2002   2003    Total
          SOURCES OF FUNDS


TA Component 1                         137.5   722.6   714.8   755.2  262.0    72.2    21.2  2,685.5

TA Component 2                          10.9   9.1       -     31.4   893.5    234.8  774.5  1,954.3

    Total Inflows                      148.4  731.6    714.8  786.7   1,155.5  307.0  795.8  4,639.8

        APPLICATION OF FUNDS

TA Component 1:

 Fixed Costs:

    Setting up & Subsequent Costs       42.1   148.0    1.3    3.7     44.7    32.4    0.3     272.6

 Management Costs:

    Resident Advisor (expatriate)              315.2   425.8   522.8   93.7     -       -    1,357.4

    General Manager

    Technical staff

    Secretarial/support staff           40.8   74.5     82.5   108.8   28.2     -       -      334.8
    Premises, Office Expenses
      and Transport                     50.8   158.6   152.7   112.7   43.7     -       -      518.5

    Training and Staff Development
      (Office)                          3.9    26.2     52.5   7.3     51.7    39.8    20.9    202.2

         Sub-Total                     137.5   722.6   714.8   755.2  262.0    72.2    21.2  2,685.5

 TA Component 2:

    Consulting and Training

      Short term consultants  Legal,
      Technical and Financial           10.9   5.0       -      -     814.0    121.6  721.9  1,673.4

      Training and Staff Development
      (Line Ministries)                  -     4.1       -     31.4    79.5    113.2   52.6    280.9

         Sub-Total                      10.9   9.1       -     31.4   893.5    234.8  774.5  1,954.3

    Total Outflows                     148.4  731.6    714.8  786.7   1,155.5  307.0  795.8  4,639.8




                                                 - 50 -

                      PSIDC Technical Assistance Component - Actual Costs Incurred

      Year ended March 31st                                                                   (SLR '000)

                                       1997    1998     1999   2000    2001    2002    2003     Total
          SOURCES OF FUNDS


TA Component 1                         7,694  43,007   47,183  53,863  20,317  6,499    2,012  180,575

TA Component 2                          610      539     -     2,243   69,284  21,146  73,387  167,209

    Total Inflows                      8,304  43,546   47,183  56,106  89,601  27,645  75,399  347,784

        APPLICATION OF FUNDS

TA Component 1:

 Fixed Costs:

    Setting up & Subsequent Costs      2,357   8,810       88    262   3,468   2,918      33   17,936

 Management Costs:

    Resident Advisor (expatriate)        -    18,759   28,104  37,284  7,263     -       -     91,410

    General Manager

    Technical staff

    Secretarial/support staff          2,280   4,437    5,447  7,757   2,190     -       -     22,111
    Premises, Office Expenses
      and Transport                    2,841   9,441   10,077  8,038   3,389     -       -     33,786

    Training and Staff Development
      (Office)                          216    1,560    3,467    522   4,007   3,581    1,979  15,332

         Sub-Total                     7,694  43,007   47,183  53,863  20,317  6,499    2,012  180,575

 TA Component 2:

    Consulting and Training

      Short term consultants  Legal,
      Technical and Financial           610      295     -       -     63,119  10,948  68,404  143,376

      Training and Staff Development
      (Line Ministries)                  -       244     -     2,243   6,165   10,198   4,983  23,833

         Sub-Total                      610      539     -     2,243   69,284  21,146  73,387  93,822

    Total Outflows                     8,304  43,546   47,183  56,106  89,601  27,645  75,399  347,784


 Exchange Rate (mid financial year)
 1 US$ = SLR                           55.94   59.52    66.01  71.32   77.54   90.06    94.75




                                                 - 51 -

                                                Foreign Training  PSIDC Staff

Financial Year                Name & Designation                            Training Program                       Cost
                                                                                                                  SL. Rs.
               Mrs. R.L. Nanayakkara                      The World Infrastructure Structure Forum, India
1996/1997      General Manager/CEO                                                                             215,753.00

                          Total                                                                                215,753.00

               Mrs. R.L. Nanayakkara                      Infocast Project Finance conference, USA             607,483.00

               General Manager/CEO                        Building Knowledge & Expertise Infrastructure
                                                          Finance, Turkey                                      346,106.93

1997/1998      Mr. S. Muthugala,                          Information Technology & Management, Thailand
               Management Accountant                                                                           371,027.09

               Ms. K. Jayatilake                          International Bar Association General Practice
               Legal Advisor/Company Secretary            conference 1997,India                                174,915.70

                          Total                                                                               1,931,038.72
               Mrs. R.L. Nanayakkara                      Strengthening the Privatization Process, UK
               General Manager/CEO                                                                             552,218.00

               Mr. S. Muthugala                           Financial Modeling for Project Finance, Sydney       481,046.14
               Management Accountant                      International Procurement, USA                      1,066,961.16
               Dr. B.L.P.P. Perera,                       Building Knowledge & Expertise in Infrastructure     498,773.00
1998/1999      Project Finance Manager                    Finance, USA
               Mrs. K.D. Jayatilake
               Legal Advisor/Company Secretary            Infrastructure Finance  BOO & BOT, USA              860,411.79

               Mrs. K.D. Jayatilake                       International Bar Association '98 conference
               Legal Advisor/Company Secretary            (Didn't Participate to seminar expenses included      6,656.00
                                                          fee retained)
               Total                                                                                          7,328,143.53
               Mr. Nishan Mahanama                        Building Knowledge & Expertise in Infrastructure,
1999/2000      Project Finance Manager                    Jordan                                               450,789.00

                          Total                                                                               15,107,076.06
               Mr. Leel Wickremarachchi                   General Management Program, Singapore                550,843.26
               General Manager/CEO                        Advance Project Finance & Modeling, Australia        695,299.00
               Mr. Nishan Mahanama                        International Borrowing & Debt Management,
               Project Finance Manager                    USA                                                 1,262,299.08

2000/2001      Mr. Rohantha Seneviratne                   Multinational Financial Management, USA
               Financial Analyst                                                                               671,234.18

               Mrs. K.D. Jayatilake                       International Bar Association, Amsterdam
               Legal Advisor/Company Secretary            Conference                                           426,554.07

               Mr. Sarath Muthugala                       Multinational Financial Management, USA
               Management Accountant                                                                           384,533.37

                          Total                                                                               34,204,915.08
               Mr. L. Wickremarachchci
               General Manager/CEO                                                                            1,288,835.56
                                                          Infrastructure on Market Economy, USA
               Mr. Nihal Fonseka,
               Director, PSIDC                                                                                1,172,700.74

               Ms. Q. Sinnathamby
               Snr. Executive Secretary                   Professional Development for Senior and              228,019.86

2001/2002      Ms. N. Abayakoon                           Executive Secretaries, Singapore
               Executive Secretary                                                                             227,819.87

               Mr. M.D.W.K. Peiris                        Accounting & Financial for Non Financial
               Accountant Asst.                           Managers                                             410,567.74

               Mrs. M.K.P.Shalini Perera                  Effective Business Writing for Secretaries and
               Confidential Secretary                     Administrative Assistants, Singapore                 234,545.26

                          Total                                                                               71,972,319.19
               Mr. S.R. Seneviratne                       General Management Program, Singapore
               Snr. Financial Analyst                                                                          696,214.28

               Mr. B.N.C. Mahanama
2002/2003      Head Project Finance                                                                            569,638.06
                                                          Hidroenergia 2002 Conference, France
               Mr. L. Wickremarachchi
               General Manager/CEO                                                                             656,434.98

                          Total                                                                              145,866,925.70




                                                      - 52 -

                                               Local Training - PSIDC Staff

Financial Year               Name & Designation                      Training Program               Cost
                                                                                                   SL. Rs.
               Mrs. R.L. Nanayakkara
               General Manager/CEO
               Mrs.K.D.Jayatilake                      Infrastructure procurement BOO/BOT         4,500.00
               Legal Advisor/Company Secretary         Approach
               Mr. S. Muthugala
               Management Accountant
               Mr. R.. Garvey,
               Resident Advisor, PSIDC                 National Law and the Economy               2,600.00
               Dr. B.L.P.P. Perera,                    Conference
               Project Finance Manager
               Mrs. Q. Sinnathamby
1997/1998      Snr. Executive Secretary
               Ms. N.M.Abayakoon
               Snr. Executive Secretary                Microsoft Office Course                   24,500.00

               Mrs. Shamini Nagendran,
               Secretary
               Mrs. Q. Sinnathamby
               Snr. Executive Secretary                The Secretary  a boss's power tool        3,950.00
               Ms. N.M.Abayakoon                       Secretarial course
               Snr. Executive Secretary
               Mr. S. Muthugala
               Management Accountant                   Project appraisal and follow-up           25,000.00

                          Total                                                                  60,550.00
               Mrs.K.D.Jayatilake
1998/1999      Legal Advisor/Company Secretary         Company Law Conference                     1,500.00

               Total                                                                              1,500.00
               Ms. N.M.Abayakoon                       Diploma for Executive
               Snr. Executive Secretary                Secretaries/Administrative Assistants      2,250.00

               Ms. N.M.Abayakoon
               Snr. Executive Secretary                Short hand and Secretarial course          725.00

               Mrs. Q. Sinnathamby                     One day seminar for Confidential
               Snr. Executive Secretary                Secretaries                                2,250.00

               Mrs. M.K.P.Shalini Perera
               Confidential Secretary                  Short hand course                          5,075.00

               Mr. L. Wickremarachchci                 Achieving competitive advantage in the
               General Manager/CEO                     year 2000                                 22,500.00

               Mr. S. Muthugala
               Management Accountant                   CAPA Conference and Taxation seminar       2,450.00

1999/2000      Mr. S. Muthugala
               Management Accountant
               Mrs.K.D.Jayatilake
               Legal Advisor/Company Secretary         International Tax Seminar                 22,500.00

               Mr. B.N.C. Mahanama
               Head Project Finance
               Mr. M.D.W.K. Peiris
               Accountant Asst.                        Advanced Office Information Technology    10,500.00

               Mr. M.D.W.K. Peiris
               Accountant Asst.                        Foreign Aid Accounting                     1,125.00

               Mrs.K.D.Jayatilake
               Legal Advisor/Company Secretary         Silver Jubilee National Law Conference     1,500.00

                          Total                                                                  70,875.00
               Ms. N.M.Abayakoon
               Snr. Executive Secretary                Short hand course                          1,200.00

               Ms. N.M.Abayakoon
               Snr. Executive Secretary                Management skills for modern secretary     6,900.00
               Ms. Q. Sinnathamby                      seminar

2000/2001      Snr. Executive Secretary
               Mrs.K.D.Jayatilake                      Understanding labour law  some gray
               Legal Advisor/Company Secretary         area seminar                               1,750.00

               Mr. L. Wickremarachchci                 An Economic vision for Sri Lanka and
               General Manager/CEO                     Policy challenges                          800.00

               Mr. D.G. Newton
               Driver/Office Aide                      Media course                               6,050.00

                          Total                                                                  282,550.00




                                                       - 53 -

                                          Local Training - PSIDC Staff (Cont'd)

Financial Year              Name & Designation                     Training Program                  Cost
                                                                                                   SL. Rs.
               Ms. Q. Sinnathamby                     Gearing the profession for challenges of
               Snr. Executive Secretary               the 21st century                            1,750.00

               Mr. Sarath Muthugala                   ICASL Certificate Course in
               Management Accountant                  Taxation                                    11,000.00

               Ms. Q. Sinnathamby                     Sri Lanka Association of Personal

2001/2002      Snr. Executive Secretary               Secretaries Residential Training Seminar    4,800.00
                                                      2001
               Mrs.K.D.Jayatilake                     Association of Corporate Lawyers
               Legal Advisor/Company Secretary        Inaugural guest lecture series               200.00

               Mr. Sarath Muthugala                   Seminar on taxation and Budget 2002
               Management Accountant                                                               750.00

                         Total                                                                    18,500.00
               Mrs. Q. Sinnathamby
               Snr. Executive Secretary               Seminar on Power of Professionalism         4,250.00
               Mrs. M.K.P.Shalini Perera
               Confidential Secretary
               Mr. M.D.W.K. Peiris
               Assistant Accountant                   Taxation Course                             14,087.00

               Mr. M.D.D. Pieris                      National Education Conference
               Chairman, PSIDC                                                                    9,600.00

               Mrs. Q. Sinnathamby
               Snr. Executive Secretary               Recognizing Excellence                      1,750.00

               Mr. Sarath Muthugala
  2002/03      Management Accountant                  SMA Conference                              2,500.00

               Mr. Sarath Muthugala
               Management Accountant                  Recent tax reforms                           750.00

               Mrs. Q. Sinnathamby,
               Snr. Executive Secretary
               Ms. N.M.Abayakoon
               Snr. Executive Secretary               Admin. Today for Better Tomorrow            16,800.00

               Mrs. M.K.P.S.P. Perera
               Confidential Secretary
               Mrs. M.K.P.S.P. Perera                 Executive Diploma for Confidential
               Confidential Secretary                 Secretaries                                 6,930.00

                         Total                                                                    93,667.00




                                                      - 54 -

                                              Foreign Training  Line Ministry Staff

 Financial                                                                                                               Cost
   Year                         Name & Designation                                  Training Program                   SL. Rs.
            Mr. Ranjith Thabrew,                                      Building Knowledge and Expertise in
1997/1998   Deputy Director General - BII                             Infrastructure Finance  Istanbul, Turkey      244,501.00

            Total                                                                                                    244,501.00
            Mr. S.K.H. Perera,
            Deputy General Manager (Planning & Design) - NWSDB        Public-Private Partnership in Water &          467,348.26

            Ms. Mallika Karunaratne,                                  Waste Water Infrastructure - USA
            Director, Dept. of National Planning                                                                     467,493.01

1999/2000   Dr. N.S.K.N. de Silva,
            Chairman, NWSDB                                                                                          642,722.00

            Mr. V.K. Nanayakkara,                                     Utility Regulation & Strategy, USA
            Secretary, Ministry of Urban Development, Housing &                                                      640,544.01
            Construction
                        Total                                                                                        2,707,109.28
            Mr. M.N. Junaid,
            Secretary, Ministry of Ports Development, Rehabilitation  Private Finance on Infrastructure, USA         661,870.00
            & Reconstruction
            Mr. Ananda Gunasekera,                                    Institutional Reforms of the Water Sector
            Secretary, Ministry of Urban Development, Construction    Workshop on Options for Improving              456,620.00
            & Public Utilities                                        Services, UK
            Mr. Jaliya Medagama,                                      Global Forum on Sustainable Energy 
            Secretary, Ministry of irrigation & Power                 Austria                                        320,638.51

                                                                      Indian Ports 2000  Opportunities &
            Mr. Waruna Rajapakse,                                     Options, India                                 145,013.33

            Executive Director (Power & Ports), BII                   Building knowledge & Expertise in
                                                                      Infrastructure Finance, USA                    489,207.00

                                                                      Airport Finance & Development seminar
            Mr. Dileepa Wijesundara,                                  2000, UK                                       134,190.00

            Deputy Director General, BII                              Advance Financial Modeling for Project
                                                                      Finance, Australia                             493,475.00

            Mr. K.K.C. Perera,                                        Developing New Trends in Project Finance       392,902.10
2000/2001   Executive Director (Water Sector), BII                    in Asia  Conference, Singapore
            Ms. Bakthi Jayasuriya,                                    4th School of Project Finance Law, UK
            Director Legal, BII                                                                                      617,345.29

            Ms. Fatima Zarook,
            Legal Advisor, BII                                                                                       186,355.98
                                                                      Frontiers in Infrastructure Finance, India
            Ms. Thushari de Zoysa,
            Research Assistant, IPS                                                                                   72,169.00

            Ms. Amali Rajapakse,                                      Negotiation Analysis, Amsterdam
            Transaction Manager, BII                                                                                 459,825.74

            02 Officials  National Water Supply
            & Drainage Board
            02 Officials  Ministry of Urban Development &
            Construction of Public Utilities                          SAFIR Infrastructure
            02 Officials  Ministry of Port and Southern Development  Regulation and Reform                      1,735,750.00
            01 Officer  Ministry of Transport                        Kandalama, Dabulla.
            03 Officials Ministry of Finance
            Ms. Nilmini de Silva,
            Financial Analysis, BII
                        Total                                                                                     6,165,361.95




                                                              - 55 -

                                     Foreign Training  Line Ministry Staff (Cont'd)

 Financial                                                                                                         Cost
   Year                        Name & Designation                                Training Program                 SL. Rs.
            Mr. K.K.C. Perera,
            Executive Director (Water Sector), BII                 International Workshop on Privatization,    1,062,567.25

            Mr. L.W. Jeerasinghe,                                  Regulatory Reforms and Corporate
            Addl. Secretary, (Technical), Ministry of Urban        Governance, USA                             1,062,567.25
            Development, Construction & Public Utilities.
            Hon. Mangala Samaraweera, Minister of Urban            Leaders in Development, Managing
            Development, Construction & Public Utilities           Political & Economic Reforms, USA           1,186,158.75

            Mr. H.L.D.M. Chandrakumarana, District Engineer
            (Upper) SL Railway
            Mr. H.M.K.W. Bandara,
            Asst. District Engineer (Central) SL Railway
            Mr. E.M.S.T.K. Deegala,
            Asst District Engineer (Central) SL Railway
            Mrs. C. Senanayake,                                    South Asia Forum for Infrastructure         1,749,017.75
            Planning Assistant, Ministry of Transport.             Regulation and Reforms. India

2001/2002   Ms. P.S. Damayanthi
            Planning Assistant
            Ministry of Transport
            Mr. M.E. Samaraweera
            Planning Assistant
            Ministry of Transport
            Mrs. M. Gangatharan                                    MA in Transport Economics, UK
            Asst. Director                                                                                     2,496,147.00
            Dept. of National Planning
            Mr. W.D. Jayasinghe
            Additional Director General,                           International Procurement, USA              1,270,806.80
            Dept. of National Budget
            Mr. U. Ratnapala,                                      Water Sector Project Finance tariff rate
            Chief Engineer, NWSDB                                  Settings                                     45,775.00
            Mr. S.Weeraratne,                                      (Didn't participate to seminar expenses
            General Manager, NWSDB                                 includes visa fee)
                        Total                                                                                  8,873,039.80
            Mr.S.W. Munasinghe,
            Trans. Planning, SL Railway
            Mr.H.A.K. Sanath,
            Planning Asst., SL Railway
            Mr.K. Haputhantri,
            SAS/ MoTH&CA
            Mr.U.N. Mallawarachchi,
            ADP/MoTH&CA
            Mr.W.W. Harrison,                                      SAFIR 4th Core Training Course on
            ADP/MoTH&CA                                            Infrastructure                              2,516,226.00
            Mr.G.R.N. Chandrasiri,                                 Regulation and Reforms,
            Planning Assit/MoTH&CA                                 India
            Mr.M.A. Jeffry,
            Director, NTC
2002/2003   Ms.A.A.S. Anuradhi,
            Planning Assistant/NTC
            Ms.R.M.M.K. Ratnayake,
            Planning Assistant/NTC
            Mr.Wasantha Mantreepola,
            Planning Assistant/NTC
            Mr. K.K.C. Perera,
            Director, Water Sector Reform Unit                     Utility Regulatory Design Exploring
                                                                   Multiple, Single and Hybrid Sector          1,403,418.00
            Mr. K.M.N.S. Fernando,                                 Options, UK
            Addi. General Manager, NW&SDB
            Mr. M.M.C. Ferdinando,
            Addi. Secretary (Dev), MHPI                            Utility Regulation &                        937,770.64
            Mr. U. Ratnapala,                                      Strategy
            Deputy Director, Water Sector Reform Unit
                        Total                                                                                 22,603,494.24




                                                            - 56 -

                                           Local Training  Line Ministry Staff

 Financial                                                                                                     Cost
   Year                       Name & Designation                               Training Program               SL. Rs.
                                                               Sponsorship for Public Private Partnership

1999/2000   Institute of Town Planners of Sri Lanka            in Urban Renewal & Infrastructure            25,000.00
                                                               Development Seminar
                        Total                                                                               25,000.00

            Workshop  Triton Hotel.                           Project Finance, Risk Structure &
                                                               Feasibility                                 1,175,011.52

2001/2002   The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce                     National Education Conference 2002           100,000.00
            Sri Lanka Association of Securities & Investment   Reforming the Financial Sector In Sri
            Analysis                                           Lanka                                        50,000.00

                        Total                                                                              1,375,011.52

            Workshop  The Lanka Oberoi                        Workshop on Infrastructure Dissemination
                                                               Forum on PSP Water Sector                    100,848.20

2002/2003   Ceylon Chamber of Commerce                         Short Fall in the Budget for the National
                                                               Education Conference                         25,000.00

                        Total                                                                               125,848.20




                                                          - 57 -

Additional Annex 10. Environment and Social Safeguards


         No specific subprojects were identified for PSIDC financing at project appraisal, therefore, no
project specific environmental assessments were conducted at the time. Instead, an Environmental and
Social Assessment Framework (the Framework) was prepared which served as a template for undertaking
environmental and social assessments of subprojects once identified. The framework included the Bank's
safeguard requirements as well as the requirements for environmental assessments under the National
Environmental Act (NEA) of the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL). There was no technical assistance
provided under PSIDP for strengthening environmental assessment review capacity in the environmental
regulatory agency, Central Environmental Authority (CEA), since CEA's institutional capacity for
environmental management, which included environmental assessment, was strengthened under the
on-going IDA financed Environmental Action 1 (EA1P) Project.

         The long term debt facility under PSIDC was accessed by only one subproject, the SAGT project,
which was a concessioning of the QEQ terminal at the Colombo Port. The SAGT project involved
expansion of the QEQ to address the need for increased capacity at the quay. This was achieved by the
construction of a new quay line, 100 meters into the harbor basin from the current quay line, with an
alongside depth of 15 meters. The NEA requires an Environmental Impact Assessment be conducted only
if port expansion involves an annual increase of 50 percent or more in handling capacity per annum. The
proposed SAGT quay expansion fell well below the NEA requirement for an EIA. However, in accordance
with the Framework, an EIA was conducted and cleared by IDA prior to the SAGT sub-loan being
approved. The EIA identified four potentially significant adverse environmental impacts; (i) impact of
dredge spoil disposal; (ii) impact of disturbance of sediment due to construction activities; (iii) impact due
to inadequate facilities for waste oil reception; and (iv) impact on navigation in a narrowed harbor basin.
There were no adverse social impacts identified in the EIA. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP),
which contained mitigatory measures to address the adverse environmental impacts identified in the EIA,
was prepared and implemented during project construction and operation phases.

         There were no adverse environmental impacts that arose during construction and operation of the
project that were not identified in the EIA. The EMP was implemented successfully and the potential for
adverse environmental issues minimized. An environmental monitoring plan with regular monitoring of
water quality at the dredge site and dredge material disposal site showed no change in water quality, as a
result of dredging and dredge spoil disposal. The use of a silt curtain during construction minimized the
re-distribution of sediment within the harbor basin during construction. A suitable waste oil reception
facility was used and waste oil was sent off site for recycling. There have been no records of navigational
problems due to the narrowing of the harbor basin in the Colombo Port. Therefore, it can be concluded
that the EIA identified potential adverse environmental impacts and made suitable recommendations for
mitigatory measures to address the impacts. The implementation of the EMP effectively mitigated the
potential environmental impacts.




                                                      - 58 -

        Since PSIDC was designed as a transitory mechanism and not a permanent institution, no attempt
was made to build institutional environmental capacity at PSIDC. EIA review and evaluation during
subproject appraisal was out-sourced and formal environmental clearance relied on the provisions under the
NEA. The CEA's institutional capacity in review and evaluation of environmental assessments was
strengthened under the IDA financed Environmental Action 1 Project. SAGT introduced a company wide
environmental policy so that its activities will be in compliance with its corporate and GOSL's
environmental legislation. SAGT has an Environmental Management Structure responsible for
environmental aspects of its operations, with the General Manager, Engineering Services reporting to the
Chief Executive Officer on the company's environmental performance. Therefore, environmental
management in accordance with SAGT's Environmental Policy, has been institutionalized in the company.




                                                      - 59 -

Additional Annex 11. Lessons Learned


1.         There are many lessons to be learned, in particular, on project design and incentive structure. It
has proven a material challenge to establish institutional control and governance mechanisms for the
allocation of public funds to private sector enterprises through a transitory body which has also been
subject to the transparency and procurement requirements of IDA. This section is structured as to give the
"cause" of the lesson learned, followed by one more effects this had on the project, followed by suggested
remedies.

2.         The project design was lacking relative to the complexity of the core elements of the task
relating to project finance and lending operations. During project design, the core team did not include
all the relevant skill groups (itself perhaps a function of a transition from the Bank acting as a direct project
sponsor to the role of a provider of finance for infrastructure). The project has a significant financial
component (although not technically a Financial Intermediation Loan as PSIDC was not perceived to be a
financial intermediary). Although the project had the benefit of peer review comments from the Finance
center, it would probably have benefited from closer involvement of a finance sector specialist, given the
key role of financial structuring and private sector incentives structures. This weakness has been identified
by the project team from the time of the mid-term review and the project has subsequently benefited from a
multi-disciplinary approach.

3.         It is noteworthy that the Staff Appraisal Report (page 106) discusses in some detail a desired
evolution of project events but does not contain any explicit description of appropriate procedures for
ensuring the desired outcome, nor is there detailed guidance in the Development Credit Agreement agreed
with the GOSL (which covers the entire project framework in a few pages). Consideration is not provided
to the degree to which different procedures favored by other cofinanciers (ultimately only KfW) would be
accommodated.

4.         The impact of the absence of emphasis given to the financial aspects of the project have been
especially reflected in:

           (a) There is no linkage between the riskiness of projects and the price or allocation of credit
                 leading to an inability to respond to market conditions in terms of price determination for
                 onlending terms. The interest rate pricing mechanisms imposed upon PSIDC for subloans
                 was impractical. In principle, the interest rate for subproject loans was originally set at 300
                 bp over LIBOR and was to be reviewed annually. In practice, the rate review mechanism
                 was not implemented and the interest rate set was not in line with the market. For the SAGT
                 subloan, the interest rate for the subordinate debt provided by PSIDC was lower than the
                 rate for senior debt provided by the project sponsors. Although PSIDC recognized this
                 anomaly, it was not felt that the rate could be changed as oral discussions with SAGT had
                 been ongoing for some time in the context of the original rate.

                 3     While it is undoubtedly important to avoid crowding out of private sector initiatives
                       with IDA funding, it would be preferable to follow some sort of credit allocation
                       system which crowds in rather than crowds out and allows a non-exclusionary role for
                       the financing entity (along lines of minimum subsidy perhaps through minimum use of
                       funds). Take out financing whereby project financing explicitly complements what is
                       available in the local markets might also be preferable.




                                                       - 60 -

          (b) The range of financial products available to PSIDC was limited to subordinate loans. It is
                to be noted that the SAGT transaction actually only required senior debt from PSIDC; as a
                result PSIDC negotiated an innovative but unusual hybrid loan which was subordinated
                only for defaults triggered by defined events relating to political risk.

                3     It would have been preferable if a wider range of products had been envisaged from
                      the outset, including equity, preferred stock and senior debt. In this way, PSIDC could
                      have made itself more relevant for the Sri Lankan market and avoided the inherent
                      incentive to crowd out.

          (c) The project design did not provide for protecting the interests of PSIDC within the
                financing structure. The capital structure of a project financing determines the risk for each
                class of lender. PSIDC was always likely to be the sole provider of subordinate debt and
                was a provider solely of debt financing while others may also provide senior debt and
                equity. As such, the protection afforded to PSIDC by covenants in place from other debt
                financiers may be inadequate. It may well be preferable to ensure that PSIDC ranks pari
                passu with some private sector participant. There are no constraints upon the composition
                of the financing structure (other than that PSIDC may provide no more than 40% of the
                total project cost, and equity must be at least 20%). In the SAGT transaction, for example,
                all the senior debt providers are also equity holders, leaving open the possibility that they
                might not enforce their position as creditors in favor of their position as equity holders and
                thereby leave PSIDC exposed. Covenants are extremely important in any lending package
                but the framework for PSIDC does not address this matter at all.

                3     A more effective vehicle might have included a package of predetermined covenants;
                      although this may detract from flexibility, it could be explicitly provisioned that
                      amendments could be made to the predetermined covenants (the advantage being that
                      these variations would be better highlighted).

          (d) On occasion, the cofinancier, KfW was not automatically in concurrence with the outlook
                of IDA with regards to certain actions. KfW did not provide financing for the SAGT loan
                and did not cancel its line of credit to PSIDC at the time IDA chose to do so. The vision
                held by the IDA for the incorporation of PSIDC into the private sector has not necessarily
                been one which would have been proposed by KfW (who in any case is not guided by the
                same procedures governing the sale and securitization of Bank-financed assets).

                3     Greater detail in the specification of the project evolution could have assisted in the
                      joint elaboration of the project. A common terms agreement could have been executed
                      between the two lenders.

5.        While the stated aim of the PSIDC playing the role of the "lender of last resort" fits well
with World Bank objectives, it appeared unnatural to private sector practitioners who are more
inclined to try to build an institution, grow business and secure tenure. This was compounded by an
instinctive tendency amongst the private sector participants recruited to the project to wish to build
business. In reality, the concept of a lender of last resort for commercial projects is not well-developed.
The concept is better tested in areas such as providing support to a regulated sector, such as banks.
However, it has not always been properly established at what price a lender of last resort should provide
financing when, by definition, there is no market price. The project essentially left a very complex problem
in the hands of PSIDC practitioners whose expertise lay in other fields.




                                                      - 61 -

          (a) Specifically, those encharged with operating the PSIDC facility have found the objective
               of acting as lender of last resort to be inconsistent with trying to provide funding at
               market rates.

               3     Conceivably a system could have been established which more explicitly established
                     PSIDC as an agency of government to provide subsidized funds on a competitive
                     basis whereby the financing was made available to identified projects on the basis of
                     minimum allocation of subsidized funds. Unsolicited applications for funding could be
                     similarly accommodated on the basis of the "Swiss Challenge" (i.e. whereby an
                     entrepreneur could make an application for subsidy, but would run the risk of the same
                     project being undertaken by a competitor for less subsidy, the originator being
                     rewarded only with a fee to recover its costs).

          (b) The lack of clarity as to project targets was confusing for both the prospective clients of
               PSIDC and for the private sector participants recruited to executive and advisory
               functions. Even for Bank staff it was difficult to articulate a scenario in which a lack of
               disbursement could be presented as success. [The inability of Bank project staff to shape
               clearly understandable and attainable objectives was confusing for both the PSIDC staff
               and the consultants employed to undertake the mid-review the project.] Furthermore, it also
               appears that this ambiguous function did not sit naturally with potential clients who look to
               their lender as a partner, with aligned objectives, to do more business and make more
               profits, not as a policy maker with a distinct function.

               3     A structure which more closely aligned the interests of employees with those of the
                     project (e.g. minimizing subsidies while maximize lending) would likely have been
                     more effective, even if this had resulted not to be the best structure from a theoretical
                     perspective (i.e. a clearly defined objective, even if a "second best" solution, would
                     have been more effective than the actual scenario in which the parameters of success
                     were ill-defined).

6.        The transitory nature of the project design did not jibe well with the long dated nature of
the subloans or with the structure of PSIDC as a limited liability company with indefinite life. The
description of agreed objectives and processes for the implementation of the "Sunset Clause" in the
project documentation was too vague (Article III Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement). It
is noted, however, that the plans for the transition of the project into the private sector were indeterminate
to accommodate the outlook of one potential cofinancier, who ultimately elected not to participate.

          (a) There is no procedure in place for the monitoring of the subproject loans over their full
               tenor. While PSIDC has monitoring rights over the subproject loans now in place for their
               life, it is not the practice of the IDA to supervise projects beyond their closing date
               (originally June 2002, subsequently extended to June 2003).

               3     Specific attention should have been lent to the use of reflow proceeds from payments
                     of principal and interest and the ongoing operations of PSIDC after project closure.
                     The Development Credit Agreement did not provide IDA with a review and approval
                     function in terms of the future use of the IDA financed assets (other than consultation),
                     however, this shortfall has subsequently been addressed in the amendments to the IDA




                                                      - 62 -

         General Conditions but should in any case have been addressed directly in the Credit
         Agreement. (It is noted that, even before the General Conditions were amended, IDA
         could invoke its remedies -- suspension, cancellation, and acceleration -- in
         transactions that interfered with IDA-financed assets without Bank approval.)

(b) The limited scope of the sunset clause has not allowed the project team to accommodate
    the stated wishes of the GOSL, or negotiate a compromise; this has generated a lack of
    ownership of the sunset process leading to a series of initiatives by the project team which
    ultimately run the risk of petering out. This has limited the prospects for graduating
    PSIDC into private sector control.

    3    The role of local financial institutions could have been more closely involved from the
         outset. It was inevitable that these institutions would necessarily play a substantive
         role in the integration of the project into the financial sector. At the time of project
         design it was considered that one or more local financial bodies might play the role of
         apex lender of IDA funds, this was rejected on the grounds that the local firms were
         too small and insufficiently developed for this role. Consideration might have been
         made to the extent to which these entities would develop over the life of the project and
         how the project would become integrated into the financial system at closure.

(c) The scale of the operation of PSIDC did not lend itself to the inclusion of the type of
    internal financial management required for a corporate body, provision for consulting
    services was focused only on the lending side of operations. PSIDC faced significant
    technical issues with regards to income tax and stamp tax as well as provisioning
    requirements.

    3    It would also have been an alternative to attempt to establish PSIDC as a shell
         company where all the services were provided on a contractual basis, along the lines of
         an investment fund where the corporate structure, company administration, financial
         management and investment advisory functions are all distinct.

(d) The lack of clarity for the "sunset' provisions of the project has led to some lack of
    communality of view with regard to the extent of Government influence over the course of
    infrastructure development through PSIDC. The existing structure does not provide for a
   platform for the resolution of differing objectives and outlook (including, to a lesser extent,
   those of the KfW, the cofinancier). The project did not recognize that the cooperation of the
   subproject borrowers would be essential for an effective restructuring of PSIDC and no
   requirement for provision of information to prospective acquirers was reflected in the
   original subloan documentation (i.e. the SAGT loans).

   3     While it would certainly have been inappropriate to attempt to establish a detailed road
         map for the evolution of the fund after closure, the project design should have been
         more descriptive. Parallels might have been drawn to transaction processes with which
         the project should have sought to match objectives (e.g. a structure under which
         incentive structures are comparable to those of a private sector owner/operator).




                                         - 63 -

7.      The project was hampered throughout by governance and control issues which emanated
from the attempts to establish a body which was at the same time independent of government and
transparent in its actions but ultimately responsible for public funds. While the rationale was a
perceived need to be flexible but somehow maintain transparency, this rather resulted in a lack of clarity of
function. Limited attention was paid to this aspect of internal governance at the time of project formation.

          (a) The project operator has lacked a well-defined mandate and a clear delegation of
               responsibility. More fundamentally, however, it points to the perhaps insurmountable
               challenge of acting as a fiduciary without clearly established responsibilities and without a
               core competency in the field. In principle, the core objectives should not be impossible to
               achieve, even on an agency basis.

               3     A contrast could be made with a trustee for a pension fund where there is a clearly
                     defined framework for operation and ability to act either directly on an informed basis
                     or indirectly on the basis of competent advice. One can also cite public sector lenders
                     such as the IFC, CDC or KfW which are non-profit ventures active in the private
                     sector in emerging markets. The key distinctions probably lie in the clarity of the
                     mandate provided to the governing body, the requirement for a proven record of
                     professional expertise in the relevant field at the governing level, and delegation of
                     operating authority to the executive level.

          (b) It has been a challenge to provide adequate incentives to PSIDC staff which are aligned
               with project goals. There is no profit motive (or objective bonus structure), and the
               incentive of a good salary and long term job security (as offered by other DFIs) does not
               exist for an entity which is designed to be temporary. The PSIDC board, with the approval
               of GOSL, has also found it necessary to allocate a significant sum [about $250,000] for the
               payments of termination benefits beyond contractual entitlements.

               3     Greater use could be made of consultants without corporate positions or titles.
                     Consultants have a clearer objective function (i.e. to complete a successful task to
                     ensure that their reputation is preserved). It is noted that the SAR discussed the
                     extensive use of short term consultants but no procedure to ensure this result was
                     incorporated into the credit agreement.

          (c) PSIDC was perceived to be a government agency by infrastructure promoters and by
               financial sector participants and was treated as such. The PSIDC board was not able to
               fulfill the assigned management control function. Despite being comprised largely of
               appointees from the Private Sector, the board has not acted in an entrepreneurial capacity
               but rather as agents of government. The most experienced members of the board
               represented competing financial institutions and the role of oversight of the other board
               members was perhaps tempered by a lack of experience in project finance.

               3     According to the circumstances of each case, it would probably be preferable to
                     establish what is clearly either a government controlled body or one which is private
                     sector, in each case with the appropriate control structures.




                                                     - 64 -

           (d) The decision-making and control processes of the project have been costly and ineffective.
                 In addressing various indeterminate items in the operations of PSIDC (pricing, lender of last
                 resort, covenants, investment of reflows etc.), substantial amounts of time and resources
                 have been dedicated to establishing policies and guidelines. The corporate structure has led
                 to some lack of clarity as to the function of officials of PSIDC and the corporate by-laws
                 have come to play a role in the actions of involved parties. While the intent was
                 undoubtedly well founded and in many cases the resulting guidance has been quite sound, as
                 a net outcome it has not been a useful investment of resources to attempt to micro-manage
                 through a process of committees and review by the GOSL and the Bank. In the context, in
                 fact no additional lending was undertaken to which these guidelines might have applied. The
                 need for these numerous elements of ad hoc advice (which were discussed and reviewed at
                 great length by all parties) was primarily caused by the vagueness of the initial project
                 documents.

                 3    Even within the chosen structure, it would have been more effective to establish a clear
                      executive function, able to arrive at decisions in a less legalistic fashion. Alternatively,
                      greater use could have been made of the existing financial institutions, acting on either
                      a principal or agency basis.

           (e) The indirect control mechanism through which ultimate authority sat with the GOSL did
                 not lend itself to decisive direction. The degree of approval and role of the Bank project
                 team remained ambiguous. While the GOSL explicitly looked to Bank oversight of the
                 operations of PSIDC, the purview of the project team was actually restricted to the
                 disbursement of IDA funds for subprojects. This situation was made more complex by the
                 availability to PSIDC of funds from KfW, the lending of which would have a direct impact
                 upon the financial viability of PSIDC but which were not subject to Bank approval. PSIDC
                 seemed to be distant from the Government, while there was oversight from the Ministry of
                 Finance this was somewhat formal (and really oriented towards World Bank policy
                 implementation). The relationship with BII or BOI was perhaps not as close as might have
                 been desired. In particular, that the GOSL found it difficult to navigate a path for transition
                 processes in the face of diverse and vocal interest groups reflects that the decision making
                 capacity was not properly established so that those encharged with the function were
                 uncomfortable with the responsibility.

                 3    The corporate structure itself was probably inappropriate given the lack of an
                      incentive structure to align the interests of management with the original project
                      objectives (or, in principle, with those of GOSL). As a result the project team ended up
                      with responsibility (in front of Bank management and the GOSL) but limited ability to
                      guide the course of events.

8.         The implementing agency responsible for the technical assistance component should have
been distinct to that for the lending component. In the first instance the skill sets of lending and
providing training and allocating consultancy services are quite distinct (although it is to be noted that
PSIDC did build up a proficient level of expertise in procuring and managing technical assistance
programs). However, this situation also created potential conflicts and power plays in that PSIDC staff
were in the position of accepting or declining applications for funding from the line ministries. Although it
was never alleged to the Bank team that PSIDC abused its position in this regard, the conflict of interest in
this duality of function was remedied following the mid-term review.




                                                       - 65 -

          (a) The allocation of technical assistance funding for deserving initiatives was hampered by
               poor coordination between PSIDC and the relevant line ministries. At one extreme line
               ministries felt they were being evaluated by PSIDC while at the other PSIDC felt that it was
               merely acting as a paying agent for projects over which it had no input.

               3     As was introduced for the Bangladesh PSIDP, the capacity building component of the
                     project is probably better allocated to a distinct entity, under the same government
                     oversight. In the case of Sri Lanka, BII would be a natural choice as the implementing
                     agency for the TA component.

9.        The project failed to support capital market development and particularly missed the
opportunity to promote local currency financing. Notwithstanding the substantial subsidy component
associated with IDA funding, there is an ultimate obligation on the part of GOSL to repay the PSIDC loan
(and therefore an important element of sovereign credit support). To date, PSDIP has yet to generate any
issuance of debt or equity securities in the local markets.

          (a) The market for long term capital in Sri Lanka appears to have evolved albeit in a limited
               fashion despite, rather than because of, the PSIDP. It has been an historic problem (now
               frequently institutionalized by donor operations) that utility services must be priced in
               Dollars even though revenue streams are in local currency. Part of the reason given is that
               term financing is obtainable only in Dollars. It is something of a missed opportunity that the
               substantial subsidy component of a funding such as PSIDC is not also utilized to allow for
               local currency funding (although in the case of SAGT it may well be argued that Dollar
               funding is more appropriate). Ultimately in the case of Wey Ganga, the GOSL undertook
               this position outside of the project structure. The currency exposures undertaken by the
               GOSL, which borrowed in pooled funds and onlent in Dollars were not addressed in the
               project design. In the face of the significant subsidy implicit in the IDA funding, the issue of
               interest rate risk was completely overlooked. As interest rates have fallen, essentially the
               subsidy component has been substantially eroded. Ultimately PSIDC did enter into local
               currency lending but this might have been better developed as a financial product.

               3     The objectives of capital market development would be better served if the
                     combination of IDA subsidy and sovereign credit could be combined to allow also
                     investment by local contractual savings institutions (which have long term liabilities in
                     the form of pension and life insurance polices and are starved of term assets). It is
                     notable also that the project actually exposed the Government to substantial foreign
                     exchange risk through determining subloan terms on Dollars while the IDA credit was
                     set in a currency pool.

10.       The procurement requirements of the IDA credit appear to be unacceptable to some private
sector contractors. Particularly for small projects it seems that suppliers play an active function in project
promotion and it is not practical to separate the project sponsor from the initial supplier.




                                                     - 66 -

           (a) Potential infrastructure providers were dissuaded from using the PSIDC facility by the
                procurement requirements. In as much as that these entrepreneurs were able to identify
                alternative sources of financing, this problem is less grave. There are no recorded cases of
                potential projects which were presented to PSIDC but which were not completed on the
                grounds of procurement constraints. However, it is difficult to measure the extent to which
                potential developers were dissuaded from approaching PSIDC as it would be known that
                World Bank procurement procedures would apply. There is a secondary concern that
                projects which did proceed without PSIDC funding might not have as high standards with
                regards to environmental and social impact as if they had been supported through PSIDC.

                3     The Sri Lanka experience could suggest that particularly smaller scale, local project
                      sponsors are likely to have less ability to work with ICB requirements (perhaps
                      because the plant supplier plays an integral role in the project development). This
                      difficulty may have been compounded by the operational rigidity of the PSIDC
                      structure as entrepreneurs may have been provided less guidance and support in the
                      ICB process than if the Bank had been more directly involved. For project structures
                      of this type, where the Bank is less directly involved, it may be preferable to allow less
                      onerous requirements (such as economically efficient procurement).

                3     However, it should be mentioned that despite SAGT's initial reluctance to follow the
                      Bank's ICB procedure, the awarded bid price for the RTG cranes (which were
                      financed through the PSIDC subloan) came in at a substantially lower price (more
                      than 30% less) than originally estimated by the project sponsor.

11.      The creation of an infrastructure fund is not a sufficient catalyst to increase private sector
investment in infrastructure as financing is not usually the binding constraint. Despite lack of
appropriate term financing being touted as a one of the major constraints for private sector infrastructure
investment and providing the rationale for setting up PSIDC, the lack of an enabling legal, regulatory and
institutional environment proved to be the binding constraint in Sri Lanka. This prevented the development
of a mature and robust pipeline of subprojects and was the main reason why the Project did not disburse as
originally envisaged. Although technical assistance was made available under the Project to support line
ministeries in project preparation of individual subprojects that were identified as suitable for private sector
participation, only limited funds were available to support sectoral policy and regulation. In hindsight, this
Project should have followed one in which significant strides had been made in advancing the enabling
framework in several infrastructure sectors. This would have improved the likelihood of having a more
robust pipeline of subprojects at the time of appraisal and the chances of the subprojects reaching financial
closure within the implementation timeframe of the Project.




                                                     - 67 -

Additional Annex 12. Borrower's Contribution


                    Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project

                 Implementation Completion Report  Borrower's Contribution


Assessment of the Project Objective, Design, Implementation and Operation Experience

           The main objective of the Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project (PSIDP) has been
to assist the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) in developing a modern and efficient system of
infrastructure by promoting significant participation of the private sector in the investment, operation,
ownership and maintenance of infrastructure. More detailed objectives of the Project are to:

           (a) establish a GOSL facility for the placement of long-term debt that will work in tandem with
                private sources of capital to facilitate potential private sector investment;
           (b) encourage significant participation of the private sector in the investment, implementation,
                operation and maintenance of new infrastructure facilities; and
           (c) strength GOSL's ability to attract, negotiate and close private sector sponsored
                infrastructure projects by increasing capabilities to evaluate and negotiate projects with
                private sponsors.

           The Project established Private Sector Infrastructure Development Company (PSIDC), a public
company, owned by the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL), as the implementation vehicle of the Project.
The GOSL ensured that PSIDC operates autonomously from the Government and in accordance with
normal commercial practice. PSIDC was provided with US $70 million for the purpose of on lending to
private sector infrastructure projects and further US$7 million as TA funds of which US$3.5 million had
been earmarked for PSIDC's staff and administrative expenditure and for retaining an expatriate project
finance expert for PSIDC. The remaining US$3.5 million had been earmarked for the use of the line
ministries and agencies.

           The Project consists of two parts: Part A Financing of Investment Projects, and Part B Institution
Building. The major portion of the Credit has been allocated to Part A of the Project. The Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) also extensively focused on
implementation of Part A.

Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance

           In accordance with the DCA and the SLA the Borrower, (GOSL), established Private Sector
Infrastructure Development Company (PSIDC), the implementation agency of the Project, as per the
recommendation of the IDA and allowed it to function independent of the public sector administrative and
financial regulation. The GOSL appointed a competent Board to manage the Company. The GOSL also
made available to PSIDC the necessary counterpart funding to meet part of the administrative expenses.
The GOSL also, as a matter of policy, publicly encouraged and endorsed the private sector participation in
infrastructure.




                                                      - 68 -

           At the early stage of PSIDC's operation, it was focusing on implementing Part A of the Project.
The amount of resources allocated to Part A of the Project and the attention paid to establishing PSIDC by
the Borrower resulted in the PSIDC management focusing on Part A of the Project as its main objective.
Therefore, PSIDC began its operation by looking for investment subprojects. The first subproject that
PSIDC considered for financing was Lanka Bell (a wireless telephone company), which was not a green
field project. This transaction was aborted. Having issued a few Expressions of Interests to various
project developers, PSIDC was able to receive only one definitive financing request from SAGT. Although
the AES Project relied on the PSIDC financing to submit its financial bids, AES subsequently sought
financing from the ADB. It appears that AES was able to raise financing on more favorable terms only
because of its assured funding from PSIDC. In this sense PSIDC's role was the role of a lender of last
resort or the "gap lender". ACE power project became ineligible due to procurement constraints and
Bi-Water did not proceed beyond the LOI stage.

           During the Implementation Review of the PSIDP, carried out in May 2002, the development
objective of establishing a GOSL facility for the placement of long-term debt had been rated unsatisfactory
by the World Bank Team. In terms of establishing a GOSL facility for the placement of long-term funds
the GOSL had fulfilled its responsibilities to the best of its ability and capacity. It established PSIDC with
full autonomy, free from public sector circulars, and appointed a very competent Board of Directors
consisting of CEOs of the DFIs and private sector companies and the Treasury nominees. The GOSL also
made available to PSIDC counterpart funding any delay whatsoever. There cannot be any reason for this
"unsatisfactory" rating. However, in terms of the disbursements of long-term debt, PSIDC's performance
has been, in fact, unsatisfactory compared to the envisaged disbursements indicated in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR).

           PSIDC could have been rated successful if it had disbursed funds as envisaged in the PSIDP
Staff Appraisal Report. The PSIDP appraisal report envisaged the disbursement of funds as follows:

           Year 1       -     US$12 million for project 1
           Year 2       -     US$28 million for project 2
           Year 3       -     US$30 million for project 3 and project 4

           However, these four projects had not been specifically identified in the SAR. PSIDC could not
lend to any project as it wished. It could lend only to infrastructure projects. The PSIDP Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) identified (Annex 3, SAR) potential candidates for PSIDC's financing based on the Project
Pipe Line maintained by Bureau of Infrastructure Investment (BII). The following projects had been
identified as potential candidates for PSIDC's financing in the medium term.

           It is seen from the above table that the only project PSIDC could not take part in financing was
the Kelanitissa Combined Cycle Power Station. However, it is important to note that the developer of this
project sought PSIDC financing before submitting its financial proposal. The developer used the assured
financing from PSIDC to bargain a more competitive financing package from other lenders. Thus, PSIDC's
role in this transaction was within its mandate of not crowding out private sector financing. PSIDC was
not intended to be a lead lender.




                                                     - 69 -

           Project                   Description            Cost                       Status
                                                           (US$)
POWER SECTOR

   Kuru Ganga & Gin             Hydro     12.0 MW         30 million     No progress made beyond LOI
   Ganga                        Hydro     39.0 MW         68 million     No progress made beyond LOI
   Seven Mini-Hydros            Hydro      3.5 MW          4 million     Too small for PSIDC Financing
   Hapugastenne Plantation      Hydro      1.3 MW          2 million     Too small for PSIDC Financing
   Dick-Oya                     Thermal   51.0 MW         60 million     Reached financial closure before PSIDC
   Sapugaskande Diesel          Thermal 150.0 MW         150 million     Developer preferred to seek ADB
   Kelanitissa                                                           financing. *
TRANSPORTATION

   Colombo  Katunayake         Highway 27.0 Km           90 million     GOSL offered the project as a public
        Express Way                                                          sector project.
   Port of Colombo              QEQ Terminal             200 million     PSIDC took part in financing
URBAN SERVICES

   Ekala/Ja Ela                 Waste water              3.5 million     No progress made beyond LOI
   Ratmalana Moratuwa           Waste water              6.3 million



           During the supervision period followed by the mid-term review of the Project, it was brought to
the notice of PSIDC that PSIDC's intended role was not a "lead lender" but a "lender of last resort" (Gap
Lender). There was no indication that during the early supervision period PSIDC had been advised of its
intended role, i.e. the role of a "Gap Lender". It appears that the concept of a "Gap Lender" was not a
criterion for PSIDC's operation framework.

           Until the third year of PSIDC's operation, PSIDC had not utilized TA resources that were meant
for the line agencies and ministries. PSIDC began to utilize TA resources meant for line agencies and
ministries by 2000 with a view to assisting the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing in facilitating
private sector participation (PSP) in the distribution of potable water in two geographical locations,
Negombo and Galle to Kalutara Coastal strip. The Ministry was assisted by the World Bank staff in
developing the Terms of Reference for the recruitment of consultants to deliver technical services. PSIDC,
within a period of a few months as per the IDA procurement guidelines recruited Halcrow to render
consultancy services for the Negombo PSP project, and after a protracted negotiation process, recruited
Price Waterhouse Coopers (PwC) to deliver technical services for the Galle to Kalutara Coastal Strip PSP
Project. The anticipated results of the two TA contracts had not been achieved due to a variety of
lapses/shortcomings that are discussed in Lessons Learned.

           The Power Sector appears to be a successful sector for PSP. Although the GOSL (the Ministry
of Power and the CEB) had mobilized private sector participation in the thermal sector, aggregating up to
170 MW, as well as a number of mini hydros under the World Bank funded Energy Services Delivery
Project, they do not appear to have acquired necessary skills in preparing project documents for solicitation
of new private sector proposals. As per a request made by the Ministry of Power, PSIDC contracted
Meritect to deliver technical services for the solicitation of proposals for a 300 MW Combined Cycle
Power Plant at Kerawalapitiya. The contract consists of 4 phases and is for a period of 18 months. The
first phase is for the preparation of RFP documents and this phase should have been completed in April 20
02. Regrettably the implementation of this TA program was extremely poor. Just before the expiry of the
contract, Meritec delivered the RFP documents to the Project Committee.



                                                      - 70 -

           There are so many reasons for this severe underperformance. According to the GOSL guidelines
for BOO/BOT projects, a project committee (PC) appointed by the Cabinet Appointed Negotiating
Committee (CANC) is responsible for the development of RFP documents on behalf of the CANC. The
PC appointed for the Kerawalapitiya Project appears to be too busy and the members do not have sufficient
free time to work on substantial basis with the consultants. This was the primary reason for the inordinate
delay experienced in the Kerawalapitiya Project. It is important to appoint PCs with a mandate as to
various deadlines to deliver deliverables. Members of such committees may even be paid an honorarium to
motivate them for completion of their tasks. In this instance case, the PC should have been appointed with
a mandate to complete the tasks in synchronization of the contract deliverables. The Kerawalapitiya
Project could have mobilized up to US$300 million in foreign direct investment on project completion and
appointment of a PC on full time basis is worth considering given the magnitude of the foreign direct
investment involved.

           The second reason for the delay, as claimed by the consultants, is the change of the scope of
work of the consultants. The original scope of work was for the development of a 300 MW CCPP at
Kerawalapitiya. Subsequently, during the implementation of Phase 1 of the study, the consultants had been
requested to develop RFP documents on the basis of three options. (a) a 300 MW plant; (b) two 150 MW
plants from one developer; and (c) one 150 MW plant from two developers. The consultants had also
claimed that this change of scope of work had resulted in additional inputs for which the consultants are
seeking additional remuneration. However, the Project Committee was of the view that the quality of
performance of the selected consultant was poor and that resulted in rewriting the draft RFP.

           PSP in infrastructure is always a partnership between the public sector and the private sector. In
this sense, the public sector has to perform certain tasks in order to facilitate PSP. One such task is to send
unambiguous signals to the private sector as to the intention of the public sector. If the public sector's
intentions were not very clear the private sector would not view such solicitations as serious because
responding to RFPs is fairly costly. In the given example, it is important for the GOSL to decide up front
the capacity of the Kerawalapitiya Project instead of giving options to private developers. Needless to say
that evaluation of bids received under three different options is also a complex task and the bid evaluation
process may also be viewed as lacking transparency.

PSIDP Design Parameters

           As stated above the PSIDP design consists of two Parts: Part A and Part B. The major thrust has
been on Part A for placing subordinate debts in subprojects given the amount of resources allocated for this
part. Part B was primarily for PSIDC's institutional development and for assisting line ministries/agencies
for the development of subprojects.

           PSIDC has also been established as a transitory mechanism and its interest rate and the fee
structure have been published in the brochure and also in the web site of PSIDC. Thus, PSIDC had been
locked into an interest and fee structure. Although the credit agreements provide for annual review of this
rate no such review took place. As PSIDC was chasing projects that were not in existence, the PSIDC
Board had been apprised of the fact that the published interest rate of US$ Six Month LIBOR plus 300 b.p
was indeed high. When SAGT sought subordinated debt funding it was proved that PSIDC's lending rate
was rather lopsided; a subordinated lender's rate being less than the senior lenders' rate.




                                                     - 71 -

Lessons Learned

Project Design

           The main lesson learned during the implementation of the Project was the mixed priorities of the
project objectives. PSIDP consists of two parts: Part A is for financing of subprojects through the
provision of subordinated debts and Part B is for provision of technical assistance to PSIDC for
institutional development and preparation of subprojects for private sector investment. From the very
inception of the implementation, PSIDC has been focusing on Part A of the Project. There was little
attention paid to Part B except for PSIDC's institutional development.

           There was no attempt on the part of PSIDC to validate the project pipeline maintained by BII
and to assess the progress of such subprojects in terms of reaching financial closure. According to the
PSIDP design, the placements of funds in infrastructure projects had been the major emphasis in the
PSIDC's work plan. There was no emphasis on project preparation. Even the TOR of the Resident
Advisor was silent on this aspect.

           PSIDC could have achieved much in terms of the overall project objective if PSIDC had focused
the sub-project development task of the Project (Part B) instead of trying to place long-term debt in
infrastructure projects that in the first place did not even exist.

           As per PSIDC's initial work plan if PSIDC had used its TA resources to support BII and the
relevant line agencies to develop the sub-projects under consideration for private sector financing some of
these projects could have been implemented with private sector participation. At least the
Colombo-Katunayake Expressway could have been a success. It was due to PSIDC's over reliance in
transactions, without paying due consideration for the project development process, some of the subprojects
in the BII project-pipeline did not proceed beyond the LOI status. There is evidence that during the early
stages of supervision PSIDC had been requested to be more proactive in discussions with the line ministries
about potential bankable projects. It appears that no such discussions had taken place as there was no
disbursement of TA funds to any line Ministries until the conclusion of the Mid-Term Review of PSIDP in
late 1999.

           PSIDP was rated unsatisfactory by the World Bank due to no disbursement under Part A during
the first two years of operation. This assessment is rather confusing because PSIDC's intended role is not
to be a lead lender. Besides, no infrastructure project was in the market looking out debt financing during
this period. However, PSIDP deserves to be rated unsatisfactory because no RFP's had been issued by the
GOSL for private sector participation. A better design could have been for Part B of the Project to be the
lead component of the PSIDP.

Lending Parameters

           The investment component of the Project under performed for the obvious reasons of not
maturing the BII project pipeline. If PSIDC had been permitted to lend in local currency, in addition to US
Dollar lending, there could have been some unsolicited projects from the private sector in waste
management, renewal energy and urban services. During discussions with Bi-Water it was revealed that
one of the reasons for aborted negotiation of the Jaela-Ekala wastewater project was the inability of the
project to service a US Dollar denominated loan. Overseas Realty Limited, the owning company of World
Trade Center was disappointed for our inability lend in local currency for a multi-story public vehicle park.




                                                       - 72 -

Pace of subproject preparation

           PSIDC's involvement in the delivery of technical services to the water sector taught PSIDC
many lessons. First, the duration of the consultancy contracts was too optimistic. Both Halcrow and PwC
advised PSIDC during the time of contract negotiation that the time periods given for the consultancy
services were too short. The Halcrow contract was for a period of 11 months and the PwC contract was for
a period of 13 months. PSIDC relied on the assurances given by the concerned parties that the tasks were
achievable during the contract periods. Both these contracts now need to be renegotiated both in terms of
costs and contract periods because of various reasons that were beyond the capability of PSIDC.

           The second lesson was that PSIDC should have insisted on the appointment of a dedicated unit
within the Ministry to coordinate technical services. During the implementation period there had been three
new Secretaries appointed to the Ministry. In the absence of a dedicated coordinating unit within the
Ministry for the water reform process, such turnover of Secretaries had affected the two consultancy
contracts adversely. The World Bank approved the use of TA resources for the recruitment of a Reform
Manager. But no such recruitment took place until the PSIDC Board decided to suspend further delivery
of TA funds until the appointment of a Reform Manager.

           The third lesson was that the two consultancy services had been highly transaction oriented
without paying adequate attention to the fundamental requirements for PSP in the water sector. It could
have been more advantageous if the scope of work of consultancy, in the first instance, had been to review
the prevailing legal framework and to recommend the necessary amendments to the existing law for the
facilitation of PSP in whatever form. The two consultants' recommendations had been diverged; one
recommended an amendment to the existing NWSDB Act to facilitate a feasible PSP strategy while the
other recommended a PSP strategy to suit the existing legal framework. The latter with their vast
experience knew that during the contract delivery period it was an impossible task to amend the existing
law and therefore they recommended a strategy that was not within the overall objective of the GOSL for
the water sector.

           In Sri Lankan situation, reforms in the water sector appear to be highly politically sensitive.
Given the fact that the current water tariff being at highly subsidized levels any form of PSP in the water
sector is bound to be resisted by consumers as well as politicians. In such a backdrop the most preferred
approach could have been to prepare a road map for PSP in the water sector. Once a broad consensus is
received for such a road map then the needed TA may have been delivered to address critical tasks.
Instead, the ongoing consultancies attempted to rush two transactions up to financial closure resulting in
virtually nothing but costs to taxpayers in Sri Lanka.

           It is important to state that the World Bank task team on PSIDP rendered significant assistance
to the two PSP initiatives in the water sector. As a result, the two initiatives now appear to be addressing
fundamentals for PSP in the water sector. The two TA contracts are being renegotiated with a realistic
time frame and their tasks are buttressed by some other TA contracts that were not within the original
TORs of the two contracts. This is the most important lesson PSIDC learned. There are no shortcuts for
PSP in politically sensitive sectors like water.




                                                      - 73 -

           The TA contract for the Kerawalapitiya CCPP also taught PSIDC many lessons. The first
lesson was that there was no requirement to hire a consultancy firm to do the full spectrum of the RFP
process. The GOSL was already in possession of the documentation of the AES CCPP. Assuming that the
objective of the CEB was to improve the quality of the project documentation it could have used the AES
documents as the base templates for the Kerawalapitiya Project. Then it was only a matter of reviewing the
proposed documents with some technical inputs to ensure the bankability of the project.

           Needless to say that for such an approach it is important to have a full time project committee (at
least some members of the committee working on full time basis) in charge of the basic task of the
development of project documents. This is a matter that the GOSL need to consider in future transactions.

Performance by the Bank and KfW

           During the implementation period of the PSIDP the World Bank extended its cooperation in
forwarding timely approvals and no objections for various TA contracts and training requests. The Bank
also provided valuable technical advice during the implementation. Especially the Bank's proactive role in
extending further TA resources outside the PSIDP for the water sector was indeed highly appreciative.

           Although KfW was not involved in any detail supervision missions PSIDC and the World Bank
kept KfW informed of the progress of PSIDC. KfW also visited PSIDC every time a KfW Mission visited
Sri Lanka and their inputs were highly valuable. In fact KfW was fully convinced that PSIDC could have
been very successful if it had focused its attention to medium scaled projects offering local currency
funding. KfW extended its fullest cooperation in amending the KfW Loan Agreement in permitting PSIDC
to lend in local currency as well. This amendment helped PSIDC in taking part in debt financing of a 10
MW hydro power plant along with the DFCC Bank. As a result, PSIDC became very much known among
the local project developers. In keeping with its mandate of the catalyst lender it redirected all the
developers to the DFCC Bank once the ESDP II financing became available.

Lessons Learned

           Presumably PSIDC has been designed to be a transitory mechanism because the IDA would not
want to support to establish a new government owned financial institution. This appeared to be the reason
for the underlying consideration for the sunset clause in the Development Credit Agreement. Considering
the fact that institutional development of a specialized financial institution takes more than five years to
mature PSIDC should have been designed as a private sector owned and managed entity from the very
inception. This could have been achieved if PSIDC had been established as a joint subsidiary of the two
prevailing DFIs (and perhaps other interested financial institutions) with GOSL holding 51% of the
ownership without any management control. Without the GOSL majority ownership in PSIDC, the
Government would not have been able to guarantee the IDA Credit to PSIDC. By the closing date of the
Project, the GOSL could have been required to exit from the majority ownership. If this were the case,
PSIDC would have continued in its operation and the Project would have achieved a significant
development impact. Although PSIDC Board consisted of leading private sector representatives they were
just nominees without any "ownership stake" in PSIDC. That was a rather unsatisfactory practice.
PSIDC's performance could have been more proactive if it had the private sector participation in its equity.




                                                      - 74 -

Institutional Development Impact

            One of the Project objectives has been to establish a GOSL facility for the placement of
long-term debt that will work in tandem with private sector capital. The SAR stated very clearly that
PSIDC would be established as a transitory mechanism. The Development Credit Agreement also
envisaged that the GOSL would either wind up the operation of PSIDC or privatize PSIDC by the closing
date of the Credit. Given the nature of project financing and the nature of PSP in infrastructure in a
developing country, the project objective and the DCA Clause do not converge. It is impossible for an
institute like PSIDC to develop a long-term debt market within a period of five years.

            Currently, PSIDC is the only institution (public or private) that can offer long-term debt and it
has acquired some project financing skills over the years. PSIDC could have converted its surplus to
provide long-term debt either in local currency or in US Dollars in tandem with private sector resources.
With the proposed plan for assigning the assets of PSIDC to the proposed Fund PSIDC will cease to exist
and by this very act the institutional development impact of PSIDP would disappear overnight. The
privatization of PSIDC would have been a better option for the development of private sector participation
in infrastructure in keeping with the deliberations made in Para 3.19 and 3.20 of the Staff Appraisal
Report.

            The absence of long-term debt is clearly an impediment to infrastructure financing. This is
evident from the fact that after the expiry of the ESDP funding no bank in Sri Lanka could finance any
small hydro project until the funding from the RERED Project was made available. It was during this
period that PSIDC, with the concurrence of KfW and the GOSL, decided to extend the local currency
funding to Didul (Pvt) Ltd, for a 10 MW small hydro plant. The appetite for debt financing for projects
with robust design appears to be high among international banks. However, costs of such projects have to
be in the region of US$50 million or over. For smaller projects up to US$30-20 million, local debt
financing, both in terms of tenors and amounts is a real problem because of capacity restriction of the local
banks. Besides, local banks also have other restrictions as per banking regulations as to their ability to
finance such projects. A 10 MW small hydro plant costing around US$6 million (which PSIDC was not
allowed to consider) is being financed with three banks mostly because of the financial strength of the
developer. A project costing around US$10 million may need about 7 to 8 banks to reach financial closure.

            There are prospects for PSP in sectors such as waste disposal, waste to energy, small hydro
plants, and urban services needing local currency debt financing. Even part of debt financing for toll roads
may come from local currency funding. For such subprojects, a specialized institution like PSIDC could be
a great encouragement. PSIDC may encourage such projects to issue infrastructure bonds by agreeing to
guarantee/underwrite such bonds based on PSIDC's financial capacity.

            Regardless of the availability of funding (local or foreign), it is important to speed up the project
development process of the public sector. It is important to review the GOSL lead-time for the preparation
of such projects for PSP and their approval process. This ability is fundamental to the development of
infrastructure with private sector participation.




                                                     - 75 -

The Proposed Arrangement for Future Operation

           The GOSL agreed with the World Bank that PSIDC should be sold to a private sector entity. In
this regard the GOSL attempted to contract a TA contractor to deliver some technical services to the Public
Enterprise Reform Commission (PERC) and it was found that the key personnel of the short-listed
consultants were either not qualified or not available to undertake the assignment. Subsequently, with the
changed of the government the future operation of PSIDC was reconsidered. Accordingly, the Government
proposed to establish an Infrastructure and Corporate Restructuring Fund managed jointly by the State and
the private sector. The proposed Fund will expect to mobilize funds to promote greater investment in
infrastructure. The Government would transfer its existing holdings in PSIDC to the new Fund.

           The Board of Investment is the executing agency for this Fund and it had already contracted with
PwC (Jakarta) to carry out valuation of the two assets of PSIDC to determine the GOSL equity in the
Fund. This fund is to be managed by a Board consisting of private sector representatives and it would
invest only in infrastructure projects to be developed by the private sector. The Contractor has also been
required to carry out market sounding as well so that in the event that the fund is not established PSIDC
may be privatized.

           In the event of establishing the Fund, PSIDC's future cash flows would be assigned to the Fund
as the GOSL's equity. The BOI will forward to the World Bank a comprehensive report of the proposed
Fund for the concurrence of the World Bank. The existing staff of PSIDC had agreed to remain in the
employment of PSIDC until the proposed transfer of the two assets. In order to keep the PSIDC staff in
the employment PSIDC Board has agreed to pay compensation for involuntary termination of the
employment and this was conveyed to the staff in the fresh contract renewals and the staff had accepted the
termination provision. Thus, PSIDC does not envisage any dispute in terminating all the staff of PSIDC.

Performance Indicators of Future Operation

           If the proposed Fund is established, the only performance indicator of future operation would be
the amount invested (and perhaps leveraged) by the Fund in infrastructure projects. However, the Fund
would face the same problems faced by PSIDC unless the subproject development process is streamlined.
Currently, the BII is responsible for the task of developing subprojects. It is extremely important that this
subproject development process should be strengthened. PSIDC has the basic infrastructure in place it has
developed some institutional capabilities. The GOSL may consider keeping the PSIDC structure for the
purpose of developing large-scale subprojects. The operating expenses of PSIDC may be considered as the
counterpart funds for any multilateral/bilateral technical assistance projects. If such a structure is retained,
the number of subprojects developed for eventual financial closure will also be another performance
indicator. Alternatively, PSIDC may be wound up and its infrastructure and some key staff may get
absorbed into BII.




                                                     - 76 -

Additional Annex 13. Map




                          Map IBRD 27509  sri27509.pdf




                                    - 77 -

- 78 -

