Document of
The World Bank                  FILE  COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2439-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
SECOND TURCENI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
December 21, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit : Leu (plural Lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei 4.47 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.08
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 18.oo = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.06
The official exchange rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1, having
been revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974. Beginning
in March 1978, a trading rate of lei 18 per US$1 has been used to convert
the prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representative of the
average cost of convertible foreign exchange. The rate of lei 18 per US$1 is
being used by the Government to convert national income statistics from lei
to dollars. Consequently, this rate has been used as the base rate for
calculation in the appraisal.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CIEET              -  Industrial Central for Electric Power and Heat
CIPEET            -  Industrial Central for Production of Electric
Power and Heat
CIRE              -  Industrial Central for Transmission and
Distribution of Power
ISPE              -  Design Institute for Thermal Studies
MEE                -  Ministry of Electrical Energy
GWh                -  Gigawatt-hour = 1 million kWh
toe               -  Tons oil equivalent



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
SECOND TURCENI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Investment Bank of Romania
Guarantor:           Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiary:         Turceni Enterprise
Loan Amount:         US$70 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, through
semi-annual installments, with interest at 7.35 percent
per annum. The Investment Bank will carry the foreign
exchange risk.
Project              The project would consist of a thermal  power station with
Description:        four 330-MW lignite-fired units.  It would also include
about 288 km of 400-kV transmission lines connecting
Turceni with Cluj. It would be a second stage extension
to the first 4x330-MW thermal power station at Turceni
which is being assisted with Bank financing under Ln.
1028-RO.
Cost Estimates:                                                           Foreign
US$ Millions               as %
Item                                     Local      Foreign     Total    of Total
A.  Thermal Power Station                302.8        85.6       388.4       22
Physical Contingencies (10%)          30.3         8.5       38.8        22
Price Escalation (13.3% on
foreign exchange costs)               -        12.5        12.5       100
Sub-Total                            333.1       106.6      439.7        24
B. Transmission Lines and
Substations                         29.6        8.6        38.2        23
Physical Contingencies (10%)           3.0         0.9        3.9        23
Price Escalation (9.5% on
foreign exchange costs)               -         0.9         0.9       100
Sub-Total                             32.6        10.4       43.0        24
Total Project Cost                   365.7       117.0      482.7        24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:                                 US$ Millions
Local     Foreign      Total
Turceni Enterprise)                 365.7        47.0      412.7
Government         )
IBRD                                   -         70.0       70.0
Total                               365.7       117.0      482.7
Estimated
Disbursements:                                 US$ Millions
Bank FY          1979         1980        1981      1982
Annual                               6.2         33.0       28.4        2.4
Cumulative                           6.2         39.2       67.6       70.0
Rate of Return:     At least 6.4 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2243-RO; December 19, 1978
EMENA Projects Department



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA
FOR A SECOND TURCENI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Investment Bank of Romania, with the guarantee of the Socialist Republic
of Romania, for the equivalent of $70 million to help finance a Second Turceni
Thermal Power Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3
years of grace, with interest at 7.35 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        The first basic report on Romania (Report no. 1601-RO, "The Indus-
trialization of an Agra:rian Economy under Socialist Planning") was circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. An economic mission visited
Romania in mid-May to collect information on economic performance in 1977 and
to discuss the 1978 Annual Plan and the new economic measures announced in
February 1978. This part incorporates its findings. Country social and
economic data are given in Annex I.
3.        Over the past 25 years the Romanian economy has undergone a radical
transformation and has 3sustained one of the highest growth rates in the world.
The average growth rate of national income during the period has been 9.7
percent per annum. The level and diversification of industrial production
has increased rapidly, providing the basis for the modernization and expansion
of other economic sectors and a general increase in labor productivity and
national income. With the transfer of labor from agriculture to industry,
the population has becorme increasingly urbanized. Standards of living have
increased substantially!, not only because of the growth of personal incomes
but also because of the provision through the state budget of expanded and
improved education, medical services, housing and social expenditures of other
kinds. Furthermore, Romanian participation in the world economy has changed
significantly as the level of trade has risen and its composition altered.
4.        The changes in the level and structure of economic activities be-
tween 1950 and 1975 represent the outcome of a development strategy designed
to accelerate the rate of growth and to catch up, as quickly as possible,
with the level and structure of development in the developed countries. The
main features of the strategy can be summarized as: high and increasing rates
of saving and investment; the creation of a broad industrial base; the devel-
opment of local natural resources; the reorganization and modernization of
agriculture; the balanced regional distribution of production and income; the
expansion of foreign trade and international economic relations; and the
development of human resources.
1/   This part is identical to the description of the economy included in the
President's Report for A Roman Seamless Pipe Project, to be considered
by the Executive Directors on the same date as the proposed project.



- 2 -
5.        The main instrument for carrying out the strategy has been the
system of comprehensive central planning and management. Economic management
is organized along socialist principles which include state and cooperative
ownership of almost all productive resources. Economic activity is directed
by means of obligatory development planning coordinated by the central party
and government authorities. The national plan, drawn up on a five-year time
frame and elaborated each year in an Annual Plan, sets out for the economy as
a whole, by sector and branch and on a regional basis, specific tasks for
economic and social units. The plan is drawn up through a combination of
central directives and aggregation of individual enterprise plans, any dif-
ferences being reconciled through discussions between the entities involved.
During the late 1960s and throughout the present decade, Romania has under-
taken measures to improve the planning and management system, to increase the
responsibility of enterprises in preparing and implementing the plan and to
orient the economy to a more efficient use of resources (see para 20 for the
latest changes).
6.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. Enter-
prises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which is
controlled through a system of financial and physical production targets. In
agriculture, large State farms and cooperatives are the predominant units of
production.
7.        To achieve the objectives of rapid growth and structural change, the
Romanian authorities have made great efforts to mobilize domestic resources
for development and to maintain a high rate of capital formation. Over the
past 25 years, investment has grown at 13 percent per annum, and by the 1971-
75 Five-Year Plan, the proportion of national income utilized for accumulation
had risen to 34.1 percent (equivalent to 27-28 percent of GNP).  The sectoral
allocation of investment throughout the period reflected the priority of
industrialization and the creation of a broad industrial base oriented towards
self-sufficiency; approximately 50 percent of investment has been allocated to
industry and, of this, by far the largest part has been directed to the
producer goods sector. This has resulted in rapid growth of the industrial
sector, over 13 percent per annum during the last decade, with the producer
goods sector growing more rapidly than consumer goods. In 1976 industry was
the leading sector of the economy, accounting for almost 60 percent of national
income, and employing approximately 32 percent of the labor force (and almost
33 percent in 1977) compared with 14 percent in 1950. Heavy industry, led by
chemicals, ferrous metallurgy, engineering and machine building, comprised 62
percent of gross industrial production.
8.        This industrialization strategy has greatly increased the demand for
raw materials and energy. Romania has concentrated on exploiting local
resources of fuels, metals and minerals to be as self-sufficient as possible
in these items. However; in spite of the rapid growth in production of the
wide range of raw materials found in Romania and recent efforts to conserve
and economize in the use of raw materials and energy, Romania has become a net



- 3 -
importer of many important items, particularly coal, iron ore and oil. The
rapid growth of energy consumption, 8.6 percent per annum since 1950, has
outpaced the growth of domestic production. Romania started to import oil
in 1968 and became a net importer of energy in 1972.
9.        Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, agriculture
remains a key sector of the economy, still employing 34 percent of the labor
force in 1977 (compared with 74 percent in 1950). Apart from supplying foods
and other agricultural products as inputs for agro-industries, the sector also
supplies about 30 percent of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earn-
ings. Though agricultural output almost tripled in the last 25 years, the
faster growth of non-agricultural sectors has reduced the share of agriculture
in national income to about 18 percent by 1976. Over the past decade, agricul-
tural performance has improved with the increased emphasis on agricultural
development and the increased investment funds made available. However, the
level and growth of production have remained below the sector's potential.
10.       Romania's population growth is about 1 percent per annum.  The
rapid growth of industrial employment has therefore drawn labor from the rural
areas. The average GNP growth of 9 percent per annum implies a percentage
growth in output per head of about 8 percent per annum, up to an estimated GNP
per capita of US$1,580 in 1977, based upon official national income information
using the World Bank Atlas methodology.
11.       The organization of the economy is such that all labor is employed
(indeed, required to work). There is, however, some seasonal labor surplus
in agriculture. Income distribution is also relatively equal, through govern-
ment policy controls over the level, growth and structure of wages. By law
the maximum wage is limited to five and a half to six times the minimum.
Monthly wages were increased by 8.3 percent in 1976 to an average of 1,964
lei. The Government also promotes its income distribution policies through
regional allocation of iindustrial investment.
12.       The Government: aims to give the population a basic needs package,
partly by providing services such as education, health and housing. From this
basic level, the Government has planned annual increases in living standards.
Real incomes have risen at an annual rate of 6.6 percent since 1950, with the
growth rate accelerating particularly in the last decade as more benefits of
a rapidly expanding national income were channelled to consumption. Prices
of essential consumer goods and services such as foodstuffs, rents and urban
transport remain low and most social services, notably education and health
care, are provided free of charge.
13.       The value of Romania's trade grew at an average annual rate of 13
percent in the past 25 years, with a gradual acceleration in the last decade,
reflecting not only the effects of international inflation but also an increase
in the importance of trade, particularly industrial imports, to the economy.
The level of imports rose in response to the need for capital goods and raw
materials, reaching US$7.02 billion in 1977. Exports also grew rapidly,
reaching a level of US$6.88 billion in 1977, and the share of manufactured



- 4 -
goods increased to 50 percent, reflecting the progress of Romania's indus-
trialization. Trade with LDCs and developed market economies has also been
increasing rapidly in response to policies of diversifying sources of raw
material supply and as a consequence of exports of more manufactured goods.
In recent years, there has also been a tendency to move away from trade on
a bilateral basis towards trade involving multilateral payments, within the
framework of the general trade cooperation agreements signed with almost all
of the country's trading partners. These agreements also covered cooperation
in production, technical assistance and economic relations. In 1977, the
convertible balance of payments deteriorated, reversing the trend of the
previous three years. After a surplus of US$76 million in 1976, the trade
balance had a deficit of US$81 million in 1977, as a result of additional
imports made necessary by the earthquake, the diversion of export goods
to the domestic economy for reconstruction and continued weak demand in the
developed countries for some Romanian exports. With an increased deficit on
the invisibles account (US$192 million compared with US$137 million in 1976),
there was a current account deficit in 1977 of US$273 million compared with
the 1976 deficit of US$61 million.
14.       In spite of these developments, the structure of Romania's trade
with the developed market economies is still characterized by exports of
natural resources and imports of capital goods. Because of the present low
level of reserves, any instability in export earnings, as frequently arises
from shortfalls in agricultural output or softening in prices tends to place
the import program, largely sophisticated machinery and components, in imme-
diate jeopardy.
Recent Economic Developments
15.       The Five-Year Plan under implementation covers the period 1976-80.
The high growth rates experienced during 1971-75 are planned to continue. The
pattern of growth planned for this period suggests that the present decade has
been viewed as a decisive period in the achievement of long-term objectives,
during which Romania will overcome the major constraints on its transformation
from a developing country into a developed and technologically advanced coun-
try. There have been substantial and comprehensive revisions to the Five-Year
Plan targets during 1977 to help accomplish this. In July, increased targets
for standards of living were announced and in December, following the Eleventh
Conference of the Romanian Communist Party (RCP), revised targets for all other
areas of the Plan were announced. Also, in January 1978 important decisions
were taken to increase work incentives substantially by allowing workers to
participate in sharing the profits of enterprises (see-para 20).
16.       According to the revised plan, national income is to grow at 11
percent per annum between 1976-80, practically the same rate as was achieved
between 1971 and 1975. Gross industrial production will increase at 11.5
percent, compared with the original target of 10.2-11.2 percent, while gross
agricultural production is expected to grow at a rate of 6.9-9.0 percent per
annum, which would require a significant improvement over previous results
in that sector. In addition, investment is to increase by 12.7 percent per
annum, approximately the same rate of growth as in the original plan. However,



- 5 -
the revised plan contains a larger number of investment projects, as new
projects were added folLowing a reexamination of existing projects which led
to a reduction in investment costs of about 10 percent on average. This
reexamination, which took place in 1976 and 1977 was part of the general
campaign to increase utilization of existing capacity and to economize on the
consumption of raw materials and intermediate goods. The volume of foreign
trade is to increase by 109.1 percent in real terms over the five years, a
much faster rate of growth than in 1971-75 when trade merely doubled in
current prices. Furthermore, the Government plans to encourage the growth of
exports so that it exceeds that of imports, so as to pursue its long-term
objective of reducing external debt and allowing for the accumulation of
reserves. While the rate of growth of consumption will remain below that of
production, it will neviertheless be increased under the revised plan. Real
wages are now to increase by 32.3 percent over the five years compared with
the previous target of 22 percent. As a result, targets for socialist retail
trade and services for the population have been increased.
17.       The economy was dealt a severe blow on March 4, 1977 when a violent
earthquake occurred in the east of the country, causing severe damage in the
vicinity of Bucharest. The Government estimated that 1,570 people were killed,
11,300 injured and that it caused damage valued at US$2 billion. US$1.4 billion
of the total damage was to buildings and associated utilities, of which US$1
billion was in housing. Of the remaining 30 percent of damage, almost all was
in inventories and production. The earthquake also had a substantial detri-
mental effect on the country's balance of payments' prospects; the net balance
of payments cost is estimated to be approximately US$630 million during 1977
and 1978.
18.       The Government organized immediately an intensive reconstruction
effort with the stated aim of avoiding any impact upon the implementation of
five-year plan targets.  This required additional efforts from the population
in the form of labor, e.g. work on one Sunday per month, and money. While
these efforts enabled the economy to continue its growth, 1977 plan targets
were only partially fulfilled. National income increased by 8.6 percent com-
pared to a plan target of 11.3 percent and an increase in the previous year
of 10.5 percent. Industrial production increased substantially more than the
plan target (12.5 versus 10.5 percent). In net production or value added
terms, however, growth was significantly lower, since reductions in production
costs were less than planned and because of the need to make repairs after
the earthquake. For reasons other than the earthquake, chiefly climatic and
management problems, gross agricultural production fell 1.3 percent short
of the 1976 level, and was far below the plan target of 2-4 percent growth.
The gross output of the construction sector rose rapidly; much of the addi-
tional output constituted repairs and the sector provided a relatively large
share of growth in national income. The impact of the earthquake showed up
clearly in the growth rates of investment and trade. The volume of investment
increased by 11.5 percent rather than the 16.7 percent planned, reflecting the
diversion of construction resources and manpower to repair work. The volume
of trade increased in current prices close to that planned (14.8 versus 15.5
percent) but with imports increasing more rapidly and exports less rapidly
than planned.



- 6 -
19.       The 1978 Annual Plan indicated growth rates similar to those planned
in 1977. National income was planned to increase by 11-11.5 percent, gross
industrial production by 10.6 percent and gross agricultural production by
between 6.9 and 16.1 percent, with the respective net production growth
rates being somewhat higher as a result of planned decreases in material
expenditures per unit of final product. Investment was planned to increase
by 16.8 percent and foreign trade by 19.1 percent. Real incomes of the
population were projected to increase by 7.9 percent. Mid-year reports
suggested that the growth of production during 1978 was likely to approxi-
mate targets, although there have been indications of delays in carrying
out investments. The recently published Annual Plan for 1979 signals no
significant deviation from the previous path, although the target for national
income (8.8 percent) does suggest a slight deceleration in growth. Net indus-
trial production is planned to grow at 11.5 percent (in keeping with the new
economic measures, the 1979 Plan specifies industrial growth in net rather than
gross terms), with particularly high rates of growth planned for such indus-
trial branches as machine tools, engineering and electrical goods. Gross
agricultural production is planned to increase at 5.1-5.6 percent, foreign
trade at 16.6 percent and investment at 9.1 percent, substantially below the
1978 target. Real incomes of the population are expected to increase by
7.5 percent.
20.       In February, 1978 the Government announced changes in economic
and financial mechanisms designed to improve the planning and management of
the economy, to stimulate improvements in labor productivity, in cost reduc-
tion and efficiency of production and also to make existing provisions for
enterprise self-management more effective. The major change announced was
the introduction of net production as a major plan target, both for inducing
enterprises to fulfill plan objectives, particularly in the areas of increased
efficiency and reduction of costs and as the basis upon which worker's wages
and bonuses are paid. In future enterprises are also to retain a higher pro-
portion of profits, have increased responsibility for socio-cultural expendi-
tures, be more concerned in the final stages of the annual plan preparation,
be permitted to enter into longer term contracts to ensure a closer correla-
tion between the plan and actual contract provisions and will have more direct
responsibilities for the achievement of foreign trade targets. These measures
are now under detailed discussion within Romania and are expected to become
law in 1979. It is too early to make a definite judgment, but it does appear
that they are designed to make the existing management and planning system
operate more efficiently rather than to cause radical changes. However, they
are a step in the direction that the basic economic report suggested was
desirable if the economy was to meet its objectives. Furthermore, they will
set up new pressures between the various levels of the economy which may lead
to more substantial changes in the future.
External Assistance
21.       The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to
pay for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by



- 7 -
borrowing abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism
earnings. In 1977, new commitments of convertible medium and long-term
loans totalled US$843 million and consisted mainly of supplier and financial
credits with relatively s'hort repayment periods. The gross inflow of conver-
tible medium and long-term loans during the year was US$890 million (not
counting US$38 million from the IMF). This represented a net inflow of US$329
million after accounting for the country's repayment obligations. There was
also a net inflow of US$156 million on short-term during 1977; this was the
result of the Government's temporary reversal, because of additional financing
needs generated by the earthquake, of its policy to reduce reliance on short-
term credits.
22.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also taken active steps to attract long-term
private capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under
which foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic enterprises,
preferably in foreign exchange earning or saving industries. As of November
1978, eight joint venture agreements had been signed and a number of others
announced. In contrast with the earlier ventures, which involved total direct
foreign investments of only US$10-15 million, the seventh and eighth involve
far larger sums. The seventh agreement, signed in early 1977 with Citroen,
involves a contract of FF' 2.5 billion (about US$500 million) and will lead to
a total capital inflow of aproximately US$250 million. Even larger inflows,
appproximately US$500 million, are expected as a result of the eighth agree-
ment, with Kuwait, for the construction of a petrochemical complex costing
US$1.25 billion. In the past twelve months, several more ventures have been
announced; a joint shipping company in cooperation with Libya, a joint produc-
tion company with British Aircraft, a joint production enterprise with Data
Products Corporation of UISA and a joint venture for passenger aircraft with
VFW-Fokker. Many other joint venture proposals are at various stages of
negotiations.
23.       Romania also receives medium-term trade credits from the U.S. Exim-
bank and trades under Government guaranteed supplier credit schemes, ECGD,
COFACE, and HERMES with t:he United Kingdom, France and the Federal Republic
of Germany, respectively., During 1977, Romania became the first East European
recipient of a Japanese Eximbank loan, receiving US$80 million for the expan-
sion of the port of Constanta. In 1975 Romania succeeded in securing a US$100
million, eight-year loan from Kuwait as part of a general cooperation agree-
ment and also a US$420 m:Lllion loan from Iran on concessionary terms. How-
ever, it is in its Eurocurrency borrowings that the Government has made most
progress in improving its access to capital markets and in raising substantial
sums at good and improving terms. During 1977, it negotiated two Euro-
dollar loans totalling US$125 million. In January 1978, Romania negotiated
a further US$100 million on the Eurocurrency market, and it was recently
announced that the Government has negotiated a new Eurocurrency borrowing of
US$200-300 million. The terms for this eight-year loan, with four years grace
are 0.625 percent above LIBOR for the first three years and 0.750 percent for
the remaining years. As part of its strategy to secure long-term energy
supplies, Romania has concluded a long-term contract with Occidental Petroleum
for the purchase of coal from the U.S.; a banking consortium raised a US$53
million loan in April 1978 to finance Romanian participation in the Island



- 8 -
Creek Coal Mine in West Virginia. In addition, Romania has access to non-
convertible currency investment credits from the International Investment
Bank, Moscow.
24.       Nonetheless, Romania's access to long-term finance in convertible
currencies is still very restricted. The IBRD is the major source of long-
term development finance, though, as shown above, Romania is making efforts
to improve its access to financial markets. The Bank's presence on a signi-
ficant scale, and its effort to associate Bank financed projects with co-
financing through supplier or financial credits, has a positive influence
in this regard and serves to build outside confidence in the country,
thereby enhancing in the long-term Romania's independent access to the
world's financial markets.
Prospects
25.       Romania has good potential for further economic growth.  Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and sources of irrigation water for agriculture, and a favorable climate for
agriculture and tourism) and located conveniently with respect to its major
international markets in the East and West, the country has built a broad
industrial infrastructure (power, metallurgy, chemicals) which will serve as
a base for the expansion of secondary manufacturing sectors such as machine
building and consumer durables. Above all, Romania has a hard-working and
increasingly skilled population. To attain its growth objectives, however,
Romania will have to rely on a major expansion of exports of manufactured
goods in order to finance modern foreign technology and an increasing depen-
dence on imported raw materials and fuel.
26.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more efficient
use of materials and factor inputs and reductions in production costs. The
achievement of export targets requires improvements in the quality of products
and responsiveness to customer demands, areas in which the economy appears
to have lagged in past years. To keep up with these changes and requirements,
large programs of education and manpower training have been mounted, invest-
ments in scientific and technological research have been emphasized, and
efforts are being made to strengthen technical cooperation with industrialized
countries and international organizations. The increasing diversity and com-
plexity of Romania's economic structure also require continuing improvements
in the efficiency of economic planning and coordination and further refine-
ments in economic management.
27.       The growth rate is expected to remain quite high by international
standards and if its present momentum is maintained, Romania will be among
the more developed of the high-income, developing countries in the 1980s.
The Government plans to achieve this high growth rate by emphasizing, first,
the utilization of the country's own resources and a large local investment
effort, and second, more effective use of human, capital and natural resources.
However, in order for Romania to attain its growth targets and its long term



- 9 -
plans for creating a competitive industrial economy, it will have to attract
foreign resources and technology and secure loans to support its development
efforts.
Creditworthiness
28.       As of December 1977, Romania's total medium and long-term external
debt amounted to US$3,491 million. Most of these debts (US$3,402 million)
were denominated in convertible currencies, the major creditor countries being
the Federal Republic of Germany, France, the United Kingdom (UK) and Italy.
While the total debt does not appear excessive in relation to the volume and
growth of external trade, average maturities are relatively short and con-
vertible debt service payments are estimated to be in the order of US$900
million a year in 1978 and 1979. The convertible debt service ratio was 19
percent in 1977 and is expected to be 18 percent in 1978.
29.       The organization of economic activity in Romania, the pursuit of a
development strategy involving high investment and saving rates, and rapid
income growth ensure the effective use of foreign credits. Moreover, the
country's major efforts to expand exports (particularly to convertible cur-
rency areas) are increasing the foreign exchange available for debt service.
Convertible export earnings rose from US$830 million in 1971 to US$3,403
million (not counting U:S$580 million in non-factor services) in 1977. The
preferential trade statuas accorded to Romania by the European Community in
June 1973 is facilitating the expansion of such exports as is the granting of
most favored nation status by the U.S. Since the early 1970s, the Government
has restricted the use of short-term credit from Western suppliers in an
effort to improve the structure of the country's external debt. In view of
the earthquake's impact upon the balance of payments, the Government indicated
that there would be a temporary reversal of this trend and short-term debt
increased again in 1977. Assuming a continuation of present export and debt
management policies, we estimate that the debt service ratio will be about 20
percent at the end of the 1976-80 plan period, after which it will remain
fairly stable. The country's present outward-looking posture, the success of
both its domestic growth and foreign trade policies, and its potential for
continued development, all support the judgment that Romania is creditworthy
for substantial Bank lending.
30.       When Romania joined the Bank, most pre-war foreign debts of the
country had been settled. Settlements which were still under discussion at
that time concerned claims in the U.K. and in the U.S. With regard to
the settlement of these claims, the final payments of U.S. claims began in
September 1975 and were completed in October 1976 based upon agreements
reached in May 1975. Settlement of the U.K. claims proved more difficult, but
a final agreement was signed in January 1976. The Bank was also informed in
late 1976 of certain Swedish claims concerning public loans from the pre-war
period, nationalized Swedish property and other interests, such as concessions
granted to Swedish companies before the Second World War. The eleventh
meeting to discuss settlement of these claims was held in Bucharest in October
1976 and further discussions were planned at a date to be established through



- 10 -
diplomatic channels. The Bank has been unable to obtain a consistent picture
from the two Governments of the present status of this matter and has, there-
fore, urged the Romanian and Swedish authorities to clarify their respective
positions directly with each other.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
31.       The proposed loan and the proposed loan for the Roman Seamless Pipe
project ($40 million) would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
US$1,032.8 million for twenty loans in agriculture, industry and power.
Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975, but this
situation improved considerably during 1976 and 1977. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects as of November 30, 1978.
32.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending con-
tinues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by
providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which will
expand foreign exchange earnings or savings. The Bank is assisting the
Government by helping to mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. Bank
lending also aims at supporting the Government's efforts to introduce new
industrial technologies, to improve the quality of products and production
efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide for necessary electric
power development. Market aspects and marketing, especially for export goods,
are also emphasized. Special attention is given to agriculture which is
heavily dependent upon favorable weather and where productivity levels are
still comparatively low.
33.       A number of further loans are under consideration.  Projects for
irrigation and drainage, poultry production, pig production, horticulture,
power and a number of industrial projects, have been proposed. The Government
has also requested that the Bank consider lending for a major navigation canal
linking the Danube and Black Sea.
34.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting industrial and transportation project appraisal training courses
for 163 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest in 1975, 1976
and 1977. Additional courses, including one in agricultural project appraisal,
are planned. The methodology taught in these courses is becoming more widely
known in Romania and is expected to begin to supplement the methodology
normally used by the Romanian planning authorities.
35.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for external
financing and of its total disbursed convertible debt. However, they will
provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible currency
finance, and may set a pattern for obtaining longer-term convertible finance



- 11 -
from other sources.   The disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected
to constitute about 13 percent of Romania's total projected convertible
currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service payments
in 1980 would be about 4.5 percent.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
36.       Romania relies predominantly on domestic sources of primary energy
and still meets more than 80 percent of its energy needs from domestic oil and
gas resources. Natural gas has been the country's most important source of
primary energy since 1965, and accounted for 44 percent 1/ of total consump-
tion in 1975. Of the balance, oil accounted for about 33 percent, coke and
coal for about 19 percent, and hydroelectricity for about 3 percent 2/.
However, domestic production of crude oil and gas is now slowly declining
despite intensive secondary and tertiary recovery efforts. Although major
efforts to increase the use of other domestic sources of primary energy such
as coal, lignite, bituminous shales, and hydropower are underway, and a
successful conservation program has been running since 1973, Romania became
a net importer of energy, in 1972/73. It is estimated that by 1985 fifty
percent of Romania's commercial energy needs may have to be imported, mostly
in the form of crude oil.
37.       Energy demand overall in Romania increased from 6.8 million tons
oil equivalent (toe) in 1950 to about 52.1 million toe in 1975 as a result of
rapid industrialization. This trend is expected to continue and energy demand
is expected to reach 78 million toe in 1980, in spite of planned conservation
savings of 8 million toe in the industrial sector and 5 million toe of savings
through increased waste heat recovery. Total gas consumption in 1975 was
about 36 billion m3, of which about 3 billion m3 was produced in association
with oil. Future production is expected to remain static at about 27 billion
m3 and increased consumption in the future will be met through imports.
Known reserves are expected to provide 30-50 years supply of natural gas at
these extraction rates. Romania consumed or processed 19.7 million tons of
crude oil in 1975, of which 14.6 million tons was domestically produced.
Domestic crude is generally of very high quality with less than one percent
sulphur content. About 90 percent of Romania's coal reserves are in the form
of relatively low-grade lignite (1700-1800 kcal/kg compared to 7000 kcal/kg
for conventional coal). Of a total reserve of around 9 billion tons, most of
which is in the Oltenia region, about 3 billion tons is considered economically
exploitable at present.
1/   Including natural gas liquids (NGL); 0.2 percent.
2/   Including imported electricity, 0.2 percent.



- 12 -
38.       The Government's energy policy aims at diverting Romania's limited
gas reserves increasingly for use as feedstock in the chemical industries, and
basing additional power generation on low-grade domestic solid fuels such as
lignite and shales; and on hydropower and nuclear. This places as much
reliance as possible on domestic energy sources, increases the value added
obtained from gas and some crude oil, and saves scarce foreign exchange by
keeping imports of crude oil to the necessary minimum.
The Power Subsector
39.       In 1977 total interconnected generating capacity was 13,184 MW,
accounting for about 97 percent of total installed capacity. Gross genera-
tion and purchases were 61,595 GWh. The interconnected capacity comprises
2,951 MW hydro and 9,487 MW thermal under the Ministry of Electrical Energy
(MEE), and 746 MW of plant, mostly thermal, operated by auto producers. Gross
output from MEE power stations was 56,551 GWh; mostly generated from gas and
fuel oil, coal and lignite, a minor amount from combustion turbine plants,
and 9,800 GWh from MEE's hydro plants. Auto producers generated an addi-
tional 3,306 GWh. With the completion of the final four units of the Turceni
station, almost the full potential of Romania's lignite deposits will have
been committed.
40.       Romania's hydropower potential is assessed at 12,300 MW capable of
providing 37,000 GWh p.a. from 630 sites. The present capacity of 2,951 MW
is 24 percent of total hydropower potential. The government will carry out
future hydropower development as far as economically justified, and with
the exception of Danube schemes, this will be to meet system peaking needs.
Romania's first nuclear plant is now under construction using USSR technology.
Romania is actively negotiating for a second nuclear plant, probably based on
Canadian technology, but the construction schedule has not yet been deter-
mined. However, given the growing energy deficit it is likely that nuclear
power will figure prominently in Romania's long-range energy program.
The Market for Electrical Energy
41.       Electricity supply is available to all towns and cities and to about
99 percent of the villages. The electrification of villages was effectively
completed in 1976. Total electricity sales in 1977 were 49,690 GWh, an
increase of 4.4 percent over 1976. This was a substantial decline from the 10
percent annual sales increase averaged between 1970-76 and was probably caused
by the slowdown in construction activities caused by the March 1977 earthquake,
and by reduced irrigation pumping as a result of favorable rainfall in 1977.
It also reflects strong energy conservation measures introduced in 1973.
42.       For the period 1978-85, it is estimated that load growth will be at
an average annual rate of 6.1 percent. This primarily reflects a slower rate
of growth in the industrial load of 5.3 percent p.a. compared with 11.3 per-
cent p.a. over 1970-77; industry accounted for 71 percent of all power sales
in 1977.  Industrial investment will continue to be very large up to 1985,



- 13 -
although the absolute growth rate of industrial production is expected to
slow. The Government iis vigorously introducing a series of new energy con-
servation measures across all sectors of the economy.
Development Program
43.       The Governmenit continues to attach high priority to the development
of the electric power sector because it considers its development a necessary
condition for the overall economic development of Romania. In planning to
meet the expected load growth up to 1985, Romania follows a least cost develop-
ment program that is consistent with its national energy policy objectives.
It also takes into account adequate system reserve planning and performance
criteria. Total investment by the MEE between 1978-85 in generation expansion,
transmission and distribution is estimated to be $7.9 billion equivalent. Of
this about $2.9 billion or 36 percent would be for thermal plants, $3.3
billion or 42 percent for hydro plants, and the balance for bulk transmission
and distribution, dispatching and other sector investments which are the
responsibility of the Ministry of Electrical Energy. The large amount for
hydro plants reflects Romania's emphasis on multipurpose hydro installations,
most of which have high initial costs.
44.       While in making development plans for the power sector, the develop-
ment needs and financial resources of the whole economy are taken into con-
sideration, it is the Government's policy to ensure that a substantial part of
the investments in the sector are financed from funds which are generated in
the sector itself. Thus, in the period up to 1985 it is forecast that about
30 percent of the investments in the sector will be financed from funds
generated by power sector enterprises.
Role of the Bank
45.       The Bank has made two previous loans to Romania in the power sub-
sector to support its essential contribution to overall economic development;
a $60 million loan in 1974 to help finance the first stage of Turceni thermal
station (1,320 MW) and associated transmission (Ln. 1028-RO), and a $50
million loan in 1976 to help finance the Riul Mare-Retezat hydro station,
a key component of a cascade development designed to supply hydro peaking
power to the system (Ln. 1242-RO). Progress on Turceni I is good, and in
spite of a nine-month delay, the last of the four units is expected to start
up in December 1979, the original target date. Progress on the Riul Mare
project has been delayed about one year because of recurrent shortages of
manpower for tunnelling. These shortages are expected'to be overcome by the
introduction of a tunnel boring machine in early 1979.
Organization of the Sector
46.       The Ministry of Electrical Energy (MEE) administers the sector
through a board comprising the minister, three deputy ministers and the
various directors of subordinate units. Power production, transmission and
distribution facilities are operated by enterprises of which there are 21 for



- 14 -
generation of power and heat under the Industrial Central for Production of
Electric Power and Heat (CIPEET), and 19 for transmission and distribution
under the Industrial Central for Transmission and Distribution of Power (CIRE).
The Centrals serve as head-offices for the enterprises, collating and monitor-
ing their investment and production plans, supervising their activities and
reviewing their finances. They replaced the Industrial Central for Electric
Power and Heat (CIEET) in October 1977, which was responsible previously for
generation, transmission and distribution.
47.       The financial performance and position of the electricity central
(CIEET) in 1977 is considered to be satisfactory even though the financial
rate of return was 2.2 percent. Costs per unit of power sold have remained
virtually unchanged since 1974, and despite various financial changes in 1977
which adversely affected the financial rate of return, the central contributed
about 30 percent of investment costs in the power sub-sector in 1977, a level
that is expected to be maintained during 1978-85. One of the financial
changes made in 1977 was a reduction of about 30 percent in power tariffs.
However in Romania tariff levels do not convey to major power consumers the
value of the resource inputs used for production of electricity, nor do they
affect the level of electricity consumption which is controlled by strong and
effective penalties and incentives which encourage energy conservation.
Penalties amounting up to 200 percent are imposed on consumers who exceed
their planned energy allocation while bonus payments to workers in power
plants are related to efficiency and reduction of losses. The Government
plans that the power sector will generate on average 30 percent of its own
investment capital at least to 1985. The financial rate of return for the
power sector is likely to continue to be low through 1985 reflecting the
reduced tariff levels established in 1977. Nevertheless the net income of the
electricity sector enterprises is expected to be sufficient to realize
Government plans for the power sector to generate on average 30 percent of its
own investment capital up to 1985. The Government has agreed that as part of
the reporting requirements for the Project it would provide data on actual and
planned performance of the power sector as measured by the physical and
financial indicators now used by MEE or to be used in future by MEE; and that
it would submit consolidated audited accounts annually for the two Centrals
CIPEET and CIRE responsible for generation, and transmission and distribution
respectively within four months of the end of each fiscal year.
48.       The design institutes and the construction trusts are subordinated
to the MEE and are responsible for the preparation, design, construction and
supervision of major power projects in Romania, including the proposed project.
There are also foreign trade enterprises dealing with the sector which serve
as agents in the procurement of equipment from abroad.
49.       Each enterprise is headed by a General Assembly of the Working
People which is represented by a Working Peoples Committee and an Operating
Management Collective which are responsible for overseeing the execution of
plan targets in their enterprise. Executive responsibility is in the hands of
the general manager who decides on and supervises the daily operations of the



- 15 -
enterprise. Execution of the project is the responsibility of Turceni Enter-
prise which was established in 1973 and is now carrying out the first-stage
Turceni Project (Ln. 1028--RO).
The Borrower
50.       The borrower for the proposed loan would be the Investment Bank,
which is the specialized agency, under the Ministry of Finance, for investment
projects in all sectors of the economy except agriculture (including water
resources) and food processing. It has a large technical and economic staff
with branch offices in all districts of the country. The Investment Bank's
involvement in investment projects begins with preparation; its staff appraises
all major investment projects technically and financially and recommends for
or against their financing to the Government. When a particular project and
its financial plan have been approved by the Council of State, all funds are
channeled through the Investment Bank in accordance with the approved financial
plan. All payments for the execution of a project must be authorized by the
Investment Bank which keeps separate accounts for each category in the
financial plan for every enterprise. The Investment Bank is required to
ensure that a project is executed according to the financial and technical
data included in the final technical and economic study approved by the
Council of State. Its inspectors check whether the project is proceeding
according to the schedule approved in the Plan.
51.       While the Investment Bank's supervision and control function is
thus rather strong during implementation of a project, its functions are much
more limited during operation of a project. Although it has the right and
obligation to verify that an enterprise is meeting the targets set in the
investment plan, it has no legal authority to influence directly the manage-
ment of the enterprise or to force the enterprise directly to take operational
actions which it considers necessary. In practice, however, it can request
such actions very effectively by reporting through the Ministry of Finance to
the Government.
52.       The Investment Bank is the channel for all sources of major domestic
investment financing other than in agriculture, but its own funds for onlending
as credits are relatively small. The primary source of its funds is the State
Budget. The Government would ensure the availability of sufficient funds
including foreign exchange requirements for the implementation and operation
of the project (Section 2.02, Guarantee Agreement). The Government would also
ensure that the Investment Bank can meet the debt service on the Bank loan
(Section 2.01, Guarantee Agreement). The Government confirmed that the new
economic reforms (see para. 20) will not affect the role of the Investment
Bank as a channel for Bank funds, nor the agreements reached for the proposed
project.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
53.       The Project was proposed to the Bank in February 1976 as one of a
number of projects for which the Romanians sought Bank financing during the
1976-80 Five-Year Plan. In connection with the preparation of this project,
the Government submitted a least cost development study (LCD) for the power
sector in July 1977. A preparation mission visited Romania in January/February
1978 to discuss the project further, and the project was appraised in May
1978. Negotiations were held in Washington in December 1978. The Romanian
delegation was led by Mr. Gheorghe Popescu, President of the Investment Bank,
and included representatives of the Investment Bank and the Ministry of
Electrical Energy.  The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2243-RO of December 19,
1978) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Description
54.       The project would consist of a thermal power station with four 330-
MW lignite-fired units delivering 7,920 GWh p.a. to the interconnected system
at a plant factor of 74 percent. The project would also include about 288 km
of 400-kV transmission lines connecting Turceni with the city of Cluj to the
north (see map). The project would be a second stage extension to the first
four 330-MW thermal power station at Turceni (Turceni I), which is being
assisted with Bank financing under Loan 1028-RO, and which is now under
construction in southwestern Romania. The basic fuel to be used will be
lignite. The project will consume about 11 million tons of lignite p.a. at
full operation starting in 1984-85, and will require the opening of new
mines. Total annual lignite consumption for all the existing and planned
lignite-fired stations is estimated at 55 million tons p.a. beginning in 1985.
Lignite production from existing known deposits would be capable of supplying
this estimated consumption. Thus basic fuel supply is adequate and satis-
factory arrangements to open the required new open cast and underground mines
are in hand, and this was confirmed at negotiations. In addition to lignite,
the Turceni station will also burn fuel oil for start-up and stabilization of
lignite burning at partial load. This will consume an estimated 0.8 million
tons of fuel oil p.a. The Government would furnish every six months lignite
production data for the previous six-month period and production estimates for
the next six-month period immediately following as was agreed for the first
Turceni project.
Project Implementation
55.       The project would be implemented by the existing Turceni Enterprise,
which has the experience of implementation of Turceni I, and is suitably
staffed with experienced operational management. A project management team
has been selected. It is being assisted by the Design Institute for Thermal
Studies (ISPE), the design institute of CIPEET, which will provide overall
project supervision and start-up engineering. Civil works and construction
will be carried out by the Thermal and Electro-Mechanical Construction



- 17 -
Trusts respectively from the Ministry of Electrical Energy, under the super-
vision of ISPE.  Design engineering is complete and construction of the
building exteriors and foundations are about 25 percent complete. Interna-
tional procurement will be handled by ROMENERGO the responsible foreign trade
enterprise (see para. 48) and local procurement by the Turceni Enterprise.
These sorts Af arrangements are the same as for the first Turceni project, are
well established under the Romanian system, and are satisfactory. The develop-
ment of the new mines to supply lignite to the project is expected to proceed
smoothly. The project is scheduled for initial operation by 1982 and to
operate at full capacity by 1983.
Project Cost and Financing
56.       The estimated itotal project cost including import taxes (about $1.3
million equivalent) is $482.7 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of $117.0 million. The Government has approved a convertible
foreign exchange ceiling of $8.9 million for the purchase of direct imports
for the Project (see para. 57). The costs of equipment and materials have
been estimated including escalation covering the construction period (1978-
84). Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10 percent of the base
cost. Price contingencies on foreign exchange costs are based on estimates of
9 percent for 1977, 7 percent for 1978, 6.5 percent for 1979 ind 6.0 percent
for 1980-1984, for imported equipment, materials and components. Because
local costs in this project are based on existing negotiated contract prices
not subject to escalation, there is no price contingency on local costs.
57.       The proposed Bank loan of $70 million would finance 60 percent of
the estimated foreign exchange costs of the project. The proposed loan to
the Investment Bank would be for a term of 15 years, including a 3-year grace
period, and would be guaranteed by the Government. The Investment Bank would
carry the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan. The balance of the project
cost would be financed by the Turceni Enterprise from its own sources of funds
and by the State Budget. The project's construction and expenditures so
incurred are authorized by Decree No. 239 of July 26, 1977 of the Council of
State. Its approval and effectiveness would be a condition of effectiveness
of the loan (Section 7.01, Loan Agreement).
Procurement
58.       Contracts for three complete turbine generator sets and minor elec-
trical and mechanical equipment will be awarded through international competi-
tive bidding (i.c.b.) in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Romanian
thermal power equipment manufacturers are competitive, and are expected to win
the turbine-generator contract. On the other hand, the contracts for the
balance of i.c.b. items totalling about US$8.9 million are expected to go to
foreign manufacturers. Participating Romanian manufacturers would be granted
a margin of preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs duty, whichever
is lower. To help maintain the planned implementation schedule, advance con-
tracting on the items totalling $8.9 million has been allowed. There would be
no advance contracting for the three turbine generator sets.



- 18 -
Disbursements
59.       The Bank loan will be disbursed against (i) 72 percent of foreign
currency expenditures for imported equipment, components and materials and
against 72 percent of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured items for
the 3 turbine generators; and (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
other equipment for the thermal power station.
Benefits and Risks
60.       The project will help meet Romania's anticipated increase in power
demand over the next 5 years. The need for the project was analyzed in a
least cost development study for the power sub-sector prepared by the MEE and
submitted to the Bank in July 1977. The Second Turceni Thermal Power Project
forms part of a least cost investment program and was selected by the Romanians
from available alternative schemes. This least cost program was acceptable to
the Bank within the context of Romanian economic policy.
61.       The electricity sector is an integral part of Romania's centrally
planned economy under which all enterprises conform to national development
plans which are financed from the State Budget. Since the various financial
changes made in 1977 including the reduction of power tariffs (see para.
47), the profits of power sector enterprises have been reduced but this is
intended to permit enterprises in the industrial and agricultural sectors
to correspondingly increase their profits. In essence, part of the former
benefits of the power sector are being transferred to these other sectors.
For this reason, the performance of the power sector cannot be viewed in
isolation from the rest of the economy. Since it is impossible to separate
these former benefits from the sum total of benefits accruing to electricity
users, it is not possible to calculate a true economic return for the project.
The rate of return is at least 6.4 percent, using the pre-1977 price which
is more representative of consumers' willingness to pay than is the present
price. This figure is comparable to the economic returns of 6.5 percent
and 8.6 percent calculated for the two previous power loans in Romania,
respectively Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower and Turceni I. The rate of return
is sensitive to changes in average revenue, but less sensitive to changes in
the capital cost of the project.
62.       No special risks are associated with this project.  The agencies
concerned with the project are all performing well under the first Turceni
project (Ln. 1028-RO). No difficulties with respect to operational aspects,
including fuel supply, are anticipated. No cost overrun is expected, but
should additional funds be required for completion of the project, they
would be provided either from MEE's own sources or from the State Budget.



- 19 -
PART V - 1.EGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Investment Bank
of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Republic of
Romania and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
64.       Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
65.       The special condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is
that the technical and economic indicators for the project have been approved
by the Government and have become effective (Section 7.01, Loan Agreement).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 21, 1978
Washington, D.C.



-20 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ROMANIA                                                  /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KK.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            237.5                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      149.0                                 MOST RECENT     GEOGRPHIC   INCOME          INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /C   GROUP  d    GROUP  e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  190.0        530.0    1580.0           1898.8     1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1342.0       3013.0    3803.0           1869.3      1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-TEAR
(MILLIONS)                         18.4        20.3       21.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 32.0         40.8       43.0             43.0       52.2.
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        77.0        85.0       91.0            81.4        27.6         55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0        136.0      146.0            135.2      116.4         83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          27.9 /f     25.9       25.4            26.2        34.8         40.0
15-64 YRS.                          64.9 /f     65.5       64.8            63.4        56.0        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    7.2 Lf      8.6        9.8              9.9        5.7          3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.2          1.0       1.0              0.8        1.6          2.9
URBAN                               3.8          3.4       2.1              2.2        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (F_k THOUSAND)      23.9         19.0      19.7             19.2       27.0         31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.9          8.9       9.3              9.0        9.9          7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.2          1.3       1.3              1.3        1.9          1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..             38.0       19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              96.2       100.0      146.1            113.7      103.,        114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   105.0        118.0     118.0 /R         127.4      110.4        113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           81.0        92.0       90.0 /R          92.8       77.7         89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        24.0        28.0         ..             39.3       22.2         48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       4.9 /f       2.4       2.1              1.6         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    65.9          67.7      69.1             68.9       63.0         60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            75.7         49.4      34.7             34.5       38.2         22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POP ULAT ION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             68.3       67.7         83.0
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             74.3       83.5        100.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             64.4       41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             94.0       70.3         57.8
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             94.0       90.7         99.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             93.0       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            740.0        680.0     620.0            686.5     1310.8        976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       300.0        200.0     180.0            339.0      849.2        676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             130.0 /f    120.0      108.0            178.0      275.4        325.8
URBAN                              50.0 If      50.0      60.0             70.0      129.9        250.0
RURAL                             620.0 /t    770.0      730.0           1770.0      965.9        770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         23.0        ..             15.3        18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          3.2 /      ..               ..        3.9
URBAN                                ..          2.8 /h     ..
RURAL                                ..          3.4 /h
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.4/       ..              0.9        0.9
URBAN                                ..          1.3 /h     ..              0.8        0.8
RURAL                                            1.4 /h     ..              1.0         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         49.0 /h     ..             57.5        59.2
URBAN                                           86 0Lh                     99.0        78.0
RURAL                                ..         27.0 L                        .        12.5



- 21 -
ANNEX I
3ALK 3A                                      Page  2  of  5 pages
RIOmAYIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHIET
IREnRENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVNEltS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMNAT)
sAe         SAME    NEXT 3I133U
NOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCORME      INCOOK
1960  b     197  /b ESTILATE  b      REGION  c  GROUP /d   GROUP L
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLHEWT RATIO
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 96.0       113.0     109.0            108.0       97.6       104.1
PEuLL                95.0       114.0    109.0             99.5       87.4        120.3
SEMNDARYt  TOTAL.                 24.0        45.0      62.0            62.8       47.8         44.r
rUow                 22.0        36.0      59.0            63.4        42.6       44.0
VOCATIONAL (PRCEUIT OF SECODARY) 54.0         56.0      70.0             28.2       22.7        18.7
PUPIL-TEAIEt RATIO
PRIMARY                           25.0        21.0      21.0             24.9       25.4        30.4
SE0NDAEAY                         16.0        18.0      19.0            17.3       24.9        16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT          ..          ..      98.0             8.3        96.3
CONSUKPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUIS
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..            90.4       32.3        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TUSANID
P1 PULATION                      109.0       152.0     143.0           199.0      201.9        193.5
TV FECEIVERS PER TODUN
POPULATION                         3.0        73.0     127.0            132.5      97.7       108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENRIAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                147.0       119.0     129.0             97.1       70.9       108.0
CINEdA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0         9.8       8.9              6.6        4.4
EMPLOYMINT
TOTAL LABOR PORCE (THOUSANDS)     9600.0      99D0.0   10400.0
FUIALE (PERCENT)                  44.9        ,4.5      44.6            32.4        17.4       26.J
AIt.ICULTURE (PECPWtS)            65.4        49.0       34.4            32.8      38-'.       25.7
IIDUSTRY (PERC=T)                 15.1        23.0      32.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PEnCEN2)
TOTAL                               57.1        56.0      55.9             39.1       33.7       40.1
MALE                                64.5        63.3      62.8             56.7       50.8       55.8
FEKALE                              30.1        49.0      49.1            29.7        12.6       24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.7         0.7       0.7             0.9         1.4         1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
:ICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..            31.9       20.2
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..        ..            59.7       47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..             4.0        3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSIEOLDS     ..          .-        *-            12.9       13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTiIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY IJICSMi
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..           194.9      157.9
ESTIAATED RELATIVE POVERTY lNCtv[E
LEVE: (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..           295.1      448.8
RURAL                               ..          ..     325.0           309.2      313.1
ESTmIATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UR3AN                               ..          ..        ..            18.2       23.2
RURtAL                              ..          ..    10-20             24.2       54.5
HNot aailable
Not applirable.
NOTES
/4   rh  adJuStd gsroup av.'ra8.-.. fur ca..I* IndItor are POpuItiotro-vghted Reu trIc Pclant. e.cldtn.  the e.t.rem.
values of the indicator and the mot populated country in each group. Coverage of countrles amno the
indicator. depernds on availability of data and is nlot uniform.
Ib    Unes. oth,rwl- n-tcd, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; .n. f,ur MHht P, ernt Eetimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c   turope;   d   Upper Mlddle Income (51136-2500 per capita. 1976)   /e  High Inome  loer  2500 par capit.
1976);  /f  1962; La Av. 1969-71;   /h  1966.
September, 1978



- 22 -
DEPINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATnitS                                                ANNEX   I
Page 3 of 5 pager
lisa  The adjusted group averages for each indicator ar  pepulatin-w.eightrd geometric  oes, excluding the extremt  voices of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries aong the indicators depend. on availability of data and to not uniform.   Due to lack of data
group  verages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrete disposeal. houing  incom.e distribution ond poverty or.
simple populetiox-vewihted geometric means without the exclusion of extroem  values.
LAtND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                              Population Per hoxpital bhd - total. urban. and rural - Pupulation (total.
Total - Total surface area comprising land ares and inland water.                          uren, end rural) divided by their respective musber of hospital beds
Asricultural - Nest  recsnt estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                 availaible in public and private general and nyocilleed hospita1 and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures  mrket and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Nospitals are establishmentx permanently ntuffod by
lie fallow.                                                                             at least one physician.  Ettablishments providing principally custodial
care are not included, Rural hospitals, however, Include health and sedi-
INP PER CAPITA (US$) - tNP per capita estimates at current market prices.                   ca1 centers not pemanently staffed by a physician (but by a medica1 as-
calculated by .sae conversion method as World Sank Atlas (1975-77 bheis);                sistent  nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960. 1970i    d 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range of medica1 facilities.
Admissions Per hospital bed - Tota1 number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSIMPTIO:: PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of cotsorcial energy                    from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(cral and lignite  ptroleu, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and gao-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOLUSING
Averase sioe of household (persons per household) - totl. urban, and rura1-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A houxshxld consists of A group of individuals ohs shore living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; iE bot available,                    and their main meals        boarder or lodger may or ray not bh  included in
overage o  two end-year estimtes; 1960, 1970, snd 1977 data.                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of totil) - Ratio of urhbn to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas my affect comparsbility                    Averase number of persons per rosn - total, urban  and rural - Average nue-
of dt   ong countries.                                                                   ber of persons per room  in a11, urban, and rural occupied cooventio.aI
Poulatien dnsity                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude ron-permanent structurex and
Per  sQ. k. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total aresc                                                                        Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - tota1, urban. und rural -
Per sQ.   . agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity  in living quarters os percentage
only.                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population eas structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), orking-age
(15-64 years). and retired  (65 yesrs and over) as percentagee of sid-              EDUCATION
year population                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total. and urban - Coapound annual                   Primary school - total, and fenale - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70,  nd 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normaily includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for  -otries with univorsul edu-
mid-yesr population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent einct some pupils are below  or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estiate.                      above the official school age.
Crude death rte (npr thusand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       lecondary schoel - total,  nd female - Computed as above; secondary oduca-
year population; ten-year srithetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four yeers of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of ago; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal neproductive period if she experiences present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondry) - Vocational institutions in-
1971, and 1975.                                                                         clude technical, industrial, or other programs uhich operate independently
Family plannins - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secondary i,rstitutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                       primry and secondary levels div  -d by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family  dlanning -  users (percent of mrried women) - Percentage of                         ponding leve1s.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able cc read and crit-, an
devices to a11 mrtried women in same age group.                                          a percentage of tota1 adult population aged 15 yearn and over
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Indem number of per                   Passenger carm (per thousand population) - Passenger car  co-prise motor cars
capita  nnual production of a11 fond   roeodities.                                    sting les  then sight persons; excludes asbulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of renuirem nts) - Computed from                 vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita              Rgdi  receivers (per thousand Population) - All types of receivers for radio
per dy.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, Imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,              receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years ay not be comparable since most countries
quirements wer  estiatad by FAQ based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
mal activity nd helth considering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (Per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to gener. a
weights,  ge and ses distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for weate at household level,                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV' sets was in efect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams Per day) - Protein content of per                  Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of  ood per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "daily genere1 interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
bove.  Requirements for all countries astablished by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general nes.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 Srams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at leant four times a week.
of anil and pulse protein, of which 10 greas should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
Thoe standards are lower than those of 75 grams of tota1 protein and                     sold during the year. including dnisluon  to drive-in cinnoas nd nobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      unite
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and puise - Protein supply of food              EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals nd pule  in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thous.nds) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (agas 1-4) mortality rate (Per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc   Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group                                tions in various countries ore not -omparable.
Fema1l (Percent) - Female labor force as percentae of total labor force
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, honting and fixhing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth   usually five-year verages  nding in 1960, 1970,                 Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, uater and gas a  percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rata (per thousand) - Annual deaths of-infants under                  Prtioipation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                emale labor force as p-rcentage- of their reypective populations
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   These are ILO's adjusted participation rates  -cflecticg a-e-tev
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     structure vf the population. ond lonf tine trend.
safe water  upply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 ond 65 and oven tO
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                     the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percantages of their respective populations.
In an urban are  a public fountain or xtandpost located not more                    INCOME  DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                  Percentag  of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
nnahie access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and Poorest 40 percenc
imply that the houseife or mbers of the household do not have to                         of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.     d                                                                   POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acces t  esretadien2o   (tpercent ofnnlation) - total, urban. end                  Estimated absolute poverty income levl-(S prcpt)-uban and coral-
rural - Number of peop   (total  urbn,Poapud rural) served by escrata                      Absolute poverty income level is that income level belu which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus essential  on-food requirenents is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of human emoreca and wsate-warer by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per c.Pita) - urban nd rural -
orthio-e.ue  f.ptit  riviessand: similar,inetallatiens.                                  Relative poverty income level is that iooe..  level less than one-third
PoPulation er phvsician - Population divided by number of practicing                        per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       Estimated population below poverty income lee  (percent) -  rban and rura -
Population per nursing Person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of population (urban and rural)  ho re  either -hurclute pdru" or
practicing male and femle graduate nurses, practical nurees, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Etonomic and Iocial IDta Divisio-
Etonomio Analpsiu and Projections Department



ANNEX I
Page  4 of 5 pages
- 23 -
ECONOMIC INDICATOI,
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GP.CWTH (7. constant prices)
USS Min.     1          1961-65        1966-70        1971-75        1975-77
GNP at Market Prices                        30,300        100.0         9.011          7.71V         11.31f        9.6X1
Gross Fixed Domestic Investmaent             8,463         27.9        11.3           11.2           11.2          9.9
Gross National Saving                        8,157         26.9         ..             ..
Current Account Balance                       -306          1.0         9                 213/
Export of Goods, NFS                         7,523         24.8         9-O- '        10 92/31      23 6- -       14,7y:3-
Imports of Goods, NFS                        7,537         24.9        10.7_/3/       12.7 I/       22.3Yl3'      14.6 !tI
OtlTPUT. LABOR FORCE
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
National Income 4A      Labor Force            N.I. Per Worker
US$ Bln.         %      MIn          .         US $       __L%
Agriculture                                   3.29        13.2      3.53    34.4             932         !A.3
Industry                                     13.22        53.0      3.36    32.7           3,935        161.7
Construotion                                  2.33         9.3      0.90      8.8          2,589        106.4
Other 5                                       6.12        24.5      2.47    24.1           2,478        101.8
Total/Average                         24.96       100.0      10.26   100.0          2,433        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE IN 1977
Central Government
Lei Billions       7. of GDP
Total Receipt&                                 282.0             46.2
Total Expenditures                             280.4             45.9
Total Surplus                                    1.6              0.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(in billions of Lei, end of year)
1971      1972        1973        1974       1975        1976       1977
Money Supply                                  ..        ..          ..        160.1       176.4       201.4     207.5
Short-term Bank Credit                         .        ..        131.3       155.3       170.2      194.0      194.5
Retail Prices (1970 - 100)                  101.6      101.6      102.4       103.7       103.9       104.4     105.0
Percentage Changes in Retail Prices           1.6        -          0.8         1.3         0.2         0.5       0.5
1/  Growth rate of national income.
2/ In current prices.
3/  Growth rates of exports and imports only.           -
4/  System of miaterial production w-ebthodology,
5/  Includes net output of the nor-productive sector.                                       E1ENA  CPDI ID
December 13, 1978



ANNEX I
- 24                                  Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENES  (Convertible Currencies)                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1977
(All Currencies)
1971       1976          1977
(Millions US $)                                  US $ Mln    _ 
Expoits of Goods & NFS                  +944        +3,653        3,983   Capital goods              1,837       27
Iuports of Goods & NFS                  -988        -3,592        4,080   Consumer goods             1,142       17
Resource Gap (deficit - -)               -44           +61          -97   Foodstuffs                   888       13
Intermediate goods          592        9
Interest Payments                        -40          -122         -195   Raw materials              2,422       35
Other Factor Payments (net)              -25           0            +19   _l'ndustrial               2,016       29
Balance on Currett Account              -109           -61         -273     Agricultural               406        6
Direct Foreign Inv stment                                                        Total               6.881     100
Net M'LT Borrowing1'
Disbursements                       +312          +912        +928          EXTERNAL DEBT (Dec31, 1977)
Amortization                        -190          -482         -561
Subtotal                            +122          +430        +367                                   US $ mln
Export Credits Extended2'  (net)             /        -274         -171
Short-term Credit (net)                  -20           -44        +156   Total M & LT                     3,491
Net Errors & Omission                      -            -            -      of which convertible
Increase in Reserves (+)                  -7           +52         +32      currencies                    3,402
-uel & Related Materials
Imports                               635.6       2,496.8     2,622.1          DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1977
of which  Oil and Oil Products       36.6         717.1       875-4
Zxports                               425.5       1,477.5      1,463.0
of which  Oil and Oil Products    143.0           735.1       688.1
Convertible currencies only 19.0
EXCHANGE RATES
1. Official Rate
Before August 1971               6 lei:US$l
August 1971-February 1973        5.53 lei:US$1
February 1973-March 1978         4.97 lei:US$1
Since March 1978                 4.47 lei:US$1
2. Tourist Rate
Before August 1971               18 lei:US$1
August 1971-February 1973        16 lei:US$l
February 1973-October 1974       14.38 lei:US$l
Since October 1974               12 lei:US$l
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
July 1973 - March 1978        :  20 iei:US$l
Since March 1978              :  18 lei:US$l
EMENA CPDI ID
December 13, 1978
1t Includes usc of IMF credit.
2/  Included in 'l & LT Capital.
3/  Includcs S, M & LT credits extended.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
- 25 -
1A3 orla n  !O!P OPA?OW  TV
STATDET OF BAJK BWANS (As of Xalober 30, 19763
Amount (less cancelleatlox
*L   _oan Number                Jorr                  ose        Bank   TV  IDA    Undisbu]sd
GOloan   ul   diasbuare.                                         20.0                   -
la. 1020.30          190        Investwet Bank       ertilizr   60.o                  11
to. 1027430           975       Investment ak    Specia          70.0                 T.9
Ia. 1028-30          1975       inwetment Dank    Therml         60.0                 o.r
Poaw
la. 108W-30          1975       amAt               I*f igation   70.0                 4.g
re. 1083-1o          19V75      UI                 Agricultma1 30.0                   TA
credit
Zn. 116N-30          1976        WI                Flood Recov- Ii0.0                 3.3
057
In. 12k2-20          1976       Investuact Dank   lydrompoer   50.0                  25.1
in. 1197-R0          1976                           rrigation   60.0                  3.
in. 1 68-3           1977       NM                  Irrigation   60.0                1..3
in. 1136-30          1977       lntautot  onk   BDering          36.0                 38.0L
to. 1.T-R0           1977       Inetmet Da         GMass Fiber  18.3                 lo.5
La. 14.8-3           1977       Investmet Dank    Polyster    50.0                   29.0
la. 1179-so          1978       DII                Agricultural 71.0                 S.5
credt
Zn. 1509-30          1978       Am                 Irrigation   1.0.5                10.5
Zn. 1536-R0          1978       Investmnt Dan      Tire          85.0                65.0
Zn. 158140           1978       Investment Dank    Pot           60.0                60.0
Earthquake
Total                           8W.6                1s61.6
Of thieh bas been repaid 
Tota now outstandin             M2
Aiunt sold         18.6          -
of vbich repaid    0.0           18,6
Total nov held by Bank         86".2
Total andiabtwsed              461.6              1.6
B ank for Agriculture and Food Industr?
k Excluding exchange adjuotments.
Note: A loan of $40 midlion to the Investment Bank ror the Craio-v  Chemical
Project was approved subse',',ent to the above date of this
Statement; it is not yet signed.



- 26 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln No. 1020    Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after initial delays due
to changes in site and project scope, and delays in design and construction.
About 85 percent of total procurement has been completed, and construction
is well advanced. The ammonia and the DAP plants are expected to be commis-
sioned by the end of 1978, and the urea plant by the second quarter of 1979,
about 18 months later than expected. The final project cost is expected to
be close to the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1027    Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed about one year, primarily
because of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack
of familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under
the Bank's Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers.
The contracts for the two steel mills under the loan have been signed and
construction is progressing in accordance with contracted schedules. Total
project costs are expected to be essentially equal to appraisal estimates.
The Bank loan is expected to be fully disbursed in early 1979 and the project
is now expected to be completed in September 1979.
Ln No. 1028    Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment are
likely to result in a nine month delay in commissioning of generating units.
Project execution is otherwise according to plan and satisfactory. Training
of future operational staff is in hand.
Ln No. 1082    Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project; US$70 Million Loan
of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Construction of project works is progressing satisfactorily and
about 99 percent of the project has been completed. Procurement is almost
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
completed. About 70 percent of the project area was irrigated during 1978.
All remaining works are expected to be completed by April 1979. Total
project costs are expected to be about US$33 million less than appraisal
estimates, and about US$4 million of the loan amount is expected to be can-
celled if not required for the project before the closing date.
Ln No. 1083    Sadova-CoraLbia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975: Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
A contract for the pre-mix feed mill has been concluded and remaining project
procurement, for chemicals and fertilizers, is being carried out under bulk
contracts tendered internationally for 1978 Romanian requirements. Disburse-
ments amounted to US$22.5 million as of October 31, 1978 and are 10 percent
ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1169    Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 Million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 2,
1975; Clos:Lng Date: December 31, 1979
Project execution is proceeding well and disbursements are on
schedule. Equipment procured under international competitive bidding has
been delivered and only small quantities of spare parts remain to be procured.
Bids were received in March 1977 for flood early warning system equipment.
The Romanians advised us ithat bid evaluation was delayed because of the tech-
nical complexity of the package, but the bid evaluation report has been sub-
mitted to the Bank, approved by the Bank, and the contract has been signed.
Disbursements as of Octobier 31, 1978 totalled US$36.9 million or 92 percent
of the loan amount.
Ln No. 1242    Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million Loan of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed
and mechanized excavation methods are expected to be introduced in early 1979.
Project execution is currently about one year behind schedule. Civil works
for the dam and underground power station are well underway, and about 75
percent of the loan amount has been committed.
Ln No. 1247    Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development Project;
US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project works is
well underway and progress on these facilities is satisfactory. Facilities
for four dairy farms are complete and contracts for purchase of 9,130 imported
heifers (100 percent of total) valued at over US$8 million have been awarded.
Procurement contracts for all equipment have been awarded. The feedmill and
silo in Negruvoda is 62 percent completed. Work on soil erosion control and
the land levelling is behind schedule.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Ln No. 1368    Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement for this project has been consolidated with that for
the Rasova-Vederoasa Project (Ln. 1247) noted above, and all contracts have
already been awarded. Some construction equipment and about 35 percent of
pipe has been delivered. Construction of project works is underway, progress
is satisfactory, and about 25 percent completion has been achieved.
Ln No. 1436    Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Bids on most major bid packages have now been received and procure-
ment is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall project costs are expected to be
close to, or slightly over, appraisal estimates, according to the initial cost
data.
Ln No. 1447    Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.3 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement is being completed, and execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1448    Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The main supply contract has been signed, and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1479    Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. BAFI has made
subloan commitments of US$298.4 million or 62 percent of total project costs.
Disbursements as of October 31, 1978 were US$11.6 million which equals the
appraisal estimates.
Ln No. 1509    Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Contract documents for procurement have been cleared by the Bank
and bids invited for all project procurement. Construction of some of the
project works has been started.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Ln No. 1536    Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Procurement has been started, but difficulties are being encountered
in obtaining proposals for the main technology/equipment package for OTR tires.
Ln No. 1581    Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Initial procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
ROMANIA - SECOND TURCENI THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                                        Not known
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:                   Ministry of Electrical
Energy (MEE)
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:              February 1976
(d) Date of Bank mission to consider the
project:                                            January 1978
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:              May 15, 1978
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:                  December 7, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                       Within three months of
loan signing
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The special condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is that
the technical and economic indicators for the project have been approved by
the Government and have become effective (paras. 57 and 65).
Other special conditions are:
(a) The Government plans that the power sector will generate on
average 30 percent of its own investment capital at least
to 1985 (para. 47).
(b) The Government would furnish every six months lignite produc-
tion data for the previous six-month period and production
estimates for the next six-month period immediately following
(para. 54).



WOW                                                                                    JU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iLY TOTS
r   IZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 77  V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                       X-5   ~        ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~*                                                     THERMAL POWER STATION EXTENSION
*   TH ERMAL POWER STATIONS
or  3Z?r~~~~~~~~~~~t"49R~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                          U      IRS'IERIS POWER STATIORO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iVRVPOERSTTIU
A       SUBSTATIONAS
ROOSTV TRANOSMISSION LINES
4OSES TRANSMISSION LINES
SOVOSANI                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~OPARARINS, AT 200EV
A                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22050 TRANSMISSONS LINES
-   1105 TRAAOSWiOION LIRES
EUROPEAN HRRIIWAY'S
i                                                                                                                                           *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ISA NSATIONAL MIISHWASY
0                                                                                                                                                       '-+   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AILROASS
WF                    LA                                                                                                                                                     f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      NTERNATIONAL EOUNOARIVS
   PROVINCIAL SAPITALS
A, A                                                  ~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 M0RICIALI-TIES
ii  0           45     Al RMILO0
ELECTRICITY SYSTEM
'COND ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N   4CNTNA                                                                       S
ENI THER ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~059






1' Kr    /                                                                                                                                                2            4'          27                       33'
POLAND .,
UR5~~~~~~~~~A~~~~'  u   ~~~~~~~~~~~  GN~~~~~~~~i                                                                                                 U.   S. K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0S.   R.
OA    U, ~ ~ ~      ~          ~         ~          ~          ~         ~         ~        ~          HNG               
\usr      R 0   M    ANI
st-6-h    A-                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Black
Sea
~~~Z   ~~~~'2EC    ~  -       j ~"T U RKfX~>         K] _
RO0M A N I A
TURCENI iHERM L  ER STAT[SECOND TURCENI THERMAL POWER
hAq P,                                             X                                                 e/l:-PROJECT
_<=DEpEt5[T 7 2g5                                                                                                         t ig 21/ l EXISTING        PROJECT        FUTURE
400KV---
220 KV
IIOKV
COAL  MINES                   /       \<                 Lsesti                \jQ           t    Floresti       \                                        ROADS
-----RAILWAYS
TURCE-                                              RAILWAYS BUILT TO CARRY LIGNITE TO TURCENI
5                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUILT-UP AREAS
RIVERS
4     itReni -d                                             COAL MINES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                        I         3S1  4vA /5
SUPPLY  R PROJECT                                                                                                                                               KILOMETERS
PROJECTEDi              Boaosc4                                                                      Son, d?)'    ,8   eorlu__
EU ST NGST~
EUP iTABL  96          RCEN TONRtEA                                                                         R'Uno,deJoo                                                                             O
EXPLORED AREA         PUWER  STATION-    eS                                                                                                                                                         Z



