CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1652 RO
Loan Agreement
(Second Turceni Thermal Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCA DE INVESTITII
Dated February 26, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1652 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 26, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCA DE INVESTITII (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Con4itions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms hap,e the following meanings:
(a) "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean The Socialist
Republic of Romania;
(b) "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for Foreign
Trade, established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(c) "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower as approved
by Decree No. 314/1971 of the Council of State of Romania, and
Decree No. 125/1970 concerning the organization and operations of
the Borrower, ratified by Law No. 22/1970 of Romania, as amended
by Decree No. 314/1971 of the Council of State of Romania, as
amended from time to time;
(d) "Turceni Enterprise" means the Power Enterprise at
Turceni, established by Decision No. 1050/1973 of the Council of
Ministers of Romania;
(e) "ISPE" means the Design Institute for Power Studies and
Projects, established by Decision No. 547/1970 of the Council of
Ministers of Romania;


﻿- 2 -
(f) "ROMENERGO" means the Foreign Trade Enterprise for Power
Equipment, established by Decision No. 28/1971 of the Council of
Ministers of Romania; and
(g) "Prior Loan" means the loan made by the Bank to the
Borrower for the Turceni Thermal Power Project on July 10, 1974.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy million
dollars ($70,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement which the
Bank and the Borrower have agreed are to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Foreign Trade Bank is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods and services
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the
Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and thirty-five hundredths per cent (7.35%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, financial, ecological, environ-
mental and administrative practices as follows:
(a) the Borrower shall supervise the execution of the
Project, including the procurement of the goods and services
required therefor;
(b) ISPE shall provide the general engineering services
required for the Project;
(c) ROMENERGO shall in accordance with the technical advice
received from ISPE procure the goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and
(d) the Turceni Enterprise shall:
(i) prepare and, thereafter, periodically update such a
detailed schedule for the implementation of the
Project as shall be in form and substance satis-
factory to the Bank and the Borrower;
(ii) make timely arrangements, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, with
ISPE for the supply of the general engineering
services required for the Project, and with the


﻿-4-
appropriate construction enterprises of Romania as
required for the civil works and erection included
in the Project;
(iii) in accordance with      the technical assistance
received from ISPE procure the goods and services
required for the Project other than those referred
to in the foregoing paragraph (c); and
(iv) have responsibility for the overall coordination
of the implementation of the Project and Project-
related activities.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Bank and the Borrower agree that, in order
to realize the purposes of the Project, it shall be necessary for
the Turceni Enterprise:
(a) to operate the facilities established under the Project
with due regard to ecological, environmental and safety factors,
and, to that end, to treat effectively the ecologically harmful
discharges of said facilities;
(b) to be granted all such rights and interests in land and
all such other rights and powers as are necessary in the
management or operation of the assets managed or operated by
it;
(c) at all times to operate and maintain the installations,
equipment and other property managed or operated by it, and, as


﻿-5-
and when required, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with appropriate administrative and
engineering practices;
(d) except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, not to transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the assets
managed or operated by it, except in the normal course of its
business;
(e) to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations, resources and expenditures;
(f) to submit its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year to an independent audit conducted, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by the Ministry of Finance of Romania;
(g) at all times to manage its affairs, plan its      future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering, financial and administrative practices
and under experienced and competent management, assisted by
qualified staff in adequate numbers; and
(h) to ensure that in any year after 1981 the sum of
the annual benefits of the Turceni Enterprise and its annual
provision for depreciation shall be at least sufficient to cover
the sum of the equivalent in Lei of the aggregate payments of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and the
Prior Loan which the Borrower is required to make to the Bank that
same year; for the purposes of this paragraph (h) the term "Lei"
means Lei in currency of Romania, and the term "annual benefits"
means the    difference between gross revenues and operating
and administrative expenses (including adequate provision for
maintenance and depreciation) accountable to any one fiscal
year.
The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized
under the laws of Romania, ensure that the requirements set forth
in this Section will be met.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower;
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive and financial standards and practices and in accordance with
the Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations in respect of the Turceni
Enterprise.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower
to create liens as security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower
represents that at the date of this Agreement no lien exists
on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b) For the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a
lien shall be created on any of the Borrower's assets as security
for any debt, the Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, (i) if the Borrower shall create the
lien, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in
the creation of such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if the lien shall be
created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank,
an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan.
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in
carrying out the provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall
take such measures as shall be necessary according to the State
Plan of Romania and the applicable laws in order to achieve the
purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information;
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To
that end:


﻿-7-
(a) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time at the
request of either party exchange views through their representa-
tives with regard to the progress of the Project, the benefits
derived from the Project, the performance of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the compliance by the
Turceni Enterprise with the requirements set forth in Section 4.01
of this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan, the compliance by ROMENERGO with the requirements of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the Borrower shall enable the
Bank's representatives to exchange views with representatives of
the Turceni Enterprise with regard to the Project, the benefits
derived from the Project, the resources and expenditures of the
Turceni Enterprise and the compliance by the Turceni Enterprise
with the requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement
and with representatives of the relevant agencies with regard to
the economic benefits of the Project and the position of the
Turceni Enterprise in the Romanian power sector;
(b) the Borrower shall obtain from the Turceni Enterprise
and the other agencies of Romania concerned with the Project, and
furnish to the Bank, upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and the material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the
Borrower shall agree;
(c) the Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceees of the Loan, and to disclose
th; use thereof in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the Bank
within forty-five calendar days after each calendar quarter a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the
Borrower shall agree, on the progress of the Project during such
quarter;
(d) the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
visit and examine the goods financed out of the pro eeds of the
Loan, the plants, installations, sites, works, buildings and
equipment of the Turceni Enterprise, the factories, installations,
sites and works in Romania where goods required for the Project
are manufactured insofar as the Project is concerned, the other
Project-related facilities and their construction sites and the
records and documents of the Turceni Enterprise insofar as they
concern the Project and the other records and documents relating
to the Project;


﻿-8-
(e) the Borrower shall for each fiscal year of the Turceni
Enterprise: (i) obtain from the Turceni Enterprise and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such year,
(A) certified copies of the financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) of the
Turceni Enterprise for such year audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.01 (f) of this Agreement, and (B) the
report of such audit by the auditors referred to in said Section
4.01 (f) of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and the
Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the beforementioned financial statements of
the Turceni Enterprise and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
reasonably request;
(f) the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each of its fiscal years,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements, as
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower) for such fiscal year
submitted to an independent audit conducted, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by the
Ministry of Finance of Romania, and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditor of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and
the Guarantor shall agree; and (ii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the beforementioned financial statements of
the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall reasonably
request;
(g) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time
furnish to each other such other information as the other party
shall reasonably request with regard to the progress of the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds, the operations,
resources and expenditures of the Turceni Enterprise, the power
sector indicators, the economic benefits derived from the Project,
the position of the Turceni Enterprise in the Romanian power
sector, and the general status of the Loan; and
(h) promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than June 30, 1983, or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall
reasonably agree, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from


﻿- 9-
it, the performance by the Bank and the Borrower of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the
service thereof or the performance by either party of its obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, the technical
and economic indicators required for the implementation of the
Project shall have been duly approved by Decree of Romania and
shall have become effective.
Section 7.02. The date May 29, 1979, is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. "..e following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (lTT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
For the Borrower:                       Telex:
Banca de Investitii                     011238 BINVR
Str. Doamnei No. 4                      011239 BINVR
Bucharest                               011188 BINVR
Romania
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA DE INVESTITII
By Is/ Nicolae Ionescu
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Three steam turbine         61,100,000        72% of foreign
generator sets                               expenditures
and 72% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(2) Other equipment for          8,900,000        100% of foreign
thermal power sta-                           expenditures
tion
TOTAL       70,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for
goods or services supplied from the territory and in the currency
of any country other than Romania; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of Romania and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of Romania.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, Romania on goods or services, or on
the   importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of


﻿- 12 -
the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table ix. paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably esti,,ated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category Vill be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:
Construction of a thermal power station at Turceni in the
Gorg District, with four 330-MW lignite-fired units designed to
protect adequately the station's environment from potentially
harmful effects of the operation of the station and to deliver
7,920 GWh/a to the interconnected system at a plant factor
of 74% as an extension to the four 330-MW lignite-fired units
included in the project financed out of the proceeds of the Prior
Loan.
Part B:
Construction of about 288 km of 400-kV transmission lines
connecting Turceni with Cluj via Rovinari.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 1982
through   June 15, 1993                     2,915,000
On December 15, 1993                             2,955,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.45%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             2.95%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                             6.35%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.35%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and services shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   Identical or similar items to be procured for the Project
shall be grouped together, wherever practicable, for the purpose
of bidding and procurement, and such grouping of items shall be
subject to agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other expendi-
tures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 17 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Romania will be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Romania if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Romania equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Romania.
(3) Group C: bids offering goods manufactured outside
Romania.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compar-
ison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If


﻿- 18 -
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid
from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ROMENERGO shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been opened, ROMENERGO
shall inform the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respec-
tive amounts of the bids.
(c) After bids have been evaluated, ROMENERGO shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name
of the bidder to which the contract is intended to be awarded and
shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
ROMENERGO and state the reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
ROMENERGO shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application


﻿- 19 -
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with a
list of the parties invited to bid or to submit quotations, the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award or, if
a single offer is solicited, the reasons why a single offer was
solicited and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform ROMENERGO and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


