FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 29-SE
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
November 29, 1972
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit    =    CFAF Franc
1 US$     =    CFAF 255.79
100 CFAF           US$0.39
EIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Ha                 2.47 acres
1 Em        =        0.62 mile
1 Ton               22,204 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BNDS     -   Banque Nationale de Developpement au Senegal
FAC      -   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
IRAT     -   Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
ION      -   Institut Geographque National
MiN      -   Ministere du Developpement Rural
OMVS     -   Organiseation de Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal
ONCAD        Office National de Cooperation et D'assistance pour
le Developpement
PWD      -   Public Works Department
SAED     -   Societe D'amenagement et D'exploitation des Terres
du Delta
SATEC    -   Societe d'Aide Technique et de Cooperation
SCET     -   Societe Centrale pour L'equippement du Territoire
SOCAS    -   Societe de Conserves Alimentaires au Senegal
SDRS     -   Societe pour le Developpement Rizicole du Senegal
CONVERSION RATIOS
Paddy to milled Rice         65%
FISCAL YELR
October 1 - - September 30



SENEGAL
SNiENEGAI. RIV1'R P0LDERS PROJEICT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..................  ........                          i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ................e****c*..        *****.*****.**..**.               1
Il.    BACKGROUND  ......... *....******êe                e.*...................         1
General  *.......,O..***..S..,....                                       1
Agricultural Sector                  ..............................       2
Rice Production and Consumption  ..................                       2
Other Imported Food Items  ,               .......................        3
Institutions   3........                   .....        .********         3
III.    THE PROJECT AREA ........ . . . .  ......................... ............ .       4
General            4......      ........    ................ ...          4
Topography  ******,.***,............. .******..*....                      4
Climate and Soils ....................................                    4
Population and Land Tenure  *..................                           4
Communications  ....*.*****...******....*.**  ......                      5
Farming Systems  ........             ...............  .......            5
International Water Agreement:   Organisation
pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal  .......                      7
IV.    THE PROJECT  ***...... ..                  .......... .                           7
Description  .7.......   ** *            ................*.......         7
Detailed Features  ......................,                              .....  8
Technical Aspects  .................               ...............       10
Engineering Design and Construction Schedule  .....                      il
Environment and Health .....               ......................        12
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING                     ..........................     12
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ......., .16.........                      .        16
Recovery of Costs  ......                           *. .......           18
VII.    YIELDS, PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, FARMERS'
BENEFITS,  GOVERNMENT REVENUES   .......................                     19
VIII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ............................                         22
IX.    RECObIMENDATIONS  ........................                         ....         24






ANNEXES
1  Description of the Senegal River Basin and Delta Region
2   Irrigation System - Dagana
3   Irrigation System - Debi
4   Irrigation System - Lampsar
5  Training Center at Dagana
6  Applied Research Program in the Dagana Polder
Table 1 - Number of Tests
Table 2 - Research Program Cost
7  Existing and Required SAED Farm Equipment
8  Water Supply and Requirements
9   Project Costs
Table 1 - Project Costs, by sub-project and year
Table 2 - Housing and Vehicles
Table 3 - Sub-project Construction Schedule
Table 4 - Project Staff Requirements
10   SAED Cash Flow
11  Disbursements
Table 1 - IDA Credit Disbursement
Table 2 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
12  SAED: Organization and Financing
Table 1 - Balance Sheet
13   Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants
14  Evaluation Unit for the Dagana Polder
15  Number of Farms, Hectarages, Yield Progression and Production
Table t - Yields Assumed in Project Calculation
Table 2 - Area Cultivated and Production
Table 3 - Growing Cycles and Project Crops



ANNEXES - (ontinued
1<f  operattoni and Maintenanice Conte
Table 1 - Operation and Maintenance Costs
Table 2 - Recovery of Costa
17   Marketing and Price Policies
Table 1 - Rice
Table 2 - Tomatoes
Table 3 - Other Crops
18   Farmers Costs and Revenues
Table 1 - Cost and Benefits per ha Cultivated and per Farm
at Full Development
Table 2 - Debi Rice
Table 3 - Lampear Rice
Table 4 - Dagana Rice
Table 5 - Dagana Zone B
Table 6 - Dagana Zone A and C
Table 7 - Labor and Tractor Requirements: -Dbli and Lampsar
Table 8 - Labor and Tractor Requirements: Dagana Rice
Table 9 - Labor and Tractor Requirements: Dagana Areas
A and C
Table 10- Labor and Tractor Requirements: Dagana Area B
19  Government Revenues and Expenditures
20   Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Table 1 - Project
Table 2 - Debi
Table 3 - Lampsar
Table 4 - Dagana
Chart     SAED Organization
i4aps     3983  Senegal River Drainage Basin
3984 Senegal River Delta Region
10008  Debi Project
10041  Dagana Project
10042  Lampsar Valley West
10054  Lampsar Valley East



SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The cost of food imports is rising steadily in Senegal despite 70%
of the working population being employed in the rural sector. The principal
food import îs rice, and imports of this commodity in 1971 cost US$22 million
and accounted for 10% of all imports. It is Governnent policy to stimulate
domestic rice production, both rainfed rice in the south and irrigated rice
where this is possible. The Senegal River offers substantial scope for
irrigation and it is estimated that a potential 50,000 ha could be irrigated
with its waters. Irrigated development is given high priority by Government,
although the area now irrigated is very small. A cycle of poor growing seasons
due to drought has reinforced this policy but, due to lack of skills and the
high cost of irrigation works, expansion of the area under irrigation will
be slow.
ii.       The project would improve and expand irrigation in the Delta and
lower Valley of the Senegal River, and produce rice and other crops for import
substitution. The project consists of improving water control for a single
rice crop in two existing polder areas, and developing a new polder with
full water control permitting double-cropping of rice and a range of crops
including other cereals, tomatoes, potatoes and onions. The project would
result in a net increase of 3,000 ha of cultivated land, and provide a
better livelihood for some 1,700 farm families comprising about 10,000 people
in all. The project would include strengthening extension services and other
support services for participating farmers; establishing a training center and
an applied research center in the project area; and procuring farm machinery.
The project is based on experience gained from rice development schemes in
the Senegal Delta financed jointly by the French Fonds d'Aide et de Coopera-
tion (FAC) and Government, and studies and research carried out by UNDP/FAO
since 1965. The project would be the fourth Bank Group operation in the
agricultural sector in Senegal, and the second aimed at increasing Senegal's
rice production. Two of the three ongoing projects are proceeding satisfac-
torily. The third has experienced problems but these have been largely
overcome.
iii.      The project would be carried out by Societe d'Amenagement et d'
Exploitation des Terres du Delta (SAED), an autonomous agency responsible
to the Ministry of Rural Development.  SAED is charged with development of
the Delta area, through constructing and maintaining water control works, and
providing extension, land cultivation, credit and marketing services, and
rice processing facilities. In carrying out its technical and agricultural
program SAED has been assisted since 1967 by Societe d'Aide Technique et de
Cooperation (SATEC) and Societe Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire
(SCET-International). SAED supervises some 9,500 ha of irrigated land and
has developed and operates several pumping stations, and a rice mill with a
capacity of 19,000 tons paddy per annum.



- ii -
iv.       Project costs are estimated at US$7.4 million, with a fore  n
exchange component of US$3.0 million. About 80% of total costs would be for
irrigation development and 10% for extension services. An IDA credit of
US$4.5 million is proposed which would finance about 60% of project costs.
Government would contribute the remaining project costs, US$2.9 million,
from budget allocations.  Farmers would pay fees for using project developed
Land which would permit Governnent to recover, over the 35-year life of thL
project, all operation and maintenance costs plus project investment cost-.
v.        Contracts for major irrigation and drainage works (about US$5.0
million) and the procurement of farm machinery and water pumping and land
preparation equipment (about US$0.9 million) would be let through interna-
tional competitive bidding following the Bank guidelines. Vehicles, furniture,
training and research equipment (about US$100,000) would be procured under
local competitive bidding. Buildings and houses (costing about US$250,000)
would be built by local contractors after competitive bidding.
vi.       The project would generate import savings of about US$1.2 million
a year at maturity, mainly from replacing imports of rice and tomato paste.
The economic rate of return from investment in the project is estimated at
14%; 17 and 19% for the existing polders to be improved under the project,
and 14% for the new polder.
vii.      Per capita incomes of the some 10,000 people comprising participating
farm familles are expected to increase to CFAF 20,000 for those farmers in
existing polders, and to CFAF 30,000 for those who would take up land in the
new polder. Studies indicate a current average income of about CFAF 8,000
for rural people in the project area; this îs about one-third of the national
rural average which is estimated at about CFAF 25,000; consequently the project
would benefit a particularly poor segment of the population.
viii.     The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$4.5 million to the
Republic of Senegal.



!11W"N EF(lAl,
S!.NISAI. RkIVIl POLDERS PR(OJI:eC'
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In 1971 Senegal asked IDA to help finance further irrigation
development in the Delta of the Senegal River. Senegal's rice imports are
increasing steadily, and to save foreign exchange Government is giving high
priority to domestic production of rice and other import substitution crops.
Since 1965, it has been demonstrated that rice and a range of other crops
can be grown successfully on a commercial scale in the Delta under irrigation.
The proposed project would comprise improvement of water control on 2,100
ha within two existing irrigated areas; development of a new irrigated area
of 2,700 ha for double-cropping; provision of extension services to farmers
in the three areas; and establishment of training and applied research centers.
Principal project crops would be rice and tomatoes; subsidiary crops would
include potatoes, onions, vegetables and cereals. The project was identified
by a FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) mission in June 1969, and subsequently
prepared by French consultants, Societe Centrale pour l' Equipement du Territoire
(SCET - International), with the assistance of CP and the Bank's Permanent
Mission in West Africa (PMWA). This report iL based on the findings of an
appraisal mission during March/April 1972, composed of Messrs. K. H. S. Haasjes
and J. Tillier (Bank), and F. L. Hotes (Consultant). The mission was assisted
in Senegal by Mr. M. Palein of PMWA.
1.02      The project would be the fourth Bank Group agricultural operation
in Senegal. In 1969, a US$6.0 million IDA credit and a US$3.5 million Bank
loan were approved to help finance a groundnut and millet improvement
program. Initially this project suffered numerous probleme but remedial
measures taken by Government in 1971 solved many of these. Some organizational
problems are outstanding but it is expected that these will be resolved by the
end of 1972. In 1971, IDA credits of US$1.25 million for a small settlement
project (Terres Neuves Project) and of US$3.7 million for the development
of rainfed rice in the south (Casamance Rice Project) were approved. Both
projects have made promising starts.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Senegal has a land area of 197,000 km2 and a population of about
4.1 million, estimated to be increasing by about 2.2% annually. Population
increase ranges up to 6% in the larger towns reflecting internal migration.
Population density ranges from 130 per km2 in parts of the "groundnut basin"
in the west, to zero in some areas of the east.



- 2 -
2.02      Topography is flat, and vegetation ranges from heavy forest in
the south to desert in the north with a corresponding annual rainfall range
of 1,500 to 300 mm. Wet and dry seasons are very pronounced, and droughts,
which tend to occur in a cyclical pattern, are frequent and more severe in
the north. Soîls are mostLy light and about 15% of total land area ls
cultivated.
2.03      In 1971 GDP was estlmated at US$937 million or about US$234 (CFAF
60,000) per capita at the then prevaîling exchange rates. Wîth manufacturing
and construction contributing about 13% of GDP, Senegal has a relatively
advanced industrial sector compared to other West African countries. Unfortu-
nately, further industrialization is restricted by limited local markets
and relatively high costs. Mining although growing rapidly is still insigni-
ficant; oil prospecting is being carried out. Development of Senegal's
economic potential depends basically on the rural sector, agriculture, live-
stock, fisheries, and forestry.
Agricultural Sector
2.04      Agriculture plays the central role in Senegal's economic life.
About 70 percent of the labor force is engaged in rural activities and, al-
though this sector accounts for only 30 to 35 percent of GDP (at factor costs),
its leverage on the economy is considerable through its impact on exports and
the size of the domestic demand for locally-produced goods and services. The
sector is not vell developed and vithin it incomes are low, averaging about
CFAF 25,000 per capita in 1971. The sector, and the economy, as a whole,
is overly dependent on groundnuts, the principal cash crop; thus, in 1971
when all exports were valued at CFAF 40.7 billion the value of groundnut
produce exports vas CFAF 12.4 billion or 30%. This strong dependence on
groundnuts makes Senegal's foreign exchange earnings most susceptible to
unforseeable climatic and vorld market price fluctuations. The principal
food crops are millet and sorghum, the only rainfed cereals that can be grown
satisfactorily over most of the country which is typified by generally poor
climatic and soil conditions. Government's strategy for developing the
sector consists principally of increasing productivity in the heavily pop-
ulated "groundnut basin"; opening up the undeveloped but better watered east
and southeast for settlement; diversifying production both for export and
import substitution - while scope for the former is not large several oppor-
tunities exist for import substitution and among these most important is rice-
and making a modest start in irrigation.  In time an irrigated sector muet
develop in Senegal to meet îts needs of agricultural commodities that cannot
be grown under Senegalts erratic rainfall conditions.  A prerequisite for the
development of an irrigation sector i the development of experience and skills;
the development of these would be one of the objectives of the proposed project.
Rice Production and Consumption
2.05      Rice ls the most popular food grain after millet, but the gap
between domestic production and demand is high and filled by imports.
Annual production is 62,000 tons of milled rice. Rice imports in 1971
amounted to 208,000 tons (US$22 million) and accounted for 10% of total im-
ports. Rice consumption îs estimated to increase from 260,000 tons in 1971



- 3 -
to about 350,000 tons by 1978. Local production cannot be increased rapidly
enough to meet this demand and Government aims at stabilizing importa at about
175,000 tons annually and growing the balance domestically. Part of the
required domestic production will come from ongoing projects which are expect-
ed to increase national production to 150,000 tons by 1978; the remainder can
come only from new projects.
2.06      About 80% of Senegalts rice is grown in the Casamance region of
southern Senegal, primarily under rainfed conditions. Most of the balance
is grown under irrigation in the Delta. Although Casamance is the major
producer, it remains a net importer of rice. Several projects have been
initiated in Casamance to increase production and include schemes financed
by FED, the Republic of China and the Netherlands as well as the IDA project
referred to in para 1.03.
Other Imported Food Items
2.07      Other substitutable food importa include tomato paste, of which
about 8,000 tons valued at US$2.5 million are imported annually; potatoes,
10,0O0 tons valued at US$0.98 million; and onions, 7,000 tons valued at
US$0.9 million.
Institutions
2.08      While Government activity in the agricultural sector is extensive,
results are very variable. Responsibility for sector development rests with
the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR), but numerous semi-autonomous govern-
ment agencies have been created to sponsor the production of specific crops or
to provide support services for agriculture in specific areas. MDR control
over these agencies is tenuous; many are poorly organized and their operations
expensive. The indifferent performance of many of the agencies, coupled with
ill-planned Government price policies, has eroded farmer confidence in many
Government programs.
2.09      Of five agencies working with rice only two of importance work
in the Senegal Delta and one of these, Societe pour le Developpement Rizicole
du Senegal (SDRS), is being wound up. From 1945 until 1971 SDRS managed the
5,000 ha Richard Toll polder in the Delta and produced rice on an estate
basis; the estate is being converted to sugar production and the production
of some 8,000 tons of rice annually will be lost. The second agency, Societe
d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta (SAED) is efficient and
since 1965 has developed some 10,000 ha of irrigated land for smallholder
rice production in the Delta.
2.10      Research on rice and other crops is carried out by Institut de
Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures Vivrieres (IRAT), a
French research institute, whose operations in Senegal are financed jointly
by Senegal and France. IRAT's main station is at Bambey in the "groundnut
basin"; rice research is carried out at its Richard Toll substation, and
work on other cereals, pastures and legumes is carried out in the Senegal
Valley.



- 4 -
III.  THE PR0JECT AREA
General
3.01      The project would be carried out in the Delta and lower Valley of
the Senegal River. These areas are described i-n some detail in Annex 1.
Extending to some 1,200 km2, the area is triangular; its base is the 125 km
of highway between the regional capital, Saint-Louis, and the Dagana polder
to be constructed under the project; its apex is the Debi polder which would
be improved under the project; and its western and eastern sides the great
loop of the main stream of the Senegal River. The Lampsar polder also to be
improved under the project is about 20 km east of Saint-Louis, see map 3984.
Topography
3.02      Topography is characterized by the Senegal's many branches, some
active and others extinct. Over time the branches have developed broad banks
or levees which are slightly higher than the surrounding land. Typically,
the Delta's topography ls composed of the raised river banks, and the de-
pressions (cuvettes) in between. The area's villages are located on the
levees which are also used for rainfed cropping. The cuvettes are flooded by
the Senegal in the vet season and are used for rice production where their
soils are not saline. Over the last decade Government has regulated the
flooding of about 10,000 ha of cuvettes by constructing water control struc-
tures. This is in addition to the 5,000 ha at Richard Toll which were de-
veloped in the late 1940's. Generally this work has been simple empoldering
through constructing dikes with flow regulators. The exception is Richard
Toll which is developed for year-round irrigation. Roads built on the dike
crests provide the Delta's secondary road network.
Climate and Soils
3.03      The Delta has a single rainy season, July through September. Annual
rainfall averages 310 mm. Temperatures are highest March through July with
an average maximum in May of 40°C. Lowest temperatures occur in January with
an average minimum of 14°C. Cuvette soils have a high clay content and are
extremely hard when dry. The levee soils have lower clay contents and, while
easier to work, are prone to erosion. In the Delta proper many of the cuvette
soils are too saline for use.
Population and Land Tenure
3.04      Population i  about 110,000 people of whom about 80,000 live in
Saint-Louis. About 30,000 rural people live in 30 principal villages where
many combine fishing and farming. There is no firm data on rural incomes
but it would appear that they are considerably lower than the national rural
average and amount to about CFAF 8,000 per capita or only one-third of the
national rural average. Ethnically these people are mixed and comprise five
major tribal groups. The rural family averages about 6 persons of whom 3.5



- 5 -
are active workers. There is no shortage of land and no system of individual
lantd ownership. Farmers are granted the right of usufruct by the village
authorities. Agencies such as SAED can take over land in the public interest
without compensation (zone pionniere). The three sub-project areas have been
so classified.
Communications
3.05      Communications are good.  Saint-Louis is connected to Dakar, the
capital, by about 250 km of modern paved highway and by railroad. From
Saint-Louis another excellent paved highway extends eastward to Matam, 400 km
inland on the Senegal River, and serves the important centers of Lampsar,
Ross-Bethio and Richard Toll in the Delta, and Dagana in the Valley. From
this highway secondary all-weather roads, most on dike crests, serve all
populated points within the Delta including Debi. Maintenance of the paved
highways is carried out by the Public Works Department (PWD) and is good.
Secondary roads and dikes are maintained by Societe d'Amenagement et
d'Exploitation du Delta (SAED) with its own funds and those which it receives
from PWD for maintenance of the main Senegal River dike, see para 3.08.
3.06      There is an airport at Saint-Louis, and during the flood season
river transport carries freight and passengers as far upstream as Podor, 260
km inland, but such traffic is minor. Saint-Louis is connected to Dakar,
Ross-Bethio, Richard Toll and Dagana by telephone, and SAED has its own radio-
telephone network, which services its mobile units throughout the Delta.
Farming Systems
3.07      Traditional.  Traditional agriculture is governed by the rainy
and river flood seasons which begin in June-July.  At that time rainfed crops
such as millet, maize, vegetables and cowpeas are planted on the river banks.
Later as the flood recedes the same crops are planted lower down the banks
and their growth is sustained by moisture retained by the soil. In those
cuvettes which are not saline some rice is grown; floating varieties are
mainly used and consequently yields are low and variable.
3.08      Improved.  The Delta's agricultural potential can be developed
only through investment in flood control, irrigation and drainage.  After
construction of the first phase of the Richard Toll polder, little further
development occurred until the construction in 1964/65 of an 84-km dike along
the south bank of the main stream of the Senegal River to protect some 120,000
ha of land from flooding, see map 3984.  SAED was established to develop land
within this dike and to date has developed 9,200 ha in nine separate polders,
ranging from 400 to 3,100 ha in size, in which small farmers produce one crop
of rice a year. Until 1969 the polders operated on the simple principle that
as the Senegal flood rose in July/August water was allowed into the polders,
and as the flood fell, water was drained out. No provision is made for land
levelling within the polders or for internal water control; consequently depths
of flooding and rice yields are extremely variable, A further problem is that
the duration of the flood at levels permitting gravity irrigation is relatively
short and if floods are delayed or ended early, as is the case to some extent



in about 50/. of the seasons, yields are serioualy reduced. In 196i9 SAED
installed three pumping stations to allow pre-irrigation on some 8,750 ha of
its polders in advance of the flood crest. Through permitting earlier culti-
vatîon of the land and the more timely sowing of rice significant yield im-
provements have occurred. For example, in the dry year of 1968 a complete
crop failure occurred while in 1970, another dry year, production exceeded
10,000 tons of paddy.
3.09      For the future SAED plans polder development in three phases.
Phase 1 is empoldering and supplemental pump irrigation; the stage now
reached on 8,600 ha. Phase 2 is such bunding and water control as is re-
quired to limit maximum rice submergence to between 20 and 50 cm; the
Lampsar and Debi polders would be improved to this second stage under the
project. Phase 3 is the introduction of full vater control within the polder
by the construction of internal drainage and irrigation networks. The Dagana
polder would be constructed to this standard.
3.10      A feature of the Senegal is that the Atlantic influences river
levels more than 260 km inland, and river salinity for more than 200 km.
At Dagana salinity is not a serious problem, and double cropping will be
possible, see para 4.02. Downstream, however, the period of excessive
salinity increases rapidly and double cropping at Debi and Lampsar is
impractical except through constructing a major barrage downstream of
these polders. The feasibility of such a barrage is under study, as are
other projects designed to develop the potential of the Senegal River, see
Annex 1.
3.11      On existing SAED schemes farmers are allocated 1 to 2.4 ha each
which they plant with rice. Farmers are drawn from nearby villages and the
polder land is in addition to their traditional farming operations. In SAED's
South Kassak polder a farnera' cooperative grows tomatoes for canning.
3.12      SAED provides support services to its rice farmers, including
extension, credit, supplies of fertilizer and seed, transport, machinery
hire, processing and marketing. Also, and in collaboration with Societe de
Conserves Alimentaires au Senegal (SOCAS), a private company growing (150 ha)
and canning tomatoes, SAED provides similar services to tomato growers.
Services provided by the machinery-hire pool generally are limited to land
preparation and threshing. Farmers are organized in cooperatives or small
mutual guarantee groups of 10-15 farmers, the latter have proved more success-
ful than the larger cooperatives.
3.13      Seed, fertilizer and other inputs and services are supplied to
farmers by SAED and repayments are deducted from the proceeds of sales of
rice and tonatoes to SAED and SOCAS to which participating farmers must sell
their crops.  These advances are for less than six months duration, and re-
payments include a 15% provision for SAED overheads.



-7-
International Water Agreement:Organisation pour la
Mlise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal
3.14      The Senegal River is international, 1,800 km in length, and
originates at the headwaters of its tributary, the Bafing, in the high
rainfall area of the Massif du Foota Djalon in northern Guinea. The Senegal
River proper begins at Bafoulabe in Mali, thereafter it flows through Mali.
From its departure from Mali upstream of Bakel in Senegal, the River marks
the international frontier between Senegal and Mauritania throughout practi-
cally all of the remainder of its route. In 1972 Organisation pour la Mise
en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal (OMVS) was established with Mali, Mauritania and
Senegal as members. The objective of OMVS is to study and plan the Most
efficient use of the Senegal for power generation, navigation and irrigation.
The institution of any major works affecting the river requires the mutual
agreement of the three members. Such agreement has been obtained.
IV. THE PROJECT
Description
4.01      The project would be carried out in the four years 1973-1976 and
would be managed by Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du
Delta (SAED) (see Chapter VI). Three subprojects would be the principal
components of the project and would result in a net increase in irrigated
land of about 3,050 ha and the improvement of another 1,780 ha. The sub-
projects would be:
(a) constructing a new irrigation scheme at Dagana permitting
the year-round cultivation of 2,730 ha;
(b) improving water control in the Debi cuvette and increasing
the area irrigated from 260 ha to 1,025 ha; and
(c) improving water control in the seven cuvettes forming the
Lampsar subproject and increasing the area irrigated from
880 ha to 1,080 ha.
Complementary project activities would be:
(d) strengthening SAED with staff, facilities and equipment
both to carry out the project and to provide support for
farmers who would use land developed under the project;
(e) constructing, equipping and staffing a training center
at Dagana for SAED staff and for farmers;
(f) carrying out, through collaboration with IRAT, a program
of applied research to support agricultural operations at
Dagana; and



(g) expanding the SAED farm machinery pool to permit the
provision of land preparation services to farmers using
land developed under the project.
Detailed Features
4.02      Dagana.  This subproject alone would be developed for year-round
cropping and provide for full water control. The Dagana site extends to a
gross area of 5,000 ha within a large bend of the Senegal River from which
it is separated by a relatively high river bank. The southern boundary
is the low plateau carrying the main highway from Saint-Louis to Dagana.
Some 600 ha are now cropped, and under the project about 3,500 ha would
be developed to give a net irrigable area of 2,700 ha, 70% of which would
be double-cropped; about 1,400 ha with rice and 1,300 ha with other crops.
Major works would include construction of about 19 km of perimeter dike,
installation of separate irrigation and drainage systems, construction of
three low lift pumping stations, a reservoir for storing either irrigation
or drainage water to reduce pumping capacity, and necessary land clearing
and preparation. Further details are at Annex 2. Costs per irrigable ha
are estimated at CFAE 311,000 (US$1,215) free of identifiable taxes. This
cost is on the high side and is accounted for principally by first, a lack
of competition between civil works contractors in Senegal which has resulted
in the high unit costs which have been employed in appraisal; and second,
employment of a substantial degree of automation for hydraulic equipment to
compensate for the lack of experience on the part of both farmers and SAED
employees in irrigation water management. In short, the high costs reflect
the absence of a significant irrigation sector in Senegal; it is hoped,
however, that international competitive bidding will reduce these high costs
to some extent.
4.03      Debi.  This cuvette is protected against flooding by the Senegal
perimeter dike. Surface area is about 1,500 ha, and currently a single crop
of rice is grown on about 260 ha. Yields are low due to lack of means of
controlling submergence depths within reasonable limits. Irrigation water
is both supplied and drained off by gravity through a dual function structure
in the perimeter dike. Proposed project works would control submergence
depths on 1,025 ha to within a range of 20 cm-50 cm, and permit cultivation
of a single high yielding rice crop each year. Major works would include
the construction of dikes, dual purpose irrigation and drainage canals, a
pumping station, and ancillary hydraulic structures. Annex 3 contains details
of the existing situation at Debi and of proposed project works. The capital
costs of improvement and development works over the 1,025 ha are estimated at
an average of CFAF 74,000 (US$290)/ha free of identifiable taxes.
4.04      Lampsar.  This subproject would encompass seven small cuvettes
totalling 2,000 ha in extent. About 800 ha are now cropped with rice, but
for the same reasons as at Debi, yields are low. Proposed project works would
result in a single water level for each cuvette during the period of rice
submersion which, taking into account ground levels, would give a range in
submersion levels of 20 cm-55 cm. Major works would include dikes to protect
protect each cuvette against uncontrolled flooding, a system of unlined canals
to serve as supply and drainage conduits, and ancillary hydraulic structures.



- 9 -
No new pumping station would be required as the Lampsar polders would be
supplied by the existing pumps on the Senegal at Ronq. Annex 4 contains
further details of the subproject. Costs free of identifiable taxes per ha
improved are estimated at CFAF 7i,000 (US$280). Costs of development at
Debi and Lampsar are signifirantly below those expected at Dagana, and the
economic rates of return from investment in them are higher than from invest-
ment in Dagana (see para 8.01). Unfortunately Debi and Lampsar are the only
two remaining cuvettes that can be improved at a relatively low cost.  Future
development will have to be of polders of the Dagana type.
4.05      Strengthening SAED.  To carry out the project and support project
farmers, SAED would increase its staff. This is discussed in Chapter VI.
In brief, an increase in establishment of 4 professional, 9 technical, and
92 field staff would be required. To help accommodate this staff 48 houses
and an office would be built at Dagana, 8 houses at Lampsar, and 5 houses and
a warehouse at Debi. Thirteen vehicles and 62 motorcycles would be purchased
for staff transportation.
4.06      Dagana Training Center.  SAED would continue to train its newly-
recruited field agents in irrigated rice production at its Savoigne polder
farm. Training in the production of other crops would be provided at a new
center at Dagana that would be established under the project and which would
give courses of four-week duration (see Annex 5). The center also would
give courses and demonstration for farmers, and include an ox-training unit.
The center would be under the general supervision of a training specialist
expected to be provided to SAED under the French Government's 1972-77 tech-
nical assistance program. During negotiations assurances were obtained from
Government that the center would be under the supervision of a suitably qual-
ified training specialist.
4.07      Research.  SAED would contract IRAT to carry out a program of applied
research mainly on nonrice crops (see Annex 6). The program would be for a
minimum of four years and its objectives would be to provide technical support
for Dagana farmers including the development of new and more productive
methods and the introduction of new crops and varieties. Ongoing IRAT rice
work would continue at Richard Toll During negotiations assurances were
obtained that the contract between SAED and IRAT would be satisfactory to
IDA, and that the research program would be reviewed annually with IDA.
IRAT staff would be provided with working and living accommodation at the
training center, see para 4.06.
4.08      Expansion of Machinery Hire Pool.  As described in para 3.03 cuvette
soils are difficult to work when dry. Donkeys are the principal mode of an-
imal traction in the project area, but since they are not suitable for heavy
cultivations the use of ox drawn equipment would be sponsored under the proj-
ect. Despite this, some powered machinery would still be required to carry
out the deep plowing cuvette soîls require every three to four years and
which is impossible with oxen, and in addition to provide an insurance that
farmers at Dagana would be able to carry out sufficiently timely operations
to permit double cropping. The principal items to be procured would be 16
60-hp farm tractors. Annex 7 contaîns lists of SAED's existing farm equip-
ment and of equipment to be procured under the project.



-~ 10 -
Technical Aspects
4.09      Water Supply, Demand and Quality.  The project would derive its
entire water supply from the Senegal River, by gravity during high water
and by pumping during low water. Reliable flow measurements are available
for several stations along the river; at Dagana for example 56 years. As
described in Annex 8, the Senegal has a single flood each year, and in its
lower reaches follows a regular annual flow pattern. Between June 24 and
July 6 flows usually begin to increase in response to the start of the rains
in its headwaters area; increase gradually and peak 3 to 3-1/2 months later.
The flood declines more slowly in accordance with well-established stream
hydrology patterns and reaches minimum stages in May or June.
4.11      As flows decrease in the Delta, saline water from the Atlantic
moves slowly upstream and by early March salinity levels at Debi and Lampsar
are as much as six times the maximum limit for irrigation. These high levels
remain until flows again increase in June/July. At Debi and Lampsar pre-
irrigation by pumping would start with the beginning of the flood in June
and pumping would be discontinued once flood levels permitted gravity irriga-
tion. Since only one rice crop of about 150 days' duration would be grown
on these two polders, salinity would not be a problem. At Dagana, where
double cropping would be practised, quality of irrigation water would be
more than satisfactory July through April. 3Salinity begins in June, with the
water becoming unsuitable for irrigation some time during that month but for
a maximum duration of 30 days. However, two of the pumping stations constructed
to serve Dagana, Gae and Bokhol, would be upstream of Dagana, and records show
that at these locations even in dry years water is suitable for irrigation in
June and would be adequate for project demands. In the event of an exception-
ally dry year excessive salinity could occur at Gae or, as an even more remote
possibility, at Bokhol. Fortunately, the date of occurrence of excessive
salinity can be predicted, in advance as early as January with considerable
accuracy once the Senegal has clearly established its recession pattern for
the dry season. If excessive salinity is indicated, planting of the rainy
season crop would be delayed. This would be only for a few days and farming
operations for the remainder of the year would not be disrupted unduly.
Existing SAED salinity measurements are satisfactory and would be continued.
Annex 8 contains further details on water supply and requirements.
4.11      Water availability for the three sub-projects is more than adequate.
With the project, the area of wet season irrigated rice in the Delta vill
increase to 16,300 ha requiring the maximum diversion of 65 m3/sec. This
compares with an average July discharge of 417 m3/sec and a lowest recorded
discharge of 70 m3/sec.
4.12      While no serious problem in providing water for two cropping
seasons at Dagana is foreseen, any upstream developments using significant
amounts of river water during low stages could upset the delicate saline-fresh
water interface balance that occurs annually. In addition to the agreements
obtained and described in para 3.14 during negotiations assurances were ob-
tained that Government would inform IDA of any new irrigation development
above Dagana and agree with IDA on the necessary limitation on quantities of
water to be pumped from the river upstream of Dagana.



- 1l -
4.13      Irrigation Sysftem9.  Flood irrigation would be employed at Debi
am(l l.aiinmpar; no speciai ; eclmnical or social problena are foreseen.  For
rice areas in all tlhree subprojects the system would be designed for 24
hours of operation per day. For "other crop" areas at Dagana night
irrigation is considered ïmpractical given the lack of farmer experience
and the system would be designed for daylight operation. The large capacity
field delivery system thus required is one reason for the relatively high
investment cost per hectare. Each of Dagana's three sectors would have its
own pumping station, which would lift irrigation water to both high (other
crop) and low (rice) service areas within the sector. The Dagana B Station
dould pump on a 24-hour basis and function solely for irrigation. Water
pumped at night would be stored in a regulating channel for release during
the day. Station A would handle drainage from both Sectors A and B which
would have a common drainage system; and Sector C would be largely independ-
ent.
Engineering Design and Construction Schedule
4.14      WJhile detailed designs have not been completed for any of the
three subprojects, preliminary designs are in substantial detail, of
high quality, and adequate for appraisal. Tender documents for all major
works are scheduled to be completed by SCET-International by end December
1972. Construction would start in 1973 at Debi and Dagana (Sector A) and
be completed in early 1974 with first project crops grown in that year. Work
at Lampsar would start in 1974 and the first crop grown in 1975. All project
works would be completed by January 1976; a detailed construction schedule
is at Annex 9, Table 3.
4.15      For rice areas at Dagana a satisfactory rotational schedule of pre-
irrigation has been designed. At Debi and Lampsar different polder arrange-
ments and flooding depths would require different preirrigation rates and an
expensive system of pre-irrigation is proposed. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that SAED would cause the consultants to review the various
possible preirrigation procedures to determine if any cost savings would
accrue through adoption of modified preirrigation schedules.
4,16      Of some concern is the potential impact of the Lampsar subproject
un the city of Saint-Louis water supply; the Lampsar serves as the principal
source of water for that city. To drain the seven cuvettes comprising the
subproject, the level of the Lampsar would have to be lowered to +0.50 IGN
each year at the end of the irrigation season in December. The Lampsar would
then be filled again by pumping at Ronq.  SCET is undertaking a FAC-financed
study, to be completed by June 1973, on the future water requirements of
Saint-Louis and the most feasible means of meeting these. The study would
clarify the amount of Lampsar valley storage needed in the future, and whether
or not the Lampsar irrigation subproject would have any adverse effect on the
city water supply. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Govern-
ment would not permit construction of the Lampsar sub-project should it ad-
versely affect the city water supply.



- 12 -
4.17 h    I'rtm of tain mnin SaiLit-leotii/Rosuo higlhway embankment between Ndiol
titl Roiti ietiio, whiere it form» the eastern boundary of Cuvettes 3a, 3b, and 4,
will have water ponded against them when the Lampsar water levels are raised
to +1.75 IGN. This may weaken the highway subgrade unless a amall protective
barrier dike or embankment is placed on the river aide of the highway. CFAF
1 million have been included in project costs for this purpose. During nego-
tiations assurances were obtained that the PWD had no objection to the
implementation of the Lampsar subproject.
Environment and Health
4.18      The ecology would be little changed by the project.  No known
species of wildlife would be endangered. Farming systems practised would
involve the excessive use of neither pesticides nor other chemicals likely
to have a deleterious effect on human health. Except for malaria the area
is relatively free of the more serious tropical diseases. SAED distributes
malaria prophylactics to its farmers, and the Ministry of Health operates
three health centers and twenty-one dispensaries in the project area. These
provide treatment and advice on disease prevention. Despite twenty-five years
of irrigated cultivation at Richard Toll bilharzia is unknown, and there is
no evidence that the project would cause a change in this situation. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations, however, that SAED would cooperate with the
Ministry of Health in ensuring that regular checks would be made to enable the
early detection of the disease and of its vector in the event that they became
present. Waterborne diseases such as anebiasis and cholera occur but are
controllable; and the situation should be improved through a French technical
assistance program which will equip most project area villages with wells.
In the light of the generally satisfactory situation no special health
arrangements are proposed under the project.
V. COST ESTIMA.TES AND FINANCING
5.01      Project costs during the development period 1973-76 are estimated
at CFAF 1.9 billion (US$7.4 million), of which the foreign exchange component
is about CFAF 0.75 billion (US$2.9 million) or 40%. Detailed cost estimates
are at Annex 9 and are summarized in the following table:



- 13 -
Swunary of Project Cost Estimate   1973-76
CFAF Million                 US $ 00
Local        Foreign     Total    Local    Foreign    Total             % Foreign
Irrigation Wbrks                                                                                   Exchanpe
Land clearing          61.2           28.7       89.9       239       112        351               32
Earth works           486.9          220.6      707.5    1.904        862     1.766                32
Civil works            148.4          55.9      204.3       580       219        799               27
- 696.5    l I73     1.19 0.7    2.723          3-3      .916      3 0          4
Building Construction
Staff housing          16.2            9.8       26.0       63         38       101               37.5
Offices and stores     19.7           11.9       31.6        77        47       124                37.5
37;.-9        fli57      77iX       1;5         ;5       2-2               37.5
Eciuipment
Pumping station and    13.5          121.7      135.2        53       476       529               90
hydraulic gates
Tractors & accessories  6.6           59.6       66.2        26       233        259               90
Resuarch & training
equipment             1.3            2.4        3.7         5        10        15                65
VehiLcles               8.0            5.5       13.5        31        22        53               13
29.4         1=9.2       1          17                   w '15
Engineering Services       32.1           82.5      114.6       126       322        4148              72
M:nnac?:nnt *and Other Costs
Cost
Sal;iries              61.3           14.7       76.0       240        57        297               19
Vch-clen & maintenance 12.1            4.5       16.6        47        18         65               27
Training & research    44.6            6.7       51.3       1714       26        200               13
Co=pcnsation to
Dagana farmers        3.6            --         3.6        14                   14               --
121.6          25.9      5ri-3       Z77       101       r7 i7.5
TOTAL                 915.5          624.5    1,540.0    3,579      2,1442     6,021               140.5
Physical contingencies 104.5          45.8      150.3       409       179        588               30.14
Price contingencies   128.6           84.3      212.9       503       329        832               3°.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST  1,148.6          754.6    1,903.2    4,141      2,950      7,4JSI



- 14 -
5.02      Cost estimates for irrigation works, buildings and equipment are
based on recent contract prices for similar work and suppliers' quotations.
Personnel costs are based on those incurred by SAEI). A physical continigency
of 15% lias been applied to irrigation works and a price contingency of 6%o
per annum compounded to all project costs. Costs include CFAF 3.6 million
for the purchase of sorghum for distribution in 1973 to compensate fartners
at Dagana as 480 ha now cropped with sorghum each year would be takenl over
by the project and there would be no production from this area in 1973.
Project costs do not include import duties on equipment imported directly
for the project such as pumping station equipment, hydraulic gates, tractors,
and implements.  Government has indicated that these would be duty free, and
during negotiations this was confirmed. Project costs include all other
taxes such as, value added tax and taxes on fuel oil which are estinated tc
account for 24% of costs.
5.03      Financing.  It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$4.5 million
(CFAF 1.15 billion) be made to cover the estimated foreign exchange costs of
the project, and 35% (USS1.55 million) of local costs. The IDA credit would
represent about 60% of total project costs or 80% of project costs less taxes.
Government would finance the remaining 40% of project costs, US$2.94 million
(CFAF 752 million). However, due to the tax component of project costs.
Government's net contribution would be about US$1.1 million. The project
financing plan is summarized in the following table:
FINANCING PLAN
(Million)
IDA            Government           Total
CFAF  US$    %   CFAF   US$    %   CFAF   US$        %
- Engineering Services   114.6  0.45  100                          114.6 0.45  100
- Imported Nlachinery     181.3  0.70   90   20.1  0.09   10    201.4 0.79  100
- Irrigation Works        600.1  2.35   60  401.6  1.57   40  1.001.7 3.92  100
- Building Construction   34.5  0.14   60   23.1  0.09   40         57.6 0.23  100
- Salaries                                     76.0  0.30  100      76.0 0.30  100
- Compensation to
Dagana Farmers                               3.6  0.01  100        3.6 0.01  100
- Vehicles, Research
equipment and other
costs                    51.4  0.20   60   33.7  0.12   40        85.1 0.32  100
- Contingencies           169.1  0.66   48  194.1  0.76   52    363.2 1.42  100
1.15f.0  4.50   60  752.2  2.94   40  1.903.2 7.44  100
The IDA credit and Government's own cortribution to project costs would be
passed on to SAED; US$3.1 million (CFAF 800 million) as a grant, and US$4.3
million (CFAF 1. 00( million) as a credit bearing interest of 1,' for a term
of 35 years inclui('1ig a grace period of 5 years in wlhich interest would be
capitaIiÉie(.  1lTht credit woiald cover the costs (if ir-rigation warks  nil tn-
tr.Lstriiretttre.  IThse  lending terme r4re dictdLed  y t1lie prolect casl flIow -at
Atinex 10. Stgnatiire of a financing agreeinent between Goveranîent ancd SAEI
satisfactorv to Il)A wouid hie a condition of creclit effectiveness.



- 15 -
5.04      SAED has run into financial difficulties with its ongoing projects
due to delays in obtaining funds from Government, see para 6.02. This situa-
tion has occurred also with Bank financed agricultural projects in Senegal.
To help prevent such probleme in future, assurances would be obtained from
Government that SAED would open a project Bank account with Banque National
de Developpement du Senegal (BNDS) into which Government would deposit three
months in advance the funds required for the project on the basis of an
annual budget prepared by SAED and approved by MDR and IDA.
5.05      Procurement and Contracts.  International competitive bidding in
accordance wîth Guidelines for Borrowers would be used to let contracts for
civil works amounting to about US$5 million; and to procure pumping station
and hydraulic equipment, tractors and implements costing about US$0.9 million.
Civil works contracts would be broken down into sizes small enough for local
contractors to execute. Contractors, whether local or foreign, would be
permitted to bid for all or any of the contracte. This arrangement should
give optimum encouragement for foreign and local contractors to compete in
the bidding.  Contracts for the construction of houses and offices estimated
to cost US$0.27 million would be let by local competitive bidding, as would
be any contracts for minor on-farm development works that SAED decided to
exclude from international competitive bidding. In the latter case local
contractors would be pre-qualified. Vehicles, motorcycles, furniture, office
equipment, tools and other small equipment, valued at a total of US$0.08
million, would be procured by local competitive bidding. The remainder of
project costs would be SAED expenditures on items such as salaries, research
and training. Senegal has preferential trade agreements with members of the
European Common Market and other members of the African Entente countries
but these would not act as barriers to goods procured under international
competitive bidding since such imports would be duty free, see para 5.02.
5.06      Disbursement.  Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit would
finance:
-    The c.i.f. cost of imported hydraulic and agricultural
equipment,
-    60% of the cost of land development works, construction
of houses and offices, vehicles and operating costs, and
-    100% of the cost of engineering services.
In addition it is proposed that the costs of topographic surveys amounting
to about CFAF 25 million, and now being carried out, should be financed
retroactively under the project at 100% reimbursement. Disbursement claims
would be supported by contracts, shipping documents and certified records
of expenditure. A schedule of estimated disbursements is at Annex 11. It
is proposed that any credit funds remaining at the completion of the project
should be cancelled.



- 16 -
5.07      Accounts and Audit.  SAED would establish a project account within
which expenditures on the three major sub-projects, including management and
overhead costs, and those on research and training would be recorded separate-
ly and in such detail as to identify the purpose and function of each expendi-
ture. SAED would continue to maintain individual accounts for farmers receiv-
ing credit for inputs and machinery services and open a new consolidated fee
account, see para 6.11. As a Government agency SAED accounts are subject to
annual audit by the Office of the Accountant General; unfortunately such
audits are irregular in frequency and generally inadequate. Consequently,
during negotiations assurances ware obtained that the above accounts would
be established and maintained, that a firm of commercial auditors satisfactory
to IDA would be employed to audit SAED accounts and that copies of audited
SAED accounts together with the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA
within a six months of the close of each fiscal year.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
6.01      Project Administration.  Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation
des Terres du Delta (SAED) would carry out the project. SAED was established
in 1965 as a State corporation responsible to the Minister of Rural Development.
Its Board is made up of civil servants representing the Ministries of Rural Deve-
lopment (Chairman), Finance, Planning, and Water Development. SAED's objec-
tives are to develop the agriculture of the Delta through constructing, operat-
ing and maintaining water control works, and providing extension, land culti-
vation, credit, processing and marketing services to farmers. Up to now SAED
has restricted its activities to rice but this will change with construction
of Dagana. Further details of SAED are at Annex 12.
6.02      While SAED is competent technically, it has several problems.  The
principal problem is that until 1970 it was unable to guarantee irrigation
water to any of its farmers, and even today can guarantee water to only some.
As a consequence SAED has been unable to charge farmers either for the costs
of operation and maintenance of irrigation structures or for irrigation water.
Also, farmers naturally have been reluctant to put any substantial amount of
work into their farms due to the past high incidence of crop failure. This
has caused SAED to expand its machinery hire service to ensure that its polders
are cropped, and to adopt generally an overly paternalistic and non-commercial
attitude toward participants in its schemes. The foregoing have resulted in
SAED recurrent expenditures greatly exceeding annual revenues and the need
for substantial subsidies by Government. In turn this has led to Government
exercising an extremely tight control on SAED expenditures; in practice this
control is so tight as to be counter-productive and large sums are wasted
in the effort to save small amounts. The situation is unsatisfactory, and
can be corrected only by SAED developing viable schemes and levying participants
in these schemes reasonable charges for the services that they receive; and
by Government affording SAED a greater degree of financial autonomy. During
negotiations, therefore, assurances were obtained from Government that all
farmers with assured water supplies would pay a fee that would allow recovery



- 17 -
of project investment costs, as well as the costs of operation and maintenance
(para 6.10); and that farmers would pay the full cost of mechanized cultivation
services (para 7.10). Also to ensure that SAED operations would not be impaired
by unnecessary financial constraints and procedures, assurances were obtained
in addition to those at para 5.04 that working capital required by SAED to
implement the project and carry out its other activities would be made availa-
ble by Government in advance and that such funds would be deposited in an
account with BNDS that would be operated directly by the SAED Financial
Controller.
6.03      Since 1967 SAED has received technical assistance from France
through Societe d'Aide Technique et de Cooperation (SATEC) and Societe
Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire (SCET) which provide currently
seven French technicians. Five of these occupy executive positions as
heads of the Office of Agricultural Studies and Evaluation and the Divisions
of Agricultural Development; Agricultural Operations; Engineering and Con-
struction; and Machinery and Equipment; the other two are in charge of the
Survey Unit and the rice mill, see Organization Chart. The Director General
is Senegalese, as is the Financial Controller. Both these officials are
satisfactory but, during negotiations, assurances would be obtained that
the posts of Director General and Financial Controller would be filled at all
times by persons with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA. In
addition assurances were obtained that expatriate technicians would be
replaced by Senegalese staff only after the latter had gained practical ex-
perience that was considered adequate by IDA. The latter assurance would
be obtained since SAED's operations would suffer drastically if a significant
number of expatriates were to leave prior to that replacement by suitably
experienced and qualified Senegalese.
6.04      To undertake the project, SAED would engage consultants to prepare
tender documents and detailed designs for major project works and to supervise
their execution. During negotiations assurances were obtained that such
consultants would be employed under terms of reference and conditions satis-
factory to IDA, see Annex 13. SAED would also need the additional staff listed
in Annex 9 and at negotiations assurances were obtained that Government
would provide SAED with this staff and that they would be replaced if found
unsatisfactory by SAED. Most vacancies would be in the field assistant grade;
those recruited would receive în-service training at Savoigne and Dagana (para
4.06). Each field agent would be responsible for supervising about 60 rice
growers or 30 to 35 farmers growing other crops. SAED would provide support
services, importantly, extension, credit and marketing to all farmers working
land in the subprojects. To facilitate this farmers would be organized in
mutual guarantee groups of 10 to 15 members (para 3.12).
6.05      Irrigation Operations.  SAED's Engineering Division would be
responsible for operation and maintenance of irrigation systems. The Division
is directed by an expatriate engineer; at negotiations assurances were ob-
tained that a Senegalese with a degree in irrigation engineering or a suitable
equivalent would be assigned as his deputy to obtain experience with the proj-
ect during design, construction and operation stages. SAED has 12 ditch riders
who would be able to supervise at Debi and Lampsar, but would recruit and train
an additional eight for Dagana.



- 18 -
6.06      Project Evaluation.  Evaluation of the economic impact of the Debi
and Lampsar subprojects would be simple and part of SAED's routine operations.
Dagana with its greater sophistication would pose more difficult evaluation
problems and, in view of the importance of this experience for future irriga-
tion schemes, a special evaluation unit would be established for Dagana (see
Annex 14).
6.07      Farmer Selection.  Principal criteria for farmer selection would be
that each participant had a family containing at least two active adult
persons; was himself over 25 years of age but not more than 45 years; derived
his main revenue from agriculture; lived in the area within convenient walking
distance of his farm; had no adverse credit rating; and would be willing to
sign a land use, cropping, and marketing contract with SAED. Agreement
between SAED and IDA on a form of contract specifying farmers' and SAED rights
and obligations would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
6.08      Farm Size and Cropping Pattern.  At Debi and Lampsar individual
holdings would be about 3 ha each and would grow a single crop of paddy each
year.  A farm of this size could be managed by the average Delta family of
three working adults without recourse to mechanization except for land pre-
paration.
6.09      At Dagana farms would be 3.5 ha, 3 ha and 2 ha in size depending
on location. The 3.5 ha holdings would grow two crops of rice annually, 3.5
ha in the wet and 2.7 ha in the dry season. The 3 ha and 2 ha holdings would
be located on higher ground not suitable for rice. A variety of crops could
be grown on these holdings but for project calculations, the range has been
restricted to tomatoes, onions, potatoes and sorghum. On the 3 ha holdings
in Sectors A and C, farmers would grow 1 ha of tomatoes and 4 ha of sorghum
(or alternatives) annually. On the 2 ha holdings in Sector B, cropping
would be more intensive with the average farm growing 0.5 ha tomatoes,
0.5 ha onions, 0.5 ha potatoes and 2 ha sorghum each year.  Further details
of cropping patterns are at Annex 15. On Sector C 80 ha would be set aside
for trials with citrus and other tree fruits. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that the contract between SAED and participants would permit
the reduction in size of any holding shown to be beyond the capacity of its
operators to work efficiently.
Recovery of Costs
6.10      Farmers cultivating land developed under the project would have
incomes that would permit them to pay for a substantial part of the
services provided to them. Consequently it is proposed that farmers at
Debi, Lampsar and Dagana would pay an annual consolidated fee for each ha
allotted to them. The fee would cover project operation and maintenance
costs and all direct investments, including taxes, chargeable to the project
The fee would be increased by three steps during the farmers' first five
years of participation in the project and would be in line with the in-
crease in income expected as the farmer lmproved his holding and gained
skills. The fee would vary both with the crops grown and the number of crops



grnwfl l hiacli yealr.  At P>ebi and Lamupear the fee wouhli increaou from CFAF
2,500/lha by three stepb to CFAF 10,000. At D)agana, rice, tomato and sorghum
farmers would pay CFAF 16,000 by their sixth year; but those farming potatoeu
and onions would pay an additional CFAF 14,000/ha per crop. Fees paid by
Dagana farmers would be in the ranges of 16% to 27%, and 27% to 37% in terms
of gross and net incomes respectively. SAED considers these fees realistic
and believes that they would not have any adverse effect on production and
farmers' willingness to participate in the project. During negotiations,
however, assurances were obtained that SAED would consult with IDA before
finally establishing or changing the fees which would be charged to parti-
cipants; and in addition that equivalent fees would be charged in other
areas with controlled irrigation water supplies, and that SAED would make
a detailed study of the ability of participants in its schemes to pay charges.
6.11      Project investment costs excluding research and training costs
but including management costs during the development period are estimated
at CFAF 1,480 million, and operation and maintenance costs excluding exten-
sion service costs over the life of the project at CFAF 1,190 million. Dis-
counting the revenue and cost streams indicates that direct investments in
the project would be recovered at 1% interest after full recovery of all
operation and maintenance costs. Annex 16 gives details of the method of
calculating operation and maintenance costs. Revenues accruing to SAED from
consolidated fees, which include approximately 1% interest on direct invest-
ment costs, are estimated to reach CFAF 101 million annually when the project
is fully developed and to CFAF 3 billion over the 35-year life of the project.
If full project costs and the projected net revenue from consolidated fees
are discounted over the life of the project at slightly more than 8%, the
average cost of money in Senegal fixed by the Central Bank, the present value
would amount to about US$3.4 million or 50% of costs. The proposed consoli-
dated fee recovery rate is considered reasonable to assure adequate incentives
to farmers and the present value of the national subsidy to participants
would therefore amount to about half the total cost.
VII. YIELDS, PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, FARMERS' BENEFITS,
GOVERNMENT REVENUES
7.01      Yields and Production.  Yields assumed in project calculations
and production estimates are at Annex 15. Rice yields at Debi and Lampsar
are forecast to increase from 1.5 tons of paddy/ha in the first year of
project operation to 2.7 and 2.5 tons respectively by the seventh. These
compare with average yields in the past of 1.0 and 0.8 tons respectively.
At Dagana yields are expected to start at 1.8 tons of paddy and to rise to
3.2 tons/ha in six years. On the basis of past performance in polders where
irrigation water is controlled the yield forecasts are considered achievable.
Incremental project paddy production is estimated at 13,500 tons annually at
maturity.



- 20 -
7.02      The yields of other crops are expected to develop over an averag2
three-year perîod as follows:  sorghum 2.2-3 tons/ha, and at matuLiLy
annual production of 4,y0(0 tons; tomatoes 25-35 tons/ha, 11,700 tons;
potatoes 10-13 tons, 3,000 tons; ontons 8-10 tons/ha, 2,280 tons.  The
yield estimates for these other crops are based on commercial experience
in Senegal and the results of IRAT trials in Senegal and elsewhere in West
Africa under similar ecological conditions.
7.03      Markets and Prices,  There would be no problem in marketing
project production of 9,000 tons of milled rice annually since it would
substitute for imports. In Annex 17, the price and market prospects for
project production are discussed SAED would purchase paddy from growers,
mïll, and sell the milled rice to ONCAD which has a monopoly for the distrl-
bution of both localiy grown and imported rice. The current farm gate price
for paddy is CFAF 21,000/ton; Government's intention is to maintain this price
to encourage domestic rice production and it has been used in farm budgets
and other project financial calculations. This level of support appears to
be necessary to induce farmers in raînfed ars&' to "row rice for sale in
preference to groundnuts for which prices in recent years have been favorable.
In economic calculations a value for paddy of CFAF 15,300/ton at constant
1972 prices is employed since this would be the cost to the economy of import-
ing paddy of a similar quality. Government's rice marketing and price policies
are based on miaintaining high retail prices and using surpluses made by ONCAD
in selling imported rice to subsidize domestic producers. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that ONCAD would pay SAED promptly for rice deliveric:s.
7.04      The other crops grown also would substitute for imports and market-
ing problens are not envisaged, see Annex 17. Of these crops only toiuatoes
would require sophisticated processing.  Project toiatoes would be processed
înto tomato paste by Societe de Conserves Alimentaires du Senegal (SOCAS) at
its Ross-Bethio factory. Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique is provid-
ing finance for an extension of the SOCAS facility to permit an annual intake
of 21,000 tons of tomatoes by 1977/78 of which 12,000 tons would be allocated
to the Dagana polder. Wîth its planned throughput SOCAS would produce about
40% of domestic requirements of tomato paste; the remainder would be imported.
Annex 17, Table 2, shows that the current producer price of CFAF 7,000/ton for
tonatoes approximates to their economic value.
7.05      About 15% of project sorghumi production is estimated to be
consumed on-farm and the remainder to be sold locally. A strong domestic
market exists for Sorghum. Eventually project farmers are expected to reduce
sorghum output and substitute other crops. Sorghum prices are based on cur-
rent prices of CFAF 18,900/ton for the financial analysis, and the projected
1980 international price is the basîs of that used for economic rate of
return calculations.
7.06      Onions are imported in large quantities and demand is growing.
Project production will f1ll some of this demand, although it is not believed
that it will materially reduce imports. A price of CFAF 25,000/ton has been
used in economic analyses. This is considered conservative being well below



- 21 -
the recent cost of imported onions. In the financial analysis, the current
farm gate price of CFAF 20,000/ton has been used. The domestic price for
onions is lover than the import price and reflects both a preference for
imported onions and inefficiencies in the marketing of locally produced onions.
7.07      There is a large and growing demand for potatoes which is met
largely by imports. In the economic analysis of the project a price of CFAF
17,500/ton has been used and is the average cost of imported potatoes in
recent years. For the financial analysis, a farm gate price of CFAF 20,000/
ton has been employed since this is the price currently paid for new potatoes
coming into the market in January and February when they would be produced
by project.
7.08      Subsidies on Fertilizer and Tractor and Implement Hire.  SAED
farmers benefit from subsidized fertilizers and subsidized tractor and
implement hire charges. The fertilizer subsidy is common to all Senegal
farmers and until the end of 1972 its cost is being met by a FED grant.
Irrespective of their formula fertilizers are sold to farmers at a flat rate
of CFAF 13/kg. On the average rice farm the subsidy amounts to CFAF 2,800
per ha and per crop. The object of the subsidy is to stimulate fertilizer
use.  While the subsidy is financed by external grants it is unrealistic
either to require farmers on IDA financed projects to forego the subsidy
or to insist, as a condition of IDA financing, that an across-the-board
reduction, or elimination, of the subsidy be made. As shown in Annex 18,
project farmers would be able to pay the full cost of fertilizers and a
continuing subsidy would not be essential for the success of the project.
Since it is unlikely that FED will continue to subsidize fertilizers at
present levels and improbable that Government will have the resources to
directly undertake this financial burden, it is assumed in project calcula-
tions that the fertilizer subsidy would be eliminated by 1977. Abrupt
changes in fertilizer subsidy levels are undesirable since they would have
significant impacts on production; thus in other IDA financed projects in
Senegal IDA has obtained assurances from Government that the matter of
fertilizer subsidies would be reviewed annually with IDA with the objectives
of avoiding changes likely to have a serious adverse effect on production
and of eliminating subsidies by 1980. Similar assurances were obtained
during the negotiation of this project.
7.09      The subsidy paid to participants in SAED projects who use tractor
hire services is CFAF 2,500/ha cultivated. This may be justified in polders
where water is not controlled and yields and incomes are low. Conversely
where water is controlled the subsidy leads to the substitution of mechaniza-
tion for animal powered cultivation and hand labor. With project improved
conditions at Debi and Lampsar and the high degree of water control that
would be practised at Dagana, the subsidy could be eliminated provided that
in order to give each farmer an initial impetus, it was retained for the first
year of participation of each farmer in the project. During negotiations
assurances were obtained to this effect, and also that farmers on other
SAED schemes with water control would be treated similarly.



- 22 -
7.10      Farmers' Benefits.  Per capita income in the Delta are about CFAF
8,000 of which about CFAF 4,000 cash; on a per family basis CFAF 48,000 and
CFAF 24,000 respectively. Families of farmers at Debi and Lampsar would
continue some of their ongoing productive activities in addition to cultivat-
ing their rice farms in the polders.  The rice farms would generate additional
estimated famnly cash incomes of CFAF 58,000 and CFAF 43,000 for Debi and
Lampsar respectively, see Annex 18.  Due to the work load Dagana farmers would
abandon all ongoing activities but would be rewarded by cash increases of about
CFAF 170,000 for these growing two rice crops a year, and an average of CFAF
157,000 fo/these engaged in mixed cropping. All cash increases given above
are net of CFAF 21,000 estimated as the cost of farm produce consumed by the
farm family.  Total annual incremental cash income would amount to CFAF 198
million (US$0.77 million) as a result of project implementation.
7.11      Government Revenues.  Revenues accruing to Government from implemen-
tation of the project would be loan repayments made by SAED, and the taxation
component of SAED recurrent costs.  As shown in Annex 19, these would be
adequate to repay the IDA credit and over the 35 year life of the project the
annual surplus would amount to an average CFAF 5 million. It is reasonable
to expect, however, that additional taxation revenue would be generated
indirectly by implementation of the project.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's principal immediate benefits would be the incremental
production of rice from the Lampsar and Debi polders, and the new production
of rice and other products generated by development of the Dagana polder.
On the basis of the yield, production and price estimates tn Chapter VII,
the investment and operating coats in Chapter V, and assuming a project life
of 35 years, the economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 14%,
see Annex 20. Separate rates of return have been calculated for the three
sub-projecta and are Dagana 14%, Debi 19%, and Lampsar 17%. In the economic
analyste, a shadow rate of exchange of CFAF 320 - US$1 or 25Z above the
current officlal rate (CFAF 256 - US$1) has been used. This reflects Senegal's
high protective tariffs on most imports, averaging between 40 and 50%.
Without this assumption, the economic rate of return would be 12%. The value
of on-farm labor has been excluded from project costs since project farmers
are not expected to hire labor, and for most participation in the project
would mean an intensification of family effort and consequently, a greater
use of family labor.  This additional use of family labor would entail no
additional cost to the economy since at the time it would be required no
alternative employment opportunities would exist.
8.02      The Dagana sub-project would be the first irrigation development in
Senegal where farmers would participate in a technically sophisticated acheme
involving double cropping and the cultivation of non-traditional crops.  Thus
it in not possible to guarantee that farmers would react as predicted in this



21 -
te)v>l.  IIuwever, the ylel.l lrojections used dre coilservative, and tlhe average
casth returns on both annual farm and per manday employed bases, CFAF 160,000
and CFAF 500 respectively appear sufficient to ensure satisfactory farmer
performance. Further, SAED has more than 3,000 applications for irrigated
holdings and demand is increasing in view of a recent succession of dry years
in which rainfed crops have been poor. This demand and SAED's ability to
discipline unsatisfactory performers should assist in the achievement of
project targets. The sensitivity of the project's rates of return has been
tested to a number of adverse factors and the results are at Annex 20. Among
others, changes resulting in a 10% increase in costs and a 10% decline in
benefits would result in a fall in the project's rate of return to 10%, and to
12%, 11% and 10% respectively for Debi, Lampsar and Dagana. Achievement of
forecast yields in 16 rather than 8 years would reduce the rates of return
to 10%, 15%, 12%, and 10% respectively. While low, these rates are still
acceptable considering the conservative assumption that 62% of the land at
Dagana would be cropped in sorghum for which several high value alternatives
exist.
8.03      A principal objective of the project would be to save foreign
exchange. Project induced net foreign exchange savings are estimated to
amount to about US$1.2 million annually at maturity of the project.
8.04      The project would benefit some 1,700 farm families comprising about
10,000 people in all. Per capita incomes of participating families would
increase from the average CFAF 8,000 (including the value of farm products
consumed) enjoyed at present in the project area to an average of CFAF 30,000
at Dagana and an approximate of CFAF 23,000 at Debi and Lampsar. Since incomes
in the project area are below the rural average of about CFAF 25,000 per
capita, the project would benefit a particularly underprivileged segment of
the population.
8.05      The Dagana sub-project would be especially important since it would
act as a pilot for the further development of irrigation in the Sengal Basin.
It is estimated that with appropriate structures the Senegal could be used
to irrigate year around some 50,000 ha of land. This will not be possible,
even if finance is available, unless Senegal can develop the skills needed to
efficiently manage and exploit irrigation projects. As the country's only
irrigation development based on small farmer participation and involving double
cropping, the Dagana sub-project would have a unique role in the development of
irrigation experience and skills.



- 24 -
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) the Dagana training center would be under the supervision
of a suitably qualified training specialist (para. 4.06);
(b) the research contract between SAED and IRAT would be
satisfactory to IDA and the research program would be
reviewed annually with IDA (para. 4.07);
(c) Government would inform IDA of any new irrigation develop-
ment above Dagana and agree with IDA on the necessary
limitation on quantities of water to be pumped from the
river upstream of Dagana (para. 4.12);
(d) SAED would cause the consultants to review preirrigation
procedures to determine if any cost savings would occur
through adoption of modified preirrigation schedules
(para. 4.15);
(e)  Government would not permit construction of the Lampsar
sub-project should it adversely affect the city vater supply
(para. 4.16);
(f) PWD would have no objection to SAED carrying out the
Lampaar sub-project (para. 4.17);
(g) SAED would cooperate with the Ministry of Health in
ensuring that regular checks would be made to enable the
early detection of bilharzia and of its vector in the event
that they become present (para. 4.18);
(h) SAED would open a Bank account with BNDS project into which
government would deposit three months in advance the funds
required for the project on basis of an annual budget
prepared by SAED and approved by MDR and IDA (para. 5.04);
(i) SAED would establish a project account broken down by
subprojects; all SAED accounts would be audited by a firm
of commercial auditors satisfactory to IDA and such audited
SAED accounts together with the auditor's report would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each
financial year; and that SAED would maintain individual
farmer's credit accounts and a consolidated fee account
(para. 5.07);



- 25 -
(j) working capital required by SAED for project and other
operations would be made available by Government in advance
and that such funds would be deposited in an account with
BNDS that would be operated directly by the SAED Financial
Controller (para. 6.02);
(k) SAED would engage consultants to prepare tender documents
and detailed designe for major project works and to
supervise their execution, under terme of reference and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.04);
(1) the post of SAED Director General and Financial Controller
would be filled at all times by persons with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to IDA; expatriate technicians
would be replaced by Senegalese staff only after the latter
had gained practical experience considered adequate by
IDA; Government would provide SAED with additional personnel
needed for the project and such personnel would be replaced
by Government if requested to do so by SAED; and a Senegalese
with a degree in irrigation engineering would be assigned to
SAED Engineering Division (paras. 6.03 and 6.05);
(m) the contract between SAED and project participants would
permit the reduction in size of any holding shown to be
beyond the capacity of its operators to work efficiently
(para. 6.09);
(n) SAED would consult with IDA before establishing or changing
annual consolidated fees, and that equivalent fees would be
charged in other areas with controlled irrigation water
supplies, and that SAED would make a study of the ability
of participants in its schemes to pay charges (para. 6.10);
(o) ONCAD would pay SAED promptly for rice deliveries (para. 7.03);
(p)  fertilizer subsidies would be reviewed annually with IDA
(para. 7.08); and
(q) subsidies on tractor hire services would be eliminated on
all SAED schemes with water control (para. 7.09).
9.02      During negotiations confirmation was obtained that Government
would exempt equipment imported for the project under international compe-
titive bidding from import duties and taxes (para. 5.02).
9.03      Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a)  signature of a financial agreement satisfactory to IDA
between SAED and Government (para. 5.03);



- 26 -
(b)  agreemnt by IDA of a fora of contract to be signed by
participating farmers and which would specify farmers'
and SAED's rights and obligations (para. 6.07).
9.04      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$4.5 million.
November 15, 1972



ANNEX 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Description of the Senegal River Basin and Delta Region
Drainage Area
1.        The Senegal river is an international stream some 1,800 km in
length. It originates at the headwaters of its tributary, the Bafing, in
the high rainfall area of the Massif du Foota Djalon in Northern Guinea.
The Senegal river proper begins at the junction of the Bafing and the Bakoy
at Bafoulabe, in Mali. In its upper course it drains the western part of
Mali, and small portions of Northern Guinea and Eastern Senegal. As it
leaves Mali upstream of Bakel, Senegal, the river marks the international
frontier between Senegal and Mauritania throughout practically all of the
remainder of its route. It flows generally to the north and northwest
until it reaches the vicinity of Boghi, Senegal, where its course then runs
primarily to the west, finally emptying into the Atlantic Ocean at Saint
Louis, Senegal. Its total drainage area is approximately 300,000 km2 (see
Mam 3983). The average annual discharge at Dagana, drainage area 283,000
km , is 690 m3/sec.
2.        No significant areas of irrigable land exist upstream from Bakel.
Therefore, for the purposes of identifying development areas, the following
approximate geographical designations are used to describe the flood plains
of the Senegal river from Bakel to Saint Louis. The reports of several
different agencies working in the Senegal River Basin are not completely
consistent in their nomenclature of the various areas. The designations
made hereafter are considered to be reasonable compromises.
Valley (Bakel to Richard-Toll)
Upper Valley - From Bakel downstream to Kaedi
Middle Valley - from Kaedi downstream to Boghe
Lower Valley - from Boghe downstream to Richard-Toll.
Delta (Richard-Toll to Saint Louis)
Upper Delta - From Richard-Toll to Diambar
Note: While the Dagana project area geographically is located
at the downstream end of the Lower Valley area, for
administrative purposes it is considered a logical
extension of the adjacent Upper Delta area



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Middle Delta - from Diambar to Ile aux Caimans. Most of the
Lampsar Valley is included
Lower Delta   From Ile aux Caimans to Saint Louis.  The Debi
area is included.
3.        Map 2984 indicates the foregoing areas.  It is usual for the
drainage area above Bakel to be designated the "Upper Basin", and the total
Valley and Delta areas from Bakel to the sea as the "Valley".
Topography
4.        While a few portions of the Upper Basin are mountainous, the
relief of most of it is slight, with elevations of 400 m or less. The average
elevation of the entire basin is 200 m.
5.        The valley floors have general slopes of about 4.5 cm/km, and the
Delta lands of about 2.5 cm/km or less. The Valley and Delta lands are
characterized by a vast extent of uniform relief, with practically no elevatiorïs
more than 12 m above sea level (IGN) anywhere west of the 13th meridian.
6.        The flood plains between Bakel and Saint Louis have the following
approximate gross areas:
Upper Valley              -  Average width = 13 km         220,000 ha
Lower and Middle Valley  -  Average width = 20 km          440,000 ha
Delta                     -  Average width - 28 km         370,000 ha
Total                      1,030,000 ha
River Profile
7.        At its highest point, near its origin in Guinea, the Senegal is
slightly more than 1,000 m IGN. At Bakel, 790 km from the sea, the river
level elevation at low flows is around 12 m IGN, at Kaedi, 530 km, the
level is about 4.2 m IGN; and at Dagana, 190 km, just prior to the start of
the Delta, the low flow level is only slightly above sea level. At medium
and high flows the river slopes and depths increase, and the river has been
used for navigation during these periods up to Bakel.
8.        At times of minimum river flows, salinity effects from the sea can
extend as far upstream as Dagana. This riverine sea water intrusion i a
critical limiting factor on irrigation in the entire Delta area, and is
discussed later in this Annex, and in more detail in Annex 8.
Climate
9.        The Senegal River Basin lies between the tropical regions and the
Sahara Desert. In January and February, brisk, fresh breezes generally blow
from the north and along the coast, flowing from the high pressure area



ANNEX 1
Page 3
centered over the Azores towards the equatorial zones of low pressure.
In February-March a continental wind from the east, the Harmattan, brings
dry, sometimes hot, air from the Sahara over the Basin. As the tropical
low pressure areas move to the north under the movement of the sun, humid
winds from the south-west move towards the interior; when these meet the
Harmattan winds from the desert, low pressure areas, tornadoes, and raina
occur along the front between the two air masses. By August rainfall is
general and continues to be abundant through September. The rains usually
cease by mid-October, and by November the fresh maritime winds from the
Azores again begin to be the primary daily climatic influence.
10.       Annual average rainfall in the mountains of the Guinean headwaters
may exceed 2,000 mm, but the average decreases rapidly with distance in a
northerly direction, being less than 700 mm at Bakel in the Upper Valley and
only about 310 mm in most of the Delta region. For Rosso, a station located
in the central part of the Delta, the mean monthly rainfall, temperature,
and Piche evaporation measurements are as shown in the following table.
Also shown are evaporation measurements at Lake R'Kiz, about 40 km north of
Dagana.
Average Climatic Data
Senegal River Delta Region
                       Month-------------------Average
Parameter              J   F   M   A   M   J   J   A   S   O   N   D   Annual
Rainfall (mm)          0   1   0   0   3   8  40 147  79  30   3   1          312
Temperature (<C)      22  24  27  29  30  31  30  29  29  29  26  23           27
Evaporation (mm)
Piche                281 272 360 368 382 330 250 203 157 194 201 248   3,246
Lake R'Kiz           180 190 250 260 270 220 200 170 150 180 160 170   2,400
ETP (Penman) (mm)   174 207 248 272 260 203 198 206 191 181 164 164   2,473
(per E. A. Bernard)
11.       The Delta Region falls entirely within the Sub-Sahara (Sahelien)
climatic regime, which is delineated by 200 and 500 mm annual rainfall
isohyets, with its typical sparse vegetative cover. The Soudan climatic
regime (500 to 1,000 mm annual rainfall), and the Guinean climatic regime
(annual rainfall greater than 1,000 mm) are found in the southern part of
the Basin.
12.       Thus, the Delta is characterized by a very short, wet (rainy)
season, July through September, a dry season which is almost absolute
beginning in October and extending vell into June, and by low temperatures



ANNEX 1
Page 4
in December-February with hlghest temperatures in the March-July p-rlod.
Temperature extremes are not great. Average maximum daily temperatures during
a single month are about 40'C (May), and the minimum daily temperatures average
14C (January). The average relative humidity is low, 25%, with monthly
averages ranging from 13 to 45%.
13.       Rainfall, while very regular in its annual distribution pattern,
varies greatly in amounts and intensities in the Delta. At Dagana, annual
averages over a 45-year period have varied from 120 mm to 750 mm. A single
daily rainfall, unprecedented and unequalled, of 242 mm, was recorded at
Dagana on August 25, 1933.
14.       A one-day precipitation of 100 mm or more in the rainy season is
not unusual. A two-day storm of 140 mm has been estimated to have a
frequency of about 5%. The six-day total of 285 mm recorded from September
5 - 10, 1955 had an estimated frequency of about 2%.
Soils
15.       In contrast to the poor sandy soils of Senegal's plateaus, the
alluvial soils of its river valleys and deltas have substantial potential.
The soils of the Senegal River Valley can be divided into two broad groupings,
each covering gross surface areas of about 250,000 ha, as follows:
Soils of the cuvettes (depressions), which are vertisols with
a high percentage of expansive clays, extremely hard when dry,
and with flat relief; and
Levee soils, with clay percentages varying between 10 and 30%,
easily erodible, and parts of which (in old arms of the river)
present a very irregular relief.
A preliminary reconnaissance study of subsoil conditions indicates the
probable existence, throughout the Valley of beds of fine sand of low
permeability, lying at depths of 1-5 m below the surface. The soils of the
Senegal River Delta can be classified into the same two groups, but many of
these soils are too saline for use. The subsoil also has fine sand beds,
although at shallower depths than those in the Valley. The surface soils
have depths of from 0.5 to 1.5 m, and cover an estimated 100,000 ha.  The
soils of the Debi and Lampsar polders belong to the delta soils group, those
of the Dagana polder to that of the valley soils.
16.       Alluvial soils in the depression of the Debi polder are flat and
uniform. Those to be included in the project are selected on the basis of
a soil classification into five salinity groups, and are situated between
0.50 m and 1.10 m + IGN.  They have a fine texture, and their pH ranges
from 5 to 7. While high salinity in the top soil occurs màinly on high land,
in the depression it is found only in the deeper soil layers which are often
also rich in sulphates, but at a level beyond reach by plant roots. Only



ANNEX 1
Page 5
soils with a conductivity below 1,000 micromhos are suitable for rice cultiva-
tion. Soils in the Lampsar polder are typical alluvial sandy-loam, sandy-clay
and loam soils and have been classified in four categories of salinity. Class
1 with no or little salinity, and clase 2 with a conductivity of less than
1,000 micromhos are included in the project and would be suitable for rice
only. Classes 3 and 4 would require desalinization and are excluded from
the project.
17.       The Dagana polder comprises four geomorphological zones, as follows:
(a) high soils (levees) in the north and east of the polder;
(b) depression soils (cuvette) in the southeast near Dagana
village which are inundated with the first seasonal river
floods;
(c) transition soils between (a) and (b); and
(d) southern dune soils along the main road and bordering the
depression.
18.       Characteristics of the four major soil types are as follows:
(a) Levee soils: high soils proper: homogenous, permeable,
yellow-brown or brown-yellow sandy-loam or loamy-sand
soils on top of brown loamy clay; a sandy layer occurs at
a depth of 1.50 to 2.00 m except in the river banks proper;
suitable for crops other than rice.
(b) Depression soils: homogenous, alluvial, brown clay soils
with clay-loam contents of up to 95%. These soils are
very hard and cracked in the dry season and muddy in wet
condition; only suitable for rice.
(c) Transition soils:
(i) heterogenous grey sandy gley soils with varying
contents of brown clayey-loam sediments originating
from floods and yellow sandy-loam elements brought
in by runoff from surrounding high lands; intermi-
ttent upstream and downstream flood directions
created a mixture of soil layers which may change at
short distances; land suitability for crops other
than maize and sorghum has to be determined through
detailed soil mapping; and
(ii) grey clayey gley soils in depression between ridges
of high land; especially the upper and middle horizons
of the soil profile have high clay contents; texture
and soil structure are similar to that of the soils



ANNEX 1
Page 6
in the southwest depression (see (a)), but soil aggregates
are more stable and cultivation is easier; mainly
suitable for rice.
(d) Dune Soils: sandy gley soils; suitable for crops other than
rice provided application of fertilizers and manure accordinng
to specific crop needs.
19.       Generally, all soil types are rich in iron; and poor in organic
matter and nitrogen. While potash contents are satisfactory, phosphate is
lacking in most soils. Traces of residual salinity (gypsum concretions)
exist in the lower soil layers of the depression soils, but in some high
soils salinity is a common phenomenon in the middle and upper soil layers.
It is probably the result of an ancient marine intrusion that deposited
a salt laden fine clayey and sand layer at a uniform level of about 3.50 m
IGN. Salt migration to other soil horizons in the profile occurs, but in
Dagana itself no salinity problems prevail that cannot be controlled
through proper drainage and irrigation. While sulphate acidity is encoun-
tered in the Delta, it is not found in the Dagana polder.
Population
20.       1971 population estimates are as follows:
Upper Valley              190,000 inhabitants
Lower Valley              200,000 inhabitants
Delta                     110,000 inhabitants  (80,000 in the city of
Saint-Louis)
500,000 inhabitants.
21.       The majority of the population is from the Toucouleur tribe, followed
in order of magnitude, by the Moors, Peuls, Wolofs and the Sarakoles. The
Delta population is a mixture of all of these tribes, living and working in
the same area with no frictions among the different groups.
Infrastructure
22.       The Delta region is especially favored in having an excellent
supporting infrastructure for agricultural development. A modern paved
highway and a railroad connect Saint Louis at the mouth of the Senegal, with
Dakar, the capital city, which is 267 km to the south, by road. From Saint
Louis another modern, and relatively new, paved highway runs past Dagana up
to Orefonde, in the Middle Valley. Dagana is only 129 km by road from Saint
Louis. Saint Louis is the Regional Government capital, and has schools, a
hospital, and a very good airport.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
'J.       Valley.  Traditional agriculture in the valley consista of a
rainfed crop from July to October, and a crop raised on flood plains as
the flood levels subside, during November through February. Average areas
estimated by FAO to be farmed annually are as follows:
Rainfed        Floodplains
ha                ha
Upper Valley                   43,000              65,000
Lower Valley                   37,000              60,000
80,000 ha         125,000 ha
24.       A typical famlly of 6.2 persons cultivates, on the average, 2.3
ha of flood plains and 1.5 ha of rainfed crops. The principal rainfed
crop (85%) is millet, plus some peanuts and cowpeas. Sorghum comprises
70% of the floodplain culture, with cowpeas and millet being the other
main crops. Average yields are very low - from 350 to 400 kg/ha.
25.       There are small, more intensively farmed and irrigated, plots at
Guede (1,000 ha) and Salde, vith additional 1,000 ha experimental plots
under way or planned for the immediate future by FAO-UNDP at Podor (Lower
Valley), Kaedi (Middle Valley) and Matam (Upper Valley). On the Mauritanian
side of the river there are small developments at Tickane and Vinding.
26.       Delta.  With one exception, all existing agricultural development
in the Delta is limited to one crop per year, because of the intrusion of
sea water into the Delta river channel at times of low flow. The exception
is the 6,000 ha polder at Richard-Toll, of which about 5,000 ha are cul-
tivated annually. Large-scale rice cultivation began in 1945 at Richard-Toll,
located at the head of the Delta. Most of its irrigation water comes from
Lake Guiers, part of the Ferlo River drainage basin. While the Ferlo Basin
is connected to the Senegal at Richard-Toll, it is not actually a Senegal
tributary. This is because Lake Guiers is in a depression, with a resulting
water surface below sea level (-2 IGN +), and lover than the Senegal. This
water remains suitable for irrigation throughout the year, and thus permits
double cropping. During those periods of the year when the Senegal river
at Richard-Toll is not saline, water from the Senegal is diverted into the
polder for a supplemental supply. Rice yields under poor farm management
conditions here have averaged 1,500 kg/ha per harvest, with two crops per
year being possible. Under good management, yields of 2,500 to 5,000 kg/ha
per harvest have been realized. At the present time all Richard-Toll lands
(with the exception of some experimental plots) are being converted to
sugarcane production.
27.       The activities of SAED, beginning in 1965, have re8ulted in the
development of the following areas in the Delta for one- of crop of rice
per year, except where indicated otherwise:



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Djeuleuss-Thiagar         1,900 ha
Boundoum North            3,135
Kassak North                795
Kassak South                485
Grande Digue                425
Telel                       610
Lampsar                   1,000 (880 ha cultivated)
Debi                        450 (260 ha cultivated)
Savoigne                    400 (primarily for tomato cultivation)
Total               9,200 ha
(Note: Another 1,000 ha were developed by SAED during the same period, but
have been temporarily abandoned.)
28.       On the Mauritanian side of the Senegal in the Delta region, only
the irrigated area near Rosso is of any significant size -4,000 ha total,
with 1,000 ha cultivated per year. Here again, only a single irrigated
crop can be grown because of river salinity during low flow periods.
SAED Investments in Delta Irrigation Development
29.       During the eight-year period 1964 through 1971, SAED expenditures
on research, planning, design, construction, maintenance, and operation of
works for the irrigation of Delta lands, has totalled more than 3.8 billion
CFAF (US$15 million). Some of the principal investments have been as
follows:
Item                     --------------COST---------------
CFAF               US$
Grand Perimeter Dike - 84 km  850,000,000        3,400,000
Pumping Stations (9)           285,000,000        1,140,000
Rice Factory & Silos           145,000,000          580,000
Canals, Drains, Earthworks
and related structures       686,000,000       2,744,000
Housing & Buildings            224,000,000          896,000
Dike Maintenance               130,000,000          520,000
Studies, Research, Technical
Assistance                   527,000,000        2,108,000
The remainder of the funds has been used for operating and maintenance
expenses, purchases of machinery and equipment, and miscellaneous construction.
Names and locations of the SAED projects are shown at Map 2984.
Flow Characteristics of Senegal River in Delta Region
30.       Many years of records are available on water levels at several stations
along the river, the earliest known being of water levels measured at Richard-Toll
from 1823 to 1827. At Dagana, located just before the beginning of the Delta
proper, continuous records since 1916 are available.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Hl.       Lwo of the moHt atriking features of this river in the Delta are:
(a) the fact that the Atlantic Ocean influences river levels more than 260
km inland, and river salinity more than 200 km inland; and (b) the regular
annual pattern of a single flood per year, having a slow rise and fall extend-
ing over several months.
32.       In June or July flows begin to increase in response to the start of
the rainy season in the headwaters area. At Dagana (190 km) flood crests
occur between September 16 and November 23. At Debi, highest levels
generally are reached five to seven days after Dagana crests. During the
flood season the river waters downstream past Debi are suitable for irrigation.
33.       Saline water begins to appear at Debi in December, but the intruding
wedge does not reach Dagana until about June. At Debi the water is unsuitable
for irrigation usually from sometime in December until the following August.
At Dagana the maximum period of excess salinity is only about one month.
The change at Dagana from a saline to a non-saline condition takes place fairly
rapidly at the beginning of the new water year. Normally the water becomes
useable in June or early July, salinity levels dropping to less than 100 ppm
within a few days, and the water remains useable until the very low flows
of the following late-spring season.
34.       Historical flow records downstream from Dagana are not available
because of the difficulties of measurement under the strong tidal influence.
At Dagana some of the principal flow characteristics are as follows:
Drainage area (190 km)                    268,000 km2
Average annual discharge 1903-644                   3
(62 years)                                  691 m3/sec
Maximum annual discharge 1924-25              969 m3/sec
Minimum annual discharge 1941-42              406 m  sec
Estimated maximum flood, October                    3
4, 1936 at +4.50 m IGN                    3,570 m /sec
Estimated minimum daily discharge                   3
June, 1942-43                                 4 m3/sec
Approximate average June discharge             33 m3/sec
Lowest average July discharge                  70 m /sec
Future River Regulation by Dams
35.       Preliminary studies have been made, and further studies are in
progress by UNDP-FAO, to assess the potential feasibility of regulating the
Senegal River by means of one or more large dams. No conclusions as to
feasibility can yet be drawn, but some of the preliminary findings are of
interest.
36.       High Dam in Upper Valley.  Several sites have been investigated.
Currently the more feasible of the high dam alternatives seems to be a dam
at Manatali, on the Bafing river, in Mali. The estimated cost of the dam
and hydroelectric plant is about US$114 million. It would provide, in addi-
tion to electrical energy, a minimum flow of 300 m3/sec downstream. This



ANNEX 1
Page 10
would permit navigation beyond Bakel, and prevent excess salinity from
occurring in the Delta above Debi. If any of this minimum flow were to be
diverted from the stream for irrigation, the saline tongue would advance
upstream of Debi, the distance depending upon the amount diverted.
37.       Low Dam in Lower Delta.  A long, low dam in the Lower Delta, rnaà
Diama (28 km) would prevent salinity intrusion beyond that point. It
also would permit navigation by means of locks, and reduce pumping lifts
in the Delta region. It would permit the irrigation of an additional 50,q0-
ha of Delta lands. Estimated construction cost would be about US$28
million or more.
38.       High and Low Dam.  If both the preceeding dams were to be
constructed the irrigation benefits would be increased greatly, with no
decrease in the other beneficial uses of the river water. The feasibility
of 8uch a combination has not yet been studied.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Irrigation Systems - Dagana
Existing Situation
1.        The Dagana project covers a total area of 5,000 ha within a large
bend of the Senegal River about 200 km by river from the Senegal mouth (see
Map 3984). It is bordered on the south by a low plateau, upon which runs
the main Saint-Louis/Dagana/Matam highway. It is separated from the river
by a pronounced levee whose elevation varies from about +5.00 m IGN on the
upstream end of the project to about +4.00 m IGN on the downstream end. The
levee is breached by three small channels, one of which plays a key role in
the project, and, by a much larger and deeper opening or depression which
occurs at Dagana, on the far downstream end.
2.        Approximately 3,500 ha would be included in the project area, of
which 2,700 ha would be irrigated.  At present the area includes 160 ha of
rice and 480 ha of sorghum traditionally cultivated on flood lands. Double-
cropping of 1,420 ha of rice and 1,310 ha of assorted crops (polyculture)
would be possible, since irrigation water of suitable quality would be
available on a year-round basis. Selection of lands for irrigated farming
has been based on analysis of detailed soil surveys.
Proposed Development Plan
3.        Complete water control is planned, with water being provided on
a 12-month basis to farmas of three ha each. In addition, major earth moving,
land planing and the construction of farm ditches and drains, would be per-
formed as part of project development.
4.        The soils and topography are such that the irrigation systems
can be planned conveniently in three independent sectors, each having vary-
ing proportions of rice and polyculture (see Table 1).
Dagana Subproject
Table 1: NET IRRIGABLE AREAS
Principal Crop            Sector A      Sector B     Sector C      Total
(-  Hectares----------------)
Rice                         610            720          90        1,420
Polyculture                  114            912         204        1,230
Orchard                        -              -          80           80
Total                        724          1,632         374        2,730



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Sectors A and B would have a common drainage system, but Sector C would, to
a large extent, be independent of the other two sectors.
5.        Each sector would be equipped with its own pumping station, with
electricity supplied by diesel driven generators. Station B would function
solely to lift irrigation water, with drainage from Sector B flowing into
Sector A. Station A would lift irrigation water to both a high and low
service areas, within the sector, and would handle drainage from both Sectors
A and B. Station C would lift water to high and low service areas in Sector
C, as well as pumping, or passing, drainage water from the sector.
6.        Irrigation canals would be unlined.  The network in each sector
would be closely regulated by a system of automatically-operating Neyrpic-
type gates and vanes. The system would be designed to minimize pumping and
manpower requirements.
7.        A large natural channel ("D" on Map 10041) would serve as an
important water flow regulator for Sector B, permitting the Station B pumps
to operate on a 24-hour basis even though polyculture irrigation would be
done primarily on a 12-hour basis. Another very important reservoir, to be
located near Pumping Station A, would have a dual function. Firstly to
store excess drainage water from Sectors A and B during storm periods, when
the runoff and subsurface drainage exceed the capacity of Station A pumps.
Secondly to store and transmit fresh water, which would be conveyed from
Station B via Channel D and a main drain, during those times (maximum time
of two months) when Station A cannot pump from the Senegal because of excess-
ive salinity.
8.        Rice fields would be within dikes built along contour lines at least
30 m apart, with differences of 10 cm in water level between adjacent paddies.
Dike heights would be about 45 cm. The lands would be rough-levelled and
drainage ditches installed, prior to first year of cultivation, to reduce
erosion and improve yields.
9.        In the polyculture zones furrow irrigation is contemplated, with
prior land levelling to be executed by the "touches de piano" method (all
furrows need not be at the same slope in a single field).  Plastic siphons
would be used to convey water from the farm ditches to the furrows.
10.       A network of principal and secondary roade and small bridges would
provide internal access. Road surfaces would be of compacted lateritic
materials, which have proved to be well-adapted to the traffic and weather
conditions in the project area.
il.       As stated in Annex 8 fresh water from the Senegal River would be
available every year at all three pumping stations until April. In May and
June water would be available at Stations B and C, even in the driest years.
Saline water could occur frequently at Station A, for about a month, near
the end of May. Fresh water would again be available at Station A by the
end of the first week in July, or possibly earlier.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
12.       In an exceptionally dry year, which can be predicted in advance
by hydrologic data, water may be excessively saline for a brief time at
Pumping Station C, or (a more remote possibility) at Station B. In this
event, the summer (flood) season crop planting dates could be delayed by
a few days without unduly upsetting farming operations for the remainder
of the year.
13.       When river water at Station A is too saline, water from Station
B could be conveyed to Station A by means of Channel D, one of the main
drains, and the large reservoir near Station A. This would occur only in
late May, June, or early July, and there would be some reserve pumping
capacity in Station B to permit this, if desired.
14.       Most of the time the water quality at all three pumping stations
would be excellent, having less than 100 parts per million of dissolved
solids.
15.       Peak pumping rates at the pumping stations would be as shown in
Table 2.
Dagana Subproject
Table 2: PUMPING RATES
Peak Pumping Ratio      Peak Combined
Each Station         Pumping  Rate
Station         Month             (m3lsec.)  (m3/hour)       (m3/sec.)
A            July                1.800      6,500       July  1.800
B            Dec.                2.520      9,100       July  2.386
C            July               0.629       2,300       July  0.629
Total             4.815
16.       Peak delivery rates would be as shown in Table 3.
Dagana Subproject
Table 3: MAXIMUM UNIT FIELD DELIVERY RATES
Rice
Pre-irrigation (Imbibition)             4.6  1/sec/ha        (3 days)
Period of Submersion                    2.5  1/sec/ha
Polyculture
24-hr continuous                        1.0  1/sec/ha
12-hr per day                           2.0  1/sec/ha
NOTE:  Above rates include field losses (70%O efficienty for polyculture),
but do not include conveyance losses.



AN EX 2
Page 4
Specific Project Works
17.       The principal elements of the proposed project are summarized in
the following paragraphs (see Map 10041).
18.       A major perîmeter dike, 18,900 m in length, would protect the ara
from flooding by the Senegal River.  It would be continuous, excending La
semi-circular loop from the high ground at Dagana in the west to Gae in txs
north, and terminating on the high ground near Bokhol in the east.
19.       A very careful study was made of the design crest height, in whic.
computer calculations of the Senegal River Delta area made by SOGREAH for- `-
were utilized. These calculations gave flood levels to be expected under a
great number of conditions, including the diking of both the left and right
banks of the Senegal, and the construction of a Delta dam near Diania. A
crest elevation of +5.60 m IGN on the eastern (upstream) end of the projiex..-
was selected, grading down to +5.30 m IGN at Dagana on the downstream end.
This would provide a freeboard of 0.55 m above the 100-year flood crest vi4c
dikes at Dagana and downstream on the right bank.
20.       Most of the dike would be from 0.5 to 1.5 m high, but a Station A
a maximum height of 4 m, for about 150 m in length, would be required.  A
very short dike section near Station B also would be higher than 1.5 m.  The
standard crest width would be 1.5 m, except in the deeper sections where an
increased width would be appropriate to facilitate maintenance, or where the
crest is used as a roadway. In the latter case the crest width would be
5.0 m. Generaly, however, roadways are inside the dike and the crest would
not be used for vehicular traffic. Side slopes would be 2 on 1 up to a maxi-
mum height of 3 m. The lower portion of any dike cross-section with a height
greater than 3 m wouid have 2.5 on 1 side slopes.
21.       The irrigatîon canal network has been planned to bring as much land
as possible of fairly regular topography and suitable soils under irrigation,
without excessive costs. There would be three separate canal networks, cor-
responding to the three area sectors specified in paragraph 4 of this Annex,
and each would be served by its own pumping station.  Canals would unliried.
If a canal were to cross an area where the soil permeability would cause
excessive conveyance losses, buried plastic members would be used to reduce
seepage. While such areas are not expected to be extensive, their number
and extent wiil not be known untïl field samples are taken at fairly close
intervals along the proposed routes. Some field sampling has been done,
whîch indicates th ; eanals not greater than 1.00 m to 1.20 m in depth will
probably not experience excess seepage.
22.       Ciontrol of water levels and rates of flow in primary, secondary,
and tertiary canals would depend upon Neyrpic-type gates, sills, modules,
dividers and orifices.  Such devices are expensive, but greatly reduce the
numbers of required ditch riders and gate tenders, conserve water, and
permit prompt response to the canal system recuirements.  The project con-
sulting engineers have had previous experience with these systems in lesser



ANNEX 2
Page 5
developed countries, and believe that the increased investment costs are
fully justified by the better water control attained and reduced labor and
management costs.
23.       The canal network in Sector B would make special use of natural
Channel "D", not only as a canal, but also as a regulating reservoir. It
has sufficient capacity within its normal operating levels to enable it
to store one-half of the daily polyculture area water requirement. Thus
the pumps could operate at a lower rate for 24 hours, although the canal
network must have the capacity to carry 12-hour polyculture and 24-hour
rice irrigation requirements.
24.       In late May, June, or July, in those years when river salinity at
Station A would prevent pumping into the system at that point, extra pumping
capacity at Station B could be used to pump water into the A Sector. The
water would go into Channel D, down a drain in Sector A to the large reser-
voir near Dagana, and thence to Station A where it could be re-pumped to
Sector A canals. Under the cropping plan contemplated, this procedures
would seldom be needed, but it is a desirable safety feature.
25.       The project drainage system would perform three important functions:
(a)  remove excess surface runoff from storms;
(b) handle large quantities of rice field drainage water at the
end of the rice-growing season;
(c) keep the subsurface groundwater levels below the crop root
zones where necessary.
All drains would be of the open-ditch type.
26.       All drainage from Sectors A and B would be disposed of through
Station A, by gravity and/or pumping, depending upon the relative elevations
of the river and the large drainage storage reservoir near Station A.
27.       Rice field drainage could be handled within the pumping capacity
of Station A, if this can be done within 14 days. Should a shorter time
be desired because of the crop calendar, reservoir storage would be required.
Sector C rice field drainage would be easily handled by Station C pumps.
28.       Subsurface drainage (Item c) would require field drains about
2 m deep at a spacing of 600 m, or 20 meters of drain per hectare. If a sand
layer were to be found less than 2 m beneath the surface, the depth could be
reduced. Costs of these field drains are included as part of the project
costs.
29.       Drainage of storm runoff (Item a) is more critical, even when the
rice fields are depended upon to store temporarily some of the excess runoff.
A natural storage basin exists near Station A and Dagana. The project would
have this storage increased by a perimeter dike with crest elevation +1.50 m



ANNEX 2
Page 6
IC.N, length of 8,100 m, a crest width of 0.5 m, and side slopes of 2 on 1.
Tle reservoir so formed would have a surface area of 225 ha, and a storage
volume of 2,290,000 m3. This storage, plus the volume which could be removed
by the Station A pumps (about 790,000 m in 72 hours), could prevent crop
damage if storms deposit no more than about 145 mm in two days on the area.
30.       However, a 50-year frequency rainstorm could cause flooding such
that 40% of the wet season harvest in Sector A rice could be lost. If the
largest rainfall ever recorded in the last 100 years (240 mm in one day) oc-
curred again, in August, almost all of the Sector A rice crop would be lost,
and the excess might not be drained out of the sector in time to permit plant-
ing of the dry season rice crop. These risks should be recognized, but are
not considered excessive.
31.       The reservoir also could serve as fresh water storage for Station
A during the late spring months, and could receive additional fresh water
from Station B, see para 7.
32.       Pumping Stations.  Three low-lift pumping stations, one for each
sector, would be constructed to elevate water to the lands to be irrigated.
Stations A and C also would pump drainage water during times when the river
levels are above the inside drainage canal water levels. When the drainage
canal water levels are above river levels, drainage would leave the area by
gravity flow through gates in the pumping stations. Station B would perform
no drainage function. Station A would handle drainage water from both Sec-
tors A and B. Both Stations A and C would have high and low irrigated serv-
ice areas.
33.       Major machinery elements for each station would be as follows:
Station A
Pumps - Four identical helix-type
Capacity of each at total manometric head of 4.15 m - 2,500 m3/h
Capacity of each at total manometric head of 2.45 m -  2,750 m 3/h
Total capacity   at total manometric head of 4.15 m - 10,000 m3/h
(Note: Drainage pumpage requirements are greater than maximum
irrigation requirements, and govern maximum total dis-
charge capacity.)
Pump Motors - Electrical, 50 KW each, 220/380 volts, 50-cycle
Generators - Three identical alternators: 200 kva, 220/380 volts, 50-cycle
Three diesel engines: 240 hp each at 1,000 rpm



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Totnl installod Senorator cAp4ctty -00 kvà
(one generator provided for reserve)
Station B
Pumps - Four identical helix-type
Capacity of each at total manometric head of 6.80 m - 2,460 m3/h
3
Capacity of each at total manometric head o 3.50 m - 3,100 m /h
Total capacity   at total manometric head of 6.80 m = 9,840 m /h
Pump Motors - Electrical, 90 kw each, 220/380 volts, 50-cycle
Generators - Three identical alternators 350 kva, 220/380 volts, 50-cycle
Three diesel engines: 400 hp each at 1,000 rpm
Total installed generator capacity - 1050 kva
(one generator provided for reserve)
Station C
Pumps - Two identical helix-type
Capacity of each at total manometric head of 6.80 m - 1,300 m3/h
- One centrifugal pump
Capacity at total manometric head of 3.00 m =   575 m /h
Total capacity               = 3,175 m 3/h
Pump Motors
For 1,300 m3/h pumps: Electrical, 45 kw each, 220/380 volts, 50-cycle
For 575 m3/h pump: Electrical, 11 kw, 220/380 volts, 50-cycle
Generators
Three identical alternators: 135 kva, 220/380 volts, 50-cycle
Three diesel engines: 150 hp each at 1,000 rpm
Total installed generator capacity - 405 kva
(one generator provided for reserve)



ANNEX 2
Page 8
34.       Each station would be equipped with necessary cranes, internal
drainage pumps, fuel storage tanks, eleictro-mechanical switching and controi
equipment, and other necessary gates, valves, piping, and equipment. The
buildings would be similar in design, but not identical. Machine shop space
would be provided.
35.       Land Clearing and Preparation.  A considerable portion of the e
is covered by trees and other vegetation of the Sub-Sahara climatic zone,
which would be removed before construction of the farm irrigation systens.
It is proposed also to deep-plow or subsoil to a depth of about 40 cm, t
remove small vegetation and loosen the topsoil prior to land levelling.
36.       Estimates of tree population densities were made with the aid of
aerial photographs. Estimated areas and tree densities, and per hectare
clearing costs, are presented in Table 4.
Dagana Subproject
Table 4: ESTIMATED TREE DENSITIES, AREA,
AND UNIT CLEARING COSTS
Sector                               Tree Densities, in Trees/Ha
0-20        20-60         60-90         More than 90
A                  470          183            -                 10
B                 1149          357           94                  5
C                  199          134           27                 30
Total                1818          674           188                45
Cost/ha   CFAF    10,000       26,000        40,000            65,000
US$         40          104           160               260
Cost of deep plowing and subsoiling have been estimated at CFAF 17,000
ha (US$68/ha).
Land Levelling, Farm Canals and Ditches
37.       All farmlands would be shaped and sloped to the degree deemed
necessary to provide a basis for good yields in the first years of farming.
Farm canals and drainage ditches, with the necessary structures, would also
be provided.
38.       Land levelling estimates were made by preparing detailed studies
of about 10 ha of typical rice lands, and about 30 ha of typical polyculture
lands. 1/2000 scale maps with 10 cm contours were used. The polyculture
lands were further divided into three general classes, ranging from mild
slopes to fairly irregular topography.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
39.       For rice lands, small dikes, or rice cheeks, would be laid out at
contour intervals of about 10 cm. Minimum distance between checks would be
30 m. Check heights would be 0.45 m. The land between checks would be
rough-levelled by bulldozers, with earth-moving limited to a 100 m distance.
Following these operations, the final irrigation ditches, drains, and
structures would be installed. For polyculture, levelling would be done
using the "touches de piano" method. This method can be used for land to
be irrigated by furrows, and permits adjacent furrows to have slightly dif-
ferent longitudinal slopes; it therefore requires less earth-moving per
hectare. Water would be obtained from farm distribution canals by means of
plastic (PVC) siphons, or similar devices.
40.       Certain areas of the polyculture lands include some fairly irre-
gular slopes, and thus require the use of a number concrete drops or chutes
to dissipate excess energy in the distribution canals. Consequently, unit
development costs would be higher for such areas.
41.       Unit area development costs for all of these items are summarized
in Table 5.
Dagana Subproject
Table 5: ESTIMATED COSTS PER UNIT AREA OF LAND
AND CONSTRUCTION OF FARM CANALS AND DITCHES
Category of                                           Estimated Cost
Cultivated Land                                           per Hectare
CFAF             US$
(a)  Rice                                                54,100            220
(b) Polyculture
Class 1 - Slope between 0.1 and 1.2%             40,100             160/1
Class 2 - Slope more than 1.2%                   183,700            73S--
Class 3 - Slope less than 0.1%                    47,900            190
/1   Including calibrated drop structured weirs in quaternary channels,
mainly in Sector C. Only 210 ha of class 2 lands are included. De-
velopment costs for these lands represent about 3% of total project
costs.
42.       Roads.  The main paved highway up the Senegal River from Saint-
Louis passes through Dagana just south of the southern project boundary.
Within the project area it is proposed to construct a principal and a second-
ary road system. Both would be constructed of lateritic materials which are
located within a distance of 4 km of the center of the polder. Such roads
have proven to be very satisfactory in the Senegal Delta region.



ANHEX 2
Page 10
43.       Principal roads would be an average height of 15 cm above the
surrounding surface. The top width would be 7 m, with the road surface
being 5 m wide. Secondary roade also vould be 15 cm above natural ground
surface, have top widths of 5 m and a traffic surface of 3.5 m.  All bridges
across canals and ditches would be only as vide as the road. All agricul-
tural machinery planned for use by the project could cross these widths.
Construction Costs
44.       The planned construction period would be three years.  Table 6
summarizes the major elements of construction costs net of contengencies.
Dagana Subproject
Table 6: SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION COSTS
(all taxes and duties included)
Cost
Item                              CFAF              US$
Engineering Services                            102,600,000       401,000
Perimeter Dike                                   39,000,000       156,000
Irrigation Network                              252,867,000       989,000
Drainage Network                                151,000,000       604,000
Pumping Stations                                253,990,000       993,000
Land Clearing and Preparation                    89,900,000       359,600
Land Levelling and Farm Irrigation
Works                                         137,700,000       550,800
Roads                                            35,800,000       143,200
TOTAL                         1,062,857,000    4,155,000



ANNKX 3
Page  1
SENEGAl.
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Irrigation System - Debi
Existing Situation
1.        The Debi subproject area is located inside a bend of the Senegal
river in the lower Delta (see Maps 3984 and 10008).  It is a depression or
cuvette, typical of the Senegal River Delta and Valley region. Its southern
boundary is the "N'Depetout" river slough (marigot). The relief is slight,
with the lowest elevations being about +0.50 m IGN above sea level. The
plain is bounded naturally by alluvial river banks having elevations of about
+1.5 to 1.7 m IGN. Total surface area is around 1,500 ha, but lesa than
75% of this is suitable for irrigation development. An existing large dike
with crest elevation +3.88 m IGN, built in 1963-65, protects the area on
the west and north from Senegal river floods. The ten-year frequency river
flood level is +1.75 m IGN, and the 100-year level about +1.80 m IGN. This
dike is 84 km in length, and extends in both directions beyond the Debi
area (Line E5-I-M-L on Map 10008). Presently, approximately 260 ha are in
elementary rice cultivation, the water being both supplied and drained by
gravity through a dual-function structure on the west side (E5 on map 10008).
Proposed Development Plan
2.        The cuvette would be divided into two topographic zones for
irrigation, with maximum variations in elevation in each being 30 cm.
Zone I - Land varying in
elevation from     +0.5 to +0.8 m -   340 ha
Zone II - Land varying in
elevation from     +0.8 to 1.10 m -   685 ha
Total       1,025 ha
A e1ike with crest elevation +1.70 m IGN would separate the two zones
(B-C-N-o-E-E2).
3.        Only soils having electrical conductivities of their 1/10 satura-
tion extracts of 1 ,000 micrombos or less, would be considered suitable
for rice cultivation and would be included in the area to be developed
under the project.
4.        Water would be pumped, or allowed to enter by gravity flow, from
the Senegal river through a pumping station to be constructed under the
project (Point M).  Fron there it would flow by gravity through a simple



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Wl *,'tirI..   t1ill[ ui i<d  .nl  T1iu witer level Iin thc, cat:n4ln wlll le at "vi,
g1L}eli(l uV f;ùtà - t' .i ZflIl t ti t t  taxmi iax11ittit wntLOr level wotUlll l" bloultt +1.(10 ICN,
wl th 1F. Io ICN to +1 .20 I(N beting the normal field and canial water surface
elevationis during flooding. In Zone Il the maximum water level would be
about +1.00 IGN, and the normal flooding elevation about +0.80 m IGN to
+0.90 m IGN. Only one irrigation season per year is planned, and this
during the period of flood (fresh) water flow.
5.        The water delivery canals would serve also as drainage canals
for excess surface run-off, and for draining the polders at the end of the
rice flooding season.
6.        Water would drain from the rice areas into the N'Depetout slough
through drainage structures E2 and Hl. The slough would empty into the
Senegal river through the existing structure E5.
7.        Static rice irrigation depths in each area would vary from a
minimum of 20 cm to a maximum of 50 cm, as compared to a present depth
range of twice these levels. This would be a substantial improvement in
the degree of water control, and rice yields are expected to increase in
response to the decreased average depths of submersion. However, the
planned system is not intended to provide full water control immediately.
This would be attained only after additional development work not included
in the present project.
8.        Since there are adequate access roads to the area from three
directions, no additional road construction is included. The crest of the
main exterior dike is 5 m wide, and would serve as a primary access route
in two directions. The interior dikes would have crest widths of 3.5 m,
and would be used for internal travel. While these roads have only earthen
surfaces, they would be well-compacted, and would serve satisfactorily under
the area weather and traffic conditions.
Water Supply
9.        Water can be pumped from the Senegal as soon as it becomes fresh
at the start of the new flood season each year. This usually occurs about
the middle of August. As the river reaches a level above that of the
canal water (about +1.50 m IGN), pumping can be stopped, and gravity flow
used to supply water.  The flood period usually lasts from three to four
months. During this time the quality of the water is excellent, with
total salinity being 100 parts per million, or less.
10.       Maximum design flow is 3.8 m /sec, or about 3.7 1/sec/ha and
allows for percolation losses which are expected to be at peak during the
period of preirrigating prior to seeding. Maximum flow will be achieved
when irrigation is by gravity.  Maximum pumped flow, for regular irrigation,
is 2.5 m3/sec, or 2.45 i/sec/ha. These amounts are a very small fraction
of the river flow during the time the water is suitable for irrigation.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Specific Project Works
11.       The following are the principal elements of the project works
(see Map 10008):
(a) An elementary canal network to deliver water, and at
the end of the irrigation season, to act as the
drainage network. Water from the canal would spread
out over the fields, with no offtake structures being
required, since the canal water levels are above
ground surface. The network is comprised of primary
and secondary canals only.
(b) A network of dikes of two types to complement the
existing Senegal river perimeter dike (see para 1):
(i) Three small exterior dikes, primarily to
protect against surface runoff, Dikes B-L
and E2-1 are to be built to elevation +1.7 m
IGN, and Dike h2-h3 to elevation +1.4 m IGN.
(ii) An interior dike built to elevation 1.7 m
(B-C-N-D-E-E2), to separate Zone I from Zone II.
Crest width is 3.5 m; side slopes 2 on 1.
(c)  A main drainage ditch, already existing in the form
of the N'Depetout slough.
(d) A pumping station (M), which also permits gravity
intake from the river when its surface is above that
of the interior canals. Maximum static pumping lift
is about 1.5 m, with a discharge of 2.5 m3/sec. A
helix pump with capacity of 9,360 m3/hour (2.6 m3/sec),
and total manometric head of 2.5 m is planned. Power
would be supplied by a diesel engine of about 140 cv.
(e) A main intake and supply canal, 0-M-N.
(f) A diversion structure (C), which takes as the intake
to the secondary canal which supplies Zone 1;
(g)  Two drainage outlet structures, H1 and E2; and
(h) A main drainage outlet, E5, which already exists.
Construction Quantities and Costs
12.       Principal construction categories and estimated capital costs
net of contingencies are shown in Table 1.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
DEBI POLDER
Table 1: PRINCIPAL CONSTRUCTION CATEGORIES
AND COSTS (INCLUDING TAXES)
COST
CFAF           US$
Engineeria&                                      7,500,000        29,000
General Earthwork, Canals & Dikes               24,443,000       96,000
Earth excavation - 76,000 m3
Earth fill - 29,000 m3
Pumping Station                                 27,052,000       106,000
Concrete, plain and reinforced, 440 m3
plus gates, steel, other materials
Pumping Station                                 22,800,000       89,000
Pumps, diesel engines, and auxilliary
equipment
Other Structures                                 5,100,000       20,000
101 m3 of concrete, plus metalwork,
gates, and other materials
TOTAL                                 86,895,000      340,000
The planned period of construction is 12 months.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Irrigation System - Lampsar
Existing Situation
1.        The Lampsar project area is northeast of Saint-Louis, adjacent
to the main highway between Saint-Louis and Rosso, and between the towns
of Makhana and Ross-Bethio (see Maps 10042 and 10054). It consists of
seven small depressions (cuvettes), two on the right bank of the Lampsar
Valley and five on the left bank. The project area is considered part of
the Middle Delta region, although technically the two downstream cuvettes
could be described more correctly as being in the Lower Delta. Of the
total area of 2,000 ha, about 1,100 ha would be irrigated for rice
production. The areas to be developed range in elevation from +0.5 m IGN
to +1.25 m IGN. Due to extremely poor water management and lack of drain-
age, rice yields are very low on the approximately 880 ha presently cultivated
in the area.
Proposed Development Plan
2.        A simple system of water control is proposed for the project.  A
single water level would be provided for each cuvette when the rice is sub-
merged, supplied only by a simple network of primary canals. There would be
ne interior secondary or tertiary canals. The area to be developed in each
cuvette has been selected so that the maximum variation in ground surface
would be between 25 cm and 35 cm. Static water depths for a constant level
during the submersion period would vary, therefore, from a minimum of 20 cm
over the higher ground surfaces, to 55 cm over the lower elevations.
3.        Soils vary within and between the seven cuvettes and most of the
microrelief is irregular. Areas considered suitable for rice cultivation
are as follows:
Range               Net Area
Ground Surface             to be
Cuvette                   Elevation (m IGN)      Cultivated (ha)
2a                        0.80 - 1.10              136
2b                        0.80 - 1.15              138
3a                        1.00 - 1.25               50
3b                        0.90 - 1.20              265
4                         0.75 - 1.10              230
5                         0.50 - 0.85              140
7                         0.50 - 0.75              124
1,083 ha



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        Water would flow by gravity through intake structures on the
Lampsar, a stream which presently receives its main supply from a pumping
station at Ronq on the Senegal River. The Lampsar is also the source of
water for the city of Saint-Louis. Its water levels are controlled by
existing gated structures upstream at Ross-Bethio, and downstream below
the confluence of the Lampsar and the Djeuss, at Dakar-Bango. The planned
water level at the intakes is about 1.75 m IGN. An older control dam at
Makhana can also be used to improve water control on the lower Lampsar.
Additional control gates would be installed by 1974 at a joint bridge-
control structure at Savoigne to be financed by FAC.
5.        The water delivery canals would also serve as drainage canals
to remove excess surface runoff, and to remove water at the end of the
rice flooding season.
6.        All cuvettes would be drained by lowering water levels, which
would permit backflow from the cuvettes through the intake works to the
Lampsar.
7.        A series of exterior dikes, built to elevation +2.00 to +2.05 m
IGN, would protect the project areas from waters of the Lampsar and the
Djeuss.
8.        Since the area is adjacent to the main paved road in the Delta,
no access problem exists. Interior access would be improved by using the
3.5 m wide dike crests as roads.
Water Supply
9.        While the cuvettes will obtain water directly from the Lampsar,
the stream itself is supplied primarily by an 18 m3/sec pumping station at
Ronq, on the Senegal 113 km upstream, supplemented by gravity flows during
higher Senegal floods. The pumping station was built by SAED in 1969.
Pumping can begin each year at the start of the new flood season, which
usually occurs about the middle of August. The flood period normally lasts
from three to four months. During this time water quality is excellent,
total salinity being 100 parts per million, or less. Pumping can usually
continue at Ronq until sometime in mid-December, or as late as the end of
January, when the water starts to become too saline for the City of
Saint-Louis.
10.       Irrigation requirements are based on flows of 4.5 i/sec/ha during
preirrigation flooding, and 2.5 1/sec/ha during the time of maximum submersion
of the rice. Total maximum required flow îs 4.9 m3/sec, including water
losses. This rate can be supplied within the capacities of the pumping
station, canals, and channels.
11.       Sufficient water must be in storage prior to the closing of the
Ronq pumps. This is done to supply the City of Saint-Louis through the dry
season until the Senegal floods again in August. This requirement, plus
the lack of fresh water in the Senegal at Ronq after January, restricts



ANNEX 4
Page 3
rice production to one crop per year. After drawdown of the Lampsar in
December for drainage of the rice fields, river levels must be raised again
before the salinity rises at Ronq, so as to provide at least 6,000,000 m3
water reserve for Saint-Louis. SCET studies indicate that this can be done.
Specific Project Works
12.       The following would be the principal project works (see Map 10042
and 10054):
(a) A series of exterior dikes to protect each cuvette from
the high waters of the Lampsar and/or Djeuss Rivers.
Crest levels would be +2.00 or 2.05 m IGN with a free
board of 30 cm, crest width 3.5 m, and side slopes
2 on 1. In the case of Cuvette No. 5, the work would
consist of increasing the height of an existing dike,
rather than constructing a completely new dike.
(b)  A simple system of unlined primary canals, which would
serve as both supply and drainage conduits. During
supply, canal water levels would be above ground
surface. Hence their upper portions would be merged
with the large ponded surfaces of the rice areas
during the time of submerged growth. Where possible,
canal routes would follow old river beds or swales, in
order to minimize excavation. Bottom widths would vary
from 0.50 m to 3.00 m. Side slopes would be 1 on 1.
(c) Two types of hydraulic structures: Intake works which
would also serve as drainage outlet works, and simple
box culverts to carry water under roads or dikes.
Reinforced concrete would be the principal construction
material. Metal slide gates would be incorporated to
control water flow.
13.       Also essential to project operations are the following existing
works:
(a) the diversion works and pumping station on the
Senegal at Ronq;
(b) the Gorom-Lampsar canal system; and
(c) the gated water control works at Ross-Bethio,
Dakar-Bango, and Makhana, on the Lampsar.
Construction Quantities and Costs
14.       Only one year is needed to complete the engineering designs and
construction work. Principal construction categories and estimated capital
costs net of contingencies are as follows:



AXNNEX 4
Page 4
Principal Construction Categorles and Conts (Including Taxes)
Structures:
Earthwork:  Canals        Concrete, Cates,
Polder                 and Dilekes         Steel, Excav., Misc.  Total Costs
Excavation Fill   Cost   Concrete         Cost   CFAF    US$
m3     m3    CFAF       m3           CFAF  ('000)  ('000)
('000)                 ('000)
Engineering                                                      4,500,000  17.5
la - 2b
Quantities        9,200   52,000              20
Costs                              26,155                 1,995 28,150,000 110.1
3a
Quantities         6,600     --               12
Costs                                2,550                1,340  3,900,000  15.2
3b
Quantitie          5,320   30,640             66
Costs                                13,100               6,500 19,600,000  76.6
4
Quantities      12,800     32,600            123
Costs                               14,300                3,750 18,050,000  70.5
5
Quantities         1,880   17,470             45
Costs                               7,200                 1,500  8,700,000  34.0
7
Quantities           740   42,750             52
Costs                              16,650                 1,550 18,200,000  71.1
TOTAL COSTS               101,100,000 395.0
Special Considerations
15.       Of some concern is the potential impact of the Lampsar subproject
on the city of Saint-Louis water supply, since the Lampsar serves as the
principal source of municipal water for that city (see para 11). To drain
the seven cuvettes comprising the subproject, the level of the Lampsar would
have to be lowered to +0.50 IGN each year at the end of the irrigation season,
December. Then the Lampsar would be filled again immediately by pumping at
Ronq to provide reserve water for the city. Future city needs may require
even more valley storage. The consultant, SCET-International, is undertaking
a separate FAC-financed study beginning ln December 1972, to be completed by
June 1973, on the future water requirements of Saint-Louis and the most
feasible means of meeting these needs. The study would clarify the amount
of Lampsar valley storage needed in the future, and whether or not the
Lampsar irrigation subproject would have any adverse effect on the city
water supply. For this reason it is proposed in the main report that con-
dition of disbursement for the Lampsar subproject would be the resolution
of this question, to the satisfaction of the Bank.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
1t).     iPArts tf tie main Saint-Louia/Roauo hlghway embankmnent batween
Ndiol and Rose Bethio, where if forms the eastern boundary of Cuvettes 3a,
3b and 4, will have water ponded against them when the Lampsar water levels
are raised to +1.75 IGN. Since this might weaken the highway subgrade
unless a small protective barrier dike or embankment were placed on the
river side of the highway additional costs of CFAF 1,000,000 (US$4,000)
have been included in project costs to provide for this protection.






ANNEX 5
Page' 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Dagana Training Center
General
1.        Senegal has adequate facilities for basic training in agriculture.
However, such training needs to be supplemented with practical in-service
training.
Existing institutions include:
a)   Ecole Nationale d'Economie Appliquee at Dakar,
one year post graduate course;
b)   Ecole Nationale des Cadres Ruraux at Bambey,
Bachelor degree standard (Ingenieur des Travaux
Ruraux Agricoles);
c)   Centre de Formation Horticole at Camberene,
subdegree standard (3-4 years after primary school;
Ingenieur des Travaux Ruraux Horticoles);
d)   2 Ecoles des Agents Techniques de l'Agriculture
at Louga and Ziguinchor,
subdegree standard (3-4 years after primary school); and
e)   3 Centres d'Initiation Horticole at Diourbel, Thies
and Saint-Louïs, inferior to (c).
2.        In 1972, SAED established a training center for field agents at
its farm in the Savoigne polder. This center trains staff in rice extension
work and would train the field agents needed for the Debi and Lampsar sub-
projects. Under the project a new training center would be established at
Dagana to train field agents in double-cropping techniques and in the cul-
tivation of crops other than rice. The center would be used also to: train
tractor and implement operators; provide demonstrations and courses for
farmers; and would include an ox training unit.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Organization
3.        Permanent staff at the center would comprise a Senegalese agricul-
turalist who would be the chief training officer, an administrative officer,
and a secretary, and these permanent staff would be financed under the project.
Overall guidance would be provided by SAED headquarters which has a training
officer financed by French technical assistance. The training center would
collaborate closely with the staff of the project research unit which would
share the center's buildings and equipment, see Annex 6.
4.        Staff trainees would spend one month at the center before taking
up their assignament in the field and thereafter would undertake two-week
refresher courses annually. SOGAS would provide specialist training in
tomato cultivation at its Savoigne farm. Tractor-drivers would be given
four-day refresher courses each year.
Costs
5.        Estimated costs net of contingencies of constructing, and operating
the training center during the project development period amount to CFAF
24.3 million or US$95,000 equivalent. They include CFAF 7 million for
building and house construction; CFAF 5.2 million for equipment (furniture,
audio-visual aids and two vehicles); and CFAF 11 million for operating costs.
Details of these costs are at Table 1.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Cost of Training Center at Dagana
(CFAP '000)
Year                                 1        2        3       4       Total
CONSTRUCTION
Training Center                  5,000                              5,000
House:  Chief Officer            1,500                               1,500
House: Administrative Officer    500                                  500
Subtotal                 7,000                               7,000
EQUIPMENT
Furniture and materials          1,000                              1,000
Audio-visual aids                  500                                 500
Vehicles (2)                     1,600                               1,600
Power tiller (1)                 1,200                              1,200
Ox training center                 150                                 150
5 Pair of oxen and implements    500                                  500
Miscellaneous                      200                                 200
Subtotal                 5,150                               5,150
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries:
Chief Officer                    570     570      570      570    2,280
Administrative Officer           450      450     450      450    1,800
Secretary                        300     300      300      300    1,200
Subtotal                  1,320   1,320   1,320   1,320    5,280
Vehicles (2)                     500      500     500      500    2,000
Operating Costs:
Mechanized Farming              120      120     120      120      480
Oxen                            100      100     100      100      400
Board and Lodging Trainees  1J000   1,000   1,000   1,000    4,000
TOTAL                  15,190   3.040   3.040   3.040   24.310






ANNEX 6
Page 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Applied Research Program in the Dagana Polder
General
1.        In addition to its ongoing research programs at the Richard-Toll
Station, Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures
Vivrieres (IRAT) would carry out an applied research program in the Dagana
polder to adapt results obtained elsewhere to Dagana conditions. Since
research on rice in the Delta area is well advanced, IRAT would concentrate
its efforts at Dagana on the other crops that are included in or considered
for the Dagana cropping pattern. Trials at Dagana would include, however,
fertilizer trials on rice. IRAT's Dagana operation would be sited at the
Training Center. The research program financed under the project would be
for the four years 1973-1976.
Research Program
2.        Cereals.  For maize, sorghum and wheat, trials would cover the
following subjects:
- fertilizers;
- pest control;
- varieties and sowing dates;
- cultural and irrigation methods; and
- crop rotation.
Research on sorghum and wheat is advanced, and only cultural and irrigation
methods have to be tested for larger-scale application. Maize is grown
traditionally in the project area, and in recent years new varieties
responsive to irrigation have been tested. Some additional work is required
to determine which varieties would be most economic for Dagana.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
3.        Tomatoes, vegetables, and grain legumes.  Although, in principle,
applied research on these crops would cover the five principal subjects listed
in para 2, not all crops require the same attention. Tomatoes have been grown
successfully in the Delta since 1969 and there is no reason to believe that
experience so far obtained would not be applicable to Dagana. Potatoes have
been produced on small plots only, and large-scale cultivation practices have
to be developed. Research on onions has been carried out by IRAT at its
Tarna Station in Niger under similar ecological conditions, and only a limited
number of adaptation tests would be required. Research on cowpeas is well
advanced, but cultivation and irrigation methoda for large-scale production
have to be tested in Dagana.
4.        Details on Proposed Research Subjects.  In addition to fertilizer,
pest control and variety experiments, experiments on cultural methods,
irrigation techniques, and irrigation vater consumptive use would be carried
out for three years for wheat, maize, sorghum, cowpeas, tomatoes, onions
and potatoes on 0.5-ha plots each, with a total of 21 experiments. Six crop
rotation experiments, including three cropping patterns with either mechanical
or ox-drawn implements, would be carried out for four years.
Research Costs
5.        The costs of the research program, estimated on the basis of IRAT's
experience and net of contingencies are given by years in Table 2. They
amount to about CFAF 58 million, equivalent to US$226,500. Excluded are the
costs of an expatriate research leader who would be provided by FAC under its
1972-1977 technical assistance program.



SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS I1ROJECT
A1ied Research Program in the DagaLa Polder
(Nu=bers of Tests)
Fertilizer Tests,2             Pest Control /             Varieties./         Cultural and ,  rigation
Year            1   2   3   14  Total    J   2   3   14  Total    1   2   3   4   Total                MetosfC.r<op 7?Dati,r.
Rice                1   2   -   -      3       -   -   -   -      -       -   -   -   -      -
Wheat               1   1   -   -      2       -   -   -   1      1       1   -   -   -      1                 3
Maize               -   -   1   1      2       -   -   -   1      1       2   2   2   2      8                 3
Sorghum             1   1   -   -      2       _         -   -   1  1     2   2   -   _      4                 3
Cowpeas             1   -   -   -      1       -   -   -   -      -       1   -   -   -      1                 3
Tomatoes            1   1   -   -      2       1   1   1 1        4       1   1   -   -      2                 3
Onions              -   -   1   1      2       -   -   1   1      2       1   1   1   -      3                 3
Potatoes            -   -   1   1      2       -   1   1   1      3       1   1   1   -      3                 3
Total             5   5   3   3    16        1   2   3   6    12        9   7   4   2    22                 21
Area: 0.5 ha/test. Cost: CFAF 300,000/test.
j Area: 0.2 ha/test.  Cost: CFAF 160,000/test.
j Area: 0.4 ha/test. Cost: CFAF 240,000/test.
/ Area: 0.5 ha/test. Cost: CFAF 400,000/test.
May 3, 1972



ANNEX 6
Table 2
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Costs of Applied Research Program
(CFAF '000)
Project Year
1        2        3        4        Total
Research Costs
Fertilizers                    1,500    1,500       900       900    4,800
Pest Control                     160       320      480       960    1,920
Varieties                      2,160    1,680       960       480    5,280
Cultural Methods               2,800    2,800    2,800         -     8,400
Crop Rotation                  6,000    6,000    6,000    6.000   24,000
Subtotal               12,620   12,300   11,140    8,340   44,400
EQUIPHENT                                                                     /1
Vehicles (3)                   2,400                                 2,400--
Power Tiller                   1,200                                  1,200
Power Sprayer                  1,550                                 1,550
Weighing Scales                  250                                   250
Pairs of oxen and
implements (3 sets)            300                                   300
Subtotal                5,700                                  5,700
PERSONNEL /2
Senior Agronomist              1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000    4,000
Assistants (2)                   960       960      960       960    3,840
Subtotal                1,960    1,960    1,960    1,960    7,840
Total                  20 280   14,260   13 100   10,300   57,940
/1   Included in "Project Vehicles" in Annex 9, Table 2.
/2   FAC would provide an expatriate research leader; his costs are excluded
from total project coste.
/3   Included in "Local Personnel" in Annex 9, Table 1.



ANNEX 7
3ENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDER S PROJECT
Existing and Required 3AED .quipment
T.  Existing Eqguipnent
Agricultural Equipinent
(1965/196t'6)     35 Caterpillar Tractors Dé
(1965)            15 Caterpillar Tractors Dh
(19tD5/66)        1(5 Fergusson Wheel Tractors  65 hp
(1967)             1 Fergusson Whleel Tractor   75 hp
(1966)            45 Disc Plows
lieavy Equipment
(196(f`)           1 dragline
(1967)             2 compactor rolls
(1967)             1 land plane
UNIT       Total Cost 1/
1973      197h      1975    COES        _
II.  Equipment Included in                                     CIF       CÛFA      000
Project Cost.s
WhenI Tractois(0t hp         1           7         8       1.7L-    24,?3
,prayers                                 1         2      1.630      l , ' 0
Plows                                    3         5         360      2JES
Disc Cultivatom                          h 4                 265      2,565
Cultivators                                        1       2 2'         °3
Tools                                    1         2         100        300
Thriieib  2. t/hour                      3         4       1-800    l2,:00
Brush Cutters                            1         1         250        500
Trailers                                 2         2         320        280
Harrows                                            h          63 54L
Power Tillers                °                             1,200      '2,400
Other                                                                    2r9
Tractoms   65  Cv            2                             4,500      9,0oc
Land Planes                  2                             2,000      4,000
1/ Without import duties.






ANNEX 8
Page 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Water Supply and Requirements
A. WATER SUPPLY
Flow Characteristics of Senegal River in Delta Region
1.        The general climate and topographical features of this 1,800-km
long river, having a drainage area of 300,000 km2, have been described in
Annex 1. This section summarizes the flow characteristics of the Senegal
river in the Delta region, as they relate to potential quantity and quality
of irrigation water, flooding, and drainage, with special emphasis on their
effects on the Dagana, Lampsar and Debi sub-projects.
2.        Sources of Data.  Fortunately, many years of records are available
of water levels at several stations along the river. The history of stream
gauging and measurements of water levels on the Senegal are summarized in
a treatise by ORSTOM. 1/ The earliest known records are of water levels
measured at Richard-Toll1 from 1823 to 1827.  At Dagana, located just before
the beginning of the Delta proper, continuous records since 1916, or for
56 years, are available. Dagana records for 1914 and for the period 1904-11
also exist.
3.        The tidal cycle of the Atlantic Ocean influences river levels
upstream past Podor, some 260 km inland. Boghe, 380 km inland, is the first
station whose readings are not affected by ocean fluctuations.  Low flows in
the river in the reach affected by tides are difficult to measure precisely.
Also, the cross-sectional areas of the rivers in the lower reaches of the
Valley, and in all the Delta, are subject to change during high floods. Hence
there are variations in the sta)e-discharge curves for most key stations.
Nevertheless, the intensive studies performed by ORSTOM since 1960, and by
the UNDP-FAO experts since 1965, have demonstrated conclusively that good
estimates can be made of stream discharges from staff gauge readings.
Data analyzed and processed by these two groups are the primary basis for
the descriptions of stream flow characteristics presented herein.
1/   "Apercu Hydrologique du Fleuve Senegal - Synthese provisoire des donnees
hydrologiques elaborees par l'ORSTOM, by C. Rochette & P. Touchebeuf,
Office de la Recherche Scientifique et Technique Outre-Mer, Mission
d'Amenagement du Fleuve Senegal, January 1964.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        General Flow Characteristices.  From Bakel downstream the river follows
a regular pattern annually. In June or July the flow begins to increase in
response to the start of the rainy season in the southern headwaters area.
There is only one flood per year.  The flow increases slowly peaking 3 to 3-1/2
months later. Floods decline more slowly, in accordance with well-recognized
stream hydrology patterns, reaching minimum stages in May or June.
5.        At Dagana (190 km inland) the flood crests occur between September
16 and November 23. About 67% of the crests at Dagana have occurred in the
period October 3-25, and 33% during the period October 16-23. At Debi,
highest levels generally are reached about five to seven days after the
Dagana crests.
6.        As flows decrease in the Delta, saline water from the sea moves
slowly inland. By early March the salinity levels at Debi are as much as
12,000 parts per million - six times the approximate maximum limits for
irrigation water, and twelve times the desirable salinity limits. The
lntruding wedge of saline water begins to make its appearance near Dagana in
June, with the water becoming unsuitable for irrigation some time during
that month. The maximum period of excessively salinity is one month. At
Bokhol, on the upstream side of the Dagana project area, the salinity effect
is only slight, the water there normally being useable at all times. At Gae,
about halfway between Bokhol and Dagana and on the north boundary of the
project area, salinity can reach unsatisfactory levels for a short period
of time. However, this will have no major adverse effect on proposed agri-
cultural operations at Dagana.
7.        The change at Dagana from a saline to a non-saline condition
takes place fairly rapidly at the beginning of the new water year. Normally
the water becomes useable in June or July, salinity levels dropping to less
than 100 ppm within a few days, and the water remains useable until the
very low flows of the following late-spring season.
8.        Specific Flow Characteristics.  Principal discharge characteristics
of the river at Dagana are as follows:
Drainage area (190 km)                               268,000 km2
Average annual discharge 1903-64 (62 years)           691 m3/sec
Maximum annual discharge 1924-25                      969
Minimum annual discharge 1941-42                      406   "
Estimated minimum daily discharge June, 1942-43         4
Approxîmate average June discharge                     33   "
Lowest average July discharge                          70



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Usual July average discharge                         417 m3/sec
Earliest date of beginnlng of annual increased flow    June 11
Latest date of beginning of annual increased flow         July 15
Usual date of beginning of annual increased flow   June 24 to July 7
9.        Because of the significant influence of tides on water levels
and flows at the Debi (65 km) and Lampsar (113 km) areas water intake points,
discharge measurements at those locations are extremely rare. Water level
data are, however, available. Since the Lampsar and Debi projects are
planned to use river water only during the months of higher flows when
salinity is negligible, there is no question as to the availability of water
sufficient to meet the needs of those areas during the planned months of
irrigation.
10.       Salinity Phenomena.  The phenomena associated with the gradual
intrusion of salinity upstream in the Delta region as river flows decrease
following the flood season, deserve special notice. They have been studied
in some detail and reported on by C@ Rochette 1/, and subsequently by the
UNDP-FAO study teams in the Senegal Basin. SAED-SCET has also made independent
salinity measurements in the area. Among the important points noted in these
studies are the following:
(a) The average river salinity in the Delta at any specific location
is:
i.   a function of the river flow when flows are greater
than 50 m3/sec;
ii.   a function of time for flows less than 50 m3tsec, with
time "zero" being approximately the time of occurrence of
flow = 50 m3/sec during the time of gradually decreasing
river flows.
(b)  The date of occurrence of excessive salinity can be predicted
with a considerable degree of accuracy each year, once the river
discharge has clearly established its recession pattern for the
dry season (this can be as early as December or January).
(c) The date of occurrence of fresh water for irrigation each year
in the Delta can be forecast within about a month in any year,
and within about a week, or less, in specific years once the
rains increase river flows in the Upper Basin.
1/   "Remontee des Eaux Marines dans le Senegal", edited in April 164.  ORSTOM.
Summarized in the ORSTOM publication "Monographie Hydrologique du Fleuve
Senegal - 3eme partie - Analyse des Elements du Regime Hydrologique".



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(d) In 1971, which was the fourth driest year in the 42 years since
1930, maximum measured salinity at Bokhol, near the site of
Pumping Plant B, was 1,000 micromhos. At Gae, further downstream
and near the site of Pumping Plant C, the salinity was limited to
2,500 micromhos, which indicates a water still useable for irrigation.
At Dagana, near the site of Pumping Plant A, maximum salinity was
6,650 micromhos, which was measured during the week of June 20.
Two weeks later the salinity at Dagana began to decrease. On
April 26, the salinity did not exceed 110 micromhos.
(e)  Even with very low flows at Bokhol (4 m3/sec or less), there
remains a very large amount of fresh water stored upstream
in the river channel, which tends to limit the advance of
sea water.
11.       Four important conclusions regarding water supply for Dagana can
be derived from the foregoing studies and the area cropping plans:
(a) Fresh water will be available most years at all three pumping
stations until April;
(b) In May and June useable water vill be available at Pumping
Stations B and C, even in the driest years;
(c)  In an exceptionally dry year, which can be predicted in
advance by discharge and salinity measurements at Kaedi and
in the Delta, respectively, the possibility may appear of
excessive salinity for a brief time at Pumping Station C, or
(a more remote possibility) at Station B. In this event the
flood season crop planting dates can be delayed by a feu days,
without unduly upsetting farming operations for the remainder
of the year;
(d)  While no serious problems in providing water for two cropping
seasons at Dagana are foreseen under present conditions, any
upstream developments which would use significant amounts of
river water during low stages could, and probably would,
upset the delicate saline-fresh water interface balance which
occurs at Dagana each year, and cause the water at all three
pumping stations to be unuseable for a period sufficient to
cause crop losses in the Dagana area.
12.       Therefore, while the Dagana water supply situation is considered
satisfactory now, Government should make certain that present low stage
flows are not impaired.  In addition, more salinity and river discharge
measurements should be made in the Dagana area to provide better information
with which to make predictions of salinity occurrence for the project.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
B. WATER REQUIREMENTS
Rice
13.       Rice is the principal crop to be grown in the three project areas,
would use the greatest amount of water, and require the highest delivery
rates of flow.  Estimates of rice water requirements were based primarily
on Penman's formula, plus consideration of rice cultivation practices. For
the Senegal River Delta region, Table 1 below summarizes typical rice water
requirements on a per hectare basis.  All field losses are included, but not
conveyance losses in canals.
Table 1: TYPICAL RICE FIELD WATER REQUIREMENTS PER HECTARE
Senegal River Delta Region - Moderately Permeable Soil
Duration ------Water Use-----
Period of Culture                       In Days     m3/day    m3       1/sec
First Campaign (June-August)
Pre-irrigation (Imbibition)        3 (or less)      400    1,200       4.6
Submersion                        15                190    4,750       2.2
Maintenance                       40                110    5,500       1.27
11,500
Second Campaign (November-February)
Pre-Irrigation-Imbibition          3 (or less)      400    1,200       4.6
Submersion                        25                170    4,250       2.0
Maintenance                       70                 90    6,300       1.0
11,750
14.       While the preceding data are representative, actual requirements
would vary with the variety of rice grown, date of planting, permeability
of the soil, amount of fertilizer used and degree of farming expertise.
The values shown were used in planning the Dagana project. Debi and Lampsar
values were slightly different. All design values are within normally
expected ranges for the climate, soils, and manner of cultivation considered.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
Polyculture
15.       Water requirements for the various crops to be grown in the Dagana
polyculture areas were estimated by Penman's method and applicable crop
growth coefficients. Maximum values for Penman's Evapo-Transpiration
Potential (ETP) occur in April, May and June, with May normally being the
highest. These results were consistent with evaporation measurements made
in the area.
16.       Estimates were made of the monthly water requirements for tomatoes,
corn, cowpeas, potatoes, onions, wheat, and sorghum. All of these, were
combined in varying proportions to estimate the requirements for three
different crop rotations.  Monthly requirements, assuming 70% field efficiency,
but with no allowance for canal delivery losses, are as follows:
rable 2: MONTHLY CROP WATER REQUIREMENTS - DAGANA AREA
(m3/ha at farm headgate, assuming 70% field efficiency)
Cropping Pattern
.Sonth               Sectors A/C       Sector B
July                    1,200                950
August                  1,600              1,100
September               2,200              1,750
October                 1,500              1,800
November                1,200              1,300
December                1,600              1,500
January                 2,000              1,400
February                2,000              1,200
March                     500                850
April .
May
June                   _
Total             13,800             11,850



ANNEX 8
Page 7
17.       The preceding table makes no allowance for the amount of rainfall
which may be utilized by the crop. The average annual rainfall ie 310 mm,
and only part of that can be used by the crop. If half of the rainfall were
to become available for crop use, the error is well within the inherent
reliability of the basic estimates.
18.       The maximum crop rotation delivery rate requirement is during the
first half of October, when 1,250 mm are required. This is equivalent to
a delivery rate of 1.0 1/sec/ha on a continuous basis, and is based on
maximum two-week period consuiptive use estimates and 70% field efficiency.
19.       For vegetables grown during the months of April, May or June, the
required continuous delivery rate is about 10% higher; or 1.1 1/sec/ha. This
requirement was not considered in the proposed plan.
Conveyance Losses
20.       Water lost primarily by percolation from the unlined conveyance
canals has been estimated for the Dagana project as follows:
Transmission distance up to 1,500 m - no increase.
Transmission distance between 1,500 and 1,700 m - increase by 20%.
Transmission distance greater than 1,700 m - increase by 25%.
Overall conveyance losses for Dagana have been estimated at between 15
and 20%.
Daily Irrigation Durations
21.       Farmers would irrigate their rice fields on a 24-hour-per-day basis.
This is not a difficult task.
22.       For polyculture, however, it is more realistic to plan on farmers
irrigating their fields no more than 12 hours in any one day. Night irri-
gation requires a great deal of experience and ability to be performed suc-
cessfully. Polyculture irrigation at Dagana would be on a 12-hour basis.
Field delivery requirements, then, would be double the continuous delivery
rate, or 2 1/sec/ha in the case of the October polyculture crope. However,
it should be noted that the pumping requirements for Station B are based on a
24-hour basis, even though polyculture irrigation îs to be performed only on
a 12-hour basis. The reason for this is that the water pumped during the
12-hour night period can be stored in Channel D, for later release during
the day. Delivery canals still would have to be able to carry a double flow
rate to the fields for all of Sector B polyculture.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
Summary of Delivery Requirements
23.       With the foregoing delivery rates and quantities as a basis, Table
3 has been prepared as a summary of key water delivery factors.
Table 3: SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL IRRIGATION WATER REQUIREMENT FACTORS
-----Maximum Flow Rates-----                  Total Annual
Project         Peak Unit Water            Maximum Diversion
Area           Delivery Rates   Area            Rate          Water Diversion
Imbibition Normal
(1/sec/ha)      (ha)    (m3/sec)                 (m3)
Debi
Rice                  3.7*   2.45  1,025       3.80 (Sept.)    13,500,000 (one crop)
Lampsar
Rice                  4.5*   2.5   1,083       4.90 (Sept.)    14,300,000 (one crop)
Dagana
a) Rice               4.6    2.75  1,420       3.90 (July)      37,500,000 (two crops)
b) Polyculture
24-hr rate         -      1.23    910       1.12 (Oct.)      13,100,000
12-hr rate         -      2.32    319       0.74 (Oct.)      4,600,000
c) Maximum
(Rice and
Polyculture)       -       -    2,729       4.82 (July)      55,200,000
*    See paragraph 24.
NOTES:  Above values used in Consultant's designs.
Above quantities include 20% conveyance losses.
24.       The Debi and Lampsar sub-projects are designed for the unit flow
rates given in the above table, and the maximum diversion rates have been
calculated accordingly.  While approximately the same magnitude of unit flow
rate is required at Dagana for any one rice field, the plan is to rotate the
imbibition schedule among fields, so that no more than about half of them
are being irrigated at one time. This is the logical way of operating, since
only three days are required to flood one hectare of land at these rates.
SAED has been asked to ensure that in the case of both Debi and Lampsar the
consultants will design the most economic pre-irrigation rotation plans.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
C. COMPARISON OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND
25.       A comparison between the maximum required flow rates of Debi plus
Lampsar plus Dagana in Table 3, which total less than 14 m3/sec at any one
time and normally expected discharges shows that even in the low months shown
in paragraph 8, page 3, the sub-projects jointly would take only a small
fraction of the available water, with the exception of the critical period
which can occur in June or very early July. A similar situation exists as
far as the quantity to be used is concerned.
26.       The principal problems of all three areas involve the dates when
the water becomes fresh, and/or the dates when it may become saline from
the slowly advancing tongue of sea water from the Atlantic. Farming operations
must be started in time to utilize the fresh water at Debi and Lampsar at
the earliest possible date. This is especially important in a dry year, as
the duration of fresh water at the pump intakes will be minimal in such years.
Normally at least 90 to 120 days will be available to pump fresh water for
those projects. The reliability of the supply seems adequate.
27.       In the case of the Dagana area, the situation is more complex,
because of the double-cropping program planned. Even here the normal
schedule calls for all rice and polyculture irrigation to be completed by
the end of March. The four conclusions stated in para 11 are the key to
the supply situation. There should be few, if any, occasions when significant
crop losses would result from lack of fresh water supply at Dagana. Use of
all advanced hydrological data for predicting water stages and salinity at
Dagana, is a key necessity. When this is done, and farming plans are adapted
accordingly farmers would be assured of receiveing fresh water when needed.






SERES-.L
SENEGAL RIVER FOLDERS PROJECT
Project Costs
(Tom CFA)
1973           1974             1975           1976            Total            Debi            Lampsar           Dagana
Development Oosts
Land Clearing                                 19,350          29,450           41,100            -              89,900             -               -              89,900
Earthworks                                   159,036         291,649          217,862                          668,547           24,443          80,917          563,187
Civil Works                                   60,720          77,622           65,959                          204,301           31,952          16,609          155,740
Rnbanking Dagana                              39,oo--                                                           39.000             -               -              39,000
Sub-Total                              278,106        398,721          324,921             -          1,001,748           56,395           97,526          847,827
Construction
Staff Housing                                 114,0c0          6,000            4,0o0            -              26,000            4,o0o           4,000           18,000
Field Assistants Bousing                       3,500           7,200            4,800            -              15,500            1,200           1,800           12,500
Offices and Stores                            10,.150   6, 00                                    -              10,150                                            10,
Sub-Total                               27,650          21,200           8,800                           57,650           11,200            5,800           40,650
Materials
Hydraulic Equipment                           68,997          51,093           15,140                         135,230            22,800            -             112,430
Tractors and Accessories                       4,200          34,344          27,645                           66,169              -                              66,189
aesearch Training Equipment                    2,400             550              600             100            3,650             -               -               3,650
Vehicles                                       4,000           4,000            2,400            -              IO,400            1,600             800            8,ooo
Motor Bikes                                    _ 30            1,100            1,650              50            3,10               250             500            2350
Sub-Total                               79,897         91,087           47,435             150          218,569           24,650           1,300          192,619
Engineering Services                             64,000          31,500           19,100                          114,600            7,500           4,500          102,600
Management and Operpting Costs in
Development Pariad
Salaries.
Expatriates                                  -             12,600           16,800                           29,400            6,300           2,)D0           21,000
Local Staff                                 4,500          12,780           24,800           4,500           46,580            4,540           3,970           38,070
Operating Costs:
Vehicle Maintenance                         1,780           5,120            7,900           1,780           16,580            2,150           1,150           13,280
Training/Evaluation                         1,720           1,720            1,720           1,720            6,860             -               -              44.40
Research                                   12,620          12,30            il 14            8,3414         144,400            --                ..            144.14(0
Sub-Total                              20,620         44,520           62,360           16,340          143,840           12,990           7,220          123,630
3,600             -               -               3,60 
Compensation to Dagana Farmars                    3,600            - 
Total                                 473,873         587,028         462,616           16,490       1,540,007           112,735         116,346        1,310,926
Physical Contingen^ies                          41,715          59,808           48,738                          150,261             8,458          14,629          127,174
Price Contingencies                              30,935          79,949           97,668            4,329         212,881            12,452          20,641           45.828
Total                                 5446,523        726,785         609,022           20,819       1,9o3,149           133,645         151,616        1,583,928



AMI 9
Table 2
SENEOAL RIVER POLIIRS PROJECT
Housing and Vehicles
193   1974  19       1976    Total   Coat (CFA)
I. Construction
Housing
Senior Staff:
Debi/Lamçsar               1                       1     4,000,000
Dagana              2      1                            12 000 000
-  2                          T2   16,000,000
Technicians:
Debi                       1                       1     2,000,000
Laampsar                           1               1     2,000,000
Dagana              2      1                             6 0ooo
2     -2      1               5     10,000,000
Field Assi8stetu:
Debi                       4                       4     1,200,000
Lampsar                           6                6     1,800,000
Dagana             12     20     10               42    1205o.000
iî    2Z    -1                r2    15e500,000
Offices and Stores:
Debi                       1                       1     6,0oo,000
Dagana
Training Center
.ffioe            1                              1    10,000,000
Oxen Training Cter 1                               1       150000
16,150,000
II. Vehicles and
Motorcycles
Vehicles
Debi                       2                       2     1,600,000
Lampsar                           1                1       800,000
Dagana                             2              10     8.000,000
ç  7;     ~3              13-   10,400,000
Motorcycles
Debi                       5                       5       250,000
Iampsar                          10               10       500,000
Dagana                    16     22               38     1,900,000
Training Center     6      1       1      1        9         0?000
i22          33      1000



SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
POLDER CONSTRUCTION SCHESLE
YEARS                                                  1972                     1973                      1974                        1975              i776 
MONllIS                                    _ F M A  M  _    A SI _     Jr I A_III _ F      NE  E  _ J FIMIA H J| J |A| S ol N| I J F FM|À M J J A S         J |F|   |   
DnsasoaEBI (1f 025 h)
2.  EngineeringSetrcII                                          t                                                                                                        I
3.  Construction FPumpng Station
h.  Irrigation System-T                                                                                     1
L.4IPSAR (1080 ha)
i. Surveying
3.Irrigation System 
DAGANA (2730 lia)
Sectors A (725 ha) antd B (1630 ha) 
1.  SurvevingA 
2. Engineering Station A
3. Engineering Station B
4. Engineering Sector A
5. Engineering Sector 
7. Construction Dlike
8. Construction pumping Station A
9. Construction Pumping Station B
10.  Irrigation and Drainage System  r.[ 1                                                                                     I
11. Field Irrigation Works
Sector C (375 ha)
i. Surveying
2. Engineering puaping Station C
3.  Engineering Sector C 
1.Clearing
5. Construction Dike
6. Construction Punxping Station C
7. Irrigati-on and Drainage System
8. Field Irrigation Works



SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Project Staff Reguiren,ents
-Project Cost 1973-1976---
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980            1985 etc.      Wages        Vehicle         Total
Maintenance
)ebi                                                                                                                        ------------CFAF '000-----------
Expatriates                                     1        3        4        4                                                6,300            75o         7,050
Senior Local Staff                             1         1        1        1        1        1        1          1          1,110          1,000         2,140
Field Assistants                               5         5        5        5        4        4        4          4          340(             4o0        3-800
10,b40          2,71o       12,990
Laapsar
Expatriates                                              4        4        4                                                2,100            250         2,350
Senior Local Staff                                       I        1        1        1        1        1          1             570           500         1,070
Field Assistants                                        10       10        7        7        6        6          6          3 400            L0oo        3,800
6;070         1,15          7,220
Dagana
Extension Services to Farmers
Expatriates                                     2        3        3        2        2        2                             21,000          2,500        23,500
Senior Local Staff                              1        2        3        2        2        2        2          2           1,710         1,500         3,210
Field Assistants                               16       38       61       61       61       58       52         27         18,36u          2,160        20,520
Ditch Riders i/                                                   7        8        8        8                                 _              -            -
>41,070         6,160       >47,230
Traininc Gente4r
Senior Local Staff                     1        1        1        1                                                         2,280          2,000         4,280
Administrative Clerks                  2        2        2        2                                                         3,000            _           3,000
5,280         2,000         7,280
Evaluation
Field Assistants                       6        6        6        6                                                         8,000          2,000        10,000
Research
Senior Local Staff                     1        1        1        1                                                         2, 00          2,000         4,ooo
Field Assistants                       2        2        2        2       _                                                 2,72G          1,120           40
133      48       80     10w5       88       86       82       73        >4-          4,720          3,120         7,,40
75,980        16,580        92,5cO
Costs  (CFAF)                             Annual Salaries                             Annual Vehicle Maintenance                                 Tot;J1
DrDatriates                                         4,200,000                                           500,000                                      4,700,ri0
Senior Local Staff                                     570,000                                          500,000                                       ',G,000
-;e'2 Assistants                                       340,000                                           40,000                                         3B80,000
-1   Aed in imaintenarlne costs provioionn.
nes not 'inlede part time 2 ,ah technical assnstance support.



SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
SAED Cash Flow                                                     FAF'O00
1973      1974       1975        1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981     1982      1983    1984        1985
Inflows
1. Project implementation
IDA disbursement 65%           224,070   344,950   387,lS0    189,440    5,145
Government financing              322,453   381,835   221,872   (168,621)  (5,U45)
546,523   726,785   609,022       20,819
2. Farmers' Payment
Consolidated fee
Lampsar                                                2,700       2,700    5,400    8,100   10,800   10,800   10,800   10,800   10,800  10,800
Debi                                        2,562      2,562       5,125    7,688   10,250   10,250   10,250   10,250   10,250   10,250  10,250
Dagana                                      2,896      9,152      23,794   49,752   64,320   73,800   77,520   80,720   80,720   80,720  80,720
Mechanical services
Lampsar                                                5,640       8,340    8,340    8,340    8,340    8,340    8,340    8,340    8,340   8,340
Debi                                        5,356      7,919       7,919    7,919    7,919    7,919    7,919    7,91-    7,919    7,919   7,919
Dagana                                      7,099    21,484       42,825   56,114   66,006   70,950   72,800   74,650   76,500   76,500  76,500
3.  Rice Processing byproducts                    1,844      4,395       5,213    5,991    6,626    7,454    8,122    8,788    9,391    9,469   9,469
4.  Government subsidies
Extension services
Mechanical plowing                          4,195      4,503         228
546,523   750,737   667,377    116,963  141,204  171,561  189,513  195,751  201,467  203,920  203,998 203,998
outflows
1.  Project cost                      546,523   726,785   609,022       20,819
2.  Material renewal                                                     23,935   17,225   12,475   23,880   22,855   11,945   20,405   4-9,940  37,095
3. SAED services to farm
Extension services                                                 53,920   46,120   45,740   44,220   27,840   26,800   22,520   19,4 80  19 'r80
Mechanical service                          11,831    27,812       43,749   52,773   60,261   63,815    64,999   66,179   67,359   67,359  67,359
WaterpuSpiJng  iolt                           1,050     3,765       7,356    9,633   10,496   11,579   12,254   12,809   13,260   13,260  13,260
Maintenance                                            10,700      18,366   22,816   22,816   22,816   22,816   22,816   22,816   22,816  22,816
Overheads                                    4,650      5,350       5,350    5,350    5,350    5,350    5,350    5,350    5.350    5,350   5,350                      >
546,523   744,316   656,649    173,495  153,917  157,288  181,660  156,114  145,899  151,710  178,205 156,360                        z
Surplus (deficit) (1)                  --          6,421    10,728    (56,532) (12,713)  14,273    7,853   39,637   55,568   52,210   25,793  '7,638
Government repayment                                                                         10,000   10,000   35,000   45,000   45,000   45,000  45,000
Net surplus                                                                                  4,273   (2,147)   4,637   10,568    7,210  (19,207)  2,638
Capitalized in.erest on Goverrment
Lo.n                                 1,120      1.976      7,678      10,408   11,232
(1)  Dbficit would be met by government as per Annex 19.






SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT                                                                                       ,_ '
IDA CREDT, DISBURSEMENT
CFAF 000
IDA Financial Year       1972/73 ---              1973/74            ---------  ---1-74/5 --------                     ---------- 1975/76 ----------                     1976/77 --------
4        1         2           3        4         1          2        3          4        1          2        3          4       1         2        3       4
Category I
Imported hydraulic and                 65,800                                 56,370                                  59,030                                                                        181,280
agricultural equipment
vehicles                               14,050                                 3,380                                   2,780                                    90                                    10,300
Category II
Land development works                 41,660   41,660   41,660   41,630    59,910   59,910    59,910   59,1l0    48,850   48,850    48,850   48,110                                                 600,150
Construction                            4,150    4,150    4,150    4,120       3,130    3,130      3,130    3,300      1,300    1,290      1,290    1,400                                             34,540
Category III
Engineering services        18,000    15,000    15,000  16,000    8,000        8,000    8,000      7,500    4,800      4,800    4,800      4,700                                                     114,600
Ca-egory IV
Operating costs                         21        2,410   2.h10    2,410       2,870    2,870      2,870    2.870      3,210    3,210         1      m210  11.7        1.790    1.fl.O    1.780       k1.l0o
18,000   133,150    63,220  64,220   56,160   133,660   73,910    73,410   70,120   119,970   58,150    58,05o0    2,720   1,880    1,790    l,790    1,780             981,980
Category V
Contingencies                           9,700    _        o,o10.000            7,000  _           48,000              17,500    -__        8,000   17,000        -        -               1_  -   -     169,075
18,000   142,850    63,220  74,220   56,160   140,660   73,910   121,410  i7=           137,470   58,150   116,050   69,720   1,880    1,790    1,790    3,           1,1,
US$ eauivalent
MS  f000                     70        558       247      290      220        550      289        475      274        537       227       454       272       7         7         7       16        4,500
Accumulated disbursement
US$  000                     70        628       875   1,165    1,385       1,935    2,224      2,699    2,973      3,510    3,737      4,191    4,463   4,470    4,477    4,484    4,500
Undrawn balance
USS  o000                 4, 430     3,872     3,625   3,335    3,115       2,565    2,276      1,801    1,527        990       763       399       37        30       23        16        -
November 13, 1972



Table 2
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule o" Diabursements
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter              CumuThtive Disbursements at
US$ '000
1972/73
4th June 30, 1972                                       70 2
1973/7à
lst September 30, 1973                                 628
2nd December 31, 1973                                  875
3rd March 31, 1974                                   1,165
Jth June 30, 1974                                    1,385
1974/75
lut September 30, 1974                               1,935
2nd December 31, 1974                                2,224
3rd March 31, 1975                                   2,699
4tb June 30, 1975                                    2,973 i:
1975/76
let September 30, 1975                               3,510
2nd December 31, 1975                                3,737
3rd tarch 31, 1976                                   4,191
hth June 30, 1976                                    4,463`
1976/77
lst September 30, 1976                               4,470
2nd December 31, 1976                                4,h77
3rd March 31, 1977                                   4,484
4th June 30, 1977                                    4,500
It is estimated that the Credit Agreement would be signed in December,
1972 and that the credit would become effective on January 1, 1973.
The closing date is expected to be December, 1977.
October 11, 1972



ANNEX 12
Page 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta (SAED)
Background
SAED (Societe de'Amenagement et d'exploitation des Terres du Delta)
was established as a public corporation in 1965. 1/  Its objective is to
develop agricultural production in the Senegal River Delta region and to
provide extension, water control, land cultivation, credit and marketing
services to farmers.
Several organizations aimed at studying and developing the Delta
region, such as the Mission d'Amnenagement du Fleuve Senegal (MAS) created in
1938 and the Organisation Autonome du Delta (OAD) created in 1960, preceded
the establishment of SAED.
Management
SAED has been created as a public autonomous entity managed by a
Board of Directors including representatives of various ministries: Rural
Development (Chairman), Finance, Planning and Water Development. The general
director is nominated by the Ministry of Rural Developnent and appointed by
the Board.
From 1966 to 1970 the Government appointed SATEC representatives
to nanage SAED. A Senegalese General Manager was appointed in 1970 but SAED
continues to receive strong technical support from SATEC which still provides
7 expatriates to SAED. The General Manager prepares budgets which are sub-
mitted to the Board and the Ministries of Rural Development and Finance for
approval.
Financing
SAED financial autonomy has been considerably restricted by a law
published in 1965 which submits all public corporations to direct control by
the Ministry of Finance through the Centre Comptable which authorizes any
payment or receipt made by or to the General Treasury in Dakar. Day to day
operations are submitted for the approval of a "comptable particulier"
appointed by and responsible to the Ministry of Finance. This tedious control
of day to day operations impairs budgetary control and increases SAED's costs
and administrative expenses. SAED should open and operate an account in a
commercial bank, and finance required for project implementation should be
paid into this account three months in advance. Working capital requirements
1/   Law number 65.001 dated January 20, 1965.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
should be made available in advance and such funds should be under the direct
control of SAED's financial controller.
SAED financing has been until now provided by FAC grants and loans
and Government subsidies to balance operating accounts since farmers are
unable to pay in full for the services supplied to them by SAED. The aver-
age subsidy paid by the Government amounts to $90 million per year.
Accounting
SAED accounts are processed by the Centre Comptable in Dakar, which
are partly computerized and reliable accounts are prepared promptly each month.
However, some additional accounts classification and analysis would be re-
quired to record investment and operating costs separately by sub-projects
and project functions.
SAED also keeps accounts of cooperatives to record credit and
services provided to members.
Recovery of farmers debts is carried out each year after harvesting
and the recovery rate is now about 85% at the end of March. The Fonds Mutuel
de Developpement Rural (FMDA) only intervenes in the case of drought or total
loss of production.
SAED audited balance sheets as at June 30, 1970 and September 30,
1971 are summarized in Table 1.



ANNEX 12
Table 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Audited SAED Balance Sheet
(CFAF Million)
ASSETS               1969/70   1970/71 /1         LIABILITIES       1969/70   1970/71
Fixed Assets
Building            29.2       176.6            Government
M1aterial           13.5        42.3               equity          284.8    461.6
Furniture            5.9         4.2
Provisions                    8.9
48.6      223.1
Inventories          157.3        15.9            Short term debts
Receivable                                           Suppliers        46.3      45.5
Government      390.6    493.9
Cooperatives       197.5       144.6
Government         101.4       250.4            Profit              25.9       -
Other              215.6       363.8
514.5      758.8
Accumulated losses   27.2         12.1
Total                747.6    1,009.9                                747.6  1,000.9
Government subsidy   90.0         90.0
Yearly depreciation
of assets           33.4        25.9
/1   Fiscal year extended from June 30, to September 30 in 1971.






ANNEX 13
Page t
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Outline Terns of Reference for Consultants
A.   Terms of Reference for Consultants
1.        The consulting engineers would work under the general direction of
the project authority SAED. The consultants would accept full responsibility
for the technical adequacy and quality of engineering and other services as
described hereinafter. This responsibility would cover all investigations
and designs, both those already performed and those to be performed.
2.        The scope of the consultants work would include, inter alia:
(a)  Preparing topographic maps, design drawings, and contract
documents for/and clearing, earthwork, land levelling, and
the civil works described in the feasibility study prepared
by SCET as modified by the present IDA appraisal report,
including such additional studies and investigations as
may be required;
(b) Preparing invitations to bid for all work described in
paragraph (a) above, including prequalification of bidders
if necessary; the analysis of resulting bids and the
preparation of recommendations for SAED on the award of
contracts in line with the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits";
(c) Supervising all construction with the exception of houses,
offices, and stores, including the preparation of recom-
mendations for SAED regarding the acceptance of completed
works;
(d) Preparing specifications, bidding documents, and contract
forms for two alternative systems of generating and
supplying electric power to the three Dagana pumping
stations. One system would be that recommended in the
SCET Feasibility Report dated December 1971, which
provides for electric generator installation at each
station. (The elements of that system are described in
Annex 2 of this report.) The other system would be one
with a single central electricity-generating station,
with power carried to the three pumping stations by means
of transmission lïnes. Following receipt of bids, the
consultant would prepare and submit to IDA an economic
and operating analysis of the two systems, which would



ANNEX 13
Page 2
include details of capital, operational, and maintenance
expenses over tlhe life of the project, personnel require-
ments, etc.;
(e)  Preparing with the assistance of SAED, specifications,
bidding documents, and contract forms for all pumps,
hydraulic equipment, electrical equipment, and spare
parts to be purchased under the project; the analysis
of bids and preparation of recommandations concerning
the award of contract in line with the "Guidelines
for Procurement" as above;
(f)  Assisting SAED in the preparation of reports and documents
related to the progress of construction and financing of all
works supervised by the Consultants; and
(g)  Certifying all withdrawal applications for the IDA credit
account for work under their cognizance.
S.   Engineering Work to be Performed by SAED
3.        Engineering work which would be the responsibility of SAED, rather
than of the Consultants, would include the following:
(a)  Preparation of maps, design drawings, and contract
documents for houses, offices, training center, and
stores;
(b)  Technical supervision of the construction of houses,
offices, training center, and stores for which contracts
would be let locally.
4.        Prequalification of bidders, if necessary, bid analyses, and award
of contracts for SAED-supervised work would, insofar as possible, follow
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits",
even if procurement were limited to local competitive bidding.
C.   Time Schedule
5.        The consultant services described above would be completed in about
four years (1972-1975). Design drawings and contract documents for the main
civil works contract should be completed in late 1972 in time to permit com-
mencement of works in early 1973. Early preparation of the specifications
and bidding documents for on-farm works conducted by SAED is also required
since, according to the proposed work schedule, this should start ini 1973.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Evaluation Unit for the Dagana Polder
General
1.        Evaluation of the economic impact of carrying out the Debi and
Lampsar subprojects would be relatively simple and part of SAED's routine
operations. Dagana, however, with its proposed variety of crops and dif-
ferent sizes of farts would pose more difficult evaluation problems.  In view
of the importance of Dagana experience for further schemes in the Delta and
Valley, a special evaluation unit would be established for this polder.
Objectives and Organization
2.        The unit would collect the following data on the situation of families
in villages near Dagana from which project participants would be drawn:
- family composition;
-  farm size;
- crops;
- use of various inputs;
-  revenues from agriculture; and
-  revenues from other sources.
This data would be used by SAED in selecting project participants. Criteria
would be that participants should:
- have a family with at least two active persons;
- be over 25 years of age but not more than 45 years;
- derive their main revenue from agriculture;
- live in the area;
- have a satisfactory agricultural credit rating; and
- be willing to sign a land use and cropping contract with SAED.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
3.        As from the first year of cropping at Dagana data would be collected
on a regular basis from 5% of the rice farmers and 15% of farmers growing
other crops. The basic data collected would be:
-  mandays available;
- mandays required by crops and activities;
- irrigation procedures;
- inputs used;
- yields;
- revenues from agriculture;
- revenues from other sources;
- marketing procedures; and
- disposition of income.
Data so collected would be used by SAED to analyze the progression of farmers'
revenues, to compare revenues from various cropping patterns and farm types, and
to examine farmers' responses to the advice and services provided by SAED.
4.        Statistics collected would be subject to statistical analysis.  Under
FAC's technical assistance programs axperts from SATEC and SCET headquarters
in Paris would provide guidance to SAED in procedures and data collection and
analysis. SATEC would provide computer services for data processing.
COSTS
5.        The costs of the evaluation unit for the four-year project develop-
ment period is estimated at CFAF 14 million, or about US$55,000 equivalent
net of contingencies. The evaluation unit would use office facilities at
the Dagana training center (see Annex 5). Details of the cost estimates
are given in Table 1.



ANNEX 14
Table 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Costs of Dagana Evaluation Unit
(CFAF '0O0)
Year
1       2       3        4     TOTAL
Salaries Evaluation Officers (6)   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   8,000
Motorcycles (6)                        300      50       50      50     450
Operating Costs                        500     500     500      500   2,000
Computer Processing Costs:
- Cultivation Method Analyses        250     250     250      250   1,000
- Yield Analyses                     250     250     250      250   1,000
Material (measuring tapes,
weighing scales,
containers, etc.)                  400      550     600      100   1,650
TOTAL                 3,700   3,600   3,650   3,150  14,100






SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Yields Assuned in Project Calculations
Tons  a,
Cultiv2tion starting in 1976
Cultivation starting in 197Ls              Cultivation startinrz in 1975Y
Year of cultivationi
rear of cultivation                        Year of cultivation
1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982   1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982
Tomatoes               25    27.5  30    32.5  35    35    35    35    26    28.6  31    33.5  35    35    35    35           27    29.5  32    3L.5  35    35    35
Oriions                 8     9    10    10    10    10    10    10        8.5   9.5  10    10    10    10    10    10         9      9.610    lO    10    10    10
Potstoes               10    il    12    13    13    13    13    13    10.5  11.5  13    13    13    13    13    13           il    11.5  13    13    13    13    13
Various  vegetables!/                                                                                                         10    12    15    15    15        3     3
Maizel! and sorghun    2.2   2.5   2.7   2.9   3        3     3.0   3.0   2.4   2.6   2.8   3        3     3      3     3       2.5  22.7   2.9   3      3      3.0   3.0
1heat-/                 2     2.2   2.4   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.1   2.2   2.4   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5    2.2   2.3   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5
Rice                    1.8   2.1   2.4   2.6   2.8   3       3.1   3.2   2      2.2   2.5   2.7   2.9   3        3.1   3.2    2.1   2.3   2.6   2.8   3        3.1   3.2 
Cosrpeas-/              1      1.2   i.4   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.1   1.3   1.4   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5    1.2   1.1   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5
II. DEBI
Rice                    1.5   1.8   2.0   2.2   2.4   2.5   2.6   2.7
III. LASAR
Rice                                                                       1.5   1.8   2       2.2   2.4   2.5   2.5   2.5
1/ Alternative crops
November 21, 1972



SENEGAL
SENGAL RIVFR POLDERS PROJECT
Area Cultivated and Production
1972     1973      1974     1975      1976     1977      1978    1979      1980     1981      1982 etc.
A. AREA CULTIVATEI) (ha)
Rice
Debi                   260      260      1,025    1,025    1,025    1,025    1,025   1,025    1,025    1,025    1,025
Lampsar                880      880               1,078    1,078    1,078    1,078   1,078    1,078    1,078    1,078
Dagana - lst crop      160      160        770    1,330    1,420    1,420    1,420   1,420   I1,420    1,420    1,420
- 2nd crop                                    50      100       200       300     500       700      970    1 100
Total Dagana                        770  1,52    1,520    16           1,720   1,920    2,120    2,390         5
Total rice                               1,795    3,483    3,623    3,723    3,823   4,023    4,223    4,493   -4,623
Other Crops (Dagana)
Tomatoes                                    30       70       146      254       334      334
Onions                                               30        60      120       170     228
Potatoes                                             30        60      120       170      228
Sorghum                481                  84      302    1,040    1,228    1,348   1,336
Effective area                             114      432    1,306    1,722    2,022   2,126    2,126    2,126    2,126
Physical area (Dagana)                     114      394    1,230    1,230    1,230   1,230    1,230    1,230    1i230
Total Cultivated                         1,802    3,915    4,929    5,445    5,845   6,149    6,349    6,619    6,749
Available for various
citrus or other tree crops                                     80       80        80       80       80        80       80
B. PRODUCTION (tons)
Paddy
Debi                   260      260      1,537    1,845    2,050    2,255    2,460   2,565    2,665    2,768    2,768
Lampsar                576      576               1,617    1,940    2,156    2,372   2,587    2,695    2,695    2,695
Dagana             _   240      240      1,098    2,816    3,457    4,148    4,634   5,497    6,243    7,092    71939
.1,076    1,076    2,635    6,278    7,447    8,559    9,466  10,649   11 .03   12,555   13,402
Rice 65%                                 1,713    4,081    4,841    5,563    6,153   6,987    7,603    8,161    8,711
Other Crops
Tomatoes                                   750    1,865    4,092    7,643   10,838  11,553   11,680   11,680   11,680
Onions                                              255       555    1,155    1,700   2,280    2,280    2,280    2,280
Potatoes                                            315       675    1,515    2,210   2,964    2,964    2,964    2,964  
.8orghum                                   185      736    2,702    3,433    4,017   4,oo8    4,008    4,008    4,008         a,
CD>



SENE3AL
SENGSAL RIVg POLDERS PR0JDCT
Growing Cyclez of Project Crops
Power           Duration of             Irrigation
Tractor       2bresher    Man        Sprayer          Growing Cycle         (m3 at field inlet         Irrigaàton
Crops                               M  J  J  A  S  0  N  D  J  F  Y  A           Hours          Hours       days       Hours             n     sery          7% efficiency)               Fe riod
ti ce
iebi and Lagepsar                 S                                                            3           56                         130-150
Dagana - 1st crop                      S             H _                                         2           50                          110-130                 1 ,ùo>u                 iuly-Aug.
2nd crop                                   S                   H         3             2           52                          113-130                 10, 00                  Nov.-Jan,
Other Curope
Tomateoes                                     P                H                9                        190          28             180-200ü                11,500                  Sept.-Mar-!
Onions   early                                       P         H               10                        121           2             120-130                  4,iOO                   Nov. - Jan.
- very early                            P           H                  10                        121           4                                       5,000                  Oct.-Dec.
Potatoes - early                                     P         H               il                        112          10              75-90                    4,300                  %ov.-Jan.
- veer early                        PH                               il                        112          10                                       6,800                  0et. -Dac .
Maize - rainy season                   S            L                           9                         58                         100-120                   8,3001/                July.Oct.
Sorghusm - rainy season              S            H                             9                         58                         100-120                   8, Jl                  Sul-oct.
- dry season                                                           9                         58                                                   6,700         ~1ov.-Yeb.
Wheat                                                             H             6                         61                          110-120                  6,70°                  Nov.-Feb.
Cowpeas a9f                                                                     3                         38                           50-60                   2,000                  Fec.-Xarch
Evapotranispi rat ion
Poie n2aI!               60 24 220 St 180 90 L% 15( 50 160    250                                                          .
S-Sowing
P = Planting
H   Harvesting
I/High consumptive us  dt i g  ai y            uas n  u  t  h ghe  E P.T, and crop growth cycle.






ANNEX 1f
8age 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER PCLDERS PROJECT
Annual Operation and Maintenance Costs of Pumping Stations, and
Irrigation and Drainage Networks
Pumping Costs
1.        Operating costs of the pumping stations which would be constructed
under the project to serve the Debi and Dagana polders have been allocated to
these sub-project areas. In the case of Lampsar 32% of the costs of the
existing Ronq pumping station have been allocated, this being the proportion
of Ronq capacity utilized by the Lampsar polder.
2.        Cost estinates are based on power and pumping hour requirements as
shown at Table 1.  Diesel oil for SAED pumping stations is exempt from taxes.
Maintenance Costs
3.        The consulting engineers arrived at estimates of maintenance cost
by applying percentages to various elements of capital investments; these are
shown in Table 1. This approach appears justified in the light of SAED's
actual experience. In general, contracts provide for the contractor to make
any needed repairs on earth works for at least the first year, therefore,
no maintenance costs are included for the first year after construction of
such works. Major maintenance works for canals, drains, and dikes would
usually be let by SAED to contractors.






ANNEX Ici
'1`1ald  I
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Estimated Annual Pump Operation and Maintenance Costs
Pumping Costs                      Pumping Hours         Total Cost        Cost/ha
CFAF '000         CFAF
Debi                                 250 hours              300             290
Lampsar                              115 hours              954             883
Dagana              Sector A       4,850 hours)
Sector B      5,550 hours)          12,006           2,584
Sector C       3,870 hours)
13,260
Maintenance Costs CFAF '000
% of investment      Debi      Lampsar     Dagana    Total
Pumping Stations and
Power Station
Civil Work                    1%               320                 1,450      1,770
Equipment - Pumps and         5%             1,140                 7,300      8,440
Generators
Irrigation Investment
Earth Works                   2%               490     1,800       5,500      7,790
Civil Works                   1%                -         166        150        316
Gates and Controls            5%                -        -           550        550
Drainage Networks
Earth Works                   2%               /1       /1         2,850      2,850
Civil Works                   1%              71        71           150        150
Roads                         4%                -        -         1,500      1,500
Total                                        1,950      1,966     19,450    23,366
Cost per ha CFAF                             1,900      1,820      7,125
US$                                 7.4        7.0        28.5
/1   Drainage included in irrigation system, canals serve dual purpose



SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Recovery of Costs                                                 CFAF'000
1973      1974       1975        1976     1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      1985
1. DEBI
a)  Farmers' repayment
consolidated fee                        2,562      2,562      5,125   7,688   10,250   10,250   10,250   10,250   10,250   10,250  10,250
b)  Costs
- Investments                  3,000    89,695
- Contingencies                          17,430
- Maintenance                              ,300      1,700       1,700   1,700    1,700    1,700    1,700    1,700    1,700    1,700   1,700
- Management                                700        700         700     700       700      700       700       700       700      700      700
3,000   108,125      2,400       2,400   2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400   2,400
Surplus (deficit)              (3,000) (105,563)       16?       2,725   5,288    7,850    7,850    7,850    7,850    7,850    7,850   7,850
2. LAMSPSAR
a)  Farmers' repayment
consolidated fee                                   2,700      2,700   5,400    8,100   10,800   lo0,8eu   10,800   10,800   10,800  10,800
'a) Costs
- Investments                                      102,026
- Contingencies                                     33,302
- Maintenance                                          954       2,920    2,920   2,920    2,920    2,920    2,920    2,920    2,920   2,920
- Management                                           700         700      700      700      700       700       700       700      700      700
136- 982     3,620       620   3,620    3,620    3,620    3,620    3,620    3,620   3,6Z0
Surplus (deficit)                                     (134,282)       (920)   1,780   4,480    7,180    7,180    7,180    7,180    7,180   7,180
DAGANA
Farmers' repayment                        2,896      9,152      23,794   49,752  64,320   73,800   77,520   80,720   80,720   80,720  80,720
Costs
- lnvestments                352,103   370,619   242,535
- Contingencies               60,407   113,545    75,606
- Maintenance                               750      2,511       6,102    8,369   9,394   10,325   11,000   11,555   12,006   12,006  12,006
9,300     15,000   19,450  !.9,450   19,450   19,450   19,450   19,450   19,450  19,450
- Management                               3,950      3.950       3,950    2.950   3,950    3,950    3,950    3,950    3,950    3 950   3 950                    >
412,510  -488,864   333,902       25,052   31,769  32,794   33,725   34,400   34,955   35,406   35,406  35,406
Surplus (deficit)          (412,510) (485,968) (324,750)    (1,259)  17,983  31,526   40,075   43,120   45,765   45.314   45,314  45,314                    z x
Project surplus (deficit)        (415,510) (591,531) (458,870)         547   25,051  43,856   55,105   58,150   60,795   60,344   60 244  60,344
Recovery Rate        Debi      5 2 ie
Lampsar  301.        Project 1%
Dagania   0.6k



ANNEX 17
Page 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Marketing and Price Policies
ice
1.        Rice marketed in Senegal is channeled through ONCAD which purchases
the domestic rice production and imports additional market requirements,
mainly from S.E. Asia and Brazil.  All prices are fixed by Government.  ONCAD
purchases domestic rice from millers at CFAF.39,500/ton which is equivalent
to a farmgate price of CFAF 21,000/ton of paddy and then sells it to whole-
salers at CFAF 37,000/ton (Dakar). The difference between wholesale and pro-
ducer price (CFAF 2,500/ton) is paid out of the Stabilization Fund, see Table
1.  The retail price is fixed at CFAF 40,000/ton.  The import price is lower
than the domestic price. In 1971/72 the average price of imported low quality
rice (over 50% broken grain) was CFAF 23,500/ton (US$92.00) cif Dakar. 1/
Allowing for handling costs, duties, etc., the cost price to ONCAD of this
imported rice was CFAF 29,000/ton (US$113/ton). The difference of CFAF
8,000/ton between the ONCAD cost and the wholesale price is paid into the
Stabilization Fund.
2.        The Bank's Economic Department forecasts a 1980 rice price of
US$80/ton fob Bangkok, equivalent to US$97.00 (CFAF 24,800/ton) cif Dakar,
at constant 1972 price levels and current exchange rates. The projected
price would be equivalent to a paddy price rounded to CFAE 15,300/ton at
constant 1972 price levels. The economic rate of return analysis is based
on this price with adjustments for the intermediate years (Table 1). Govern-
ment has stated that it intends to maintain the current producer price for
paddy at CFAF 21,000/ton and this price is used in the farm budgets. This
policy implies continuing produce price support by Government.
Tomatoes
3.        By 1980, the project would produce about 11,690 tons of fresh
tomatoes or about 1,650 tons of tomato paste at 28% concentration. Tomato
paste is used in many traditional Senegalese dishes; consumption has increased
from some 7,000 tons in 1963 to about 8,000 tons in 1971 and is expected to
rise to about 10,000 tons by 1980. So far tomato paste has been imported
mainly from Italy (90%) at an average price of CFAF 80 per kg cif Dakar,
Imported tomato paste is purchased by wholesalers at an average price of
CFAF 175 per kg, including CFAF 38/kg for import duties and taxes. In April
1969, Governnent agreed to set up the Societe de Conserves Alimentaires du
Senegal (SOCAS) as a pilot private company for the development of domestic
1/   Corresponds to CFAF 19,100/ton (US$75.000) fob Bangkok.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
production of tomato paste. SOCAS has installed a factory at Ross-Bethio.
Financing plans have been agreed with CCCE to increase the actual output of
2,600 tons of fresh tomatoes in 1971 to 21,000 tons (3,500 tons tomato paste
equivalent) in 1977/78 (9,000 tons at Savoigne and 12,000 tons at Dagana)
or 40% of present tomato paste consumption. SOCAS has agreed with Government
to sell its production at a wholesale price of CFAF 150 per 820-gram can,
and to purchase tomatoes at a producer price of CFAF 7 per kilo. SOCAS
estimates that the wholesale price is competitive with world market price
including duties and taxes. Excluding duties and taxes would still keep the
price competitive (see Table 2). Hence the farmgate price on which it is
based has been used in economic evaluation. On the other hand, the possi-
bility of farmers selling some of their fresh tomato production directly in
local markets at Saint-Louis, Dakar and Nouakchott at prices as high as
CFAF 28/kg, has not been taken into account.
Other Crops
4.        Senegal currently imports a range of vegetables and cereals which
will also be produced by the project. However, project output will only
account for about 25% of import volume as is indicated below (in tons):
Range of 1965-1961        Range of 1965-71
Annual Project Output   Annual Production in         Annual Import
Crops                at Maturity              Senegal                  Volume
Onions                  2,280                  /1                   7,000 -  12,000
Potatoes                2,964                  /1                  10,000 -  12,000
Sorghum /2              4,008            400,000 - 650,000          3,000 -  38,000
Rice                    8,416             60,000 - 160,000        145,000 - 180,000
Tomatoes               11,680                 /1                       48,000 /3
/1   Individual data not available.  Total vegetable output varied from 27,000-
41,000 tons annually.
/2   Part of the sorghum area may be substituted by maize and wheat.
71   Imported as tomato paste. Figure represents fresh tomato equivalent.
Since domestic demand for these products is expected to maintain at least at
present per capita consumption levels there is a ready market for these
products in Senegal. Potatoes and onions from the project area would be
available in January and February, three months before the marketing of
produce from the Cap Vert area - the main Senegal producer - and thus would
not compete with this production. Sorghum produced at Dagana would be used
partly for on-farm consumption (15%) and partly marketed in deficit areas
such as Dakar.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
5.        Individually, project farmers would be unable to market their
production satisfactorily. It is assumed that SAED would assist farmers in
establishing annual market contracts on a group basis with wholesalers as
has already been done successfully in marketing vegetables produced at
Savoigne in 1971. Such agreements would also assure SAED repayment for its
services. Table 3 gives prices for individual crops applied in the farm
budgets and economic analysis.
6.        The economic analysis is based on a cropping pattern involving
rice, tomatoes, onions, potatoes and sorghum. Economic prices for potatoes
and onions are the average 1965-71 import prices with adjustment for trans-
port charges from the project area to Dakar which would be the main market.
Although the project is expected to produce maize and wheat besides sorghum,
the relative share of these crops is difficult to determine at this stage.
The Bank's Economics Department forecasts a 1980 sorghum price of US$56/ton
fob US port, equivalent to US$79.9 (CFAF 20,410) cif Dakar at constant 1972
price levels and current exchange rates. This 1980 sorghum price ij equiv-
alent to a farm gate price of CFAF 19,910. The economic rate of return
analysis is based on this price with adjustments for the intermediate years.






ANNEX My
Table 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Paddy and Rice Prices Per Ton
Imported Rice                     1972--75    1976    1977      1978     1979      1980
A.  Rice
FOB Price Burma (US$)            75         76      77        78       79        80
Freight                          14.5       14.5    14.5      14.5     14.5      14.5
Insurance                         2.5        2.5     2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5
CIF Dakar (US$)                  92         93      94        95       96        97
CIF D*iar (CFAF)              23,500      23,700  24,000   24,200   24,500   24,800
Harbor & Handling charges        750         750     750       750      750       750
Import Commission              2,000       2,000   2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000
Transport to Project Area      1 200        1,200    1 200       1 200     1  00    1 200
27i46O     27,650  295    28,150   28;450   28;750
E.  Paddy Equivalent-65%           17,850     18,000  18,150   18,300   18,500   18,700
Milling Costs    )net of        1,900      1,900   1,900    1,900    1,900    1,900
Transport to mill) taxes       2,450       22150   2 150    2,150    2,150    2 150
Net Vplue                     13,8O0      13,950  14,100             114,450
By-Products                      700         700     700       700      700       700
Economic Farmgate Price       14,600         14,650  14,800   14,950   15,150   15,350
C. Price to CNCAD (CFAF)
Dakar Price                   23,500      23,700  24,000   24,200   24,500   24,800
Import Taxes                   1,000       1,000   1,000    1,000    1,000    1,000
ONCAD Costs and margin         4,6oo       4,600   4 600    4 600    4,600    4 600
Total Cost to ONCAD         29,100      29,300  29,600   29,800   30,100
Stabilization Fund             7,900       7,700   7,400    7,200    6,900    6,600
t4holesale Price            37,000      37,000  37,000   37,000   37,000   37,000
Domestic Price Structure
Per Ton of Paddy              CFAF
Paddy                         21,000
Transport to Mïll  (1)         2,475
Mill Coste          (1)        2 200
Total
Equivalent in Ton of Rice    39.500
ONCAD Purchase Price          39,500
Stabilization Fund Subsicdr    2,500
Wholesale Price               37,000
(1)   Including taxes on Fuel.



ANNEX 1 7
Table 2
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Prices of Imported and Local Tomato Paste
(Per Ton)
Including             Excluding
TOMATO PASTE                            Duties and Taxes      Duties and Taxes
SOCAS     IMPORT      SOCAS      IMPORT
CFAF       CFAF       CFAF        CFAF
Import Price                                        80,000 1
Import Taxes and Duties                             38_000
Cost Price Dakar                    126f,060/3   118 000/2   99,560/3  80,000/2
Gross Margin                         40,440--    57:0002  _40,44C--  57,000/-
Selling Price without Taxes         166,500      175,000    140,000   137,000
Value added tax 13.5%                22,500       23,600
189,000     198,000
Wholesale Cost per 820 g Can              150          160         114        112
The above SOCAS "selling price" is close to the world market price,
even when all taxes and duties are excluded (21% taxes component in SOCAS
costs estimates).
FRFSH TOi'ATOES
The farmgate price of fresh tomatoes is CFAF 7/kg and is considered
to be a good estimate of the economic price on the basis of the above prices.
/1   Net average import price in 1970-71.
72   Including harbor and unloading charges.
/3   Including financial charges.



ANNEX 17
Table 3
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Other Crops
(prices per ton in constant 1972 dollars)
Sorghum        Potatoes    Onions
1971    1980       1971-80     1971-80
Prices Used in Calculating Economic
Rates of Return
Fob US$                                   56.9    56.0
Freight, Insurance US$                  23.8    23.9
Cif US$ (Dakar)                           80.7    79.9
Cif CFAF                                20,540   20,410
Handling charges                         700       700
Economic value warehouse Dakar          21,340   21,110      19,450       28,150
Transport and handling charges
from project area to Dakar             1,200    1,200       1,950        3,150
Economic farm gate price                20,140   19,910/    17,500        25,000
Actual Farm Gate Price 1972               18,000                20,000      20,000
/1   Used in economic rates of return analysis.
/2   In economnc calculation, retain in 1974:  20,040
1975:  20,020
1976:  20,000
1977:  19,980
1978:  19,960
1979:  19,940
1980:  19,910






ANNEX 18
Table T
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PRO7ECT AND PER FARN                                                  Page 1
BENEFITS AND COSTS PER HECTARE AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
r                     !   DEBI/LAMPSAR                                                       DAA
%Unitr    Costa             Rice                    Rice              Sorghum            Tomatoes              Onions                Potatoes        !
[   jper                          -_                                                                                                  ,
.unit        Unit        Value      Unit      Value    Unit      Value       Unit     Value ..       it| Value           U-tc     Value
yield prr ha i  tons                CFAF                    2.7                  3.2                 3                     35                   10                 i  13
unlt pri-e psr kilo C8A9                                   21                    21                 18                     7                    20                    20
A. Revenue per ha CFAF                            Lampsar    52,500                67,200             54,000               245,000               200,000                260,000
Debi       56, 700
t  Costs par Hectare CFAF
I  TaPots
S-e.ds
Paddy            kg.      26.5        120         3,200                3,200
To=atoes         kg.      5,500                                                                       0.5       2,750
Sorghua          kg.          80                                                 12       1,000
Oniont           kg.      4,800                                                                                             4        19,200
Poîtute.         kg.         40                                                                                                                  1,500      60,000
Pertili.er.
12.20.20        kg.          26                                                                      1,000      26,000     0.5       13,000        0.5      13,000
Super            kg.          19      100         1,900      100       1,900                                               0.1        1,900        0.2       3,800
SA.              k            17      300         5,100      30        5,100   400        6,800                                                    0.1       1,700
7,000                7,000              6,800                 26,000               14,900                 18,500
Pesticides                                                                                                            30,000                 4,000                14,000
2. Mechanical Services (1)
Plowing         Hour        1,435       0.7        1,000       I  t3    2,205L     3       4,300          3       4,300       3        4,300           3      4,300
Harrovin8       Roue        1,490     7 2/3        4,000       2 1/3    3,200      2       3,000           3      4,500       5         7,500          3      4,500
Ridging         Heur        1,530                                                  3       4,600           3      4,600                                3      4,600
Spraying        Hour          900                                                  1                     28      25,200       4         3,600         10      9,000
Brusheutting   Hour         1,600                                                                          1      1,600
Tranaport       Hour        1,500                                                                                             2         3,000          2      3,000
Threshing         T           240          2         500         2          500
5,500                 5,900            11,900                40,200                18 400                 25,400
5. Consolidated Fee      Ha        10,000                 10,000
16,000                                        16,000            16,000                16,000
30,000                                                                                                      30,000                30,000
4. Amvrti.atio. (2)                                                                                                                                               I
Farmer  Equip.       FarM       25,000                  1,915                    930               2250                                        20
5.000                                                             250                   2025                                        2.50
Tracters & Toola                                        2,225                  3,350             5,650                 9,980                 5,520                 7,620
TOTAL CGT                                              29,840C                36,380            41,600               125,180                92,270    -           155,7701
C, jet Revenue per h-                             Debi        26,860                30,820            12,400                119,820              107,730                104,230
Lspsar    22,660
Lebor day per ha                                            56                    52                58                    190                  121             |      112
Net Revenue per labor day per crop             Debi           480                   593               213                    630                  890             |      930
l                 LtDv8~~~~ac    404       _                         _      __                                                          _
Kc                         (1)  Services repaid by ferniera include a provision of 15% to cover Cinuncil.  charges and SAED overheade.
(2)  Pars equipment provided under credit by BNDS is repaid with 5% interest over S years.



ANEX 18
Table 1
Page 2
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
BENEFITS AND COSTS FER FARM AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
Rice Farm                   Other Crops
.RT  T,&MPSAR  DAGANADAG _A              . I
_______________________  llW.T   Ii    AE    flli  L          'e"re 
1.  Farm size  lst crop             3           3       3.5             3         2
2nd crop             _           _       2.75            2         1.5_
3          3       6.25             5         3.5
2. Nkmber of Farm                  342         372      406            58         456
3. Cropping pattern: Ha cultivated per Farm
Rice                          3           3       6.25
Tomatoes                                                          1      0.5
Onion                                                                       0.5
Potatoes                                                                    0.5
Sorghum                                                           4         2.0
* Net Revenue per Farm      80,580      67,980     192,930      169,420     190,690
9ubsistence Food      21,000       21,000      21,000      21,000      21,000
. Cash Revenue              59,580      46,980     171,930      148,420     169,690
Working Days            168         168        325         422         320
Revenue per working Day      480         404        593         401         595
% consolidated Fee on net    27.1        30.1       34.2         32         26.8
Revenue          _     __                            _     _



SENEGAL
RIVER POLDERS PRDJECT
DEBI POLER
Total Farmers' Revenue and Net Revenue per Family
(CFAF'OOO)
U7       1975     1276     1        1978     1979    1980      1981
No. of Faims                         342
Paddy production in T.             1,537    1,845    2,050    2,555    2,460    2,565    2,665    2,768
A.  Revenues
Paddy at CFAF 21/T            3,2,277   38,745   43,050   47,355   51,660   53,865   55,965   58,128
B.  Costs
aT Înputs:
Seeds                    3,280
Fertilizers              7,175
b)  Land preparation           7,919
c)  Credit repayment           2 030            22
Subtotal             20p404t  20,404   20,404     0,404   20,4o4   20,404   20,704   20,404
Less subsidies
Fertilizers              2,870
Plowing                  2.563
5,433
Net cost                   5,9743           zu,4u '0,4U    Z,U540    74  20,404    ,      2U7,404
Gross revenue             17,306   17,741   22,646   26,951   31,256   33,461   35,561   37,724
d)  Consolidated fee           2,562    2,562    5,125    7,688   10,250   10,250   10,250   10,250
C.  Net Revenue                   14"44   15,179   17>521   19,263   21,006   23,211   25,311   27,479
Net revenue per farm              43.1     44.4     51.2      56.3     61.4    67.9    74.0        80.3
Subsistence food                  21.5                                                                          t @
Cash revenue                      21.6    22.9    29.7    34.8         39.9     46.4     52.5      58.8         F x
Net revenue per working day      257      264      305       336      366      404      441       479
(CFAF)
October 5, 1972






SENEGAL
RIVER POLDEiS PROJECT
LAMPSAR POLDER
Total Farmers' Revenue and net Revenue per Family
(CFAF'oOO)
1975        1976        1977         1978         1979        1980
No. of Farmers                     372
Paddy Production in Tons        1,616        1,940       2,156        2,372       2,587        2,695
A.  Revenues
Paddy at CFAF 21/k         33,957       40,740      45,276       49,812      54,327       56,595
B. Costs
a) Input
Seeds                 3,456
Fertilizers           7,560
b) Land preparation         8,340
c) Credit repayment         2,139
Subtotal           21,495        21,495     21,495       21,495      21,495       21,495
Less subsidies
Fertilizers           3,024
Plowing               2.700
Net cost                15,771       21,495      21,495             21,495       21,495
Gross revenue           18,186       19,245      23,781       28,317      32,832       35,100
d) Consolidated fee         2,700        2,700       5,400        8.100      10,800       10,800
C.  Net Revenue                 15,486      16,545      18,381       20,217       22,032      24,300
D.  Revenue Per Farm                41.6        44.5        49.4         54.3         59.2         65.3
Subsistence food                                                                                               a M
Cash revenue                   20.1         22          27.9         22.8        37.7          43.8           ( x
Revenue per working day CFAF                                                                                       
256         246         305          336          3b6          402
October 6, 1972



SENOGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
DAQANA
Total Farmers Revenue and Revenue per Farm from Rice
(YFAF t000)
1974     1975     1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984
Farms                    174       380      406
Ha cultivated            610     1,380    1,52U     1,620    1,720      1,920     2,120     2,320     2,520
paddy production       1,098     2,816    3,457     4,148     4,634     5,497     6,243     7,092     7,939     8,064     8,064
xe venue
paddy Sales          23,058    59,136   72,597    87,108    97,314   115,437   131,102   148,932   166,719   169,344   169,344
o sts
ai Inputs
-Seeds              1,952     4,416    4,664     5,184    5,504      6,144     6,784     7,424     8,064     8,064     8,064
-Fertilizers        4,270     9,660   10,640    11,340   12,040    13,440    14,840    16,240    17,640    17,640    17,640
O) Land preparation    5,642    12,765   14,060    14,985   15,910    17,760    19,610    21,460    23,310    23,310    23,310
c) credit repayment    1 000     2.18     2335      2,335    2.335      2.335     2,335     2.3       2.335     2.335       335
Total              I2,864    29,026  31,6       33,844    35,789    39,679    43,569    47,459    51,349    51,349    51,3L49
Subsiaie s
- Fertilizers          1,096     1,298      164
- Ploughing            1,522     1,803      228
N4et Costs            IU,245    25,925   31,507    33,844    3,789    39,679   43,569    47,459   51,349    51,349    51,349
3ross Revenues        12,812    33,211   41,090    53,264   61,525    75,758    87,533   101,473   115,370   117,995   117,995
d) Consolidated Fee    2,440     5,520    8,720    12,520    17,160    26,000    33,400    37,120    40,320    40,320    40,320
?et Revenue           10,372    27,691   32,370    40,744    44,365    49,758    54,133    64,353    75,050    77,675    77,675
Net revenue per farm      5Y.6      73.4    79.7    100.,    109.3    122.6    133.3    158.5    1&4.8            191.3    1)1.3
,asn revenue ;,er farn    38.1      51.Y     5b$.      78.8      87.8    101.1    111.8    137.0    163.5    169.8    169.8
Revenue per workirig day  327      386      410       484       496       498       491       535 72              5>2       5)2
,Dctooer 5, 1,i72



OE:rtE2AL RIVER POIMDEES PRJrECT
UA(;ANA I)LODU  -     BDNE P - FARM 31/E 2 lA
Total Farmers' Revenue and Revenue per Farm from Crops other than Rice
~ (CFAF '000)
1975             1976             1977              1978             1979              1)80
140              456               456              456              45(, 4s,6
u ml ivated ha
:)M.i jes                                32              '70148                             228              228               228
30               cO              120               170              228               228
Dsaes                                    30               60              120               170              228               228
Dr":l:                                  188              714              872               924              912               912
t--eozal                       280               912            1,260            1,492             1,596            1,596
-r '-t or. tonu
O5a-toes-                               832            2,154            4,414             7,344            7,882             7,980
225              555            1,155             1,700            2,280             2,280
cEatOes                                315              675             1,515            2,210            2,964             2,964
Sorzhoio                                 451            1,856             2,442            2,772             2,736            2,736
Sub-tooa1                        1,823             5,240            9,526            14,026           15,862            15,960
Revenue
'o's.toes                              5,824           15,078            30,898           51,408           55,174            55,860
Ontuns                                 4,500           11,100            23,100           34,000            45,600           45,6oo
Potatoes                               6,300           13,500            30,300           44,200            59,280           59,280
Sorghum                                8,118           33,408            43,956           49,896            49,248           49,248
Sub-total                       24,742            73,086          128,254           179,504          209,302           209,988
utu îdy on consolidated fee            4,200            9,480
a-oal revenues                   28,942           82,566          128,254           179,504          209,302           2')9,988
Proctuction Costs
!-Io" ts
- Tomatoes                             1,880            4,583             8,695           13,395            13,395           13,395
- Onions                               1,143            2,286             4,572            6,477             8,687            8,687
- Potatoes                             2,775            5,550            11,100           15,725            21,090           21,090
- Sorghum                              1,466            5,569             6,802            7,207             7,114            7,L14
Sub-total                        7,264            17,988           31,169            42,804           50,286            50,286
ilechanical Services
Tomnetoes                              1,605             3,914            7,42t           11,441            11,441           11,441
Onions                                   718            1,435             2,878            4,o66             5,454            5,454
pot6toes                                 991            1,981             3,962            5,613             7,529            7,529
Sor2hum                                3,299           12,530            15,304           16,216            16,006          16,oo6
Sub-total                        6,613            19,860           29,562            37,336           40,430            40,430
Crecit Repayment                         513               513              513              513               513               513
Consolidated fee                       5,600           18,240            25,200           29,840            31,920           31,920
Total costs of production       19,990            53,601           86,444           110,493          123,149           123,149
Xel  reLurn                            8,952           28,965            41,810           69,011            86,153           86,839
Ne' return per farm                       65.9              63.5             91.7             151.3            188.9             190
SslS  return per farm                     42.4              41.0             70.2             149.8            167.4             168.5
(D
Auigust 16, 1972'                                                                                                                         u_n 



S:;.NLGL RIVEF POLDBRhS PhOJVCT
DAGANA POLDER - ZONE A AND C - FMRh SIZE  3 HA
Tote. Farmers' Revonue and Revenue per Farm frori Crops other than Iice
(CFAF '000)
197L           1975            1976           1977            1975           1979            198C
Areas Cultivated               A      C        A     C        A       C       A       C      A       C       A       C       A       C
- Tomatoes                   30             38              38     30      38      68      38      68     38      68      38      68
- Sorghum                     84             11lt           152    174    152    204    152    272    190    340    152    272
Sub-total  Ha           14              152            190    204    190    272    190    340    190    340    100    340
Production Ton.s
- Tornatoes                   750          1,033          1,128  8,810  1,223  2,006  1,318  2,176  1,318  2,346  1,330  2,380
- Sorghum                    185             285            410    435    441    551    456    789    4%6    d16    456    â16
Production sales
- Tomatoes                      5,250          7,231          13,566         22,603          24,458         25,648          25,97C'
- Scrghun                       3,330          5,130          20e340         17,856          22,410          22,896         22,896
Sub-total                 8,580          12,361         33,906          40,459         46,868          48,544          46,866
Production costs
Input s
- Tomatoes                      1,763          2,332           3,995          6,228           6,228           6,228          6,228
- Sorghui                         638            866           2,478          2,705           3,222           3,222          3,222
Mechanical services
- Tomatoes                      1,505          1,909           3,412          5,319           5,319           5,319          5,319
- Sorghum                       1,474          2,000           5,721          6,248           7,441           7,441           7,441
Credit repayment                   44              44            122             122            122             122             122
Consolidated f'ee                 456          2,432           6,304           7,392          8,4_8 8,480                    84bC
Total Production Costs    5,880             9,583          22,032         28,014          30,822          30,510         3C ,S1C
Net revenue                     2,700           2,778         11,874         12,445          16,056          17,734          18,05t
Net revenue per farîm              75.0            76.9          112.0           117.4          15b.9           167.9           17C.3
Cash revenue                       53.5            55.4           90.5            95.9          133.5           146.5           149.1



Annex lb
Table 7
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
FARM LABOR AND TRACTOR REQUIREMENTS PER FARM
Debi and Lampsar Polders
March    April   May   June   July  Aug   Sept  Oct  Nov  Dec  Jan Feb  TOTAL
Mandays per Ha
M.anuring                          1      1
Soging                                                   2
Weedlng                                                        5      15   10   5
Harvesting                                                                            10   5
Threshing             ____ _ _ _ _      _ _ __2
Total Mandays                  1      1              2    5       15   10   5          7ID    2   -
Plowing Hours            2         1              1                                                    4
3 Ha Farm
Mandays                            3       3             6   15       45   30  15    30  21          168
Tractor Hours            6         3              3                                                   12



"dNEu 18.
Table 8
SENEGAL
lEtT-EWAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
FAIM LABOR AND  TRACTOR   REQUIREMENTS PER FARM
Dagana Rice
Man -days            Mar  lpr May  Jun  Juy  jAug  Sept  Oct  Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb           TOTAL
.Rice- 1lst Crop__                                     __               _    _
3.5 ha
Manuring                      3.5
Sowing                                  14
Water Control                           3.5   3.5  3.5  3.5
Weeding                                lo.5   35  24.5
Harvesting           ______                             10.5  
Total Man-days          ?3.5       28.0  3835 *W.0 14.0   63                              175
Second crop-2.7ha
Manuring                                                         3
Sowing                                                               il
Water Control                                                         3    3    3    5
deeding                                                              13   27   16
Harvesting              14  16
Total Man-days      174 *3                           -      3   27   30   19    5         141
Total per farm      11  46.5       28    38.5 28   14      66   27   30   19    5         316
Tractor Requirement (Hours)
lst crop                     7      7   3.5
2nd crop                                                      5-4  2.7                        8.1
Combine  (Hours)               2.7  .7                          3-5  3.5                       12.4



'INNEx id
SENEGAL
SENEIAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
LABOh AND  TRACTOi   RECQUIREMENTS PER FARM
Dagana - Area A and C (3 Ha per Farm)
April  May  June  July  August  Sept  Oct  Nov  Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar             TOTAL
Tona;oes-l ha
:4anuring                                          2
L--ni Preparation                                  4       4
Pl,ntThing                                              15
Irrigation Mainte-
nance                                                     4    4
Pest Cortrol                                                    8    8    8    8    8    4
Hoeing                                                         10    8    5
Harvos tign- 3    30   3
Total Mandays        -            -             6      23   22   16   13    3            3         190
Tractor Hours          2      2            1       2       2                                            9
Sprayens floir:a                                           2    7    7    6    4    ?8
L.ini Prenaration
2o'sing                                                              10
Laflnurlfg                                                           10
Weec iing                                                                 12   24   14
Water Control                                                         4    6    6    6
Harvesting            12                        _______         -                      -   12
Total Mandays      12      -2                                                 30   30   12         il
Sorghum 2nd Season
Land Preparation
Sowing                                    10
Manuring                                  10
Weeding                                           2h      20    6
Water Control                              6       6       6    4
Harvesting          _2_2626 4                                                                   ___-____
Total I4andays             -6                   30     26 3                                        116
Total Manday/Farm       12                  2       36                        1   68 3       49- -    422
Tractor Hours
'Iractor 1st season   6       4     6                                       2                         18
2nd season   2                                              16                                18



SEN X1AL,
1N JA.L lUVF L~FlrLDERZS PROJEUCT
LABOR ANI) 'rUlAttYrUoi   âE4UIRIM*q'I PLOt lAJ
I)agana - Area B (2 Ha Farm)
Apr   May   June   July   Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec  Jan  Feb  Mar  'iOTAL
`-n.ur-ig                                              1
aand Preparation                                       2     2
arn t ing                                                    7.5
Trrigation Mtaintenance                                      2       2
2e3 t  ontrolh                                                              h                      2
Woel.g                                             ~~~~~~~~                       ~~~~~~~~~~~5  4    2.5_
Harvesting                                                                  h     25 15   15   ILS
Total Mandays                                       3    11.5   11       8    6.5   19   19   17    85
Sorghum/0nion-9Ha
Nursery                                                              4      1
Land Preparation                               2.5                         1.5
Flar t ing/Sowing                              2.5                          10
Trrigatiorn and Pcst                           1.7   1.5    1.5    l    1.5   2.5  2.5
:,Çl1 t 1Oi1
.vcekliint'                                            6     5      1.5          8.5    4
,ar'vestillg                                                          6                       2 0    5 
Tota]l Mandays                              6.5   7.5    6.5  12.5   14    il   6.5   20    5    89.5
Sorghum/Potatoes-tHa
Nursery
Land Preparation                               2.5
Planting/Soiwing                               2.b                        12.5
Irrigation and Pest                            1.5   1.5    1.5    1        1
Control
Xeeding                                                6      5     1.5           20    10
~-Larvesting                                                         6                       7.5    5
rotal Mandays                               6.5   7.5    6.5   8.5  13.5   20    1O  7.5    5    85
Sorghum/Sorghum-½Ha
Land Preparation
Sowing                                         2.5                         2.5
.ianuring                                     2.5                         2.5
Je udtng                                              6       5     1.5            3     6  3.5
Maintenance                                    1.5   1.5    1.5   1        1      1.5   1.5 1.5
Harvesting                3                                         6                                3
Total Mandays          3                    6.5   7.5    6.5   8.5   6        4.5   7.5 5        3    58
Total Manday/Farm         3                   19.5  25.5    31.0 40.5  41.5   42    43 51.5   20   317-5
Tractor Hours             6      4     4.5    0.5   1          1          10                 1       1    29
Sprayer  Hours                                                      3.5   3.5    6       5  1             20



SENEGAL RIVER POLIERS PROJECT
Government Cash Flow
(CFAF '000)
1973     1974       1975     1976       1977      1978      1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     198L     Y-5
I. Direct and Indirect Expenditure
A. Direct Pro.1ect Exponclitur~e
a.  ProJect cost                546,523   726,785   609,022    20,819
b)  Farmers' subBidies
-Mechanical ploughing                   4,195     4,503        228
-Rice fertilizers                       4,120     4,168        164
c)  SAED deficit                                                56,532    12,713
d)  IDA credit charges
-Interest                       840     2,983     5,714      7,882     8,632    8,632    8,632    8,632    8,632    8,632    8,589    8,503    3  ~7
-Repayment                                                                                                                     11,510   11,510
Sub-total A            547,363   738,083   623,407    85,625    21,345    8,632    8,632    8,632    8,632    8,632   20,099   20,013 1,27
B.  Indirect Project Exeyenditure
ONCAD subBidies  3/ 7,963                              9,522    11,39h    13,182   14,636   16,519   18,031   19,526   20,876   21,079   21,079   21,'7
TOTAL             547,363   742,046   632,929    97,019    34,527   23,268   25,151   26,663   28,158   29,508   41,178   41,092   _
II   Direct Revenues
IDA contribution                    224,070   344,950   387,150   189,440       5,445
SAED repayment                                                                          10,000   10,000   35,000   45,000   h5,000   45,000   45,000         7>;
SAED surplus                                     6,421    10,728                         4,273   (2,147)   4,637   10,568    7,210  (19,207)   2,67       2
TOTAL             224,070   351,371   397,878   189,440       5,445   14,273    7,853   39,637   55,568   52,210   25,793   07,63 
Surplus (Deficit)                  (323,293) (390,675) (235,051)   92,421   (29,082)  (8,995)  17,298   12,974   27,410   22,702  (15,385)   6.,-              2
III.  Tax Revenues                        132,817   193,941   129,099    25,465    19,861   26,958   30,634   26,958   25,602   25,833   32,802   32,802           .
i/ Difference between th-, price at which ONCAD selle rice to wholesalers, (CFAF  37.000), and purchases it from SAED, (CFAF  39.500).






ANNEX 20)
Page 1
SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
Economie Rate of Return Calculation
1.        Annual costs and returns used in calculating the economic rates of
return are shown in Tables 1, 2, 3, and 4. Economic rate of return calcula-
tions have been made for each sub-projects and for the project overall.
2.        In the calculation of the economic rate of return the following
principle assumptions have been used:
(a)  an economic life for the project of 35 years;
(b)  ain eight-yeQr period in whicli yields would increase
gradtially ziidl reacli thiose forecast at appraisal;
coLusequemitly farms of the last group of project
participants would reach full development in year
12 after project commencement;
(c) a zero opportunity cost for farm family labor, project
farmers are not expected to hire labor, and to the large
majority of project families participation in the project
would mean an intensification of family effort and con-
sequently a greater use of family labor. This additional
use of family labor would entail no additional cost to
the economy since at the time such labor would be
required no alternative employnent opportunities would
exist in which such labor could be employed productively;
(d) an economic cost for labor employed in project construction
equivalent to its cash cost. It is probable that the
economic cost of such labor is lower than its cash cost;
however a shadow rate is difficult to establish and its
impact on the rate of return would be insignificant;
(e) inclusion in project costs of a physical contingency
equivalent to 15% of irrigation works costs;
(f)  treatment of past investments in flood control from which
the Debi and Lampsar sub-projects will benefit as sunk-costs.
This is justified since only incremental production at Debi
and Lampsar is treated as a project benefit;
(g) a shadow rate for foreign exchange of US$1 = CFAF 320 instead
of the official rate of US$1 = CFAF 255.79;



ANNEX 20
Page 2
(h) deduction from benefits of the value of production of
farmers now farming in the sub-project areas and who
would continue to grow crops in the area where the
project is not implemented.
3.        On the basis of the above assumption the economic rates of return
for the project and its component sub-projects would be as follows:
Project          Debi           Lampsar            Dagana
- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- % -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ---__
14              19              17                 14
4.        Sensitivity tests have been carried out to measure the impact of
changes in the assumptions made on project costs and benefits. The results
are summarized below:
Change                                        Project    Debi   Lampsar   Dagana
-------             ____   _________------
(a) Forecast production levels reached
in 12 instead of 8 years                   12         17       15        12
(b) Forecast production levels reached
in 16 instead of 8 years                   10         15       12        10
(c) 10% increase in project investment
and operating (including on-farm) costs 13            16       14         12
(d)  10% decline in project benefits            13         16       14         12
(e) 10% increase in project costs (as in
c.) combined with 10% decline in
project benefits (as in d.)                10         12       il        10
(f)  10% increase in project benefits           17         23       20        17
5.        In addition to the above for the sake of completeness the rates of
return liave been calculated (a) using an annual labor cost per farm family
equivalent to the value of its subsistence consumption, i.e. CFAF 21,000/year
for a family of five persons, and (b) using the current exchange rate of
US$1 = CFAF 256.9 rather than a shadow rate. The results are:
Project   Debi   Lampsar   Dagana
-               %--------- --
(a)  Subsistence labor cost                     13         15       12         13
(b)  Current exchange rate                      12         15       13         12



Sb71CAL RIVER POLDERS 9R02EVT
EC09OIIC bRATE OF R,TORD CALCULATIOt
1973              1974                1975              1976               1977                1978               1979                1980               1981               1982              1!83                 1984 /-2008
D R.-.                           (4,810)            24,963              88,473            186,225            285,749             369,965            427,469            443,550            459,379            476,503           477,076                  477,561
Oebl                                                 21,796             27,080             31,114             35,225              39,712             41,979             44,400             46,375              46,375            46,375                  4G,375
tampear                                                                 18,091             24,284             28,528              32,851             37,392             39,957             39,957              39,957            39,957                   39,Qi7
TeTAL                 (4,810             46,759            133,644            243,623            2b9,502             442,528            506,860             527,907            545,711            563,835           563,408                  563,901
COSTS
DRga.-                          427,935             451,552            371,713            175,14D            183,498             192,818            223,583            211,750            204,689             211,676           228,135                  211,973
D6bi                              4,740             115,564             19,537             19,537             19,759              19,169             17,271             22,941              16,671             21,287            22,280                   22,280
Laupsar                                                                114,720             17,911             17,911              17,915             16,824             21,889             20,379              14,081            14,081                   19,437
TOTAL               432,675              567,116           505,970             212,588            221,168             229,902            257,6'8            256,380            241.739            247,044            264,496                 253,640         b |
S-rplu.  (defleit)               (437,485)           (520,357)          (372,326)            31,035            128,334             2U2,606            249,162            271,527             303,972            316,791           298,912                  310,061
R.te ef Rture:  14%



SENAL RIVER POLDERSP
DAGAUA
1C107083CR44TE OF _RMr7 CA~LCXUIA710
(CFAF 0C0)
8973               1974               1975               1976                1977                1978               1979                1980               1981                1982              L88                  1984
A .  Wi7 th  roIe, r
RLcc                                           14,860              38,430             47,979             58,520               66,"98             79,795             91,931             104,594             118,293           118,752             119,146
3 1eTet-                                         5,250             13,059             286B74              533,01              75,866             80.871             81,760              81,760             81,760             ô1,760              81,760
V9996.b1-                                                          11,997             25,687             55,387               81, 173            0,7 5 lu.877                          108,870             108.870           109,870             108,870
3or9hîa ,         ______                3  708            14,734             _54. 36             6 6    S95                                                                    79  79 3 9   S  79  799 375,02        793 89               39 ,7 5
17'107,  --~~~~~~.      73 919 ~~~~78,7 lm                    156,-346           73,03774                                 0,5                67703'.2                              708.22797990                           709,719
B.   _it86.  Pro1eot               3,848               3,848               7,328              7,366              7,404               7,442               7,480              7,520               7,520              70 7,00                                7320
1-r-mo,al b,tef11î         (3,848)              19,970             70,778            148,980            228,599              295,972            341,975            354.840             367,503            391,202            381,661             382.055
Shado,. prlcl,,g  1,25      (4,810)             24,963             88,473            186,225            285,749              369,965            427,469            443,550             459,379            476,503            477,076             477,569
COSiS (1)
A, With Pro-ect
0,lglneerIn8               55,900               28,525             05,412
202,252             245,820            165,2D2
Col e trc t iOD15, 187                   10, 125             2,3531
5.1-î1.1 e,3eo9eî          89,912               78,528             53,929             21,860l             1 ,393               9.242             22,234              16,500             10,901              20,431            39,783               14,671
7xt aiiîo9 *erlcen    '    ô99i3,722            18,976             32 81I9            41,1552            41,152               33,9828            32,153              20,552             17,651              15,471            12,578               11,478
TFainOeg                    14,440               2,799              2,799              2.799
Ev.ICll-too                 3,565               4.609               4,672              3,057
OF,1d61fl9 0oe..           12,620               24,757             69,634            103,989             125,868             147,269            166,386             171,780            173,061             172,640           172,640              172,640
CootIngenoie.       ~30_357             37_413              26,246             2_693               3_4 15               4.009               4,340              4 448                                  4.bb4             4,664               4_84
C7ntin1en8iiLi    427,935             451,552             373,243            175,670            185,021              194,348            225,113            213,280                                213,204            229,665 
B, Wit1yu  Prolecî              _1,530                                                        1 530              1 530                1,530              1.33               1 530             1.. 53Q.            1.5.30..         __                     3                .
Ioctreae,,tl to-t         427,935             451,552             371,713            174,140             183,438             192,818            223,583             211,750            204,689            211,676            228,135             211,923
S-rpl.. (<d.fi31)                 (432,745)           (426,589)           (283,240)            12,085            102,251              1"7,147            203,886            231,800             254,690            264,827            248,941             265,646
ooono,oîc Rate of Recurn: 7.1.9
(3J  ?orleg, C80004gC rode ore flteFFoad ùy 277% For 2h28g pricing.



SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PRW7ECT
LA4ISAR POLDER
ECON9rIC RATE OF RETUF8 CALCULATION
(CP,P '000)
1975             1976             1977             1978               1979             1980              1981             1982              1983             1984/-O008
1. DeonetEt
A. With Pro3ect            21,572           26,526           29,994            33,527            37,233           396383            39,383           39,383            39.383              39,383
B. Without Projce          7,099            7 09             7 172            7,246              7,319            7,417             7,417             7,417            7,4I7               7,417
Thtraext.1 benofite        T0122 '% 9281                                                         297911            190              3T9W             3T                31199
gh.do, pEiOR  1.25         18,091           24,284           28,528           32,551             37,392           39,957            39,957           39,957            39,957              39,957
Il. Cont- (1)
A. With Pro3ect
Engin erEoR           4.450
Thfr.ntroctUrn       72,172
Coon trac tion        4,891
HlterE-CE             1,176                                               1.091                                                6,298                                                  3,454
Eotnenio.,n ettEco.    6,856           6,856             6,856            5,769             5,769             5,419            3,026             3,026             3,026              3,026
opt.Eting conta      20,942           17,647            17,647           17,647            17,647            22,S62           17,647            17,647           17,647              19,549
Cortîn900Ciea  11.73               548              548               548               549               548              548               59>                                  54..6
TOtAL         121,60            25.051            25,051           25,048            23,964               548,29        27.519            21,221            21,2               56,47
B. Without ProiJ-t          7,140            7 140             7.149            7.140             7174                               7.140             7.140                                7 1
I      -ctetanl .oat  114              D,9             17,913            D,915             16,824            01,698           20,379            14,081           14,01               19,437
Sooplon (deficit)              (96,629)           6,373           10,617           14,936             20,568           18,268            19,578           25,876            25,876              Z5,876
E-oio.c R-te of Returt   17%
(1) Jore6gn ebgoe conte a  t- n1      d by 25%  fot ohado- prîcitg



SENEGAI RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
OEBI POLDER
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN CALCUILATION
1973              1974               1975               1976              1977                1998               1979              1980               1981               1982              1983 /-2008
.  Bnefit.
A.  With PTO3.Ct                              20,503             24,970             28,231            21,554              34,938             36,997            39,020             40,600             40,600               40,600
BL  With..t Pro3ret                             1 1               3,306              3 340              3,374              3,408              3,454              3 500             3,500              3 500                3 500
Increnental llenafts                          17,197             21,664             24,691            28,180              31,530             33,543            35,520             37,100             37,100               37,100
Shado.  Piccng n 1.25                         21,796             27,080             31,114            35,225              39,712             41,979            44,400             46,375             46,375               468375
Il. Cne.t (1)
A.  Wtt Pnuth E
ErgineerînS             2,940               4,410
Infrastructure                             43,700
Eo ntc,,cttnn          I,BOO               7,762
SIacerOal                                  28,519                                                     590                                                    6,270                                 4,616                4,616
E tens n. i ,rn-...                         6,670              5,167              5,167             4,799               4,799              2,301             2,301              2,301              2,301                2,301
Operating cnet.                            19,505             15,936             15,936            15,936              15,936             16,536            15,936             15,936             15,936               15,936
Cnntingennnla                               7,078                514                514               514                 514                514               514                514                514                  514
TOTAL           4,790             117,644             21,617            21,617             21,839              21,249            19,351             25.021             18,751             23,367               24,147             .
B   Without Pcaj.nt                            2,080              2,080              2,080             2,080               2,080              2,080             2,080              2,080              2.080                2,080
In -e,ntal cnet.        4,740             115 564             19.537             19,537            19,759              19,169            17,271             22,941             16,671             21.287               22,287
S.rplI.  (defi.it)                 (4,740)            (94,066)            7,543             11,577             15,466             20,243             24,708            21,459             29,704             25,088               24,088
Ecnnmni BRte. nf Raunru:  lu
(1)  Poreign *=hm4e eDat a.  inored by 251  nr shado. pri.i.g.



SENEGAL
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
SAED ORGANIZATION
_ D.RECTOR GeNIERAL _
O ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~CEK  A.O F R AT 10NS
C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MITN NC C 
OF,.Cr O,,
TRAININO  TRAININO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~AFtCUTUA
{X1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,, {X1                       . II                    {3 0 F                      1,D  AHNR
F                   rXlTFNGAIOS|ELC1ONA
F HCROCIOPERANT  I'IPOCU                                   NS                      T DA     AND           A
-G {OCL R C L: F$3  -[   _ <  Wor,Ilk 68t2tE2FI






; 16     |        1s 140        13'             12-                             le/
30          $SENEGAL
SENEGAL                  a                ~~~~~~~~~~M   A  U  R  I  T  A  N   I  A                                                      LSENEGAL\                                 -;
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROiEM                                                              URITA N IA
E   BASIN   /                                                                                                    -  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F R I C A   é
DRAINAGE BASIN
tlrantic                                                                                                                                                3-0
130~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
1~~~4 O. ,0   40 70  _~1
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
ITW  ~~~~0Ul1l4ll800 01101104 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~os 0~~~~ofr1W4ToKoo0                                                                                                                 4 
i30      c        e AROJECT AREAu_ 1  :
1990    80010
'âp    I                  '                ' -                      /               W               L a                                         -           -OR0CAS
kfo                                      2                                        14             îa        R      LEOa            o                                3                                70t
{-~~~~~~~~ U 1 N; E A    
- - ;4  ^ _, ' 600
,  \ 1300 _ b \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \ ~~~ ` ` ^M  70
4.n  _ts            :                                   0      <      =       1    > i                           :   9         X      e               ;>       !$~~VORY COAS
~~4   D#tGE,BASE7 OUTL*t    .       \ ,Xfn  .                                          \                .vM9 /  -    \       \    -       \SIERA  \ NE           1               7






''4
*1                                            313j0a      Di0oî1~ - 7 7 :  .    Ao.'q- =7 5/.. A
'    tS   |  $     _            3POIU   M    0  1   5  _  _ ,s    _ ,;    =            J   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.   2730 h. - Proièt
.t / L O W  E R       ?6080 -' -' P`td`t                                                          r          arieS
_.- I. /  tOMO /  ;,T,E, RSK ViTH   /                 /   SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT
--"'I /7.~'~ D,.,,1 Er.,JIrI,,,  LOR T GUING  P20JECT
I  t  r Z  I      /      ,KH   "  g t  >                       V  n          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cultivated Areas - SAED
J/   >  /1    gf bRA  ; ge           >      KASSAKSOUTH       ,    ;>         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project Areos
9g, - >:. 51 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tracks on Dikes=
.  y  /  /       _        RowsethB                         \,t çrtv /           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~Pumping Stations     3
2   0 j   SAVOIGN>   &,  S                   4       )           ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dams under Study
d---g / 7 rJ80 h~A lane  r/>) Airports 
P   .    i Ft  gÉ _w       /  ~~~~~~~~~~~108 hlPrôiect  ?                         J                Internotional E oundories _.
: .  I 1  /f°/ ,g-                          <;S X                     j                D-   G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAU   TAN  
.  /  é`++  '                                                                           â_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 E N E G A L 
[" §>2/z+ /t  /          O~~~~~~~~~ 10   20   30                                                               2 A           A 
c                                                   KILOMETERS  l/Xil .l /^ ::r, 






1605
-16030            MAURITANIA               _          ~    ~   ~   _NA                                                    SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT                                                       16'30
/  /                                               \                     >>.                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~DEBI PROJECT
;he booodMeeekowe0 I/ljI 100/I \~ î           -                            GGENERAL PLAN
ZONE 1 0.50. TG 0.8010                      UIEA...-"UIEA         j 
_ 4  E2               t                       [////////2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZONE il 0.80m TO 1.10m
/ t E3 - --- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENLARGED EXISTING WATERWAY j  z
|                          gzaf  E4        ~      N Deperout                                    _  _      CANAL                                _160  ){ NoOeteon tjMAURITANIA
E5  I      ztjtG                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~      ~     ~    ~~~DIKE (EXISTING)  /S.LoN\  
ET WORKS                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIKE (FUTURE)           'SENEGL>                           I
FACILITY                                  \) 
/                                                                                            (3    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~       ~       ~~~~        ~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~PUMPING STATION_       r    *
r E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h, b,.om~i1dns hw ev/ this map du ;,to                                                 - INTERNAT10NAL BOUNDARY                                                         mi+ht
N                                    16°45                             WotidBtmkanltsaffp t t16t45é Wbi d,,k-d  f2                                                                              n gr      O






pSE LcX-         MAURITANIA
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT ,   l 
Dok.,       SENEGAL             -  *1
MALI
DAGANA    PROJECT                                               -»<STATIONc,12t<
GENERAL PLAN    -    -:-    =    ,,,,,,   ",   =A,   \   \  t:  2l 4 7U
---GIN
DIKE
--    IRRIGSATION CANAL
DRAIN
PRINCIPAL ROAD
______SECONDARY ROAD
-:IRRIGATION SECTOR A
IRRIGATION SECTOR B
B                      ~~~~~~~IRRIGATION SECTOR C
DAG N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
c                                                                             lite boucUaries~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M shw  nthms -p do o
It-sid Ai-E  ted esfSss
ef  ,,  ...  '  ",'//"Lw''"a//,X',/">vA S"\ .ç~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f - '''`OKHO






S EON  G A lC\  !o y  Mz MAURITAlIA
SENEGAL    ~~~~~SENEGAL                                                                 t ILouls
SENEGAL RIVER POLDERS PROJECT                                                                                ALIar
LAMPSAR VALLEY WEST
GENERAL PLAN
Dike
Facility
Irrigated Area 0.50m Io 0 .75mrn
(37   Pumping Station .. i"in)
Rtoad
OL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
l         ~~~~~Kilometer                                (\                         /,
-r 1-    o ~ ~~ ~~ -5         11/                                               /
S  Uile                    <v> X    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
e        ;_     .27<                                      MA_M9       l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
/ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Word B.Ilk  nd ;t.lrl:e,,   s






IBRD 10054
{if /5 Lt.t,tS
,X, |N > 2e XJ /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LENE
SEJA                 MASENl EGA L
LAMPSAR VALLEY EAST                                            /           /,fç
t-                                kJEEGENeRAL PLAN                                                                  GO                                         T
SE N EGAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAA
^,  /                                               z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ FACILITY
SEEA  RIVE                           N'DERS PROJEC
LAMPSAR VALLEY EAST ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.A
/ FÉÉÉ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRRIGATEDAREA  .SmTO .S
,<   /                                                             8    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRR IGATED AREA .75m TO 1.1Dm
t>i5   /                                                              §     g  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRRIGATED AREA .80mTO01.15m
X t / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRRIGATED AREA 90OmTO 1.20m
/   /                                                                          _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RRIGATED AFIEA 1.00m- TO 1,25m
I, /
I GI 30                                                                     JULY1972



