CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 350 SE
Project Agreement
(Senegal River Polders Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIETE D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EXPLOITATION
DES TERRES DU DELTA DU FLEUVE SENEGAL
DATED JANUARY 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 350 SE
Project Agreement
(Senegal River Polders Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIETE D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EXPLOITATION
DES TERRES DU DELTA DU FLEUVE SENEGAL
DATED JANUARY 9, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 9, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and SOCIETE
D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EXPLO1TATION DES TERRES DU DELTA DU
FLEUVE SENEGAL (hereinafter called SAED).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Senegal (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million five hundred thousand
dollars ($4,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SAED agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a financing agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and SAED, the proceeds of the Credit provided under the Development
Credit Agreement and additional funds required for the Project and for SAED's
other operations will be made available to SAED on the terms and conditions
therein set forth, and
WHEREAS SAED, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section,
SAED shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development


﻿4
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SAED shall not carry
out or permit to be carried out any construction works for the Lampsar Sub-Project
unless the study presently being carried out by SCET-International will have shown
that the Lampsar Sub-Project will have no adverse effects on the water supply
of the city of St. Louis.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist SAED in carrying out engineering for
the Project, the preparation of tender documents and detailed designs, and in the
supervision of construction under Parts A, B and C of the Project, SAED shall
employ engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SAED shall cause the
consultants employed under subsection (a) to study various possible pre-irrigation
procedures to determine which procedures would result in lowest cost.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SAED shall by a date
not later than May 31, 1973, enter into an agreement satisfactory to the
Association for the carrying out of Part F of the Project with IRAT or other
consultants acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out construction works under Parts A, B and C
of the Project, SAED shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfac.ory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October, 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SAED shall
conclude with each farmer or farmer group allocated land in the Project Area,
an agreement substantially in accordance with a form of agreement acceptable to
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SAED shall
employ during the Project period a suitably qualified training specialist to supervise


﻿5
and tdvise in the operations of the training center to be established under Part
E of the Project.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SAED shall
during the Project period:
(i)         employ persons with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association to serve in the positions of Directeur G&nfral and
Agent Comptable Particulier;
(ii)        employ in the position of deputy to the chief of its Engineering
and Construction Division a Senegalese national with a degree
in irrigation engineering or with at least equivalent qualifications
and enable such person to obtain a broad experience in the
design, construction and operation phases of the Project,
(iii)       employ such additional qualified and experienced staff as may
be required to carry out the Project; and
(iv)        take all necessary steps on its part to ensure that expatriate
technicians in its employ shall be replaced only by personnel
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SAED shall
consult with the Association, annually, regarding the specific research programs
to be undertaken under Part F of the Project during the following year.
Section 2.09. SAED shall cooperate with the Borrower's Ministry of Health
and render such assistance as may be required to enable regular checks to be made
in the Project Area for the presence of the disease bilharzia and of its vector.
Section 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SAED shall
take all steps necessary on its part to establish and thereafter maintain an account
with BNDS, for the purpose of receiving the funds required for the Project.
Section 2.11. SAED shall take all necessary steps to ensure that land
allocations to participating farmers may be reduced, should the original allocations
prove to be beyond the capacities of such farmers to work efficiently.
Section 2.12. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SAED shall
impose and collect from farmers or farmer groups allocated land in the Debi,
Lampsar and Dagana Sub-Project Areas, and from other farmers or farmer groups
Ido


﻿6
allocated land in other improved areas administered by SAED and where water
is supplied under conditions at least as favorable as in the Sub-Project Areas, annual
consolidated fees for each hectare allocated to such farmers or farmer groups.
(b)   SAED shall consult with the Association, annually and in advance,
in establishing annual consolidated fees to be imposed on farmers and farmer groups
in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section.
Section 2.13. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SAED shall
take all steps necessary on its part to eliminate all subsidies for mechanical
cultivation services accorded to participating farmers, after the first year of their
participation.
Section 2.14. SAED shall take all such action as shall be necessary on its
part to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land
as shall be required for the construction and operation of the facilities included
under the Project.
Section 2.15. (a) SAED undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by SAED to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SAED shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.16. (a) SAED shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   SAED: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the


﻿7
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SAED
Section 3.01. SAED shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
qualified and competent staff.
Section 3.02. SAED shall at all times take all such action as shall be necessary
on its part to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers and privileges which
are necessary or useful in its operations.
Section 3.03. SAED shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and repair
its facilities, plant, equipment and machinery in accordance with appropriate
engineering and management practices.
Section 3.04. SAED shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SAED shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of subsection (a),
SAED shall (i) establish and maintain separate accounts in respect of Parts A, B,
C, E and F of the Project, in which expenditures in respect of each such Part
(including management and overhead costs and those on research and training)
shall be recorded separately and in such detail as to identify the purpose and
function of each expenditure; (ii) maintain individual accounts for farmers or farmer
groups receiving credit for farm inputs and land cultivation services; and (iii)
maintain a consolidated fee account, in which shall be recorded the amounts of


﻿8
all consolidated fees received from farmers in the Dagana, Debi, and Lampsar
Sub-Project Areas and other areas managed by SAED.
Section 4.02. SAED shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of SAED and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. SAED shall submit its draft annual operating budgets to the
Association each year sufficiently in advance of their presentation for approval
to SAED's Board of Directors, for the Association's comments to be considered.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and SAED shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and SAED shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of SAED and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and SAED shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement, or the performance by the Borrower
and SAED of their respective obligations under the SAED Financing Agreement.
Section 5.03. SAED shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of SAED and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agre-ment shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of SAED thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms, or
(ii)       a date thirty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify SAED of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension tinder the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
international Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿10
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For SAED:
Socift6 d'Am6nagement et d'Exploitation
des Terres du Delta du Fleuve S6n6gal (SAED)
Bofte Postale 74
Saint Louis
S6n6gal
West Africa
Cable address:
SAED
Saint Louis - S6n6gal
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of SAED may be taken or executed by the Directeur Genral of SAED or such
other person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. SAED shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and \he authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of SAED, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by SAED pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿11
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EXPLOITATION
DES TERRES DU DELTA DU FLEUVE SENEGAL
By /s/ Andr Coulbary
Authorized Representati'e


﻿12.
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
1.    Contracts for earth moving and civil works included under Category 11 of
the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit described in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to the Development Credit Agreement, and for pumping station and hydraulic
equipment, tractors and implements included under Category I of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured by international competition as
described in the Guidelines referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. Contracts
for minor on-farm development works included under Category II, building
construction included under Category I, vehicles included under Category I (other
than tractors), and furniture, office equipment, tools and other small equipment
included under Category IV, may be procured by local or regional competitive
bidding.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works, equipment or materials estimated
to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, SAED shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by SAED to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified and SAED shall make such additions to or
deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, SAED shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, SAED shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the consultants
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said


﻿13
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform SAED
and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and advise SAED
of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule I
to the Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other such contract estimated at less than the equivalent
of $25,000, SAED shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement,
promptly inform SAED and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such
determination and advise SAED of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph 4(c) of Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement.
3.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines referred
to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
4.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
the territories of the Borrower, if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction


﻿14
of the Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the territories of the Borrower of not less than 20%
of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in the territories of the Borrower.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
5.    For goods included in Category I of the Allocation of Credit Proceeds, a
margin of preference shall be granted by adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose
only of comparison with Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called
"Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the goods offered in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
6.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                    Bids to be Compared             Preference
I                    All Preferred Domestic Bids and      None
Non-preferred Domestic Bids.
II             (a)   Lowest evaluate bid under Stage      Add Domestic
1, if Preferred Domestic Bid,        Preference
with all Foreign Bids;               Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)  Lowest evaluated bid under           None
Stage I, if non-preferred
Domestic Bid, with all Foreign
Bids.
III                  If lowest evaluated bid under        None
Stage II is not the lowest
bid under Stage 1, all Foreign
Bids.
7.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the


﻿15
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
8.    For bidding purposes, civil works included under Parts A, B and C of the
Project will be divided into three lots, corresponding to Parts A, B and C of the
Project. The three lots shall be bid concurrently, and prequalified bidders shall
be permitted to bid for one, two, or all three lots (the Package), subject only
to limitations imposed as a result of the prequalification process. Contracts shall
be awarded on the basis of the lower of (i) the lowest evaluated bid for the Package
or (ii) the lowest combination of evaluated bids covering the whole of the works
included in the Package. All contracts will be awarded on a unit price basis.


