Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3528 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Karnataka Watershed Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 26, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3528 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 2001, between INDIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Karnataka (Karnataka) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
the proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) 
available to Karnataka, as set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and 
Karnataka (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
Page  2
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AHVSD" means the Animal Health and Veterinary Services Department of 
Karnataka;
(b)
"Backward Classes" means the population groups specified as "Backward 
Classes" from time to time by the Government of Karnataka;
(c)
"Beneficiary Group" means an informal village or community group 
benefiting directly from the activities financed under the Project, as defined in the 
VWDP (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
"Districts" means the administrative units into which Karnataka (as 
hereinafter defined) is divided;
(e)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
"Entry Point Investment Sub-projects" means the Sub-projects to be 
financed under Part A.3 of the Project;
(h)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan dated June 10, 2001, 
prepared by Karnataka and furnished to the Association, setting out measures to 
mitigate against the Project’s adverse impact on the environment, comprising process 
guidelines for the management of environmental and social aspects under the Project, 
and screening criteria for watershed interventions under Part A.2 of the Project;
(i)
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower and Karnataka 
starting April 1 and ending on March 31; 
(j)
"GS" means the Gram Sabha, a general village body consisting of all 
families residing in a village;
(k)
"Karnataka" means the State of Karnataka, a State of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto;
(l)
"Micro-watershed" means a unit of a Sub-watershed (as hereinafter 
Page  3
defined) covering about 500 hectares;
(m) 
"MOU" means the Memorandum of Understanding to be entered into among each 
MWMG (as hereinafter defined), a selected NGO and the ZP (as hereinafter defined), for 
purposes of outlining the roles and responsibilities of the respective parties thereto 
in the implementation of the activities provided in the MWDP;
(n)
"MWMG" means a micro-watershed management group established or to be 
established under the Karnataka Societies Registration Act of 1960;
(o)
"MWDP" means a micro-watershed development plan;
(p)
"NGOs" means non-governmental organizations established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower, and selected in accordance with criteria set forth in 
the Project Implementation Plan (as hereinafter defined);
(q)
"PRIs" means the Panchayat Raj Institutions established under the 
Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act of 1993, collectively including the ZP (as hereinafter 
defined) at the district level, the Taluk Panchayat at the block level, and the Gram 
Panchayat at the village level;
(r)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
Karnataka of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(s)
"Project Districts" means the districts of Chitradurga, Dharwad, Haveri, 
Kolar and Tumkur in Karnataka, and any successor thereto;
(t)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the implementation plan for the 
Project dated June 10, 2001, including, inter alia, time-bound action plans, 
procedures and criteria for the selection of NGOs, watershed interventions and Entry 
Point Investment Sub-projects, and environmental and social screening criteria, agreed 
upon with the Association;
(u)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement;
(v)
"PMP" means the Pest Management Plan dated June 10, 2001, agreed with the 
Association, and referred to in paragraph 13 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(w)
"PPMU" means the Project Planning and Management Unit to be maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(x)
"Scheduled Castes" means the population groups specified as "Scheduled 
Castes" pursuant to Article 341 of the Constitution of India;
(y)
"Scheduled Tribes" means the population groups specified as "Scheduled 
Tribes" pursuant to Article 342 of the Constitution of India;
(z)
"Sub-watershed" means a unit of about 5,000 hectares identified for 
rehabilitation and development in a Project District, comprising several Micro- 
watersheds;
(aa)
"Tribal (including Vulnerable Groups) Development Plan" means the plan 
furnished to the Association on May 21, 2001, prepared in consultation with the local 
communities to ensure that the Scheduled Tribes and Vulnerable Groups (as hereinafter 
defined) benefit from the activities financed under the Project;
(bb)
"VFC" means the Village Forest Committees established under the Karnataka 
Joint Forest Planning and Management Order of January 1, 1986, as amended on April 12, 
1993 and December 16, 1996;
Page  4
(cc)
"VWDP" means the Village Watershed Development Plan;
(dd)
"Vulnerable Groups" means the Scheduled Castes, landless families, 
backward classes, and persons living below the poverty line, as defined by Karnataka;
(ee)
"WDD" means the Watershed Development Department of Karnataka; and 
(ff)
"ZP" means the Zilla Panchayat.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-nine million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR79,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June and December commencing December 15, 2011 and ending June 15, 2036.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2021 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
Page  5
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the abovementioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Karnataka to perform in accordance with the provisions 
of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Karnataka therein set forth, shall 
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Karnataka to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Karnataka pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association shall participate in the exchange 
of views and review of progress reports on Project implementation with Karnataka, 
pursuant to Section 2.04 (a) and Paragraph 18 (c) of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that:
(a)
Karnataka shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Karnataka will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that, the Project Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by Karnataka, and is legally binding upon 
Karnataka in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower are each designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Page  7
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 110001
India
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
011 301 7511
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Adarsh Kishore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a)
Part A.3 of 
the Project
   1,700,000
80%
(b)
Part A.2 of 
the Project
  61,000,000
76%
Page  8
(2)
Goods including 
materials,
   2,600,000
100% of foreign
equipment and vehicles
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures(ex-
factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)   Training and Studies    3,800,000
100%
(4)   Consultants’ Services
   7,600,000
100%
(5)   Incremental Operating 
     700,000
80% up to FY 2003;
Costs
50% up to FY 2005;
25% thereafter
(6)   Unallocated
   1,600,000
TOTAL
  79,000,000
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs of operation and 
maintenance of additional buildings, equipment, vehicles, office rental and expenses, 
and salaries of additional staff, incurred by Karnataka, for purposes of carrying out 
the Project, after September 1, 2000.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR1,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after September 1, 2000.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $30,000 equivalent; (ii) services for firms under contracts 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (iii) services for individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit 
account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 3.02(b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
Page  9
to Section 3.02(b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.02 
of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower or Karnataka shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this 
Agreement and Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the 
audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the 
basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall 
Page  10
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed 
the equivalent of SDR12,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $12,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  11
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the productive potential of 
selected watersheds and their associated natural resource base, and strengthen 
community and institutional arrangements for natural resource management; and (ii) 
strengthen the capacity of communities in the Project Districts to participate in the 
planning, implementation, social and environmental management, and maintenance of 
assets in local level development programs. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Participatory Watershed Protection and Development
1.
Social Mobilization and Institutional Building
Carrying out of social mobilization and institutional building  activities to 
enable local communities and local government institutions, such as PRIs, to plan and 
implement the Project, through provision of consultant services, training and 
workshops.
2.
Watershed Development Treatment
Carrying out of a program of field operations in the form of watershed 
development treatments in  about 77 Sub-watersheds, distributed in the Project 
Districts, covering a treated area of approximately 300,000 hectares of private arable 
land and 100,000 hectares of non-arable land, and natural drainage lines.
3.
Entry Point Investment Sub-projects
Carrying out of non-watershed treatment related Entry Point Investment 
Sub-projects, covering social, economic and infrastructural activities, as identified 
in the VWDPs, including small rural drinking water schemes, small livestock pond 
desiltation, and restoration of school buildings, veterinary centers, and small rural 
access roads.
Part B:
Farming System Intensification
1.
Participatory Farmer-Driven Research and Extension System
(a)
Carrying out of a competitive farmer driven research program (the 
Research Program) based on research priorities identified in the MWDPs, through 
consultant services.
(b)
Dissemination of technologies and information on watershed management, 
through, inter alia, practical demonstrations during field visits, publication of 
bulletins and brochures, and preparation of video and audio cassettes.
2.
Agriculture and Horticulture
(a)
Carrying out of on-farm demonstrations and adaptive trials on arable 
lands to promote improved farming practices and develop linkages with the Borrower’s 
ongoing production programs. 
(b)
Carrying out technical training and study tours for farmers on improved 
conservation farming practices, and crop and horticulture production and technologies, 
including integrated pest management technologies.
(c)
Carrying out of a study on integrated pest management to: (i) examine 
pesticide usage and associated environmental impacts in Karnataka; and (ii) assess the 
effectiveness of Karnataka’s integrated pest management initiatives.
3.
Livestock
(a)
Carrying out of adaptive research trials and demonstrations for improved 
livestock management.
(b)
Strengthening the capacity of AHVSD extension services and farmers 
through provision of training.
(c)
Strengthening the capacity of para-veterinaries through the provision of 
training and equipment.
Page  12
(d) 
Assisting livestock farmers in carrying out silvi-pastoral treatments and 
managing fodder resources, through consultant services and training.
4. Forestry
Provision of training and study tours for VFCs and staff of Karnataka’s Forestry 
department on propagation technology and biogas maintenance.
Part C:
Income Generating Activities
Provision of support by selected NGOs to Beneficiary Groups in the development 
of skills required for income generation, including: (i) establishment of links with 
the Borrower’s ongoing income generating schemes; and (ii) dissemination of marketing 
and credit information, through consultant services, training, study tours, equipment 
and materials.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of consultant services for: (i) the establishment of a Management 
Information System and a Geographic Information System; and (ii) carrying out social, 
environmental and participatory impact assessments.
2.
Project Management and Coordination
Provision of training, study tours, vehicles, equipment and incremental 
operating costs for WDD staff at state and district level.
* * 
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2006.
