                                                                                                      92841
                                                                                                      March 15, 2007

                                                                 Links:
                                                                 - What is IDA?
                                                                 - Our Work in India
                                                                 - Read Farmers' Testimonies
                                                                 More on India:
                                                                 - Borrowing History
                                                                 - Data & Statistics
                                                                 - Research
                                                                 - Contact Us




Five districts in Karnataka, India, were characterized as drought-prone and dominated by rain-
fed agriculture around a narrow range of two to five crops. Average annual household income for
the one million people who lived in the area was approximately US$222. Groundwater availability
was between three and four months. Common lands were deteriorating through poor
management. Watershed development was largely delivered through a top-down, non-
participatory model, resulting in little social mobilization. Self-help groups were weak and unable
to build financial capital.




- The project’s primary development objectives are to improve the productive potential of selected
watersheds and their associated natural resource base, and strengthen community and
institutional arrangements for natural resource management in five districts in Karnataka, India.
- Project targets include addressing soil and water conservation needs across 432,000 ha of
arable and non-arable lands by introducing new approaches for community-based participatory
planning.
- The project is being implemented in three phases by the Department of Watershed
Development, along with state, district and local non-government organizations working closely
with participating communities.




To date, soil and water conservation works have been completed on over 200,000 ha,
improving average crop yields by about 24 percent and broadening crop diversity.


Highlights:
- Groundwater availability has improved to four to six months. Groundwater yields have
increased by nearly 1,000 liters per hour, giving farmers greater choice of crops and in many
cases, double cropping on arable lands.
- For communities where implementation has been completed, crop yields have increased by 24
percent over the baseline, cropping patterns have shifted to higher valued crops, and milk yields
have been enhanced by 15 to 20 percent.
- Average annual household income has increased by about 66% to approximately US$373. The
increase in average income has contributed to a reduction in migration by about 70 percent.
Young men no longer have to leave the community to find work.
- The project has already achieved its target of establishing 4,300 farmer groups and 6,600 new
self-help groups to sustain participatory watershed management across 7,000 communities in
742 micro-watersheds. New participatory micro-watershed planning approaches have resulted in
highly integrated micro-watershed plans being prepared by communities, who have greater
ownership and commitment.
- Self-help groups, which have flourished with project support; have already mobilized more than
US$4 million in savings to help establish small businesses. The majority of members are
women. More than 60 percent of the self-help groups are now linked to commercial financial
institutions, leveraging additional credit for larger enterprise start-ups. Money-lenders are no
longer a major force in these communities.
- The project has resulted in a new government policy for co-management of common lands in
watersheds that will have long-term impacts on improved natural resource conservation and rural
livelihoods. It has also helped strengthen decentralization.




- Total project cost at time of approval was US$127.6 million, with IDA providing a US$100.5
million grant, the government providing US$14.3 million, and beneficiary cash and in-kind
contributions amounting to US$12.8 million. After the tsunami of December 2004, US$20 million
from the original IDA grant were reallocated to finance an emergency recovery program.
- IDA played a key role in helping the government design a project to test new participatory
approaches for integrated watershed planning and implementation. More meaningful
engagement with communities is based on extensive capacity building, social mobilization and
group formation, and the use of thematic maps for participatory watershed planning. The new
model also draws in non-governmental organizations (NGOs) as active partners.




- The project is being extended another 18 months past the original closing date of March 31,
2007 to allow activities in the final phases to be completed and fully achieve all project
development objectives. The sustainability of the project benefits depends largely on the
enduring strength of local institutions established and continued application by villagers of new
agriculture and natural resource management techniques. Pooled group savings and revolving
funds will support maintenance of natural resource assets on private and common lands, as well
as helping finance new small businesses.
- The Minister of Agriculture has indicated that Karnataka state would welcome further Bank
support to scale up the project to another five districts to entrench innovative participatory
watershed management approaches more widely. The central government Ministry of Agriculture
is adopting features of the project’s innovative monitoring and evaluation system for all
government watershed programs throughout India.




Karnataka Watershed Development Project (2001-07)
Project documents, Farmers' Testimonies
