                                                                                                                   42725


                                                                                                 Series 1, Note No. 3




                   I n d i a : K a r n ata k a Wat e r s h e d
                De v e l o p m e n t " S u j a l a" P r o j e c t

        Innovation in participatory watershed development to

                   improve natural resource productivity and

                                           rural livelihoods

                                                 Grant Milne

The Karnataka Watershed Development Project (KWDP), known locally as "Sujala", was initiated in the
year 2001 and is being implemented in seven districts of Karnataka. The project is scheduled to end on
March 31, 2009. The project covers 516,000 hectares of land spread over 77 sub-watersheds, 1270 villages
benefiting nearly 400,000 households. The project objective is to improve the productive potential of selected
watersheds and their associated natural resource base It is also to strengthen community and institutional
arrangements, promote participatory involvement of primary stakeholders/beneficiaries and offer assistance
to women, landless and other vulnerable groups by supporting investments in income generation activities
to accelerate their entry and expand their participation.

Background                                                Karnataka is               Figure 2. Karnataka districts.
                                                          predominantly an
Karnataka, a state in the south-west of India, has a
                                                          agricultural state
total land area of 191,791 km2 and a population
                                                          with more than
of approximately 53 million, giving a population
                                                          70 percent of the
density of 276 people per km2. The state is enclosed
                                                          major agriculture
by mountain ranges along the much of the western,
                                                          area under rainfed
eastern and southern regions with peaks reaching 1,500
                                                          conditions.
meters above sea level. Annual average precipitation
                                                          Recurrent droughts,
ranges between 500 and 3500 mm. Rainfall is lowest
                                                          soil erosion, erratic
in the eastern regions of the state and increases in the
                                                          rainfall, and
western areas, reaching its maximum over the coastal
                                                          depleting ground
zone. Karnataka is one of the more developed states
                                                          water have impacted
in India; it's Human Development Index (HDI) of
                                                          the potential
0.650 in 2001 ranks 7th in the country and improved
                                                          productivity
by 20 percent over the 1991 figure of 0.541. Despite
                                                          significantly. Rainfed areas are often prone to these
this positive performance, a number of development
                                                          multiple risks; therefore efficient and sustainable use
challenges remain. For example, adult literacy is 66
percent, and poverty is a major problem in rural areas,
and especially in drier northern and southern districts     Karnataka has 13 million hectares of potential

along the eastern border.                                   watershed treatment area.

  2                                                                               Livelihoods Learning Series 1, Note No. 3



of natural resources has become a basic need for rural
economic development. In this context, watershed              A key emphasis of the project is strengthening the

based programs must improve the productivity of natural       capacity of communities in the project districts
resources while also addressing broader socio-economic        for participatory involvement in planning,
development priorities.                                       implementation,            social    and environmental

Watershed development programs have been                      management            and     maintenance     of    assets
operating in India for the past several decades to            emanating from local development programs. It
improve the production potential of dry and semi-             is crucial to have the implementing department
arid regions of the country. Program design has
                                                              operate in more socially inclusive manner,
evolved over time from a purely technical, top-down
solution with little involvement of communities               within the framework of a convergent watershed

and farmers, to a more recent model that promotes             development plan which will be achieved by

greater local participation and encompasses                   implementation through community groups.
traditional soil and water conservation as well as rural
livelihood development.
                                                         community institutions. Self-help groups were weak

Problem Analysis                                         and unable to build financial capital to channel into
                                                         livelihood opportunities.
Prior to the project, the target districts were
characterized as drought-prone and dominated by           Project Structure and Institutions
rain-fed agriculture around a narrow range of 2-5 crops
                                                          The project is addressing the key development
with average yields of between 525 and 988 kg/ha. Soil
                                                          objectives through four components: 1) social
erosion was high and leading to declining productivity.
                                                          mobilization and institution building to help plan
The total population in the project sites was around 1
                                                          and implement participatory watershed treatments;
million people and characterized by high rates of out-
                                                          2) farming system intensification and participatory
migration, especially for younger men seeking work
                                                          research; 3) income generation activities to benefit
in urban centers such as Bangalore. Average annual
                                                          socially vulnerable and landless groups; and 4) capacity
household income was approximately US$222.
                                                          building, and monitoring and evaluation. The project
Groundwater availability from existing tube-wells was
                                                          is being implemented in a phased manner; Phase-
only 3-4 months following monsoon rains. Common
                                                          1 consists of 10 sub-watersheds; Phase-2 covers 20
lands were deteriorating through poor management.
                                                          sub-watersheds; and Phase-3 covers the final 47 sub-
Watershed development was still largely delivered in
                                                          watersheds. The project is now working mainly on
the state through a non-participatory model, resulting
                                                          Phase 3 sub-watershed.
in little social mobilization and development of




Typical pre-project land degradation                      Civil works - increasing soil productivity

  Livelihoods Learning Series 1, Note No. 3                                                                      3




                                           Project Highlights

    The project uses a complex institutional structure to develop critical partnerships between government
    technical specialists, non-government organizations (NGOs), communities, local authorities, and research
    organizations. Some highlights are:

        Involving NGOs at sub-watershed, district and state levels to facilitate the awareness building, capacity
        building, participative project planning, implementation and monitoring.

        Formation of community based organizations like Self-Help Groups, comprising of mostly women
        and landless members; Area Groups (mainly landowning farmers) and an Executive Committee (at
        community level). Area Groups are the basic units of planning in case of land based activities and
        these plans are further consolidated at the Micro watershed levels. Similarly, Self-Help Groups are the
        basic units of planning for income generation activities and these sub-plans are consolidated at micro-
        watershed level.

        Sujala Watershed Sangha (SWS) and 14 member executive committee with registration under the
        Registrar of Societies Act 1960, to combine micro-watershed community representatives at a sub-
        watershed level (10 micro-watershed per sub-watershed).

        Establishment of district level technical teams comprising of government specialists from various
        agencies (Watershed, Agriculture, Minor Irrigation, etc) to promote more holistic micro-watershed
        planning with NGOs and communities.

        Capacity building of partners and stakeholders on technical, social and environmental issues of
        watershed development at all levels through several local universities.

        Involvement of the Panchayat members in the Executive Committee for SWS.

        Antrix Corporation (part of Indian Space Research Organization) providing advanced satellite imagery
        and Geographic Information System services for micro-watershed planning and also leading third-party
        monitoring and evaluation.


Results and Impacts                                          Additional Impacts:

Soil and water conservation works have been                      New participatory micro-watershed planning
completed on over 314,000 ha, improving average                  approaches have resulted in highly integrated
crop yields to between 525 and 1,136 kg/ha, and                  micro-watershed plans being prepared by
broadening crop diversity to 4-9 crops, especially cash          communities, who have greater ownership and
crops. Groundwater availability following monsoon                commitment.
rains has improved to 4-6 months. Average annual
                                                                 Groundwater yields have increased by nearly
household income in project areas has increased from
                                                                 1,000 liters per hour, giving farmers greater choice
US$222 to US$373. The project has already achieved
                                                                 of crops and in many cases, double cropping on
its target of establishing 4,300 farmer groups and
                                                                 arable lands. There are also measurable increases in
6,600 new self-help groups to sustain participatory
                                                                 biomass production on common lands.
watershed management across 7,000 communities in
742 micro-watersheds.                                            For communities where implementation has
                                                                 been completed, crop yields have increased by 24
                                                                 percent over the baseline, cropping patterns have

 4                                                                            Livelihoods Learning Series 1, Note No. 3




Community participation and planning at work            A new entrepreneur - small shop and call box


   shifted to higher valued crops, and milk yields          are linked to commercial financial institution.
   have been enhanced by 15 to 20 percent.                  Money-lenders are no longer a major force in
                                                            these communities.
   Self-Help Groups have flourished with
   project support; taking into account member              The increase in average income has contributed
   savings, project revolving funds, and leveraged          to a reduction in migration by about 70 percent.
   commercial loans, the total potential capital base       Fewer young men feel they no longer have to leave
   in these community groups is almost US$13                the community to find work.
   million that is being used to help establish small
                                                            As a measure of success, the project recently
   businesses, particularly among women and
                                                            achieved national recognition through two
   landless. The majority of members are women.
                                                            prestigious awards. The first was the National
   More than 60 percent of the Self-Help Groups
                                                            Productivity Award given to the case study of

 Livelihoods Learning Series 1, Note No. 3                                                                 5



                                                       farmers increase output from crops, horticulture and
                                                       livestock. The project has made inroads to strengthen
                                                       linkages with local authorities to complement ongoing
                                                       government policy reform around decentralization.
                                                       The project has initiated convergence activities with
                                                       the state government Total Sanitation Campaign to
                                                       construct new toilets in all target communities. The
                                                       project has also linked with the state government
                                                       Yashaswini Scheme to provide low-cost health
                                                       insurance to 4,000 beneficiaries. Steps are underway
                                                       to develop technical links with watershed projects
                                                       in Mexico and Turkey to improve knowledge and
Gopal mitras at work with veterinary services          experience sharing.

    Katnur Micro-watershed of Dharwad ­ with a        Innovations in the Project
    cash value to the community of US$2,600. The
    second was the National Water Award (Bhumijal      The project has played a key role in helping the

    Samvardhan Puraskar), given to Uthanur             government of Karnataka test new participatory

    Panchayat in Mulbagal taluk in Kolar District.     approaches for integrated watershed planning and
                                                       implementation. More meaningful engagement with
The partnership between government, non-               communities is based on extensive capacity building,
government organizations and communities is            social mobilization and group formation, and the use
opening up new opportunities for rural people to       of thematic maps for participatory watershed planning.
enhance the productivity of the natural resource       The new model also draws in non-government
base that underpins their livelihoods. Leading state   organizations as active partners.
research organizations are also key partners to help

   6                                                                       Livelihoods Learning Series 1, Note No. 3




Based on M&E results for livelihood development,        longer-term maintenance, particularly for works
it was evident that around 70 percent of the women      involving masonry, concrete and earth fill. The cards
and landless participating in the Income Generating     are signed off by government technical staff to ensure
Activity component preferred to enhance their           quality standards are sustained.
incomes through livestock and poultry production.
The project partners agreed to introduce village-based  An independent team from Antrix Corporation,

private veterinary service providers, called "Gopal     part of the Indian Space Research Organization

Mitras" to promote effective and low-cost service to    in Bangalore provides ongoing technical, and

people. Field visits and M&E data have confirmed        monitoring and evaluation services to the project.

the important role that Gopal Mitras are now playing    Antrix has developed cutting edge remote sensing,

in many communities. All Gopal Mitras have mobile       geographic information systems, and digital terrain

phones to make it easier for people in more distant     modeling to complement more traditional field

villages to call via a community call box. Earnings     surveys. These tools allow better information to

by the Gopal Mitras appear to be between US$75          be used by communities and government/NGO

and US$375 per month with an average of around          partners in the participatory micro-watershed

US$125.                                                 planning, project implementation and evaluation. In
                                                        fact, the system works so well, that mid-way in the
An innovative approach quality control system for       project measurable progress against the development
civil works such as field bunds and check dams has      objectives could already be demonstrated. Antrix
been implemented with excellent results. The Quality    also carries out short-term studies in response to
Management System is centered around an OK card         management questions based on regular M&E
system where farmers maintain a file card for each      reporting. Examples include:
structure being built on their land. The cards outline
key aspects of design and construction, as well as          Assessment of common property resources
                                                            developed under the project

 Livelihoods Learning Series 1, Note No. 3                                                                7



    Investment patterns and equity in Phase II         Minister of Agriculture, and Deputy Chairman

    Sustainable of common property investments         of the National Planning Commission were in

    through the project                                Bangalore to review the impacts of centrally funded
                                                       land-based rural development and natural resource
    Assessment of land use and land cover
                                                       programs. Based on the success of the Sujala project,
    transformation
                                                       the Government of Karnataka will be replicating the
    Case studies of project impacts and achievement    model in six additional districts financed with US$47
    of development objectives                          million from the Prime Minister's Rehabilitation

    Executive committee assessment and grading         Package for Distressed Districts. The Watershed
                                                       Development Department has also proposed
    Inputs to performance based contracts for NGOs
                                                       that the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
    GIS analysis of common lands across slopes         Development (NABARD) help finance treatment of

    Review of training programs                        an additional 150,000 hectares of state land using
                                                       the Sujala model in districts where the KWDP does
    Evaluation of ground and surface water quality in
                                                       not presently operate. The project has also resulted
    selected sites
                                                       in a new state policy for co-management of common
                                                       lands in watersheds that will have long-term impacts
Future Directions
                                                       for improved natural resource conservation and rural
The KWDP goes beyond having potential for              livelihoods.
replication ­ it is already being replicated. The
                                                       The central government Ministry of Agriculture and
Government of Karnataka Agriculture Minister
                                                       new National Rainfed Area Authority are adopting
announced in the Legislative Assembly in 2007
                                                       features of the project's innovative monitoring and
that it will be expanding the Sujala project (KWDP
                                                       evaluation system for all government watershed
model) to five other arid, rain-fed districts in the
                                                       programs throughout India. Lessons learned from
state. In July, 2007 the Prime Minister of India,

  8                                                                          Livelihoods Learning Series 1, Note No. 3



the project have been adopted into new draft
national watershed guidelines by the government
of India. The approach of blending locally sourced
high technology with traditional field monitoring is
recognized throughout India as a best practice model.
These moves are bringing Sujala and the World Bank
attention at the national level and helping promote
the replication of an integrated approach to watershed
development to other states.




    Total Project Funds: US$127.6 million

    World Bank IDA Credit US$100.5 million

    Beneficiary contributions US$12.8 million

    Government financing US$14.3 million




   Series 1. Note No. 3. December 2007.

   Grant Milne is the Senior Natural Resource Management Specialist, South Asia Sustainable Development of
   the World Bank.

   This document was edited by Shweta S. Banerjee (World Bank).

   "Livelihoods Learning" Note Series is published by the Rural Livelihoods Cluster in the South Asia Sustainable
   Development Department of the World Bank, 1818 H Street NW, Washington DC 20433, USA. For
   additional copies contact livelihoods@listserve.worldbank.org




   The findings, interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this note are entirely those of the author(s)
   and should not be attributed in any manner to the World Bank, to its affiliated organizations or to
   members of its Board of Executive Directors or the countries they represent.

