India: Improving the Lives of Farmers in Arid Lands in Karnataka State                             93502
                                                                                                   May 9, 2012




 Cutting-edge Technology Helps Boost Crop Yields and Farm Incomes


Overview
In seven arid districts of India’s Karnataka state, a project supported by the International
Development Association (IDA) spurred a 25 percent increase in crop yields and reduced soil
erosion. It also contributed to a 40 percent rise in household incomes for small and marginal
farmers, a gain of more than 50 percent for landless farmers, and a jump of almost 80 percent
for larger farms. The lives of people in 400,000 households were improved, helping curb
outward migration by about 70 percent. More than 6,000 women’s self-help groups were
formed to foster sustainable livelihoods.


Challenge                                              MULTIMEDIA
More than 70 percent of Karnataka’s major
agricultural area falls within the semi-arid zone.
These areas are prone to periodic droughts,
severe soil erosion, erratic rainfall, and depleting
groundwater. These factors erode the natural
resource base and significantly hinder
agricultural productivity. Most farmers on these
rainfed lands can grow only one crop a year,
with little opportunity to increase cropping
intensity or diversify into more valuable cash
crops. Average yields for ten of the most
common crops in these regions are between              MORE
two-to-five times less than what they could be.
                                                        Agriculture in India
More efficient and sustainable use of natural
resources, especially of soil, water, and               Water in India
vegetation is a basic need for the economic and
agricultural development of these areas.

                                                                      More Results
Approach
To tackle these challenges, the project, known locally as
‘Sujala’, was initiated in late 2001 as a community-driven,
participatory, and holistic development project to improve the
productive potential of selected watersheds in seven
predominantly rain-fed districts of Karnataka. Cutting-edge
                                                                      6,600
                                                                      self help groups have been
satellite technologies were used to plan and prioritize               established
activities, monitor progress, and assess impacts. Open fields
were brought under tree cover to intercept rainfall, reduce
soil erosion, and bind the top-soil.  Field bunds, contoured
trenches, and check dams were built to prevent monsoon
rain water from carrying away fertile top soil, enabling it to              400,000
percolate into the ground to recharge tanks and wells                       lives have been improved
instead. High-yielding breeds of livestock were introduced
and trees and grasses were cultivated to increase fodder. An
independent team from Antrix Corporation, part of the Indian
                                                                            MORE INFORMATION
Space Research Organization, provided ongoing technical
and monitoring and evaluation services to the project.  The                   Project Documents
project was able to push the frontiers in applying these                      Feature Story
technologies far beyond what was earlier envisioned.
                                                                              Slide Show

                                                                              India Country Site
Results                                                                       End Poverty in South Asia Blog
Between 2001 and 2009, the project achieved its target of                     Connect with us on Facebook
establishing 4,300 farmer groups and 6,600 new self-help
                                                                              Talk to us on Twitter
groups to sustain participatory watershed management
across 7,000 communities in 742 micro-watersheds. Key
impacts included:
      The lives of people in 400,000 households improved. Incomes
      increased by about 40 percent for small and marginal farmers,
      by more than 50 percent for landless farmers, and by close to 80 percent for farmers on larger
      properties. Migration from the region dropped by about 70 percent.
      New participatory micro-watershed planning approaches resulted in highly integrated micro-watershed
      plans being prepared by communities, who assumed greater ownership and commitment to longer-term
      sustainable land management.
      Runoff and soil erosion were reduced up to 21 cubic meters per hectare. The percentage of irrigated
      area increased between 6 percent and 14 percent across project sites.
      Crop yields increased by 25 percent over the baseline, cropping patterns shifted to higher valued crops,
      and milk yields were enhanced by 15 to 20 percent.
      Taking into account member savings, project revolving funds, and leveraged commercial loans, the total
      potential capital base for self-help groups in project community grew to almost US$13 million by 2009
      and continues to be used to help establish small businesses, particularly among women and landless.
      The project was the recipient of several awards, including: National Productivity Awards in 2007 and
      2009; National Water Award 2007; Earth Care Award 2008; and National E-Governance Award 2009;
      International Globe Sustainability Research Award – 2010 (awarded to Antrix Corporation in Stockholm
      for its Sujala work); Geospatial Excellence Award 2010; and the World Bank Internal Evaluation Group
      2011 Good Practice Award for Monitoring and Evaluation.




Voices


     Now that my wells have enough water, I earn three times more
   from my land than I did earlier. Sujala has helped me realize a
   long-held dream.  
                                                    ——M. Basangouder, Farmer



Bank Contribution
IDA provided US$86.0 million and the Government of India US$14.6 million, while another
US$7.4 million came through community contributions.
Partners
The project was implemented by the Karnataka Government’s Watershed Development
Department with several non-governmental organizations. The project partnered with Antrix
Corporation, part of the Indian Space Research Organization, to provide ongoing technical and
monitoring and evaluation services to the project.  
Toward the Future
The model has been replicated in six additional districts of Karnataka through the Prime
Minister’s Rehabilitation Package for Distressed Districts, as well as on a further 150,000
hectares of rainfed lands by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development. The
project has resulted in a new state policy for the co-management of common lands in
watersheds that will have long-term impacts for improved natural resource conservation and
rural livelihoods. Many of the project’s innovative monitoring and evaluation systems have been
adopted by India’s central Ministry of Agriculture and its new National Rainfed Area Authority to
be used in all government watershed programs throughout India. Lessons learned from the
project have been incorporated into India’s new draft national watershed guidelines and its
national Integrated Watershed Management Program.
