Documt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13419
TUNISLA
THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2255-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AUGUST 2, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and tnaY be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of January 1994 )
Currency Unit      =      Tunisian Dinar (TD) = 1,000 Millimes
TD 1               =      US$1.587
US$1               =     TD 0.630
ABBREVIATIONS
ft    =     foot                             m3/s  =      cubic meters per second
lcpd  =     liters per capita per day        Mm3  =       million of cubic meters
m     =     meter                            mm    =      millimeter
s     =     second                           gil    =     gram per liter
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                                US System
Kilometer (km)                         =     0.62 mile (ml)
Hectare (has)                                2.47 acres (a)
Meter (m)                              =     39.37 inches (in)
Cubic meter (m3)                       =     264 US gallons (gal)
Million cubic meters/year (Mm3/year)   =     0.72 million US gallons per day
(mgd)
Liter (1)                              =     0.264 US gallon (gal) Liters
per second (1/s)                       =     22,800 US gallons per day (gd)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AFESD        =     Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
EEC          =     European Economic Community
GTZ                German Agency for Technical Cooperation;
Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IBRD         =     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA          =     International Development Bank
IDB          =     Islamic Development Bank
KfW          =     German Bank for Reconstruction;
Kreditanstalt far Wiederaufbau
NIS          =     National Institute of Statistics
OED          =     Operations Evaluation Department
ONAS         =     National Sewerage Office
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS (continued)
ONTT         =     National Office of Tourism of Tunisia (Office National du Tourisme
Tunisien)
SFD          =     Saudi Fund for Development
SIDA         =     Swedish International Development Agency
SMIC         =     Minimum Wage;
Salaire Minimum Interprofessionnel de Croissance
SONEDE       =     National Water Distribution Company;
Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux
USAID        =     United States Agency for International Development
ONAS' FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operatlons Evaluation                                                    August 2, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Tunisia
Third Urban Sewerage Project (Loan 2255-TUN)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Tunisia - Third Urban Sewerage Project
(Loan 2255-TAN)" prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office, with Part II
contributed by the Borrower.
The project was part of sustained Bank support for the water supply and sewerage sector in
Tunisia. Its physical scope and financial objectives exceeded the capacity of the implementing agency
and, after three one-year extensions, the project was completed after loan closing with the agency's
own funds.
In technical terms, it was highly successful and sustainability of the benefits is assured.
The financial objectives set for the project were unrealistic but, nevertheless, substantial
progress was achieved. Studies to formulate realistic cost recovery policies are being carried out.
The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory, sustainability as likely and institutional
development as substantial.
The quality of the PCR is excellent, with full assessment of the problems and appropriate
conclusions and lessons to be drawn. The project may be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2255-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ........................   i
PART I:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.                          1
Project Identity .........................1........... 
Project Background  .............   1
Project Objectives and Description.                                2
Identification, Preparation, Appraisal of the Project and
Negotiation of the Loans.                                        3
Project Implementation ...............................  4
Project Results.                                                   7
Institutional Strengthening .10
Bank Performance .................................  10
Borrower's Performance .................   11
Project Relationship ................    ................  11
Consultants' Services .................   11
Project Documentation and Data ........................  11
Recommendations .........             ................   12
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF ONAS
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Missions
Status of Legal Covenants
Evaluation of Number of Bidders
Monitoring Indicators
Income Statements
Cash Flow Statements
Balance Sheets
Implementation Schedule
Withdrawals
Loan Disbursements
Current Organizational Chart






TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2255-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Urban Sewerage
Project, for which Loan 2255-Tun in the amount of US$34.0 million was approved on March
29, 1983. The loan was signed on June 16, 1983 and became effective on August 30, 1984.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1992, after three one year extensions. US$33.1
million of the loan was disbursed, with the last disbursement was in May, 1993. US$0.9
million were cancelled.
2.          The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division,
Maghreb and Iran Department, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
3.          Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's last appraisal mission
for the Eighth Water Supply project in December 1993 and was completed in headquarters.
It is based, inter-alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, the
supervision reports, the quarterly progress reports, correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.






TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2255-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.          The project's major objectives were to: (a) rehabilitate, upgrade, and expand
sewerage systems in some thirty secondary centers, including sewage treatment and
promotion of treated effluent reuse for irrigation; and (b) improve the management of the
subsector through the strengthening of the financial, technical and managerial aspects of
ONAS (para. 3.0).
Implementation
2.          The loan was declared effective on August 30, 1984, 16 months after Board
presentation (para 4.5), but works did not start up until the end of 1985. Project
implementation got off to this late start because of delays and revisions of studies, as well as
cumbersome local procurement methods. Implementation remained slow, as the workload
was somewhat above ONAS's capacity, in particular for a complicated project with a vast
geographical distribution (para. 5.2). In addition, the project was subject to quite a few
modifications to suit changing circumstances and conceptions (para. 5.3). Also, ONAS's
liquidity problems were not conducive to speedy implementation. At the time of the final
closing date, after three one-year extensions, 84% of the project was completed. The
remainder has since been completed with financing from ONAS and the Government.
3.          Apart from the delays, the project was implemented efficiently under the
supervision of ONAS. Contractors and consultants performed satisfactorily and ONAS
supervised the staff extremely well (para. 5.4).
4.          The project's institutional component has encountered delays in implementation
similar to those experienced by the works component, but ONAS's access to improved
maintenance equipment, data processing equipment, and office facilities had a catalytic effect
on its overall management efficiency.
Results
5.          The project successfully met its objectives to improve access to sewerage
services in 30 cities and to protect the environment from the discharge of untreated sewage.



- 11 -
However, the result is somewhat tempered by the fact that some industries did not hook up
to the sewerage system because of the existing requirement that they put a pre-treatment
device in place before connecting to the system to avoid disturbing the biological treatment
process of ONAS's treatment plant. New legislation making pretreatment and hookup
compulsory is being drafted and financial support to industries is envisaged (para. 6.0).
6.           The promotion of treated effluent reuse for irrigation is a delicate venture. To
date, only 13% of the effluent is reused. This is because only a limited number of crops
may be irrigated with treated effluent, and surface water for any irrigation purpose is highly
subsidized. The Govemment, ONAS, and the Bank are continuing their efforts to promote
the reuse of treated effluent.
7.           The project's institutional component was also successful, as ONAS has
become the top performer in the Region. On the other hand, the financial expectations at the
time of appraisal were too optimistic. Because of ONAS's expanded activities, particularly
in smaller and less profitable cities, the phasing out of the Government subsidy has not been
possible, notwithstanding substantial tariff increases over the last 10 years (para. 6.9).
Sustainability
8.          This is the third Bank-financed project implemented by ONAS. In the first
project, the Bank assisted in the creation of ONAS, and considerably strengthened in the
second and third projects, ONAS's organization and efficiency. ONAS is now a relatively
well established institution capable of addressing most customary development issues of the
subsector. However, ONAS needs greater autonomy from state interference and sufficient
revenues to finance its operations.
Findings and Lessons learned
9.           The project achieved its goals by providing improved sewerage service to the
inhabitants of thirty mid-sized centers and by strengthening ONAS. However, the project
was appraised too early as demonstrated by multiple design changes (para. 5.3), which
caused major implementation delays (para. 5.1). Appraisal should have been scheduled in
such a way that procurement of goods and services would have been sufficiently advanced at
the time of Board presentation. In addition, the use of standard bid documents would have
helped accelerate implementation. The Bank should have also anticipated ONAS's incapacity
to implement a project comprising 30 subprojects in 30 different sites and insisted on the use
of consultants for project supervision (para. 5.1). The extended delays and insufficient
design at appraisal resulted in a cost overrun of 41% (para.5.2)
10.         The main lesson learned is that it is very difficult to reconcile the requirements
of a financially independent sewerage authority with its role as a State operator for social
projects. These two missions should be kept separate and carried out under different
financing arrangements (para. 13.1). In view of the limited capacity of ONAS's clients to



- 111 -
contribute to the project financially, a larger municipal contribution should have been
envisaged to ease ONAS's financial burden, which was compounded by the need to
implement a large investment program to provide minimum sewage services to industries and
a growing urban population. A more in-depth cost recovery study should have been
undertaken at or before appraisal to assess whether Government subsidies could be phased
out and if so, over how long a transition period (para. 13.1). Another lesson learned is that
implementation could have been accelerated by making use of standard bid documents,
turnkey projects, and outside consultants for project supervision (paras. 13.3-13.5). This
study was only carried out towards the end of the project with German financing.






TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2255-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name                   Third Urban Sewerage Project
Loan No.                       2255-TN
Borrower                       Government of Tunisia
Executing agency               Office National d'Assainissement (ONAS)
Initial Project Cost           US$78,480,000 = TD 49,440,000
Final Project Cost             TD 70,000,000
Loan Amount                    US$34,000,000
Division                       EMENA CPII
Sector                         Water Supply and Sewerage
Subsector                :      Sewerage
Project Background
2.0          Tunisia occupies an area of 160,000 km2 in North Africa. The country had a
population of 8.4 million in 1992, 5.0 million of which were classified as urban. The annual
population growth rate is 1.9%, while that of the urban population is 2.5%. The country is
divided into 23 govemorates and has 260 urban agglomerations. The Bank has contributed
to the organization of the water supply and sewerage sector by assisting Tunisia with the
establishment of two public enterprises; namely the Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de
Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE) in 1968 and the Office National d'Assainissement (ONAS)
in 1974.
2.1         Since then, the Bank has regularly provided assistance for these two
enterprises and for the development of the water supply and sewerage sector. To date, the
Bank has financed seven water supply projects and three sewerage projects in addition to a
tourism infrastructure project including significant water supply and sewerage components.
Total Bank lending to ONAS amounts to US$88.5 million.
2.2         The volume of water distributed by SONEDE in 1992 w,   ' million m3, of
which 118 million m3 was gathered by the sewerage systems managed b:   4AS and 95
million m3 was treated in ONAS's treatment plants; only 13% of the trea   water was used
in agriculture. The objectives of the Eighth Plan (1992-96) are to improN the gathering of



wastewater, strengthen treatment capacity by building new plants, and sell treatment
byproducts, viz. treated water and sludge.
2.3         The recent establishment of the Ministry of the Environment and Physical
Planning in 1991 and the National Environment Agency (ANPE) in 1988 demonstrates the
importance assigned by the national authorities to the environment sector, in which sewerage
occupies a key position.
Project Objectives and Description
3.0         Project objectives. The project aimed to improve the sanitary situation of
some 30 Tunisian towns and strengthen ONAS's capacity by means of:
In the sanitation sphere:
-     Rehabilitation of existing sewerage systems;
-     Appropriate effluent disposal;
-     Development of sewerage systems and promotion of connection to sewer
systems;
-     Appropriate stormwater drainage; and
-     Sewage treatment with a view to reusing it in agriculture and industry.
In the institutional sphere:
Support for the Government's efforts to provide the sewerage subsector with
the necessary technical means and to make it financially independent by means
of:
-     Adoption of a new long-term financial policy that will enable ONAS to
finance at least 13% of its investments;
-     Progressive assumption of responsibility for sewerage in towns of over
10,000 inhabitants; and
-     Improvement of ONAS's operating capacity by purchase of
maintenance and data-processing equipment and the necessary office
accommodations.
3.1         Project description. The project components as determined at the time of
appraisal were as follows:
3.2         Works:
-     Construction of about 110 km of primary sewers and 20 pumping stations plus
other related facilities;
-     Construction of about 300 km of secondary sewers;
-     Construction of about 25 km of stormwater sewers; and



- 3 -
Construction of about 12 sewage treatment plants and expansion of one
existing plant together with the connection of five towns to existing plants.
3.3         Institutional strengthening:
-     Supply of maintenance equipment;
-     Supply of data-processing equipment; and
-     Provision of office accommodations.
3.4         Studies and supervision:
-     Provision of consultancy services for the preparation of the detailed
engineering;
-     PProvision of consultancy services for works supervision;
-     Preparation of feasibility studies for 10 to 15 new centers to be taken over by
ONAS, and for promotion of reuse of treated sewage in agriculture and
industry. This study consists in a critical review of the data available on
agglomerations of over 2,000 inhabitants (in 1975) excluding Tunis and Sfax,
and preparing a feasibility study for 10 to 15 new towns and a market study
for reuse of treated sewage; and
Preparation of studies on computerized data-processing and an information
system.
Identirication, Preparation, and Appraisal of the Project, and Negotiation of the Loans
4.0          After the first and second sewerage projects, which were partially financed by
the Bank and concentrated in Tunis and Sfax, the country's two largest metropolitan areas,
and the tourism infrastructure project, the sewerage authorities wished to extend ONAS's
services in the sector to the small and medium urban centers. To this end, two projects were
identified; the first, which involved 17 such agglomerations, was partly funded by the EEC,
and the second, the Third Sewerage Project, is the subject of this report.
4.1          Project identification was based on a general sewerage study covering all
agglomerations with over 10,000 inhabitants (in 1978), and its appraisal was based on a
specific feasibility study focusing on 30 towns, financed in the context of the second project.
This study was based essentially on the sewerage master plan studies that were available for
the majority of the towns. The Bank assisted ONAS in drafting the terms of reference and in
the followup of this study, which was carried out in the course of 1981/82.
4.2         In the context of the preparation missions, Bank staff visited practically all the
project sites and even made some modifications to the project content (at Menzel Bouzelfa,
Grombalia, Dar Chaabane, Zaghouan, Nefta, and in the suburbs of Sfax). The Bank engaged
a consultant to prepare a socioeconomic report to determine the financial capacity of the
low-income residents of the neighborhoods proposed for extensions of the secondary systems



- 4 -
and to analyze the project's social impact on this segment of the population. At the time of
appraisal, the Bank analyzed ONAS's financial capacity and proposed a tariff policy for
progressively eliminating ONAS's financial dependence on the State for funding its operating
costs and to enable it to generate resources to self-finance a part of its investment. Actions
were also identified for improving ONAS's management and operating system and to help it to
better identify its future needs. The project preparation and appraisal time was used to
complete the contract award formalities for studies for the systems financed under the Second
Project, so that these contracts were signed prior to the signing of the Loan Agreement.
4.3         Negotiations were conducted on February 14-18, 1983, on a loan of US$34
million to the Government with an onlending agreement to ONAS. The two parties agreed to
aim for a steady improvement in ONAS's self-financing capacity throughout the period
covered by the Seventh Plan (1987-91). To this end, the two delegations agreed to include the
following in a supplemental letter: "The Borrower intends to progressively eliminate its
compensatory payments to ONAS in the course of the timeframe of the Sixth Development
Plan (1982-86)." The two delegations also discussed and defined the terms of reference for
the feasibility study and the computerization study and also the planning of project execution
covenants. They further drafted the various other covenants pertaining to the loan.
4.4          Loan and Project Covenants. To enable the Bank to track the progress of the
project and the accomplishment of its objectives, the Project Agreement included certain
requirements to be observed by ONAS. These included, in particular, submission of:
(a) quarterly reports on the progress of the project and the movement of the key indicators;
(b) audits of project accounts and ONAS's financial statements no later than six months after
the close of each fiscal year; and (c) a project completion report no later than six months after
the loan closing date. Furthermore, ONAS agreed not to contract any debt, unless the Bank
explicitly gave its consent, as long as the debt service coverage ratio did not surpass 1.3.
ONAS was also required to generate funds internally equivalent to at least 13% of the annual
average capital expenditure for the current fiscal year and of the following year. To comply
with that covenant, ONAS would update the compensatory payments made to it by the
Borrower, the property area assessment and the sewer tariffs prior to November 30 of each
fiscal year.
4.5         Effectiveness. Loan effectiveness was initially set at October 17, 1983, but
was postponed three times and finally set at August 30, 1984, i.e., more than 10 months
after the initial date. This was mainly due to the long ratification process in the Tunisian
National Assembly where various questions were asked by deputies relative to the changing
from fixed interest rates on former loans to the variable interest rate on this loan.
Project Implementation
5.0         Implementation Schedule and Reasons for Delays. The project was initially
programmed for a six-year period (from end-1983 to mid-1989). At the initial loan closing
date in 1989, project progress stood at only 60%; construction of the treatment plants had not



-5-
yet been started, but system installation, on the other hand, was well ahead and the
construction of the administrative offices initially planned had been completed. To enable
the project's objectives to be accomplished, the Bank granted three extensions of the loan
closing date, which was finally set at December 31, 1992. As of that date the project was
84% complete. ONAS completed the project using local funds.
5.1         The project was got off to a slow start because the first tranche of works were
not begun until the end of 1985 instead of the end of 1983, i.e., a two-year slippage. In
general, there was an average delay in the order of two years with the startup of the line-
laying work. In the case of construction of the treatment stations, the delay was five years.
The feasibility and computerization studies were also started six years and five years,
respectively, behind schedule. Delays were also incurred in the execution of the works, one
to seven months in the case of the line-laying, but longer (about a year) for construction of
the treatment plants.
5.2          There were many reasons for these delays. The geographic distribution of the
project over 30 towns, in some instances with several sites in the same town, complicated
project implementation. The planned workload for the ONAS departments responsible for
implementing the project was considerable compared with the number of staff available.
Several projects were in progress or under study at the same time. The topographic and geo-
technical work for preparation of the studies moved more slowly because the preparation of
plans on a scale of 1:500 for all the streets under which the planned lines were to be laid
(about 425 km) proved to be a time-consuming undertaking despite the work's being spread
among five topographers with whom ONAS had concluded framework contracts. The geo-
technical works were covered by only three framework contracts. Moreover, the contracts
were not exclusively for this project but were also used for other projects which meant that the
topographers and geotechnicians concerned were unable to devote their full attention to
ONAS's needs. The contract award procedure was long and slow-moving; it frequently took
over six months and became even longer when foreign contractors or suppliers became
involved because Central Bank approval then has to be obtained. The opening of bids on
several works and supply packages at the same time resulted in heavy workloads for the
ONAS staff responsible for bid evaluation, particularly since the number of bidders was
generally high. The requirement that the Bank approve each bid dossier individually was also
a constraint that contributed to the delays. The project comprised eight line-laying packages
and three supply packages of the same nature, with Bank approval being required for each
package prior to tender. Toward the end of the project and for certain packages, the Bank
asked for changes in the specifications already used without problems for the first packages.
The adjustment of the specifications to meet the Bank's new requirements was one of the
reasons why these latter packages were started behind schedule. Certain modifications to the
project meant that the pertinent studies had to be recast, which also caused additional delays.
In addition, there were some land problems that were unforeseeable at the time the studies
were made. Since no assessment was available of the different treatment processes used in the
existing plants at the time, the choice of processes for the planned treatment facilities was the
outcome of extensive consultations with the different ONAS departments and a summary



- 6 -
evaluation of the facilities in operation had to be made. Budget constraints were also
responsible for the delays in issuing certain calls for bids while a lack of liquidity on ONAS's
part occasionally hindered the execution of the works, the Bank financing only 35% of civil
works and 56% of local procured goods.
5.3         Modifications Made to the Project. To adapt the project better to the sector's
needs and to the various constraints, certain components were modified, as follows:
Construction of a new treatment plant for the town of Sahline, which receives
part of the sewage from hotels in the tourism zone, instead of connecting this
town to an existing station;
The feasibility study component not only supported a feasibility study
describing the situation of the Tunisian agglomerations with over 2,000
inhabitants and defining their investment needs through the year 2001, but also
updated earlier studies of the master plans for Greater Tunis, Greater Sfax,
Greater Sousse, Greater Gabes, and Greater Bizerte;
-     Strengthening of the operating equipment procurement component;
-     Strengthening of the facilities construction component by, among others,
construction of regional workshops in the towns of Sousse, Nabeul, and Sfax;
-     Minor modification of the system design for the town of Kalaa Sghira owing to
land problems, which necessitated construction of a new pumping station;
-     Addition of a pumping station at Soliman;
-     Modification of the transport system structure at Menzel Bouzelfa;
-     Increase of the total treatment plant throughput by about 21%;
-     Inclusion of facilities for treating oil mill wastewater in certain treatment
plants;
-     Addition of secondary system in the towns of Ksar Hlal, Sfax (Madagascar
district), and Sidi Bouzid;
-     Strengthening of the data-processing equipment procurement component, which
included, in addition to purchase of a data-processing and communications
system with the pertinent software, a certain number of microcomputers,
graphics stations with their software, and also data-processing equipment and
software for the maintenance and stock management departments. These
purchases were necessitated by ONAS's decentralization policy;
Study for a pre-treatment plan for wastewater from an industrial zone in Sfax
(powder mill);
With a view to utilizing the maximum possible proportion of the unspent loan
balance resulting from the sharp devaluation of the dinar, certain
supplementary items, such as the acquisition of additional equipment and
expansion of the system, were included.
5.4         Contractor and Supplier Performance. Local and international contractors and
suppliers performed satisfactorily.



- 7 -
5.5          Procurement. The main bidding procedure used was international competitive
bidding, with calls for bids restricted to domestic suppliers or contractors being of minor
significance. The bidding documents were submitted to the Bank for approval in each case
prior to publication of the call for bids. The calls for bids were commonly not received in
time for them to be published in "Development Business Forum." However, as the annexed
table shows, competition was good with an average of 8.9 bidders per call. It should be
noted that the working drawings for the systems were financed by the Second Sewerage
Project.
Project Results
6.0          Achievement of Project Objectives. The project has clearly improved
sanitation in some 30 towns through the installation of sewerage and stormwater systems and
the construction of treatment plants; this improvement is, nevertheless, deficient in view of
the untreated industrial wastewater that is still being discharged into the environment.
Industrial establishments are only permitted to connect to the sewerage system if their waste
water is unharmful to the biological treatment process in ONAS's treatment plants, which
may require a pretreatment of their effluents. Moreover, whereas tremendous effort has
been put into constructing treatment plants and eliminating pollution caused by domestic
sewage, open dumps of household wastes are found near some of these plants.
6. 1         The project has successfully eliminated the irrigation of garden crops with raw
sewage and has contributed to the reuse of treated sewage by both industry and agriculture;
in a modest first step, about 13% of the treated sewage is now being used in this way.
6.2         In the institutional sphere, ONAS has made an effort to improve its financial
capacity since the introduction of significant tariff increases (12% p.a. on average during the
1983-1992 period). These increases are to be continued at a rate of 15% p.a. through the
end of the Eighth Plan. However, they have been insufficient to ensure that ONAS can
maintain the minimum covenanted self-financing and debt service coverage ratios of 13% and
1.3, respectively.
6.3          The project has made it possible to improve the mechanization of the operating
departments through procurement of maintenance and flushing equipment. The project has
also served to provide ONAS with data-processing equipment and software for its central and
regional offices and for the maintenance and stock management departments, which will
clearly improve the functioning of these departments.
6.4          The project funded a feasibility study for ONAS that will help it to plan its
future investments better.
6.5          Project Cost. Initially estimated at TD 49.44 million, the project cost is now
put at TD 70 million; as of loan closing (December 31, 1992) expenditure stood at TD 58.48
million. The breakdown of this expenditure over the main project components is as follows:



- 8 -
(TD millions)
Components                    Estimate     Actual as    Still to be     Total
of Dec. 31,    effected
1992
Sewage and stormwater             29.79        31.56          0.78        32.34
secondary systems                                                               l
Treatment plants                   8.41        13.37          4.23        17.60
Operating and data                 4.15         5.48          4.73        10.21
processing eqt.                                                                 l
Office accommodation               3.66         5.26          1.32         6.58
Consultants, studies and           3.43         2.80          0.47         3.27
other
Total                             49.44        58.48         11.52        70.00
Project cost overruns were 41.6% over appraisal estimates. The cost of the treatment plants
and office accommodations were practically twice their original estimates, whereas operating
and data-processing equipment cost almost 2.5 times. The items that remained closest to the
estimates were studies (below estimates) and the systems (10%). These increases were due
to a number of factors, including: (a) the longer execution time; (b) the sharp devaluation of
the dinar from TD 0.630 per US$1 at appraisal to TD I at the end of the project; (c) the
modifications introduced in the project, specifically those relating to the strengthening or
design improvement of certain components; and (d) the 21% increase in total treatment plant
capacity. The cost estimating of the treatment plants at appraisal was poor. The cost of the
studies was slightly lower than estimated because ONAS made next to no use of consultants
for supervision of the works.
6.6         Project Financing. The project was financed by the Bank loan of US$34
million, direct State subsidies, a USAID-guaranteed loan of US$24 million, and internally
generated funds, i.e., the beneficiaries and ONAS. The USAID-guaranteed loan was
contracted by the State and transferred to ONAS in the form of a subsidy.
6.7         Disbursement. An amount of US$33,074,739.28 was withdrawn from the
US$34 million Bank loan, representing 97.3% of the proceeds; only US$925,260.72 had to
be canceled. Disbursement was impacted by the slippage in project implementation because
at the initial closing date, only 46% of the loan had been drawn down.



- 9 -
6.8         Physical Completion. All the project components either have been completed
or are underway and nearing completion; some have been modified or strengthened. Of the
435 km of line system and 24,332 connection boxes initially planned, 370 km of system and
22,122 boxes have been installed. All the planned treatment plants have been built and a
new plant has even been added at Sahline-Monastir. The good quality of execution was
noted by the Bank mission of October 1993.
6.9         Financial Performance. ONAS has not attained the financial performance
required and specified in the loan and project agreements and the supplemental letter. The
self-financing rate is even negative at times, i.e., the domestic funds generated do not even
cover the servicing of the debt and the variations in working capital requirements. In recent
years, the debt coverage ratio has been less positive than envisaged and debt service
requirements have outstripped domestic receipts. This has led ONAS to conclude a debt
consolidation agreement with the Tunisian treasury. Similarly, the compensatory payments
that the State makes to ONAS to assist with its operating costs and which, according to the
supplemental letter attached to the Loan Agreement, were to be phased out during the Sixth
Plan, have been maintained and were even increased in 1992 from 40 millimes to 45
millimes per m3 of water. On a number of occasions, the Bank has requested a letter of
intent from the Government specifying a program for eliminating these compensatory funds
and a study for sewerage cost recovery. ONAS and the Bank have prepared terms of
reference for the cost recovery study and a limited list of consulting firms has been drawn up
in mutual agreement. A call for bids has even been issued, but it has not been possible for
this study to be made prior to the loan closing date. The tariff increases have been
insufficient to improve ONAS's financial performance. Increases were put into effect in
November 1984 (_%), December 1986 (14%), in July 1988 (20%), in October 1989
(15%), in October 1990 (15%) and in October 1991 (15%), and as of December 1992,
annual increases of 15% are envisaged for the Eighth Plan. Together these increases have
raised the average tariff from 71 millimes per m3 water in 1983 to 187 millimes per m3 water
in 1992, hence an average increase of 12%.
6.10        Certain actions are still to be carried out, such as introduction of cost
accounting, revaluation of fixed assets, assumption of responsibility for the project towns so
as to be able to bill the beneficiaries, and billing for water drawn from wells used by
industry and tourism. This well water is disposed of in the drainage systems and often flows
into the treatment plants.
6.11        The common fund that ONAS receives from the communes is a proportion
(8%) of this fund's budget; however, ONAS's costs increase with the number of towns taken
over without this being factored into this source of revenue.
6.12        Environmental Impact. The project has had a positive impact on the
environment making it possible to connect about 120,000 persons spread over 30 towns to
the sewer system, provide 13 towns with treatment plants, and connect two others to existing
treatment plants (Sfax suburbs and Beni Khalled).



- 10 -
Institutional Strengthening
7.0         Organization. During project implementation, the law establishing ONAS was
amended to give it an environmental protection role, thus going beyond its initial mandate as
manager of the sewer system. This law also relieved ONAS of its responsibility concerning
stormwater drainage works except on a management contract basis with a community.
ONAS has further modified its organization and increased its decentralization by establishing
regional departments possessing greater autonomy.
7.1         Staff Training. ONAS has continued its staff training programs, with
assistance from GTZ in particular. ONAS engineers' contacts with the consulting firms and
contractors have enabled them to enhance their expertise, especially in the area of sewage
treatment.
7.2          Take-Over Program. At the time of appraisal (1982), 37 agglomerations had
been taken over by ONAS (including six tourism zones), while as of loan closing the figure
was 80 agglomerations, the target set in the appraisal. However, the towns actually taken
over do not match the initial list. Compared with the project list, nine towns have not yet
been taken over, viz. Soliman, Sayada-Lamta-Bouhjar, Menzel Bouzelfa, Beni Khalled,
Menzel Temime, Bekalta, Teboulba, Ksour Essaf, and Mahres. It would be desirable for
ONAS to take these towns over to prevent deterioration of the investments for lack of
maintenance.
Bank Performance
8.0         The Bank played an important role in the definition and preparation of the
project, as five missions (including the appraisal mission) were devoted to this preparation
with visits being organized to practically all the locations. The Bank has since followed up
with one or two supervision missions per year.
8. 1        The Bank helped ONAS in redefining the content of the feasibility studies and
master plans and with the preparation of the relevant terms of reference.
8.2         The Bank demonstrated flexibility in the adaptation of certain project
components.
8.3         The Bank displayed considerable firmness in insisting that ONAS adjust its
tariffs, with the result that ONAS has raised its tariffs by an annual average of 12% and is
committed to increasing them by 15% during the period covered by the Eighth Plan.
8.4         However, the Bank has not succeeded in having a sewerage cost recovery
study made. This study is now being carried out with German financing.



- 11 -
8.5         The Bank's response regarding the various sets of bidding documents
submitted to it for comment by ONAS was generally quick (about two to three weeks); in
certain cases, however, they took three months or longer (including mail delays).
Borrower's Performance
9.0         Despite the implementation problems posed by a project spread over 30 towns
and numerous neighborhoods, in urban locations often of a very restrictive nature and at
times with delicate land-ownership problems, ONAS's performance in carrying out the
project was of high quality. Supervision was performed in the majority of cases by qualified
ONAS personnel.
9.1         However, ONAS should have increased its supervisory and especially its
engineer-level staff so as to make their numbers more consistent with the total workload,
especially for studies and project monitoring. This would have reduced the delays that
occurred in executing the project.
Project Relationship
10.0        Bank-ONAS relations were always good, with effective cooperation and
mutual understanding between the two parties.
10.1        ONAS also maintains good cooperation with the other Tunisian institutions
involved in the project, including the Ministry of Planning and Regional Development, the
recently created Ministry of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment, the
municipalities concerned, and the various system concession-holders, such as, among others,
the Societe Tunisienne d'Electricit6 et de Gaz (STEG), SONEDE, and the telephone services
(PTr).
Consultants' Services
11.0        The consultants retained by ONAS to carry out the various studies performed
satisfactorily as a whole; the quality of their work is considered satisfactory and has not
given rise to any major problems at the execution level.
Project Documentation and Data
12.0        The documentation found in the Bank made it possible to reconstitute the
project's history, but computerized processing of the Forms 590, currently unavailable,
would have been helpful. The completion report provided by ONAS contains a considerable
amount of invaluable data. ONAS regularly submitted audit and quarterly project progress
reports, though often a little behind schedule.



- 12 -
Recommendations
13.         The main recommendations that can be made in light of the experience gained
with this project can be summarized as follows:
13.1        To provide ONAS with a modicum of financial independence, the Bank
imposed a number of requirements with which compliance proved difficult. In point of fact,
while committing ONAS to a major investment program, the Loan Agreement required that
ONAS no longer receive compensatory revenues from the State and that it attain a
self-financing rate of 13%. At the time of appraisal, this problem should have been
approached differently by simply eliminating the compensatory revenues and instituting tariff
increases. The cost-recovery study should have been completed before the project appraisal
rather than during project execution. This study would have generated more appropriate
solutions which could have been adopted in the context of the Loan Agreement. Even
though ONAS is an industrial and commercial enterprise, it is also the State's operator for
social projects. These two missions must be kept separate and be carried out under different
financing arrangements. Instead of seeking to eliminate the compensatory revenues, it would
perhaps have been better to earmark this subsidy for specific projects. Privatization of some
of ONAS's operating activities could also reduce the cost of sewerage. A cost accounting
system will help to better define the tariff policy. A wastewater treatment tariff could also
be proposed.
13.2        In the case of new projects of a similar type, it is recommended that ONAS
and the Bank establish clear specifications at the start for each type of service (e.g.,
line-laying, pipe supply, equipment supply, treatment plant), so that it will not be necessary
systematically to forward sets of identical bidding documents to the Bank and all that would
be required would be submission of particular components or any justified changes for
review.
13.3        A turnkey procedure for treatment plants would be worth trying out for
ONAS, since it could save time.
13.4        To lighten the load on ONAS, it is recommended that consulting firms and
individual consultants be used for supervising works; this is also the best way to help local
consulting firms improve the quality of future studies they are retained to make for ONAS.
13.5        Introduction of flexibility into procurement procedures could accelerate project
execution and lower costs.
13.6        The number of staff assigned to project implementation needs to be aligned
with the total workload to ensure that projects are completed on schedule.
13.7        ONAS's performance is, indeed, improving all the time. However, its lack of
liquidity and cumbersome procurement procedures cause unacceptable delays in replacing



- 13 -
control instruments and spare parts. It is recommended that ONAS make a determined effort
to remedy this lack of maintenance.



- 14 -
Project Identity
Project Name       :     Third Urban Sewerage Project
Loan No.           .     2255-TN
Borrower           .     Government of Tunisia
Executing agency:        Office National d'Assainissement (ONAS)
Estimated Cost:          US$78,480,000      =     TD 49,440,000
Final Cost:                                 =     TD 70,000,000
Loan Amount:                   US$34 million
Loan Conditions:
- Disbursement period         17 years
- Grace period                            4 years (included in disbursement period)
- Interest rate on principal variable   (0.5% above cost of reference loans)
- Commitment fee                    0.75% p.a. (on undisbursed balance)
- Front-end fee                     US$253,102
Other documents accompanying the loan:
- Subsidiary agreement between ONAS and the Tunisian Government
- Project Agreement between the Bank and ONAS
- Supplemental letter
Bank Board approval            March 29, 1983
ONAS Board approval            March 1, 1983
Loan Agreement                 June 16, 1983
Effectiveness                  August 30, 1984
Initial closing date           December 31, 1989
Actual closing date            December 31, 1992
Division:    EMENA CPII
Sector:     Water Supply and Sewerage
Subsector    Sewerage



- 15 -
Evaluation of Numbers of Bidders
Component                No. of           No. of        Average
contracts        contracts     No. of bids
concluded in      concluded       received
context of       following       per call
project       international
competitive
bidding
Studies                       12               10            6.2
Line-laying and civil         18               14            9.0
engineering
Supply of pipe and           11                11            7.5
iron parts
Construction                  4                 4            3.3
equipment                                  _
Dataprocessing                 8                7            7.1
equipment
Operating equipment           19               18            8.7
Treatment plant                                14            5.7
equipment and                 16
pumping stations
TOTAL                        88        78 = 88.6%      Average of
6.8



- 16 -
TUNISIA
THIRD SEWERAGE REPORT
(Loan No. 2255-TUN)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF ONAS



- 17 -
THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2255-TUN)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        The Tunisian Government's different objectives concerning sewerage during
the last five economic and social development plans have focused on:
-     improvement of services provided by this sector;
-     rehabilitation, modernization, and expansion of the existing sewer systems;
-     construction of the treatment and disposal facilities necessary to protect the
environment and reduce the health risks for the population;
-     improvement of (increase in ?) connections to the public sewer system; and
-     promotion of the reuse of treated waste water for agricultural and industrial
purposes to supplement the country's limited water resources.
1.02        The Office National de l'Assainissement, established in August 1974, is the
agency responsible for sector development. Its mandate is to protect the country's water
environment, as well as to manage, operate, maintain, renew, and construct all works
intended for urban sewerage, particularly treatment plants.
1.03        To assist the Tunisian Government to achieve its objectives, IBRD has granted
loans to this sector for the following projects:
Tourism Infrastructure Project (Loan 858-TUN and Credit 329-TUN, signed
on February 28, 1992, US$ --- million), which has supported the
implementation of sewerage works in six tourism areas;
The First Urban Sewerage Project (Loan 1088-TUN, signed on February 18,
1975, US$28 million), which funded the organization of the structures for
setting up ONAS, the upgrading of sewerage installations in the Greater Tunis
region, and the protection of Lake Tunis against the pollution resulting from
overflowing stormwater;
The Second Urban Sewerage Project (Loan 1675-TUN, signed on April 13,
1979, US$26.5 million) which supported the development of sewerage and
drainage systems for Greater Tunis and Sfax and also provided assistance to
ONAS for strengthening its project planning and supervision capability; and



- 18 -
The Third Urban Sewerage Project (Loan 2255-TUN) which is the subject of
this completion report. The relevant appraisal report was produced by IBRD
in March 1983. The amount of the resultant loan was US$34 million.
It should be noted that for the loans granted to help finance the First, Second,
and Third Urban Sewerage projects, the Tunisian Government was the borrower and ONAS
the principal executing agency.
II.   IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD
URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
2.01        Having undertaken projects designed to upgrade the sewer systems of Greater
Tunis and Sfax, ONAS turned to sewerage for small and medium-size towns. To this end, in
1977, ONAS hired a expatriate consulting engineer to make a general study of the sewerage
sector in Tunisia in order to draw up a national action program according to set priority
criteria. This study, which was fully discussed with IBRD, resulted in a first expansion
program covering the sewerage systems in 17 priority towns, for which financing was
provided by the EEC. The second program adopted covered the 11 towns in the Medjerdah
watershed, with financing by KfW. The third program, known as "Third Urban Sewerage
Project," covers 30 interior towns. Financing has been provided by IBRD through Loan
2255-TUN, which is the subject of this completion report.
2.02        The expatriate engineer made a feasibility study for the Third Urban Sewerage
Project in 1982 and the Bank carried out an appraisal in March 1983. The feasibility study
was financed in the context of the Second Urban Sewerage Project, which was partly funded
by IBRD Loan 1675-TUN. At the time of appraisal, only the preliminary studies were
available.
OBIECTIVES OF THE THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
2.03        The main objectives of the project are the following:
Upgrade urban sewerage in 30 interior towns through the rehabilitation of the
existing systems;
Develop sewerage systems where individual facilities create serious health
risks, and encourage the population to hook up to the new systems;
Provide for stormwater drainage;
Treat sewage with a view to reuse in agriculture and industry as part of a
national water resource management policy, and put an end to the practice of
irrigating vegetable crops with untreated sewage;



- 19 -
Support the Government's efforts aimed at providing, over the medium and
long term, the means to make the sector financially independent; and help
ONAS to:
(a)   strengthen its financial position by encouraging adoption of a new
long-term financial policy that will enable it to fund at least 13% of its
investments during the project execution period (1983-89);
(b)   progressively take over responsibility for sewerage, sewage treatment,
and disposal in all urban centers with over 10,000 inhabitants; and
(c)   improve its operating capacity by procuring maintenance and data-
processing equipment and building the necessary aerials facilities.
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
2.04         The project includes:
-     Construction of about 110 km of primary sewers plus some 20 pumping
stations and other associated works;
-     Construction of about 300 km of secondary sewers;
-     Construction of about 25 km of stormwater sewers;
-     Construction of about 12 sewage treatment plants, expansion of one existing
plant and connection of five towns to existing plants;
-     Supply of maintenance and dataprocessing equipment, together with
construction of the necessary office facilities;
-     Provision of the services of consultants tasked with preparing the necessary
plans and supervising the construction work and the execution of the following
studies:
(a)   feasibility studies for 10 to 15 new plants which would be placed under
ONAS control, and with a view to encouraging reuse of treated sewage
for industrial and agricultural purposes; and
(b)   a study on computerized dataprocessing and the information system.
3



- 20 -
COST OF THE PROTECT
2.05        The appraisal report estimated the cost of the project at TD 49.44 million
(US$78.48 million), of which TD 21.42 million would be in foreign exchange (US$34
million), i.e., 43% of the total cost.
FORECAST PROJECT COMPLETION DATE
2.06        The appraisal report set December 31, 1989 as the project completion date.
LOAN NEGOTIATION AND APPROVAL
2.07        IBRD granted a loan of US$34 million to finance the project's foreign
exchange component.
The negotiations were conducted in Washington in February 1983 and the loan
agreement was approved by the Bank on March 29, 1983 and signed on June 16, 1983. The
loan conditions are as follows:
-     Amount                   US$34 million
-     Interest rate             11.43%
-     Front-end fee            US$253,000
-     Amortization period       17 years
-     Grace period             4 years
During the negotiations, the Tunisian delegation requested a grace period of
six years instead of four. This was unacceptable to the Bank because the four-year period
adopted is based an average that was set for Tunisia. The Tunisian delegation rejected the
clause pertaining to the operating subsidy included in the Loan Agreement obliging the
Tunisian State to eliminate, prior to December 31, 1986, the subsidies paid to ONAS to help
finance its operations. It was agreed that the question of subsidies would not be mentioned
in the Loan Agreement followed by a supplemental letter.
III. EXECUTION OF THE PROTECT
Loan effectiveness
3.01        The Loan Agreement became effective on August 30, 1984 following the
signing of the subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Tunisian Government and ONAS,
which took place on July 21, 1984.



- 21 -
Project startup
3.02         The execution project-assisted studies was started in November 1982, i.e.,
before the date of loan effectiveness. The first tenders for line-laying were issued in April
1985 and those for the treatment plants in October 1988.
Amendment of project contents
3.03        The project was appraised on the basis of the feasibility study made in 1982.
During the preparation of the engineering drawings and as execution proceeded, certain
adjustments were made after consulting the Bank. These changes related essentially to the
wastewater treatment and feasibility study components.
The Project Agreement called for connecting the town of Sahline to the
existing treatment plant at Dkhila, but in view of the conclusions of the revised master plan
for the Dkhila tourism area it was agreed with the Bank that a treatment plant would be built
in the town of Sahline.
It was agreed with the Bank that the studies to be made would enable
determination of a future investment program for the period 1992-2011.
The studies in question are:
-     updating of the Greater Tunis sewerage master plan;
-     updating of the Greater Bizerte, Greater Sfax, Greater Gabes and Greater
Sousse master plans; and
-     the feasibility study for sewerage systems in the other Tunisian towns with
over 2,000 inhabitants.
These studies have led to an investment program for Greater Tunis, Sfax,
Sousse and Kairouan that will benefit from a new loan from IBRD. This program is known
as the Fourth Urban Sewerage Project.
Execution schedule
3.04        The schedules for each project component were as follows:



- 22 -
Appraisal Forecasts           Actual
Start    Completion     Start    Completion
Pipe procurement     end 1983    end 1988    end 1985    end 1990
Sewer systems        beg. 1984    end 1988    end 1985    end 1992
Treatment plants     mid-1985    mid-1988    mid-1990    end 1993
Offices              end 1983    mid-1988    end 1984    end 1986
Procurement of       mid-1983    end 1986    end 1983    mid-1993
operating eqt.
Feasibility study    mid-1983    end 1985    beg. 1991    mid-1993
Data processing      beg. 1984    end 1985    end 1989    mid-1992
study
Project completion was initially set at December 31, 1989; on that date
progress stood at about 60% and disbursements at 46%.
To enable ONAS to continue execution of the project, the Bank agreed to
defer loan closing until December 31, 1992.
3.05        The delays in completing the works were due to the late startup of certain
components and to delays in the course of the works.
(a)   Delays due to late startup
These delays were caused by delays in the engineering studies relating to the
line-laying works, which varied from 5 to 15 months and were themselves caused by
geotechnical and topographic work that took appreciably longer than anticipated.
In the same way, the preparation of the model specifications by ONAS in
collaboration with the consultants required a considerable amount of time and resulted in
slippage of submission of the bidding documents compared with the dates initially set. As a
consequence, the different calls for bids on the civil engineering from the system and
procurement of supplies were issued between February 1985 and February 1987 instead of
between October 1983 and May 1985.
The works were completed at the beginning of 1993 instead of early in 1989,
i.e. three years later than forecast.



- 23 -
The slippage was roughly the same for the wastewater treatment component,
which involved 13 towns and was entrusted to one single consultant. Completion of the
studies was set for October 1985, but in the event this date had to be extended to October
31, 1988, on account of certain changes made in the course of execution, namely:
-     the change in purposes resulting from urban and demographic growth different
from the forecasts on the basis of which the project was designed;
the change in the location and size of certain units due to land availability,
especially in the towns of Menzel Bouzelfa, Grombalia, Mahres, and Zarzis;
and
the preparation of a study for a new treatment plant in the town of Sahline
instead of a study for expansion of the existing plant at Dkhila.
Moreover, the study for the ONAS computerization master plan was not
started until October 1989, instead of in 1984, as originally scheduled. It should be noted
that ONAS signed the agreement for this study with a foreign firm back in 1984, but the
Central Bank did not give its approval until 1989 after an agreement had been concluded
between Tunisia's Centre National d'Informatique (CNI) and that firm on arrangements for
technical assistance for setting up a computerized data processing system in ONAS.
(b)   Delays during project execution
The delays posted during project execution were mainly caused by:
difficulties encountered during line-laying (e.g. traffic, presence of various
other networks that had to be rerouted, coordination with other urban
projects);
difficulties in obtaining permits to import necessary specialized equipment
(e.g. for lowering the water table); and
land ownership problems that held up progress, particularly identifying
owners, inadequacy of documents certifying ownership, and agreement on
compensation.
Performance of consultants and contractors
3.06         The studies for the systems for the 30 towns were entrusted to Tunisian
consulting firms, while those for the 13 treatment plants were awarded to a single foreign
consulting engineer.



- 24 -
3.07        ONAS, for its part, made available the experience it had gained in the field of
sewerage and the lessons it had learned from the functioning of the facilities in operation.
3.08        The instructions and technical criteria recommended by the consultants were
followed and their implementation has not, taken overall, revealed any weaknesses at the
design level.
3.09        Local contractors participated in all line-laying work. Certain works for the
treatment plants were entrusted to foreign contractors.
3.10        The systems and plants as constructed are considered, overall, in accordance
with the designs and quality standards adopted.
Bank performance
3.11        The Bank regularly sent out supervision missions to review all ongoing Bank-
financed projects.
3.12        At the end of each mission, the Bank produced an aide-memoire summarizing
the discussions held and the commitments assumed by the different contracting parties to the
loan (i.e., Government, ONAS, IBRD).
3.13        The Bank supported the different proposals submitted to the Government by
ONAS for tariff increases to improve its financial position and to achieve a self-financing
rate of 13% and a debt service coverage ratio of 1.3%, as stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
3.14        The Bank demonstrated flexibility in adapting the project to the realities of the
changing situation encountered during implementation, with a view to following the
development of urbanization better.
3.15        Following the devaluation of the Tunisian dinar and the shifts in exchange
rates, and with a view to ensuring full utilization of the loan, the Bank agreed to include
funding in the project for studies, supplies, and works matching the objectives and
description of the project.
3.16        The Bank made experts available to ONAS to provide the technical advice
needed for the preparation of a financial dossier justifying the allocation of operating,
maintenance, and capital expenditures to the following categories: sewer systems,
stormwater systems, and treatment plants.



- 25 -
Difficulties encountered
3.17        The laying of secondary systems in the narrow streets of certain towns was a
hindrance to the residents in view of, among others, the traffic problems, the fill works, and
cracking.
Pavement rehabilitation
3.18        The pavement rehabilitation works also caused numerous problems, since this
rehabilitation could only be carried out for pavement affected by the works. Moreover,
because the streets and roads concerned were old, this partial rehabilitation did not hold up
long.
It is desirable that the entire width of the street or road be rehabilitated,
charging the additional cost to the municipality receiving a new pavement and the contractor
who is responsible for part of the deterioration resulting from heavy equipment movements
or cave-ins and cracking resulting from insufficient shoring up.
Recovery of shares payable in the cost of the systems
3.19        Recovery of the costs involved in the secondary systems caused some
problems. The fact is that in the towns where sewer service is taken over by ONAS, billing
is subject to a prior commitment on the part of the beneficiaries.
The new law establishing ONAS promulgated in April 1993 will enable ONAS
to bill ex-officio.
In the towns not taken over by ONAS, no recovery was effected.
Procurement
3.20        All procurement relating to studies, works, supplies and equipment required
for the project was effected in accordance with the procedures laid down in the project
agreement.
3.21        The time allowed for bid evaluation and contract award for supplies, civil
works and procurement of operating equipment was 6 months, and for treatment plants it was
12 months. The actual time taken for the project varied between 9 and 15 months for the
systems and between 18 and 20 months for the treatment plants, owing to the size of the
project and the centralized processing of procurement.



- 26 -
Disbursements
3.22        Disbursements from the loan took much longer than was forecast durirg
appraisal, owing to the delays in execution already explained. Whereas the original schedule
called for the loan to be entirely disbursed in 1989, actual disbursements as of that date only
stood at 46% of the total. To be able to complete execution of all the project componn ,
the Bank had to extend the closing date three times.
The first extension was from December 31, 1989 to December 31, 1990, the
second was to December 31, 1991, and the third was to December 31, 1992.
The last disbursement was made on June 29, 1993. The total disbursed was
US$33,074,739.28, i.e., 97.3%.
Project cost
3.23        The cost of the different project components as described in the loan
agreement and for which the contracts were approved by the Bank was TD 70 million,
whereas the appraisal estimate was TD 49.4 million, hence a TD 20.5 million overrun.
This overrun was covered by government contributions in the context of
financial operations.
About TD 5 million of the TD 20.5 million overrun is explained by price
increases due to 40% of the project is being completed after the date originally set.
In the same way, some TD 6 million is accounted for by the devaluation of the
dinar with respect to the main currencies in which the foreign exchange components of the
contracts were denominated.
The rest of the overrun is explained by increases in works quantities.
3.24        The comparison of the forecast and actual costs cannot be done using the same
breakdown as in the appraisal report, but can be presented as follows:



- 27 -
FORECAST   ACTUAL AS            AFTER           TOTAL
OF 12/31/92      12/31/92
- Secondary end primary sewerage     29.79         31.56           0.78          32.34
and stormwater sewer system
- Treatment plants                    8.41         13.37           4.23          17.60
- Operating and dataprocessing        4.15          5.48           4.73          10.21
equipment
- Offices                             3.66          5.26           1.32           6.58
- Consultants, studies and other      3.43          2.80           0.47           3.27
49.44         58.48         11.52           70.00
3.25         At the date of loan closing, payments made stood at 84% of the total cost of
the project, with the remaining payments to be made in the course of 1993 as the works
progressed.
3.26         The differences between the forecast and actual figures are explained by the
considerable slippage with respect to the original investment schedule. The impact of this
slippage amounted to about 7% of the cost of the project.
In point of fact, 40% of the project actions were implemented after the
forecast completion date of December 31, 1989.
Other factors were the devaluation of the dinar with respect to the main
currencies in which the foreign exchange components of the contracts were expressed, which
had a roughly 9% impact on the project cost; the lack of precision regarding the system
trench lines in the feasibility study, and therefore in the estimates based on this study; and
the change in the size of the project which caused in increase in works quantities.
3.27         The main cost variations were in the following components:
(a)    Treatment plants
Estimated at TD 8.41 million at appraisal, actual cost TD 17.66 million, i.e.
about twice estimate. This difference was due to the estimates being based on
rough ratios.
(b)    Operating and data-processing equipment
This item was estimated at TD 4.15 million at appraisal, but the actual cost is
expected to be TD 10.21 million, i.e. over twice the estimate. This is



- 28 -
accounted for by ONAS's need for larger quantities of equipment to handle the
demands in the additional towns taken over.
(c)   Office accommodations
The appraisal estimate for certain ONAS office premises did not take into
account the construction and equipping of the facilities in the Sfax, Sousse,
and Nabeul regional departments.
3.28 Financial results
The attached annexes show ONAS's operating accounts at appraisal and the
actuals, the profit and loss accounts, cash flow statements, balance sheets and financial
strategies for the period 1983-93.
The appraisal figures covered the period up to 1990, and actuals are used for
1991 and 1992.
IV. ROLE AND DEVELOPMENT OF ONAS
4.01 Organization and management
ONAS's new organizational chart drawn up in 1989 emphasized decentraliz-
ation, primarily because of its continuing expansion into the different regions of the country.
As a result, five regional departments have been established: the Tunis, Northeast,
Northwest, Center, and South departments.
Moreover, in 1992 ONAS commissioned a study for the purpose of preparing
the organization master plan and manuals of procedures. This study defined the tasks of the
different units and drew air a new organization chart.
The two ONAS organization charts referred to above are shown in the annexes
to this report.
4.02 Personnel and training
In 1992, ONAS's personnel numbered 3,200, i.e., 6.5 per 1,000 connections.
As of 1990, the appraisal showed a figure of 7.6 per 1,000 connections. This improvement
in the ratio results from the increased mechanization of operations by means of equipment
procured under this project.
As regards training, ONAS has carried out a complete program with German
(GTZ) assistance.



- 29 -
Billing and collection of sums due
4.03        Billing and collection are still being handled by SONEDE.
4.04 Accounting
Accounting, supervision of structures, and payroll are currently computerized
and transactions are posted satisfactorily.
4.05 Data-processing
To keep track of project costs, ONAS has set up a computerized information
system which provides data by region, office, and project. Other programs are being
implemented.
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
5.01 Improvement of connection rates
The installation of the primary and secondary systems in the 30 towns has
made it possible to improve living, hygiene, and health conditions in the areas concerned.
In the period 1983-92:
The number of connections in the 30 project towns totaled about 22,600;
The number of ONAS/SONEDE subscribers in the 30 project towns increased
from 4,000 in 1983 to 10,000 in 1992; and
The connection rate in the 30 project towns increased from 35% in 1983 to
60% in 1992.
5.02 Impact of the 13 treatment plants
The entry into service of the treatment plants in the 13 towns concerned has
had a considerable impact on protection of the environment. These plants have produced 10
million m3 of treated water available for irrigation purposes per year.
5.03  Defmition of future investment program
The reviews of the master plans for Greater Tunis, Bizerte, Sousse, Sfax and
Gabes together with the feasibility study for 2001 made in the context of this project have
enabled preparation of three future investment programs.



- 30 -
The first is the Fourth Urban Sewerage Project (Greater Tunis, Sfax, Sousse
and Kairouan), which is the subject of a Bank pre-appraisal study.
The second is the sewerage project for 24 priority towns for which financing is
presently being sought.
The third is the sewerage project for the Bizerte region that will be fin;n.eL,
by KfW.
(a)   Upgrading of mechanical maintenance capacities for sewerage fac.lities
5.04        The project has enabled procurement of a considerable quantity of operating
and mechanical maintenance equipment for the sewer systems. While mechanization stood at
20% in 1983, it is now 32%.
(b)   Improvement of frmancial results
5.05        ONAS has been able to improve its financial results thanks to adoption of
medium- and long-term financial policies and objectives aimed at generating sufficient funds
to finance a part of its investments. This policy has involved implementation of tariff
adjustments by ONAS.
5.06 Technology transfer to ONAS's benefit
ONAS retained a foreign consulting engineer to carry out the design studies
for the 12 treatment plants and to supervise the works involved.
The formation of integrated consultant/ONAS teams has produced beneficial
technology transfer results. The experience of ONAS staff has been greatly enriched through
the execution of this project.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
6.01 Conclusions
The different project objectives were accomplished.
The works have improved the sanitation status of the project towns and have
had a definite impact on protection of the environment and improvement of the residents'
living conditions.
ONAS, for its part, has improved its technical and financial capacity.



- 31 -
6.02 Lessons learned
The realistic execution period for a project of this magnitude cannot be less
than eight or nine years.
This period must be adopted in future appraisals of projects of similar
magnitude.
6.03        To avoid having to make changes in the project parameters, appraisals must be
based on feasibility studies and sewerage master plans, and also regional and local
development plans.



- 32 -
TUNISIA REPUBLIC
THIRD SEWERAGE REPORT
(Loan No. 2255-TUN)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



- 33 -
Missions
Stag. of         DATE           MonUh  N Staff  Days Speclalaona                   Nom                 Naje of
pnoj scI  ona                   Yar             Mold Represnted                                       Prooenm
s-Jan-1  i-Jan-1                       5 Santary onCiner              TenalUo
ptepanaUon     20-Oct-81  6-NOV-81                    16 Sanntay nginewr              Tiii
20-Oct-a1  S-Nov-at                    i a Rnancia analyst             Pommimr
prepanrion     10-Jan42  26-Jan-a2                    16 Consultant (Socal)           Jacob              In Tunia
1 5-Jan-82  1 -Jan-2                      Consultant tSocal            Jacob              in Washinalan
prepartion     17-jan-2  2-Jan-82                     11 Sanritwy ngr                 TonaLne
17-Jan42  28-Jan-82                  II Rinancial analWt               Pommer_
reparation     274-Jan2  5-Feb-82                      8 Consultant (Soci10           Jacob              In Wasindton
8-Ap42  22-Apr42                      14 San"ty engier                Tenil
Preov.luaton    3-Apr-a2  22-Apr-a2                   14 RnancIal anlyt               Pommier
22-Apr42   24__a2_                      2 Sanaty ngineer               Kalbcn
10-Oct-82  21-Oct-82                  11 SanIta"y ngineer             JV3
Evaluton       10O-ct-2  21 -Oct42                    11 Financial nat                Pommler
Supvson        4-Sep43 23-Sep43                       19 Sanitary enginer             JVB
4-Sp_ 23S_ p            43            19 Financial anayt              Pronotea
Supevion        1 -Oct-3   1-Oct-83   Oct-83          13 SanIty engineer              JVB
Oct-83           13 Financial ana&st             Pnouveau
Suporvison    14-May-84 31-May-84  May-84        1   17 Santauy engineer              JV8
____Ipartement eu potable utt Smavala Alphonse
Superislon    28-Nov-84 12-D c-84   Nov-84       2   14 Sanitary enginer              JVB                Fini  (nimoval of oNed" tvmw
5-Dec-84 10-Dec-84   Dec-44            5 FRnancial  st (consutant)    RICHRO VERSPYCK
Sup sion       16-Apr-8  20-Apr-85   Apr-5       3     4 Sanitaty engineer            JVB
16-Apr-84  25-Apr-5                    9 Sanitary engine               Las Rasmnasson
18-Apr-S  25-Apr4-8                    9 Fnancial analyst              Prenouveau
1 -Apr-85  25-Apr-85   tpS             9 Fnanctal anat                 Oesaute4           Finan     mol OS coneat rnu
Superision    11 -May-8  23-May-8    May-8            12 Financial analyst            Contrna            Sewerge TarYif
11-May-8  23-May-8                     12 Sanary engineer              Mantew
11 -May-8  23-May48                    12 Santary ngineer              LAs Pasmason
11-May-88 23-Ma8                       12 Economiste                   Dyst
-MaY-  23-Mavy86                       12 Financial anaNvst            Prnouveau
Supwvision                          SOp47"               Divsion ciUet                Ludwig
1 9-So7   2-Oct-87   Oct47             13 Sanitar engineer             Vlidannan           Finani  (removal of compenSim  wlnu
Supervision    2-Dec47 15-Dec-47   Dc-87              13 Fnancter aayst               Contrem
Supervison    15-Jan-88  2-Fet-88                    17 Financia anat                Conte
Supervion      15-Jan-88  2-Feb-8_                    17 Sanitary enginwer            Veldeaman
Superion    19-May-88 31-May-8                        12 Financial nayst              Contrr
19-May-8  31 -My                       12 SanItary enginee             Velrdemian
Supervtsion    15-an-89  2-Feb-8   Jan-8              17 FInancial analyst            Contrera
Feb-8            17 Santaty ngineer              vdriarman
16lJan4-9  31- Jan5-                   13 Consunant (Coat recn y)      Postman
19-Jan-89 21 -Jan-89 I                  2 Consutant tCost recny)       Vigg r
Supersion     14-Aug-89 30Aug9                        1  [Financtat anayst            Contt_
Suporison      13-Oct-    1 -Nov-8                    1 ijsanitarv engineer           Veiderannn
5-Feb-90 17-Feb-90                    12 Santary engineer             Hovnarion
5-Feb-90 17-Feb-90                    12 FInancia anairnt             Contt
Supervsion    18-Sep-90 27-Sep-90                     11 Sanitary engineer            Veiderman
24-Sep-90 25-Sep-90                     4 Finncwia ayst                 Contre
24-S5__90 2-Sep-90                      4                              A__S
Superion       26-Jan-92 31t-Jn-9   Jan-92             5S an"arx enginr               v'Oieun            3ewe     Taern
28-Aug-92 19-SeP-92   Ag92             21 Sanliary engineer            JVB                  losingdte. ao  tawy
Sep-93            7 DMsilon ciref                                     __       ______
SpaU  sion    24-Jan-53 11-F-0                        I Financuri                     _      _a_yst_                 _n_OuaN
Total dayvaman                                       582
PREPARATION AND EVALUATION
NomDber of misslon                                    8
Nomberof Days                                       131
StJPERYS0N
Nombw of mission                                     18
Nomber day                                          451
Nombr of mission per year                           1.8
Nomber of Days por year                            45.1



- 34 -
,qtsahr of T.gpml rnv'nenft
Tunha               Third Urban Sewerage Project (Loan 2255-TUN)
Overal Project Rating: 2
Original   Revised
Covenant           Fulillmnent Fulf Iment
Acreement  Section     type     Status     date      date          Descriptlon of Covenant             Comments
Loan No.  3.01 (a)      F        OK      08t03t84            Borrower shall cause ONAS                  Futlfed
to perform in accordance
with Project Agreement
Loan No.  3.01 (b)      F        OK      08/03184            Borrower to reent proceeds                  Futlfed
to ONAS under subsdiary
loan agreement
Loan No.  3.01 (c)      F        OK      08/0Y384            Borrower not to modfty                      Fulillted
subsldiary oan agreement
Loan No.  3.01 (d)      F        OK      08/03/84            Borrower to make funds                     Fufimed
available to complete project
Loan No.  4.01 (a)      F        OK      08/03/84            No Uen to be created on                    FulSed
public assets
Loan No.  4.02          F       Soon   OW3/84               Borrower to adow ONAS to        Full cost recovery taieptd for 1998
set taritfs to comply with Proj.  through gradual tariff ineases
Agreement section 4.04
Project No. 2.01        M        OK      08/03/84            ONAS to carry out poject with
due diligency
Project No. 2.02        M        OK      08/03/84            ONAS to employ consultng
engineers
ProJect No. 2.03        M        OK      08/03/84            Procurement to be carried out
in accordance with Bank
guidelines
ProJect No. 2.04 (a)    M        OK      08/03/84            ONAS to take insurance
Project No. 2.04 (b)    M        OK      0803184            Procured goods and saivices
only to be used for project
Project No. 2.05(a)     M        OK      08/03/84            ONAS to fumish plans, reports
contract documents etc.
Project No. 2.05 (b)    M        OK      08t03184            ONAS to keep records
Project No. Z05 (c)     M        OK      08/03184            Bank allowed to publish
contract awards
Project No. 2.05 (d)    M        OK      12/31/92            ONAS to prpare Project
Completion Report
Project No. 2.05 (e)    M        OK      08103tB4            ONAS to enable Bank staff
to visit all Installations
Project No. 2.06        M        OK      08/03/84            ONAS to honor subsidiary
loan agreement
Project No. 2.07(a)     M        OK      08/03/84            ONAS to exchange views with
Bank
Project No. 2.07 (b)    M        OK      08/03/84            ONAS to Inform Bank on
Interfering conditions
Project No. 2.08        M        OK      08/03/84            ONAS to acquireland
Project No. 2.09(a)     M        OK      08/03/84            ONAS to monitor indicators
Project No. 2.09 (b)    M        OK      08103/84            ONAS to take remedial action
Project No. 3.01        M        OK      08B03/84            ONAS to carry out its operations
in accordance with sound practies
ProJect No. 3.02        T        OK      08103/84            ONAS to operate ts plant In
in accordance with sound practices
Project No. 3.03        M        OK      08/03/84            ONAS to take adequate insurance
Project No. 3.04        M        OK      08/03t84            ONAS to acquire franchises etc.
Project No. 3.05        M        OK      08103/84            ONAS to obtain Uie to goods
Project No. 3.06        M        OK      08/03/84            ONAS not to dispose of its properties
Proect No. 4.01 (a)     F        OK      08t03/84            ONAS to maintain financial records
Proiect No. 4.01 (b)    F        OK      08/03/84            ONAS to retain records tI one year
after closing date
Project No. 4.02 (a)    F        OK      08/03/84            ONAS to have Its uinancial statements
audited foe each ftiscal year
Project No. 4.02 (b)    F        OK      08/03/84            ONAS to fumish the Bank with     Generally fulfld wih some delays.
audit reports
Project No. 4.02(c)     F        OK      08/03t84            ONAS to fumish the Bank with
informadon as requested
Project No. 4.03 (a)    F       soon   08/3t84              Debt coverage to be '1.3
Project No. 4.04(a)     F        oon    08/03/84            Self financing>13%
Proct No. 4.04 (b)      F        OK      0803/84             Before November30 each year to
review level of revenues



- 35 -
Evaluation of Numbers of Bidders
Component                 No. of contracts    No. of contracts    Average No. of
concluded in context  concluded following   bids received
of project         international       per call
competitive bidding
Studies                              12                  10               6.2
Line-laying and civil                18                  14               9.0
engineering
Supply of pipe and iron              11                  11               7.5
parts                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                      _  _ _ _ _ _
Construction equipment                4                   4               3.3
Dataprocessing equipment              8                   7               7.1
Operating equipment                  19                  18               8.7
Treatment plant                      16                  14               5.7
equipment and pumping
stations
TOTAL                                88         78   88.6%       Average of 6.8



ONAS- THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
Fiscal ye  Er*WV Decmber 31           1002      1964     196       196      1967     1910      1960     1990       1963     1964    1965    1966       1967     1988     1989      1090     1991     1992
INDICATO rS
I.GENERAL.___
TodA popPIon 10-3                       6710      683o     6960    7120       7260      7400    7550      7700       6800     6970    7140      7320     7500    7690       7801    6080      8260     8s50
TGaEl Utbl  Popu n 10-3                 3630      3750      3870    3990      4130      4270    4400      4550       3740     388o    4000      4130     42u      4390     4s53      46e0     4830      4980
ToEi Utbekn Popftlion In ONAS belwd     2250     2420      2640    2940       3210     3340    3440       3530       2040     2160    2220      2280     2620    2700      2960     3230      3600     3780
Todl PopAllhn h"led by OfAS 10-3        1330     1480      1670    1740      1910      20       206       2140       1360     1460    1580      1640     1830     195      2060     2330      2700     265o
N orb      _ of kwa)8 Mn ow               38        42        80      e5        77        80      80        80         30       34       35       35       48       49        58       60       70       80
2. STAFFNG                                                                                                           =_=
Total staff                             1710      1840      1975    2160      2360      2525    2630      2735       1811     1889    1945      1952    2167    2355        2555     2707     2893     3199
SlaN per 1000 connedion                   6.8       8.5      8.3      8.1       7.9      7.8      7.7       7.6        88       7.9      7.2      8.5      6.8      6.8      6.6      6.5       6.3      6.4
3. Syaen'Opong                        __                                                      =                                                                                                      _ 
Se8mge90vukee I0O8/yeu                  83.60     90.08    99.71   106.55    119.78    131.63   141.21    161.31     78.40    81.20    87.30    38.90    91.00    95.00   104.00   107.20   109.40   116.70
Nor   d       <Omwd*O   10 3             109       216       237     286       299       325      341       359       205      240      272      299      318      341       390      414      456       499
4. FINANCE____ ___
Woieg  mew                              67.21    vz12      59.16    5688      63.79    50.76    47.85     47.90      68.68    78.94    67.50    n7.60    73.9s    76.75    77.29    88.42    79.27    75.43
DOW Equly fll                           3a.42    30.16    30.20    38.06      36.73    37.98    38.90     39.71      29.28    27.90    25.76    25.31    29.46    29.48    27.27    16.51    14.40    14.52
DM   n4 ceacova&n                        1.64   1.38        1.44     1.48      1.34     1.35     1.51      1.55       1.58     1.45     1.8      1.30     1.3      0e33     1.04     0.88      080      0.04
Av    . Ie  In TD pw m3                 0.088    0.10S    0.120    0.141      0.160    0.180    0.205     0.215      0.071    L0.73    0.03    0.04    0106    0.108    0.123    0.140    0.160    0.187
OperUngeJtpemInkDT pw im(1)             0.004    0.101     0.108    0.115    0.121     0.127-   0.134     0.142      0.007    0.114    0.117    0.129    0.132    0.140    0.159    0200    0.216    0.220
Sel Unencmgv guM. %:                                            I____                                              ____
klchJlg cuanw cdrmb a I                  20.0      13.0     13.0    16.7       21.5     17.8    22.2       20.3       15.1     24.4    30.5      4.2    -29.7      *9.9      1.1    -13.4       6.6 
(1) db d                                                           _ dp-_



ONAS- THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENTS
(TD M on)
AW~paIs. FoQMa.I                                              -        -       -I-            A-                   -
cal yearEnWV  Decumbw 31             1983     1904     1965     1986    1987      1968    190       1990       1983    1964    1985    I9ON       1961    1988    1989    1990    t99t        1992
S5p.    NWbm (MNfl.M31                636 9     0.06    00.71   106.55   119.78   131.63  141.21    151.31      78.40    81.20    87.30    68.00    91.00    06.00   104.00  179.2   0 90    18.70
No o connedlon C0003)                194.56   21.56   23727   266.26   206.60   324.77   341.44    359.02    205.00   240.00  272.00   296.70   316.40   346.70   389.70  414.10   456.40   4986.5
AVOMu TW (rlD/-3)                     0.066    0.105    0.120    0.141    0.160    0.180   0.206      0.215     0.071    0.073    0.093    0.094    0.106    0.106    0.123    0.140    0.160    0.187
OPERATING REVENUES                                            I
sewoiugCl,hgs                          7.25     0.46    11.97    15.31    19.17    23.69   26.95      32.53      6.57     5.69     .14     8.39     9.64    10.30    12.63    15.03    17.53    22.20
Uun&dph Cor*bAIOns                     3.60     3.96      4.36    4.79      5.27     5.60    6.36      7.02      4.24     4.80     5.60    5.27     5.39     5.39     539      5.39     5.38     7.70
ConawdluonsAowww                       0.48t  0.63        0.89    1.01      1.45     2.02    2.54      3.16      1.30     0.99     1.40    1.12     0 99     169      3.22     3J85     6.0      4.70
M       _lchlanecus                    0.43     0.69      0.8     1.06      1.32     1 66    2.12      2.62
Cownpenaory PRwvfus                    4.30     3.00      2.50    1.50    _                                      4.00     4.02     4.25    4.62     4.72     4.76     5.00     5.40     5.50     6.80
Ls: Bed OWProvson                      -0.11    0.14    .0.11    -0.23     0.29    .035    0.43       -049
TOTAL REVENUES               15.95    17.60    20.42    23.46    26.92    32.4    3956       44.84     15.11    15.70    19.39    19.40    20.94    22 14    26.44    2967    36.21    41.40
OPERATING EXPENSES
P.ruoEmo (                             4.39      S.15     6.02    7.18      6.55     9.97    11.32    12.83      424      549      5.91    6.28     e42      723      652      096    11.10    1320
Energy awtW                             1.42     1.63     2.05    2.47      2.70     3.06    3.46      3.92      1.56     1,22     1.41     1.64    2.05     2.06     2.13     234      260      2.60
M3I.hlul                               1.22      1.40     1.60     1.64     2.12     2.44    2.83      3.26      1.26     166      1.50     1.51    1.98     2.82     3.29     3.79     3,90     4,30
To4. s.McsMsAnhi4,rmIIv. bix.sexpe     0.80      0.89     0.93     1.00     1.11     1.20    1.32      1.45      0.55     065      1.40    2.04     1.56     123      2.63     5.37    6595      600
SubT_ T                                7.83     9.07    10.60    1249    14.48    16.67    10.93     21.48      7.63     9.22    10.22    11.47    1ZO     13.34    16.57    21.46    23.56    26.10
op0chin                                4.38      5.10     5.76    6.62      7.42     6.43    9.45     10.62      4.47     4.94     5.26    5.60     7.59    11.21     8.63     7.45    10 65    1160
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES              12.21    14.17    16.36    10.11    21.90    25.10    20.38     32.10     12.10    14.16    15.48    1727    19.59    24.56    25.20    26.91    3420    37.70
NET OPERATING INCOIE                   374       343      4.06    4.35      5.02     7.74   11.16     12.74      3.01     1.54    3.91     2.13     1.36    -2 41     124      0.76     1.01    3.70
IlrhIst                                2.62      3.24     3.75    4.30      4.6      5.70    6.92      6.25      2.49     3.35     3.06    3.40     3.63     3.865    3.69     3.26     290      3.10
Non oparalne  hom
NET INCOM-E                            1.12      0.19     031     0.06      0.16     204     4.26      4.49      0.52    -t       063    -1.27    -2.2      4.26    -2.45    -250    t1.        060
OpifalMo Rib                          76.56    00.51    60I.2    81.46    81.35    76.43   71.74      71.59     60.06    90.1    70.63    69.a2    03.56   110.09    95.31    97.44    97.1     91.06
WodmA raw                             6721   0. 12    56.1       8.881   6&79    50.76   47.8         47.90     6868    7694    67.50    77.60    7.96    7675    7729    8.42    70.27    754



OeM& THNW3 URBAN SEWERAE PRWCT
CASH flOW STATEMEtU3T
FascslyEndngDaCsW  31             19E3    1984    1985    low    1987    198        1969    1990      1983    1984   1985   l98      1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
NaiO Wo"babM opadaptdlon           31112    8.53     9.82   i0.g7    12.44    1617   20.63    23,38    6.8      7.29    9.58    3.43   10.70    3.58    10 42    9.14   11.04   18.10
Non Opwnuhin hcoxme                                                                                |  -1.41    1.92   4.009     11   -0.06   -0.15    0.94    2.00    1.30    1.40
Gioss intnW   Garilon               1.12    853      9.82   10.97   12.441  16.7   20.63    23.38    '7.27    9.21    9.47    8.32   10.62    3.43   11.36   11.14   12.34    17.50
*.Oarsln ij      t  Ianl
It-a  (Dac     ) in wodlg CaN    .1.02    -0.16    0.87    0.47   -2.63       0.65    1.75    2.06     0.16   .089   40.04    3.7t   10.77   -3.24    3.31    6.38   -3.03   -4.10
Do" SAc:               '                                                  _                                                           =
kAorl chagd to opefuon              2.2     324      175    4.30    4.86      5.70    6.92    8.25      2.49    3.35    3.08    3.40    3.63    3.85    369    3.26    290    3.10
Amo.uzal onf dLans                  2.33    8.01     3.05    3.10    4.40     8.26    6.78    6.54      2.18    3 0    2.86    3.00    4.21    6.46    7.20    9.70   12.43   15.50
ToZe d4  5iSM                       4.96    6.25     6.30    7.40    9.26    11.9   13.70    15.09      4.67    6.35    594    6.40    7.U4   10.31    1059    12.96   15.33   18.60
TOTAL OPERATIONAL REOUIREMEN        3.93    6.10     7.67    7.87    6.73    12.63   15.45    17.14    4.83    5.46    5 90   10.11   18 61    7.07   14.20   19.34    1Z30   14.50
asano sofl emal Funds Avsb.i or    4.19    2.43      Z15    3.10    5.71      3.J4    618     6.22     2.44    3.75    3.57   -1.79   -7.99   -3.64   -2.84    a20    0.04    3.00
ToEa Capia Expendiluros            26.70   22.91    3030   2.50    38-00    42.00   45.00    47.00     17.60   17.70   16.00   12.40   21.80   20.60   20.90   25.20   31.40   42.8o
lnease nlon.-TrmAdmncas             0.69    0869     0.54    0.6a    1.10     18.4    1.74    1968      058    051    0 62    0.25    0.09   40.58    1t71    0.18    0862      t60
TOW tCap  Invatlrw neasn           29.39    23.60    306 4   29.18   39 10    43a64   4.74    48.96    18.18   1821   1662   12.66   21.89   2M02    22.61   25.38   32.02    44.40
_ ___                  _ __                                                                      _                                _          
Balancelo be     d25.20    21.17    28.69   26.08  33.39    40.10   415.6    474                       15.74   14.46   13a05   1444   29.88   23.68    25.45   335 s    31.98   41.40
financd  by-                      I_ _ _          _   _              _I_                                            
Total ExIsng Loan                  15.J6    7.27     5.22    1.84    0o00     0.00    0.00    0.00      7.77    6.08    4.47    3.17   15 45    7o00    6 80    5s60   10o43    19.70
Popod Baw* Lowm                     0.75    2.25     3.64    4.28    4.29     4.07    2.14              0 00    0.20    1.15    1.32    3.43    4.50    2.90    3.00    2.10    2.60
Otn Lons - Popobd                   0.30    3.20     4.70   56.0     5.86     6.54    3.04    1.00
Othet Loan t-ikenUfed                                                2.30    13.00   19.70    25.00
TOTALLOANS                         32.77    19.99    18.781  13.76   12.45    23.61   2488    26.00    15.54   12.36   1009    7.66   34.33   11.50    16.50   14.20    2296   42.00
Gouvwwamwmanc4nklixlons             7.70    10.501  12.00   14.50   13.50    12.501 11.50    10.50,    7.70    7.20   12 50    8.90    5.10    6.70     4.50    13.90   15.401  10 20
CUSlomarconlilb.*ons                1.11    1.12    1.75    2.25     3.16     4.43    5.44    8.81      0.30    0.50    0 90,   0.90    1.77    1.52    3.11    434    3.26    2.50
TOTAL FUNOING                      41.58    31.61    32.53   30.51    29.13    40-54   41.82    43.31  23564   20.09   23.49   15.40   41.20   26.72   24.11   32.44   41.82   54.70
Cashlocrease (Decraaa) qYew        16.38    10.44    3.84    4.43   -4.26    0-44    0.26     0.57     7.80    5.60   10.44    1.02   11.32    3.06   -1.34    -1.14    964   13.30
Csh al Begibg ot Yaw                1.66   16.4    26.48   32.32   38.75    32.49   323    33_19       0.20    8.00   13.60   24.04   25.0   3a.38    39.44   38.10    6 968  4660
Cash stand of Yew                  16.04   284      32.32   36.75   3249    32.93   33.19    3376      8.00o  136    2404   25.0s   386.3    39.44   38.10   36.98   46.60   so.9
Dopa  SeAs ca-of         _ __)       1.6     1.4      1.4    1.6      1.3      13     6S       1.        1.6    1.5    1.6    1.3       1.4    0e3       10 0o    9      0.e 0o9
SeE fnanc:ig _ _ 1%:
trnwonMbUon                   20.0    13.0      013   1571    21.       17.6   22.2T    2.3.    151       24.    30.    462    -297       -99      Ii1   -1.       86



ONAS- rTHllR O UB    SEWEPALZE PROJET
BALANCE SHEETS
(rD mluloa
AMAISMI FeIXCa                                                                   Ad1      - - Ml --
Meetl year EndIng Decemnbe 31    1983    194    198s   1988    1987    198"   1988    1980          1983   1984   1985    98a   1987    IM8    1989    1990    1991    1992
ASSETS
Moxd AS-liS
Ggoss FixodAssels                115.59  135,761 162.13  190.91  22095  257.66  296.89   337.10.   84.94  109-98. 119.96  138.36  169.66  182-76  195.80  202.95  254.10. 303.70
Less: Mcc. Depreciation           20.14   26,24   31.00   37.62    46.04   53.47   62.92.  73.54    19.971 24.911 30.17   35.97. 43.68   54.77   63.40   70.85   81.60   93.10
Net FIxed Anssts                  95.45  110.52  131.13  153.35  175.91  204.16  233.971 263.56    64.971 85071 89.79  102~39  126.10  127.90  132-40  13210  172.60  21060
WorkIlnProgress                   24.37   27.11   31.04   30.70   38.72   44.02   49 78    56.57    43.96   37.40   45.38   40.30   40 91   53.90   71.40   90 90   83.70   96.50
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS               11982  137.63  16217  154.051 214.63  241210  283.75   320.13   106 92  122.47  135.17  142.69  167.01  181.89  203850  2230   258 30  307.10
Long-IenrmAarvances                1.93    2.62    3.16    3.84     4.94    65 8a032    10 28         2.20    2.71    3.33    3.5a    3.67    309     4.80    4.981    660    7.20
Sub-Total                        121.75  140.25  165,33  187.88  219.57  254.78  292.07   330.41   I11.12  125.18  138.50  148.27  170.88  164.98  208.60  227.981 261.90  314-30
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and equivalent                2.18    5.35    3.97    6.56     2.30    2.74    300      3.57     0 341   0.06    6.081   7.811   3.63    5.90    4.30    5.00    4.901   3.10
Receivables                        1.65    2.05    2.49    3.08    3.75      4.531  5.43     6.09     2.25    2.94    5.43    4.80    65.4    520    8.21    8 36    7.50    900C
Och.rm Flecelvablea                2.36    2.63    3 35    4.11     5.14    6.51    8.15    10.16     393    6 95    7.25    68a7   to081   12.46   13.63   21 80   28.10   19 50
kr.venoiles                        0.87    0.90    0.93    1.071   1.24      1.42    1.65    1.91     1.41    1.5.6   1.51    1.75    2 54    2.14    2.17    2.75    3.10   3190
Total Cunernlassets                7.061  10.93   10.74   14.821  12.43    15.20   18.23    21.73     7.9.3  11.51   20.27   21.23   23.02   25.70   28.31   37.91   43.60   35.50
TOTAL ASSETS                     128.81   151.18  176.07  202.71  232.00  269.98  310.30   35214    119.05  136.69  168.77  167.50, 193.70  210.68  236.91  265.89  305.50  349.80
EOUITY AND LMAIL!ITES           ___                             ___
Governumet ConIribuilona          52.38   62.68   74.816  89.36   10.8   115.36  126.86   137.36    56.40   63 80   77.30   89.00  103.86  118.80  137.49  179 38  208 00  242.40 
Cuslornw Cont,llxkIon             12.30   13,42   15.17   17.42   20.60   25.03   30.47    37.281    680o    810   10.00   10.90   13.717  14.69   19.80   24-64   27.90   30.40
Retaflned Surplus                  5.13    70o6    8.11   10.14    12.18   14.72   18.9a    23 62     6.74    6.66    7.79    6.91    6.30   -2 07   -3.041  -2.61    -3850   -1.00
Total EqulyV                      69.79   83.34   98.14  116.92  1345.64  156.11  178.31   1918.26    68.984   78L55  95.09  108-81  123.33  1.31.42  154.251 201.41  2321   271.80
ProposedllRD Lowna                 0.75    3,00    8.64   10.10    12.74   15.16   15.66    14.01     0.00    0 20    1.35    1.57    2.80    5.10    5.70    6.30         6   620
Prevkltu l0RO Loom                23.48   255s6   26.05   24.13   22.15   20.12   18.02    16.87    15.81   16_64   18.29   18.18   18.10   17.55   15.70   13.78   11.60   10.40
OU'memexistng Lawns               21.95   24.09   25.03   24.97   23.62   22.27   20.92    1 9.66    16.05   18.44   18.26   18.43   29.70   32.26S  33.20   11.39   10.90   15.50
OUwaprpowp d Loans                 0.30    3560    8.20   13.56    18.12   22.91   24.28    23.51    _ _
Unkdenlile Lawns                                                    2.30    1530   35.00    58.92
Total LonIQ4m D.I                48.48   5615s  66.92   72.76   78.93   95.76  113.86   132 87    31.86   35.28   37.90   38.18   50.60   54.90   54.60   31.47   28.50   3210
Cuxreti I-labillels
sup9IIehs                          856f   7.72    7.881   7.48    9.91   10.97   11.79    12.38       6.56    6 23    6.28    6.23    6 05    8.30    7.281    9.90   14.10   15 60
A~OCunls Payable                   0.97    0.92    1.03    1.15     1.24    1.36    1.50     1.85     869i  13.77  16.51   13.07    7.26    881.6   10.78   10.68   15.30   11.60
Cinen mtMalwfl                     3.01    3,05    3.10    4.40     6.28    6.78    6.84     6.98     3 00    2.86    3.00    4.21    6.46    7.20   10.00   12.43   15.50   l8.70
TOtal Currant UabUUee             1254   I1169   1201   13.03   17.43   19.11   20.13    21.01    18.25   22.86  .25.79   22.-51   19.7?   24.38   28.06   33.01   44.90   45.90
TOTAL EQUITY ANO LIA11ILTMES    128.811 161.151 176071 20.711 232.00  269.961 310.30   352.14    119.051 136.891 1511.78  197.501 193.70  210,68  236.91  265.801  306.50  349.8
Reli 2m 8.42   311.1161  39.-9   38.06   36.73   37.96   38.90   39.71                     291.211  27.90   2578    5.1 284    29.48  27.27   16.51 140 1.2



- 40 -
Third Urban Sewerage Project
Implementatlon Schedule
Rem                 Zone  1982  1983  1984  1985   198   1987 1988  1989 1990 1991  1992 1993
Pipe procurement
contract t                   F   -2-3    --I-A- -
R                           I- 
contract 2                   F  4-5-6         -p-- A-  -_
R                                  t A--
Contract 3                   F   7-8                 p ,  A
Sewer svstems        F                p
North                        R  1           - p-- A-_-
Interior                     F    2       _         p_ ,    A
R              I
Sahel 11                     F    3              -  p-l--|A       -    -
South                        F    4 I
Cap Bon II                   F    5           -p---- _--    -           -   _
Sfax                         F    6           -p- -_---
A
Cap Bon I                    F    7                 -p-l- -A-           -
Sahel I                           8 a-p-I-A-_                            _ A_
Treatment Plants
First group                  F  2-4-6         -p-                       -     -- -A-- - -
R                        -p- -p- -p- -p-- --p--I- - -                         
Second group                 F 3-5-7-8          -P- -       I-    -     -                  _                _
A                                        --p-- -p-I        -A--         
Miscellaneous
Omces                        F  Tunis  -p- I-A-  -           _     1--I
Operating e-quipmeni         F   All      Ik- -A- I-A-I--iA
A             I- -A-  I-A- I-A- i-A-
Feasibillty study            F
RAA
Computerlzatlion study       F
F - Forecast,                  I - Bid invitatlon   -p- - preparation and studies
R - Reailzed                   A   Bid award



- 41 -
THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 2255-TN
WITHDRAWALS
CATEGORIES            ACTUAL (in $)   UPDATED FORECAST  INMAL FORECAST
Civil works and line-laying    14,768,712.07           13,300,000          14,240,000
Supply of equipment and pipe   16,575,274.44           15,900,000          13,300,000
Consultant services and studies  1,477,650.77          2,996,000            2,930,000
Front-end fee                     253,102.00             253,102             253,102
Unused                            925.260.72            1.550.900           3.246.898
TOTAL:    34,000,000.00            34,000,000           34,000,000



- 42-
THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN 2255-TN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ millions)
Planned                               Actual
Year    Partial    Cumulative    Cumulative    Partial    Cumulative   Cumulative
in %                                 in %
1984       2.72         2.72           8%      0.253         0.253         0.7%
1985       4.76         7.48          22%       1.355        1.608        4.7%
1986       6.46        13.94          41%       1.571        3.179         9.4%
1987       6.80        20.74          61%      4.135         7.314       21.5%
1988       6.80        27.54          81%      5.211        12.525        36.8%
1989       4.76        32.30          95%      3.143        15.668         46%
1990       1.70        34.00         100%      3.358        19.026         56%
1991                                           2.208        21.234       62.5%
1992                                           3.560        24.794       72.9%
1993                                            8.281       33.075       97.3%



ORGANIGRAMME ACTUEL
(..YPREiD,ENTDiRECTEURA
Di3iDP                           IETD                                                  DISECTIRT  D LNIEDIT
coofIAlIoD                nEODU CONTCOLrNDC
INIiLEAtIOALl                                 .                                              ClSTION
@ ^                                                               (   T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCflTAlIAT )
DOE                                                            \tI5LI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OMjAA
DIUCT3ON~~                                                           D lTW D
RTED'ILNb1 EART EME     DEPARTEMENT                          DEPATEMENT PA                              PA
UCTO4AD. II\1STRATIF F.r                                       FINANCIER
/G;;;>   <    JURIDIQUE     ,                   ~COM\P1'ADLE
r
TUNIS         )NORD  S                                         NOROUS          J               CENTR                            SUD
Iff~~ ,                                                                  ,-                                                       j7



