Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3482-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$34.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
March 7, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (TD)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate used
in the Staff Appraisal Report, which approximates the rate as of January 1983,
is:
US$1.00 = TD.630
TD 1.00  =  US$1.587
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
EEC      -   European Economic Community
GTZ      -   Deutsche Gesellschaft fUr Technische Zusanmienarbeit
KfW      -   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
ONAS     -   National Sewerage Authority (Otfice National de l'Assainissement)
SONEDE   -   National Water Authority (Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de
Distribution des Eaux)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiary;            Office National de l'Assainissement (ONAS)
Amount:                 US$34.0 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee
Terms:                  17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Relending Terms:        The Government would onlend the Bank loan to ONAS on the
same terms and conditions as the Bank loan. ONAS would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:   The proposed project would help rehabilitate and expand
the existing sewerage and stormwater systems, including
the provision of sewage treatment, in 30 urban
centers. It consists of investments in: primary,
secondary and stormwater sewers, including pumping
stations and related structures; sewage treatment
plants; maintenance and data processing equipment and
office accommodations for ONAS; consulting services for
related design and construction supervision; and
studies.  About one iaillion people would benefit
overall from improvements to the environment and public
health; about 400,000 would benefit directly from new
or improved sewer connections. Forty percent of the
direct beneficiaries are at or below the urban poverty
threshold. The risk of slippage in the construction
program, and the consequent escalation of costs, is
minimized by ONAS' continued improvement in
implementing works.  Consultant assistance for project
preparation, construction and supervision, as well as
the Bank's monitoring and guidance, would also assure
achievement of project objectives.
__--- I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii3 -
Estimated Project Costs:                         Local      Foreign    Total
----------- US$ Million -------
Primary Sewers                                      6.7       4.5        11.2
Pumping Stations                                    0.5       0.5          1.0
Secondary Sewers                                    9.9        6.b       16.5
Stormwater Drainage                                 2.8        1.0        3.8
Treatment Plants                                    5.0        4.2        9.2
Office Accommodations                               2.5        1.5        4.0
Maintenance and Other Equipment                     1.6        3.0        4.6
Consultant Services and Studies                     1.5       2.2         3.7
Base Cost                                  30.5       23.5        54.0
Physical Contingencies                      3.2        2.2         5.4
Price Contingencies                        10.8        8.0        18.8
Total Project Cost                         44.5       33.7        78.2
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                  -          0.3         0.3
Total Financing Required                   44.5 1/   34.0         78.5  1/
Financing Plan;                                  Local      Foreign    Total
= --------- US$ Million -----------
Bank                                                -        34.0        34.0
ONAS                                               12.8       -          12.8
Government                                         31.7       -          31.7
Total                                     44.5       34.0        78.5
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY 1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
------------- US$ Million --------------
Annual                           2.7   4.8   6.4   6.8   6.8   4.8   1.7
Cumulative                       2.7   7.5  13.9  20.7  27.5  32.3  34.0
Economic Rate of Return:  Above 10 percent for ONAS' investment program
Staff Appraisal Report:   No.4225b-TUN, dated March 3, 1983
Map No. 16721
1/ Including $16.5 million of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BAhK FOR RECONSIRUClION AND DEVELOPMEN1
REPORT AND RLCOMiENDAllON OF IHE PRESIDENI OF IRE
IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Republic of Tunisia for US$34.0 million equivalent to help rinance
a Third Urban Sewerage Project. The loan, which includes a capitalized
front-end fee of 0.75 percent on the Bank loan, would be repaid over 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.  The
proceeds of the loan would be relent to the Office National de
l'Assainissement (ONAS) on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
ONAS would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PARI I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Tunisia - Country Economic
Memorandum" (No.3399-TUN) was issued on September 05, 1981. Economlc missions
visited Tunisia in October 1981 and March 1982 to review a draft of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86); this part reflects their preliminary findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I. 2/
3.       Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid.  Onily three percent of arable
land is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are subject
to severe year-to-year fluctuation in rainfall. Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas. While the known
exploitable reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and the
phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality, there have recently been
promising indications of new reserves, although it is too early to assess
their exact potential. There is also considerable tourism potential, and
efforts have been made during the last decade to develop it rapidly.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to family
welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a result, the
infant mortality rate declined from 150 in the early 1960s to 90 at the end of
the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased from under 15 percent to about b2
percent, and average caloric supply per capita increased from about 80 to 115
percent of minimum standard requirements. The sharp decrease in mortality
rates was not fully compensated by the simultaneous decrease in fertility and
birth rates, despite an active family planning policy pursued by the
Government. Therefore, the annual natural demographic growth rate decreased
only slightly from 2.6 percent in the 1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s.
Moreover, after 1976, the net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharpLy
reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya. As a
consequence, the residential population of 6.57 million by the middle of 1981
exceeded the level projected five years earlier by 130,000.
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I from President's Report No.
3440-TUN of January 3, 1983, for a Central Tunisia Irrigation Project.
2/ Country data have been updated on the basis of this review, ana thus
sometimes differ from the Country Data sheets.



-2-
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every three Tunisians in
the labor force. To accelerate job creation, more than half ot the total
investments of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive
sectors, but the direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
phosphate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors,
however, make a vital contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports. They
provided 65 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings in 1980 while
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided 17
percent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth 'Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976,
not so much in terms of overall growth as in terms of the underlying growth
factors: output in agriculture and in food industries has grown on average
below the demographic rate since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather
conditions; textile production and tourism development grew at a slower pace
than projected mainly because of the slump in European markets.  By contrast,
manufacturing industry other than textiles, as well as energy, phosphate
processing, construction, and construction materials expanded at a fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand,
particularly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained
favorable from 1976 to 1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace
than exports, and the terms of trade improved significantly due to sharply
higher post-1974 export prices for crude oil. As a result, the resource gap
remained relatively small, and domestic savings financed on average over 76
percent of investment, which increased from an average of 23 percent of GDP
for 1972-76 to 30 percent for 1977-81. The current account deficit averaged
$450 million per year (1977-81), and was easily financed; grant aid and
i~  private investments (mainly for oil exploration) provided about 3U percent,
while the remainder was mainly covered by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus,
during the 1970s total foreign debt increased little relative to GDP, and the
debt service ratio dropped.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mlobilizing and
redistributing domestic resources. Central Government revenues were
equivalent to about one-third of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one
of the highest shares among middle-income countries. Over 30 percent of these
revenues was saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of total
Government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance situation
permitted a rapid increase in subsidy payments to private consumers and public
enterprises. Such tranfers including those for social security accounted for
19 percent of total current budget outlays and over 7 percent of GDP in 1981.
9.       The main objectives of the Fifth Development Plan were achieved,
except for the employment target. The actual GDP growth fell short by 1.2
percentage points of the planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a., mainly because of
poor performance in agriculture, while the investment objective of $9.8
billion in current prices, or 30 percent of GDP, was fully met. Completion of
some large projects in the public sector (steel, expansion of the oil
refinery) were, however, delayed, but private sector investments, both foreign
and national, exceeded Plan targets.



10.       Open and hidden unemployment is a serious problem for thie Tunisian
economy at present. During 1977-81, although job creation objectives were
achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except construction, these sectors
could only absorb 90 percent of new job seekers at a time when migration to
Libya and Europe slowed down. The overall unemployment rate, estimated at
about 13 percent of the labor force in 1980, has therefore not declined.
11.      Medium-term Prospects.  The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) was
approved by the Parliament in July 1982. The main objectives are employment
generation, export promotion, and more rapid growth in the three least
developed regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and South).
Sectoral priority is to be given to agriculture, tourism, and electrical and
mechanical industries.
12.      The outlook for investment and growth during this period and beyona
will partly depend upon future developments in the oil and natural gas
sector. Oil and gas exploration programs under way have been encouraging.
Based on known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields
that recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil
and gas production would at best be stabilized at about its present annual
level of 5-6 million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade.
However, barring large new oil or gas discoveries, and given the rapid rise in
domestic demand for energy, Tunisia will have to face tne conisequences of a
relative decline in energy revenues. The Government considers that the
situation requires immediate policy changes and is analyzing the most urgent
ones to be included in the Sixth Plan. By introducing these changes on time,
Tunisia expects to reduce the associated economic and social strains, and
avoid major balance-of-payments problems.
13.      The Sixth Plan recommends a GDP growth objective in the range of 5.9
to 6.1 percent depending on agricultural performance. This growth rate is in
line with recent trends.  Projected growth of traditional exports Utourism,
textiles, and phosphate-based chemicals) is insufficient to compensate for the
projected decline in oil export revenues; these exports should be supplemented
by new ones, in particular electrical and mechanical products. Production
diversification and export promotion will, however, take time to bear fruit
given, in particular, the depressed world market prospects. The Plan strategy
therefore rightly aims at containing domestic demand in order to control
import growth. The macroeconomic scenario assumes no improvement in terms of
trade, as was brought about by oil price rises in 1973-74 ana in 1979-80. This
would not only affect the external account but also result in slower growth of
domestic savings, particularly public savings.
14.      Consequently, the Sixth Plan projects a drop in the fixed investment
rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81 to about 25 percent for the Plan
period. This would still imply an increase of 24 percent in constant prices
relative to the Fifth Plan investment. A major objective is to correct recent
capital intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation of
investments. More resources would be allocated to small and medium
manufacturing enterprises in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the
unemployment problem and reduce income disparities between rural and urban
areas. Since June 1981, a new set of policy measures has targeted the
incentive system toward this objective. The Investment Code was modified to
offer free industrial zones and direct subsidies to job creation for new



- 4 -
projects in underdeveloped zones, and a Promotion Fund for Handicrafts and
Household Workshops was created.  In order to promote a more efficient
technical and financial management of the public and private modern sector,
the Plan assigns a major role in project promotion and supervision to an
expanded network of new Development Banks (two opened in 1981 and three are
planned for 1982); they are to be joint ventures with foreign investors and
should alleviate the pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of
public investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints will require a reassessment of the
present policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation,
and public sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and a
better-adjusted fiscal system should be used to restrain final consumption and
stimulate savings. As first encouraging steps in 1981 and in early 1982,
sizeable price increases in energy and agricultural products were implemented,
and the whole interest rate structure was revised upward, rates on saving
accounts and term deposits being increased by 1.5 to 2 points. There was a
sizeable increase of the legal minimum wage (30 percent) in March 1982, mainly
to improve the low-wage earners' living conditions, but the Government
recognizes that overall wage and salary policies should keep labor cost
increases (including social costs chargeable to enterprises) in line with
productivity increases, particularly since Tunisia wants to stimulate tourism,
and improve its international competitiveness for exports of manufactured
goods.
16.      Social Issues.  Tunisia's social performance has been impressive
since independence, and the country has come a long way towards meeting the
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent
of GDP is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment among the
young and regional pockets of poverty still present serious social problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the
ratio of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total
population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. During this period, the overall
number of this group declined in urban areas but remained the same in some
rural zones in the center of the country, as a consequence of poor
agricultural performance. Income differentials between the coast (East) and
the interior (West) widened, in part because the system of price controls and
subsidies as well as budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact.
The Government is using the forthcoming Plan to focus on the largest zones of
poverty, with a view to eradicating them before the end of this century.
Reducing the demographic growth rate is considered an important factor in this
endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The
comprehensive education system provides free access to all students, and the
gross enrollment rate has reached 100 percent for primary education, and 30
percent for secondary education. The performance of the system could,
however, be improved by expanding vocational training programs, improving
their relevance and responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs
of the poor and rural groups.



-  5-
19.      Public health services are second among social expenuitures, and
their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital
statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the
availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health services
have concentrated largely on curative medicine, and the medical referral
system is not functioning properly. As a result, the rural poor are often
excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, infant mortality
remains high relative to middle-income countries.
20.      In the Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing and water
supply is focussed more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs (health,
shelter), and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (training). In
education, two reforms are under discussion: the first one would provide a
nine-year schooling period for all children, and the second would create
polytechnical high schools combining basic and technical education.
In health, the Sixth Plan allocates more resources to preventive medicine and
nutrition education. Finally, as regards housing, public subsidized programs
will be directed to the neediest population groups. The housing demand trom
households above the minimum standard income limit will be satisfied by the
private sector.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  As mentioned above, the growth
of foreign borrowing was modest during the second half of the 1970s, and a
growing share of foreign funds was provided by public sources at reiatively
soft terms. During the 1977-80 period, foreign loan commitments averaged
about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of which in the form of official
assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments came from bilateral
sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada, and some
oil-surplus countries. About 24 percent of total ODA was committed by the
Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources. Borrowing
terms were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.5 years maturity,
including a grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1981, debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at about $3.4 billion, or 40 percent of GNP; debt
service was 12 percent of exports of goods and services, as compared with 17.7
percent in 1970.
22.      The external trade deficit reached $608 million in 1981, and is
projected to grow to about $1.2 billion in 1986. New loan commitments from
abroad, projected at $1.2 billion per year on average (at present dollar
exchange rates), should not be difficult to obtain, with ODA providing half of
the total. Leaving aside the possibility of major oil and gas discoveries,
external debt service would be about 13 percent of total export revenues in
1986.
23.      These relatively favorable prospects would depend on a timely
implementation of the already mentioned policy changes to curb domestic
demand, promote exports, and improve public sector savings. It should be
noted, however, that the Sixth Plan recommends a low growth scenario in order
to preserve the country's relatively high financial stability and
creditworthiness. This objective is even more crucial if the country is to
succeed in mobilizing the large inflows of direct foreign capital assumed in
the Plan. Foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s but have
gained momentum during the last three years in line with increased activities
in the oil sector, and new incentives offered to foreign investors in



-6-
manufacturing. Such investments have increased from $50 million in 1976 to
about $200 million in 1981, and have been equivalent to 1) percent of total
investments for 1977-81. The Plan's growth scenario estimates that about 15
percent of total investment could be financed by foreign capital, equivalent
to an annual inflow of $400 million. The newly created Development Banks
(para. 14) are expected to play a significant role in this context.
24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook can be considered
favorable in the medium term. In the longer term, much wllJ depena onl the
policy changes to be initiated during the next few years, and on developments
in the hydrocarbon sector.  Considering its long record of prudent aria
skillful balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good
grounds to assume that Tunisia will formulate and implement the necessary
policy changes and will continue to be creditworthy for future Banik lending.
The Bank's close dialogue withi the Government on several policy aspects at
the macro and micro levels will be pursued in connection with the
implementation of the Sixth Development Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN IUNISIA _/
25.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia fifty-four loans and
eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,124.8 million and $70.0
million (net of cancellations) of which thirty-one loans and credits have been
fully disbursed. Annex II contains a suramary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Project implementation is generally
satisfactory. As of December 31, 1982, overall disbursements amounted to 55
percent of appraisal estimates, which compares favorably with other countries
in the region. Disbursement performance for irrigation, industrial finance
and port projects has generally been above the country average, while larger
than average disbursement delays have been experienced for agricultural
credit, education, highway, urban and fisheries projects, due to project
specific problems that are being addressed through supervision missions and
sector discussions.  In a number of sectors, important institutional
improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have been created or
strengthened to ensure the efficient managemenit of the related sectors or
subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to; (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular
emphasis on rural areas, and on operations targeted to low-income population
groups; (c) promote export-oriented policies, technological changes and labor
productivity; and (d) provide selective support for the development of basic
infrastructure and for institution building in key public services. An
important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities in
the timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects through missions ana
advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program, the
use of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility, and the Technical sissistance
Project (para. 27). The Bank is also supporting the Government in its efforts
1/ Part II is substantially the same as Part Il from President's Report No.
3440-TUN of January 3, 1983, for a Central Tunisia Irrigation Project.



to increase the mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure cofinancing
for the projects it assists. The latter is particularly important in view of
the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
27,      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
health, urban development, and the Tunis planning and public transport project
has accounted for 28 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia since 1971.
Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for 31
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 24 percent, and industrial
and hotel financing, mostly through the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET), 17 percent of total commitments. In addition, earlier this fiscal
year, the Bank made a first loan for technical assistance aimed at improving
the Government's capability for project identification and preparation.
28.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts
in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social
development. It will also assist projects which address the needs of the
least developed regions of the country, develop research capabilities,
increase productivity, and help reduce the gap between income groups, and
between urban and rural areas. Particular attention will oe paid to
employment creation, institution building, and agricultural development. In
addition to the proposed urban sewerage project, proposed tuture lending would
include projects in agriculture, industry and mining, energy, health and water
supply.
29.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program; it
will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues and
policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum
exporting to a petroleum importing country. A preliminary analysis of this
issue was included in the last Country Economic Memorandum (Report No.
3399-TUN of September 15, 1981). The analysis is pursued in more depth in a
Plan Review Report to be issued in early 1983, as well as in a recent
Agricultural Sector Survey (Report No. 3876-TUN) of Septemnber 29, 1982.
Further economic and sector work will include a review of employmernt issues,
of incentive and pricing policies (in association with the study on effective
protection), of the long-term energy strategy and of the education, transport,
and small scale industry sectors.
30.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 19 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1979-1980. Their share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of i980 (including loans from private
sources) was 11 percent and their share in debt service during 1980 was 9
percent. The share of the bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external debt
is expected to remain at about 10 percent and their share in the debt service
to increase to about 13 percent through 1986.
31.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financi6re et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Socidt6 Touristique et Hoteliire RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which procuces aluminum
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled $10.6



-8 -
million, as of September 30, 1982. IFC has recently arranged a $40 million
loan package to COFIT, of which about $20 million equivalent for IFC's owl
account, and is looking into the possibility of loans for the expansion of a
phosphoric acid fertilizer plant and of technical assistance to the recently
established development banks.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
32.      Water Supply.  The volume of water available in Tunisia for urban,
industrial and agricultural use is limited. At present, about 58 percent of
total exploitable water resources is being used; this figure will rise to over
90 percent by the year 2000. In southern parts of the country, demand for
water already exceeds available regional water resources and some water is
brought in from the north. It will ultimately become necessary to resort to
desalination of brackish or sea water to supplement potable water resources
and recycling of wastewater for industrial and agricultural purposes. Water
tariffs in Tunisia increase with the amount consumed so as to promote water
conservation.
33.      The Ministry of Agriculture (MA) manages all water resources in the
country. The production and distribution of potable water in all
agglomerations over 500 inhabitants are the responsibility of SONEDE, the
national water authority, an autonomous public utility established in
1968 under the MA. Presently, about 97 percent of Tunisia's urban population
has access to safe piped water, of which about 80 percent is supplied through
private house connections. The MA's Rural Construction Directorate is
responsible for water supply in rural areas not covered by SONEDE. Only about
25 percent of the population in villages below 500 inhabitants has access to
safe public water supply, about one in five of these through private house
connections. Investments in rural water supply will greatly increase during
the Sixth Plan period (1982-86) in accordance with the Government's policy of
improving the living conditions of rural Tunisians.
34.      Sewerage.  The development of sewerage facilities has lagged behind
that of water supply. In rural villages, virtually no public sewerage exists;
most of the houses with private water connections possess individual
wastewater disposal systems. In urban areas, provision of sewerage
infrastructure has not kept up with urbanization. Currently, the connection
rate in urban areas is about 42 percent. In addition, existing sewers are
often in serious disrepair due to inadequate maintenance. Obstructions in the
systems cause overflow of sewage and consequent health hazards or flooding in
the case of storm sewers. One of the reasons for this situation was the
fragmentation of responsibility among municipalities, and in 1974 the
Government created ONAS, a national sewerage authority under the Ministry of
Equipment, to assume progressively responsibility for sewage collection,
treatment and disposal, the reuse of treated sewage and storm drainage in
urban agglomerations, industrial and touristic zones. In addition to managing
the subsector, it handles the planning and implementation of future
expansion. To date, ONAS has assumed responsibility for sewerage and sewage
disposal in 26 municipalities and six touristic zones, and is planning to take
over 54 additional systems over the next six years. In view of the
dilapidated condition of many of these systems, ONAS must put considerable
effort into rehabilitation before extending them to catch up with the existing
service backlog. The situation in the areas already taken over by ONAS has



-9-
changed dramatically, with the service level averaging 63 percent and
exceeding 70 percent in larger urban centers.
35.      Sector Objectives for Sewerage.  The main objective for sewerage is
to bring sewerage services to a level comparable to that of potable water
supply. An additional objective is to promote the reuse of treated sewage for
industrial or agricultural use in order to supplement the country's scarce
water resources. Improved and extended sewerage services are to be achieved
through the rehabilitation, upgrading and expansion of existing sewer systems,
the provision of drainage facilities, and the development of treatment and
disposal facilities to safeguard the environment and abate health hazards.
Attention would also be given to helping people to connect up to the
rehabilitated or expanded systems through continuation of an ongoing,
successful credit program financed by ONAS to cover connection costs. The
National Commission for Sewerage (NCS) had set target house connection rates
of 60 percent in 1986 and 81 percent in 1990 for urban areas. However,
because of financial constraints, ONAS had to considerably reduce its planned
investments for the Sixth Plan period, 1982-86 (para. 36), with the result
that it will not be able to assume responsibility for as many centers as had
been envisaged and will not be able to achieve the NCS targets. Overall, the
1986 connection rate for all Tunisian urban areas is not expected to rise
significantly above the present level of 42 percent. However, the 60 percent
rate should be achieved by 1986 in the towis where ONAS takes over sewerage by
1984. In order to keep ONAS' task within reasonable limits and reduce public
investments, the Government is also promoting the use of individual sewage
disposal systems (seepage pits, septic tanks, pit latrines) in small towns and
villages whenever appropriate. ONAS can thus concentrate its efforts on
large, more densely populated areas where individual systems are not
appropriate or are more costly than water borne sewerage.
36.      In 1977, ONAS hired consultants (Netherlands Consulting Engineers) to
carry out a general study of the sewerage subsector to establish a national
program of rehabilitation and expansion works in order of priority in
Tunisia's 162 urban centers, defined as those with over 2,000 inhabitants.
Four main selection criteria were used: (a) the existence of a sewerage
master plan and/or urban development plan which could speed up project
preparation; b) the proportion of dwellings served by water supply systems but
not connected to sewerage facilities; c) the percentage of dwellings
discharging sewage into open ditches; and d) the potential for reuse of
treated water for agricultural/industrial purposes. On the basis of these
studies, investments in a number of cities have already been undertaken. The
Sixth Plan foresees a TD 120.0 million program (in current prices) providing
for continued expansion of works in major urban centers and medium-sized
cities, as well as for necessary equipment, offices and workshops for ONAS.
Due to overall budget constraints, this was reduced from the TD 210.0 million
originally programmed by ONAS by rescheduling some investments of iower
priority. Nonetheless, the funds allocated for this program are of the same
magnitude in real terms and represent a 50 percent increase in noLlinal terms
over those allocated under the Fifth Plan for sewerage.
37.      Bank Involvement in the Sector.  The Bank's sector strategy is to
help the Government attain its development objectives for water supply and
sewerage and increase public enterprise savings through further improvements
in management efficiency and tariff policy. The Bank helped establish and
develop both SONEDE and ONAS and, through a number of projects, has engaged in



- 10 -
close dialogue with these institutions and the Government on sector policies
and operations. Projects in both subsectors suffered substantial delays in
the early years following the establishment of SONEDE and ONAS, but the delays
diminished under subsequent projects as the institutions matured and profited
from their previous experience. The Bank Group has made five loans and one
credit for water supply, totalling $124.5 million, and is considering a
national rural water supply project as well as a flood protection project for
Sfax. Three loans and one credit have been provided for sewerage under the
following three projects. The Tourism Infrastructure Project (Loan 858-TUN
and Credit 329-TUN, both of September 28, 1972, for $24.0 million)
included $16.64 million for sewerage facilities in six tourism zones.
The project was revised as the result of changes in the Government's tourism
development objectives in 1975 and suffered further delays due to related
changes needed in the detailed design and additional time needed to complete
detailed land-use plans and acquire land. The revised project was completed
in 1981. The First Urban Sewerage Project (Loan 1088-TUN of February 18,
1975, for $28.0 million), which has recently been completed, helped establish
ONAS as an effective operating agency, improve sewerage facilities in the
Greater Tunis area, and clean up Lake Tunis, where before the project more
than half of Tunis' sewage was discharged with little or no treatment, by
building a canal along its shores. The project has had a major impact due to
the depollution of the Lake and, as a consequence, land value around the Lake
has increased dramatically. The Second Urban Sewerage Project (Loan 1675-TUN
of April 13, 1979, for $26.5 million), which will improve and extend
wastewater collection, treatment and disposal facilities and stormwater
systems in the Greater Tunis and Greater Sfax areas, is progressing
satisfactorily, although three stormwater collectors need to be retendered as
bids were considerably higher than anticipated and additional local funds have
to be allocated. The Government is studying appropriate measures to provide
these funds to complete the project expeditiously. In addition, three urban
projects have contained sewerage components. The first (Loan 937-TUN and
Credit 432-TUN, both of October 5, 1973, for $18 million) included several
sewerage studies, and the second and third (Loan 1705-TUN of May 31, 1979, for
$19 million, and Loan 2223-TUN of January 11, 1983, for $25 million) include
$6.6 million for improving and expanding water supply and sewerage systems in
low income settlements. The Second Urban Development Project also contains a
solid waste component including a study to be executed by ONAS.
38.      Project Performance Audit Reports have been prepared on the first two
water supply projects (PPAR No. 1902 of February 13, 1978) and on the third
water supply project (PPAR No. 3914 of May 14, 1982). The reports concluded
that all three projects had met their objective of providing water of
acceptable quality for the increasing requirements of the population in the
areas served, and contributed greatly towards the development of SONEDE into a
technically sound and financially viable institution.  The audit for the third
project concluded that more detailed engineering should have been carried out
prior to Board presentation. As a result, subsequent projects have been
appraised on the basis of well advanced final designs. The Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) has also published a Sector Operations Review on
the Water Supply and Waste Disposal Program in Tunisia (Report No. 4146 of
October 20, 1982) which emphasizes the success of the Bank's involvenment in
the water supply and waste disposal sector in Tunisia. This success is
attributed to the Government's commitment to its sector policy objectives, and
the harmony of the Bank's program with these objectives.



- I1 -
PART IV - IHE PROJECI
39.      Background.  The proposed project was identified in January 1981, and
was prepared by ONAS with the assistance of consultants under the Second Urban
Sewerage Project. It was appraised in October £982 and negotiations were held
in Washington from February 14 to 18, 1983.  T.e Tunisian delegation was Lea
by the General Manager of ONAS, and included the Sub-Director, General
Directorate of the Budget, Ministry of Planning and Finance. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 4225b-TUN, dated March 3, 1983) will be distributed
separately; the main features of the project are summarized in the Loan and
Project Summary and in Annex III of this report. A map showing the location
of areas covered by the project is also attachea.
40.      The Project Area.  As noted in para. 36 above, ONAS undertook a study
in 1977 to establish a national program of sewerage works in order of priority.
A first project covering 17 towns is already underway, with financial
assistance from the EEC,and a second project for 11 towns is being prepared
for financial assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW). The
proposed project involves 30 separate sewerage systems located in thie
following six zones: North, Cap Bon, Sahel, Sfax region, Interior and South.
The total population of these 30 urban centers was about 555,000 in 1981
(about 8.5 percent of the total population of Tunisia) and is projected to
grow to about 655,000 by 1986 and about 1.2 million by 2006. The 1981 average
connection rate was 82 percent for water and 42 percent for sewerage. The
proposed project should increase the latter to about 60 percent by tthe end of
1987. The sewerage systems in these 30 towns represent various combinations
of individual sanitation facilities and communal sewerage systems. Inl
general, the systems and treatment facilities are inadequate to aispose of
sewage in a manner which does not create health hiazards; in some cases,
stormwater drainage is inadequate causing floods; and the reuse of wastewater
for agriculture and industry is either not practiced or is performed without
appropriate treatment and control.
41.      Project Objectives.  The proposed project would contribute to
correcting the serious imbalance between water supply and wastewater treatment
and disposal capacity in these 30 urban centers by rehabilitating existing
sewerage systems, expanding those where individual sanitation systems present
health hazards, and encouraging the population to connect up to the systems.
It would also provide stormwater drainage, promote the reuse of treatea sewage
in industry and agriculture as part of a national water resources management
policy, eliminate irrigation of garden crops with raw sewage, and support
Government policy to develop a financially self-supporting and technically
capable sewerage sector. In this regard, ONAS would undertake to generate
sufficient funds to finance a portiorn of its investment program and would be
provided with necessary maintenance and data processing equipment and office
facilities to help improve and expand its operating capacity.
42.      Project Description.  The proposed project would consist of:
(i)  the construction of about 110 km of primary sewers together with
about 20 sewage pumping stations and other related structures,
about 300 km of secondary sewers, ana about 2i km of stormwater
collectors;



- 12 -
(ii) the construction of about 12 sewage treatment plants, the
expansion of one existing treatment plan, and the connection of
five towns to existing treatment plants;
(iii) the provision of maintenance and data processing equipment arid
office accommodations for ONAS;
(iv) the provision of consulting services for related designs and
construction supervision; and
(v) feasibility studies for 10 to 15 new urban centers to be taken
over by ONAS in the future and for promoting the reuse of treated
sewage for industrial or agricultural purposes, and a computer and
information system study.
43.      Project Cost and Financing.  The total estimated cost of the project
(base price 1983), excluding the front-end fee, is $78.2 million, of which
$33.7 million is in foreign exchange. The cost estimates are based on final
designs for the sewerage systems, preliminary designs for the treatment plants
and recent bid awards for pipes, pumps, treatment equipment and civil works
procured under ongoing sewerage projects in Tunisia, particularly the project
financed by the EEC which is very similar to the proposed project. Taxes and
duties estimated at $16.5 million have been included, as well as physical
contingencies of 10 percent for sewers and civil works and 15 percent for
treatment plants and pumping stations. Price contingencies, totalling about
32 percent of the base cost plus physical contingencies, of 9 percent for 1983
and 8 percent per year thereafter have been included in the cost estimates for
equipment and civil works for both local and foreign costs based on ONAS'
recent experience with Tunisian and international prices for sewerage
equipment and works. The project provides for an estimated 750 man-months of
local consulting services for the preparation of detailed engineering and bid
documents for the sewerage systems and for supervision of works in the 30
towns included in the project, and 130 man-months of foreign consultants for
the final designs and works supervision of treatment plants and the
feasibility and computer studies. The estimated cost of these services,
including international travel and subsistence, is $3,500 per man-month for
local consultants and $8,500 per man-month for foreign consultants. The per
capita investment cost at the end of the project period amounts to $114 per
capita for sanitary sewage and $74 per capita for stormwater drainage, which
are very reasonable.
44.      The proposed Bank loan of $34.0 million would finance the entire
foreign exchange cost for civil works, equipment, consultant services and
studies, representing 43 percent of the total cost or 55 percent of the total
cost net of taxes, as well as the front-end fee of $0.3 million. The loan
would be made to the Government which would onlend it to ONAS on the same
terms and conditions, including the variable interest rate, the front-end fee
and the commitment charge. ONAS would also bear the foreign exchange risk.
Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and ONAS, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). The
remainder of project costs, representing the local cost component, would be



- 13 -
financed by ONAS (16 percent) through internal cash generation and customer
contributions and by the Government (41 percent). Details of project costs
and financing are contained in the Loan and Project Summary.
45.      Implementation.  The project would be implemented over a period of
six years under the responsibility and supervision of ONAS with the assistance
of consultants, which have started the preparation of final studies, including
topographical and geotechnical studies, and bid documents and will be retained
for supervision of their parts of the project. Retroactive financing of up to
$300,000 is proposed for expenditures incurred for these studies after
November 1, 1982, but before expected loan signature (Loan Agreement, Schedule
1, para. 4). The first bids are scheduled to be invited by spring 1983, and
construction could start in autumn 1983 and be completed by mid-1989.
Although expenditures for works are not expected to be incurred before
expected loan sigrature, advance contracting is appropriate for those
components for which bid documents are ready in order to accelerate project
implementation.
46.      Procurement ana Disbursement.  Major civil works and equipment
contracts, expected to total about $ 40 million, will be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures according to Bank
guidelines. In order to encourage international competition, civil works
contracts would be grouped to the extent practicable, particularly according
to geographical location. The purchase of pipes and accessories would be
divided into three supply contracts. Small contracts, which are not expected
to attract international competition, would be procured through local
competitive bidding in accordance with ONAS' procedures which are satisfactory
to the Bank. In these cases, individual ceilings of $800,000 for civil works
and $200,000 for equipment, and aggregate ceilings of $4 million and $1
million, respectively, would be applied. In addition, works on force account
would be allowed, after approval by the Bank and up to a maximum value of $1.5
million, for isolated areas where no contractor would be interested to carry
out works at reasonable prices. Works related to connections to, or
deviations or protection of, telephone, gas, electricity, water, lighting and
transport services and lines, expected to amount to about $200,UO00 would be
executed by the National Authorities for Post, Telephone and Telegraph (PTT),
Electricity and Gas (STEG), Water (SONEDE) and Railroads (SNCFT) and the
Ministry of Equipment, according to local procurement procedures for public
contracts which are satisfactory to the Bank. All ICB bid documents, covering
about 80 percent of total contract value, would be reviewed by the Bank on a
prior to award basis. Foreign contractors are expected to win the contracts
for the supply of pipe accessories, maintenance and treatment equipment.
Because the local contracting industry is reasonably developed, local
contractors, either alone or in partnership with foreign firms, are expected
to win most of the contracts for pipe supply, pipe laying and civil works.
Consultants would be employed in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
47.      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of six and
one-half years as follows; 35 percent of total expenditures for civil works
and pipe laying; 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 56 percent of local
expenditures for equipment and pipes; and 100 percent of foreign expenditures
and 70 percent of local expenditures for consultant services and studies. The
front-end fee would be withdrawn by and paid to the Bank at loan effectiveness.



-  14
Disbursements for works carried out by force account would be made against
statements of expenditure, the supporting documentation for which would be
retained by ONAS for review by Bank supervision missions.
48.      Organization and Management.  ONAS has the status of an industrial
and commercial public company with financial autonomy. Responsibility for
executive management is vested in a General Manager and that for policy in a
Board of Directors. The Government is involved in such decisions as approval
of ONAS' investment programs, borrowings and tariff levels. The present
General Manager has extensive experience and is well qualified to handle
overall responsibility for the institution. Day-to-day operations are handled
by Departments for New Works, for Planning and Studies and for Operation and
Maintenance, by Divisions for Finance and Aaministration, and by service units
for internal audit, organization, management and resource control.
49.      In recent years, ONAS has undertaken a number of measures to improve
its organization-and management.  It has developed and implemented a
comprehensive staff training strategy with the assistance of Federal Republic
of Germany (GTZ) and EEC training experts. In 1980, under the Second Urban
Sewerage Project, it hired a consultant to coordinate the planning and design
of its works program and to develop and install a proper system of project
planning and control. The personnel of the coordination and planning unit,
now in the Department of Planning and Studies, have been fully trained in
these areas. In 1980, ONAS also hired a management consulting firm (SUTINFOR)
to upgrade its financial, administrative and management reporting systems.
New cost control procedures are presently under implementation and
computerization of ONAS' cost accounting is expected to be operational by
mid-1983. This system will allow ONAS to monitor the cost effectiveness of
each regional center and activity. ONAS' present capacity for implementation,
operation and maintenance of its systems is adequate. However, provision of
centralized office accommodations to replace and expand the current
inefficient, dispersed offices is required, especially in view of ONAS' future
growth. Appropriate accommodations, with standards acceptable to the Bank,
are included in the proposed project. In aadition, future growth will require
the creation of additional regional divisions. These divisions will be
created progressively as needed. An existing agreement, under the Second
Urban Sewerage Project, which commits ONAS to consult with the Bank before
making any changes to its organization and administrative structure will
continue to be in force under the proposd project. ONAS' financial accounts,
inventory control and payroll are currently performed on a time sharing basis
by a computer owned by its consulting firm. However, in view of ONAS'
increasing responsibilities, ONAS will study, under the proposed project,
possibilities for modifying its information and management control system,
including sub-contracting, leasing or purchasing its own computer, to meet its
future requirements.
50.      ONAS' operations are monitored by a Technical Controller and a
Financial Controller appointed by the Government. An external audit is also
carried out annually by independent auditors who are satisfactory to the
Bank. These audit reports have been comprehensive and valuable to the
development of the institution. The existing arrangements between the Banik
and ONAS, under the Second Urban Sewerage Project, which provide for the
submission to the Bank of the auditors' annual report within six months after
the close of each fiscal year, will be continued under the proposed project.



- 15 -
Annual audits would include a review of statements of expenditure (Project
Agreement, Section 4.02).
51.      Financial Position of ONAS.  In the period 1978-1982, ONAS met all of
its financial covenants under the First and Second Urban Sewerage Projects.
During these years, however, its operating ratio increased from 66 percent to
76 percent. This decline in profitability was due to rapidly rising operating
costs and deferral of tariff adjustments until early 1982.  Nonetheless ONAS
financed about 35 percent of its investment financing requirements out of
internal cash generation. Throughout the period, its debt service coverage
was at least 1.7, and at the end of 1982 its debt to equity ratio was 34:66.
52.      ONAS' operating revenues derive essentially from sewerage charges
(which are based on a surcharge on potable water consumption and a fixed fee
for maintenance of the sewer connection), municipal levies and compensatory
revenues from the Government. The latter were established in the context of
the First Urban Sewerage Project to compensate ONAS for benefits accruing to
the Government from cleaning up Lake Tunis, particularly increased land
values. ONAS' non-operating revenues consist of the recovery of the
installation cost of new connections plus a property assessment towards the
capital cost of secondary sewers. Since June 1980, ONAS has extended credit
to customers for payment of the latter two charges. Principal and interest
are repaid over a five-year period, and interest is set at the current
interest rate of local banks plus 0.5 percent. ONAS' cost recovery policy is
aimed at raising tariffs to preserve its short- and long-term financial
viability, while at the same time scaling them to ensure affordability for its
less affluent customers, and to create incentives for conserving water and, in
the case of its industrial customers, for decreasing the pollution levels ot
effluents. To achieve these dual objectives, ONAS increased its average
tariff in 1982 by about 118 percent, or 98 percent in real terms, scaled to
affect mainly industrial and high domestic consumption. Tariffs are expected
to continue to increase at an average of about 8.5 percent annually in real
terms through 1989, covering ONAS' operating expenses and debt service
requirements as well as a portion of its ongoing investment costs. However,
despite these significant tariff increases, the following two factors will
reduce ONAS' contribution to investments from its net cash flow below the 35
percent level achieved in 1978-82. First, because the Government's policy is
to apply the same tariff schedule to all urban areas served regardless of
their size, the takeover by ONAS of increasingly small centers with higher per
unit costs will limit ONAS' net cash flow coverage of investments. In
addition, the Government, in view of ONAS' increasing revenues obtained from
connections, has asked ONAS to allow for progressively phasing out
the Government compensatory revenues. While these revenues represented about
50 percent of ONAS' total revenues in 1978, they had dropped to about 34
percent in 1982. During negotiations the Government confirmed its intention
to eliminate these compensatory revenues by 1986. Taking these factors into
account, it is estimated that during the project implementation period, the
combination of net internal cash generation and property assessments towards
the cost of secondary networks would, in addition to continuing to cover ONAS'
operating expenses and debt service, provide a percentage of ONAS' annual
capital expenditures that will fluctuate between 13 and 22 percent during the
1983-89 period.



-  16
53.      This type of cash flow approach is readily understood in Tunisia and
is working well in the water supply sector, where it was recently adopted.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the covenant under existing
sewerage loans, which requires ONAS to generate funds sufficient to cover its
operating expenses, debt service and working capital requirements plus at
least 4 percent of its net fixed assets including work in progress, would be
replaced by a conventional cash flow covenant requiring ONAS to take, and the
Government to support, every year beginning in 1983 all measures including
tariff adjustments required to provide from internal sources and customer
contributions at least 13 percent of annual average capital expenditures for
that year and the following year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02; Project
Agreement, Section 4.04). Furthermore, before November 30 of each year
beginning in 1983, ONAS would, on the basis of forecasts satisfactory to the
Bank, review the required level of compensatory revenues, tariffs and property
assessments for the current and the following year, and provide a copy of this
review and proposed adjustments to the Bank (Project Agreement, Section
4.04). Finally, in order to assure continued improvements in self-financing
during the Seventh Plan period (1987-91), it was confirmed during negotiations
that ONAS will undertake a comprehensive review of its financial objectives at
the time that Plan is being prepared.
54.      ONAS' overall financing requirements for its investment program
during the 1983-89 period amount to $387.1 million: $78.5 million for the
proposed project, $295.2 million for other projects, $11.2 million for its
credit program for house connections and $2.2 million for working capital. As
a result of ONAS' cost recovery objectives (paras. 52 and 53), it is projectd
that the combination of net internal cash generation and customer
contributions would provide about 19 percent of ONAS' total financing
requirements. The annual levels required to meet this percentage are
incorporated in the monitoring indicators (para. 56). In addition,
Government equity contributions should provide 34 percent of total financing
requirements, existing loans from the Bank 5 percent, other existing loans 7
percent, the proposed Bank loan 9 percent, and other long-term borrowings for
the latter part of the period 26 percent.
55.      Under existing sewerage loans, the minimum debt service coverage
ratio is 1.5. During the proposed project period, ONAS' revenues are expected
to grow at about 2.9 times from TD 13.7 million to TD 39.6 million, while its
operating expenses before depreciation would grow about 2.8 times from TD 6.7
million to TD 18.9 million, leaving gross margins sufficient to cover all of
its projected debt service as well as a share of its investments. Its debt to
equity ratio would stay around 40:60 while its debt service coverage ratio
would not drop below 1.3. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
ONAS would not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and
expenditures shows that its projected internal cash generation for each fiscal
year during the term of the debt to be incurred would be at least 1.3 times
the projected debt service requirement of ONAS in such year on all ONAS' debt
including the debt to be incurred (Project Agreement, Section 4.03).
56.      Monitoring System.  Agreement was reached during negotiations on key
indicators of ONAS' technical and financial performance during the project,
including total population served by ONAS in areas under its jurisdiction,
total cumulative sewer connections, ONAS' staffing per connection and
financial indicators, and on the project implementation schedule. Assurances
were obtained that ONAS would report quarterly on all aspects of project
implementation, including these indicators and implementation targets, comment



-  17  -
on any deviations from agreed values or dates, and if necessary, take pro&apt!t'
any remedial action agreed upon with the Bank (Project Agreement, Section
2.09).
57.      Benefits and Risks.  The proposed project follows the recommendaticw-
of Master Plans for a phased development of sewerage facilities in the 30
towns included in the project, and represents the least cost solution for
sewerage treatment plants and pumping stations, which were compared to five
alternative treatment processes, and for sewers, which will be built to their
ultimate capacity. Although ONAS has already proven to be an efficient
organization, the project will further strengthen its capabilities to operate
and maintain an expanded sewerage system and for financial autonomy. Sanitary
conditions in the towns served by the project will greatly improve as presen
health hazards caused by the open discharge and overflow of sewage, the
contamination of drinking water and the use of raw sewage for irrigation of
garden crops are eliminated. An economic rate of return (ERR) for the project
cannot be meaningfully calculated, since the benefits associated witb improved
health and environment and increases in land values are difficult to
quantify. The use of sewerage tariffs as a proxy for benefits is also not
appropriate on a project basis, since Government policy is to apply the same
tariff schedule to all centers served by ONAS regardless of size, thereby
providing cross-subsidization from larger to smaller urban centers where the
unit cost of investments is higher.  However, the adequacy of ONAS' tariffs
has been analyzed and an ERR for its overall investment program estimated.
Using a discount rate of 10 percent, which is considered appropriate for
Tunisia, by 1987 when compensatory revenues will have been phased out, the
highest tariff step for domestic and public sewerage service will be higher
than the long-term incremental cost of providing sewerage service. All tariff
steps for industrial and tourism service will be even higher. This indicates
that the tariff structure and levels are appropriate.   This analysis
furthermore shows that if revenues derived from sewerage tariffs are taken as
a proxy for benefits, the ERR for ONAS' investment program would be at least
10 percent. This approach, however, understates the actual returns since it
does not take into account the benefits associated with improved health and
environmnent and increases in land values.
58.      The rehabilitation of existing sewers will provide better service to
the presently connected 250,000 inhabitants of the towns, wbile the expans1 o
program will give an additional 155,000 inhabitants access to community
sewerage systems.  In addition, the community in the project area, estimated
at one million inhabitants by the year 2000, will enjoy the improvements to
the environment and healtb deriving from the project. About 40 percent of the
direct beneficiaries of the project are estimated to be at or below the Eel
urban poverty threshold of TD 140 per year.  The average monthly charges Lor
water and sewerage services for a low income family represent about 3 perceuL
of the minimum wage, which is considered to be affordable. Future tariff
adjustments will not change this affordability picture since no increases
in real terms are anticipated for low income consumers.
59.      The main risk confronting the project is that of slippage in the
construction program, and the consequent escalation of costs. however, ONAS'
performance in implementing works has improved during the First and Second
Sewerage Projects, and further improvements are expected in the future, thus



- 18 -
minimizing the risks of delay. Furtbermore, the assistance of consultants
for project preparation, construction and supervision and of experts tor
development of appropriate information control systems, as well as the Bank's
monitoring and guidance of ONAS and its performance, would help assure the
achievement of project objectives. The risk of not achieving the forecast
increase in house connections is small since households with water connections
are generally eager to connect to the sewerage systems, especially since the
necessary fees can be paid in installments under ONAS' credit program. The
risk that sewage treatment plants would not be operated properly is also
minimal since training programs are adequate and existing treatment plants are
well run.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Tunisia, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and ONAS, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Special features of toe project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and ONAS would
be a Special Condition of Effectiveness. Through Article VI of the Project
Agreement, the requirements of Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of this Project
Agreement are made applicable to the Project Agreements between ONAS and the
Bank on the First and Second Urban Sewerage Projects.
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI- RECOMMENDATION
62.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 7, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'8
TOTAL            163.6                                                        MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       75.2                                 MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  230.0        380.0    1310.0                1253.6                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      165.2       289.7      589.9                 713.5                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4221.0        5127.0    6354.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0         43.5       51.7                  47.3                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        10.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          17.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION 1S REACHED                   2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        25.8         31.3      37.9                  35.8                     35.2
PER SQ. iEM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     60.7         72.9      82.4                 420.9                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.4        46.2       41.4                  44.3                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.5        50.0       54.9                  52.4                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.2         3.8        3.7                   3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8 /c       1.9/c     2.1                   2.8                      2.4
URBAN                               3.2         3.6        3.9                   4.6                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.9         41.8      34.9                  41.2                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      21.0         14.6       9.2                  12.2                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.2       2.6                   2.9                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         29.2     180.9
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         10.0       21.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           97.0        96.0      132.0                 100.4                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    83.2        88.2      115.1/d               108.5                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           51.8        56.6       75.17T                71.9                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        12.9        13.5       22. l/d               18.0                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      36.1        24.5        9.8                  15.1                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    48.1         54.2       60.2                  56.9                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                      158.9       131.3       90.0                 104.3                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        49.0       70.0/e                59.1                     65.6
URBAN                                ..           ..      63.0o7                83.1                     78.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      77.0c7                39.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        62.0         ..                    ..                     59.3
URBAN                                .        100.0         ,.                    ..                     75.3
RURAL                                ..        34.0       60.0/e                  ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          10026.1       5934.0    3576.2                4015.5                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       727.5    1167.8                 1802.2                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL NED
TOTAL                             405.2       409.1      463.7                 641.7                    477.4
URBAN                             277.3/f     302.8      340.7/e               538.3                    679.8
RURAL                            1040.97f    1269.3    1275.67i               2403.3                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         24.1      25.0/e                25.5                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         5.1 /g
URBAN                                ..         5.1 i
RURAL                                ..         5.1         ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         3.2 /g
URBAN                                ,.          2.7 7
RURAL                                ..         3.6 /g
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         24.0 /g
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



- 20 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTI aATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  66.0       100.0      102.0                  88.7                     104.3
MALE                  88.0        121.0     119.0                  104.5                    106.4
FEMALE                43.0         80.0      85.0                   72.5                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0        23.0       25.0                   39.7                     41.3
MALE                  19.0         33.0      31.0                   49.3                     40.4
FEMALE                 5.0         13.0      19.0                   29.0                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  23.5           11.1      35.0                   10.1                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             61.1        47,5       39.2                   34.1                     29.9
SECONDARY                           i-S         27.8       20.4                  23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.5         24.0_/    62.0                   43.3                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          10.5        13.0       18.3ZI                 17.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          40.3        75.7       94.8                 131.3                     270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1        14.C                              44.1                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   19.0         16.0      43.8                   31.5                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0             ..       1.5/d                  1.7                      2.7
LA8OR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1137.9      1214.8    1631.1
IEMALE (PERCENT)                     6.0         7.7        8.3                  10.6                      24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               56.0        50.0       34.0                   42.4                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0        21.0       33.0                  27.8                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 27.0         23.7      25.7                   26.0                     33.6
MALE                                  50.2        44.2       46.5                   46.2                     50.4
FEMALE                                 3.3          3.6       4.3                    5.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8          2.1        1.8                   1.9                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..      17.0/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..       42.07..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..        6.07i.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..       15.o7T.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      204.0/d               279.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..       97.07ii              178.6                     184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      193.0/d               403.6                     518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      193.07-               285.6                     371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       20.0/d                22.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..       15.071                30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1976;
If 1962; /g 1966; /h 1975.
May, 1982



21                                                                          ANNEX I
-~~~~~ ~~Page  3dof
-otes.       1,, cc Catoedcn          Orneota  O  laodth   er-at    tass  p   oiai.                                stai      L"o ba  ote  tha  tbI.    yot  eLnr
tioi l  cacdrotoorcus  cinbaisc  cistpdabbta dt pitane  odconept  ,usd  y  Ofisat          teeLocltenn.~nc   bss.trycan  se, cns
osacnisoroaeat ea000II.  Otdirat  tende.  -ndrhre Lta-ceten   sth-tt tace
Tb, rtsersnce groups err 11  ire  nasa caaocry group at the eacteon usontery and tilauoL.cbry  troop aict eoeeatst ttgr,se  snerson orcoes  mao ins cram- ryt-  gondr
cinb   cb  otccou  Isur  tr sinZncn  tttpnnesgnus.se   44d.monNot  oriaarctid-                              at'i  c Lhosen becus a_ stone
Er rLho rti-cor -         rd     aanaeear   t   astt o   .jtdsctstcnn    a  ec    nieo   i   los nycs
VILA        c ois a c pbc   asIr  ta   nictr                                trecscaraeo   oatastaoteilceaen-ns   npo  tstb  co   tdt
:.bctarr.cobnatC.Lri                             nesigretrcoeiooaorsoat. taaooaaoooiorabceprnnesar
coerodacatac  ansrnnanaootbocoantoyond  rerseerra  groape.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-d.-I;W9b
AibOb     ...oosafasqLs.l                -                                                                      b-to.padet pd-n....aaadocl-ao.                           ta
cab- castAcyue_caosigkyoa _ acachea  ases   ilSb                                                      i    al  arotued byCl..P-  c -eocer.tocse    t    yblbn
~rblcoal    bt tsnecirhopoacotl  ostcor  rsyosotly  r  eranenlyacalane   t pnt b ad  rante  ntsei005ips  btt,              d   .ap       ....ndor
ocr Icops  cotre   at    ndnntnUrsae  t   i   a  a;bY  dt.                                        yciieia  etr,iaptb   eacnoiesospnsho  nsaLo
r  .ebtra  aye  .hyscia.               ..ew .ettoe  prc. in   etLcp- Ey  ac
Caprt  bhridO   -tO  pr  oyas  rchotatatccpsp   arteppoce. rl                asEice ae  otmuded    tta   tscsae   hceer  Er borrala
ccacooatecyooeantebo   atoianaotanasl110dbusal  bot                    ed   aita  rotr  ra  yetnntysato    yatntca                          oed 
tolt.~ ~  ~~~GAIA              1 ana ibPOb t.... -batiseenp.c-J-a.ed t.ao afar                                                                             t-yroorc-
`d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ana  n  rad    tts  etso ena  akEtt.Froa n
candactotrthoQu  KhcaIT  -cctetccactccro  .aoaaencol  cod                    cca  pcyesaria   us mtear.bo. u....cretn..r...r.cka
cart Poolnta. Od-tee   icycans t- u  atlao*c1960, 1973. end 1080                OlEt
ZOC- Cuoro-r p-oi.t- io    rject- too   arehasd yr980                    bee af te-san   per toshaat  oa.  an.1       . a-aabartadrasoba
ib littoanrytttba....bbnnthsreaaanae                                                        cserbrrccyrtatt.aitnrrnlcar
Irol  aditst  hsaneconyL            abb  iig-th7.   eas.-ispes-.onso  mstt,aii-hothsirtit..t..r.g.urir
asmm ibefroaLa   on   te   an   htaletl   essrgactn   i              i  aat   bbr  soLae   wLig    spntey
letityacrdling  noP bcra   oat  a-pano-aoplasn   yrd                 Iac
.ancoor    s  C.bat  aec dc aas at obseeinacsbs in   t rali                       IiT
inr-bl t p    ..ad   PoEo;tia  opeaUbUCaTr  trrC                                                           n   ab
-tcrnro   aclno- -to0s' tbaayfoubno   bee  na...abstr                                            Pioe   ccon-pnitslsea-est-rottra,   so-o  lsi
IhLor   aeceolo   a   er   ae   p    lyteaearcatr-oolon    tolngsa   h   netbd s   orose    tcosco
eto   0ahas   nyucrfrbcprts   alo   cybayrbr-g    aaabue    ottytrue    tiOe   pdhl
ocercplonasnneoenotcbba-cotLLoabnrbtnr-I.,bncfn iaaa:a ar    caiaetrhitt   benahsc-rnsab-oC                                                                atil cia
nsreh       eiararpt-pb y   'rta-nsnat-annsbeaIcuorIfah   noeet   dcstnspn,srtaaesbrtrsrn
noaisbou c  cte  aais  t  ce  ooJeona maacm   contc  ot cas rotlutub  aicesossrorci  artbet n  cr ooar ta atbOccalortoc  cas
cins bear Z097. ant the oas     denbetinbiyaeoetce                                             ncarscr      ao.vlondioa      cyoaaba
least                                                            pdotaibaOrtquttssOn~~~C-  A    -lep  Loo  ydrcapcn    ciar-aott.
arroacanrnorultbb  o  taha  -bb  yotahb  ea baay  sylala                 poaas  gnraI-,  --tai ..t . atotbt    r b.Car   --n-r ae  c  70.
alo IaIlye -ss Ie.                                                                        coasil  of it..  c..a .1~1     ye7 t  ot oga;ontpcerncaeeteseob
anr    9t  17   o   Pl   oe.orieaie  rosin - rshdsa-n, anldnnodsry-                                                                               Ifs e-cane  ar,oLi   n
ycori-tcng 19      aatW     tsoot ,hEat    iI  cr7retM. eottc-snel 11-                             yieyadstaayhnt   hts   pnaesa    eresu
ru ysarsr. sos retood chapeors as  tne   svtentan   satyes  ta-                          -ntrcpadbr  teets
Ipat pabbatantob  ur 1700-it, 196070. and laYS-tO,...
?crtcr in tcsnhtarsascet I-      .oha - -    ,aubo   roet  sanas at art a -n-        htPIdPTEd
Ic   lStSOz96-dl  r  297- -d                                                                 Osa-ar  ae ehcoasr....tot  -hnueap   or  cwnbnadc
Sl~IAibPbapyLdyttbanana)toncu    lcnsctnbbo psrncoosndotabd-yer           carraestnobesstnsobthn  neeors ,-ott...tta-taoceabna-nosar
ooyronio  t rbi.i97, ao  tao  bas.                                hE tILyoehit-a
ccdrtttbnateaeoccosoat-droa  -- asah  brcaILL iau-es                                        adr  eraoe    -rrnoadoaaan- itrao                              rso-atncar
copta tn;ttL,r9t,oc  ltIbaa.nosdII                                                                          hs10pshtI  oai   s   haso                 oauobb  I0 ILde Lt-
handly     TM                                                                                              ' y:nn:.,e. orop     sara   mt-ibosassa  tsbI.-tawesap    nyer   be   aaacronc'Ctse  orttner
ocean of  -btid-b Crbp  oe11-L  ysr19          an  se9      r-c7dnioaieeL                         strOe  C.n...sh boo Im          "I'llar  cor-wro  I-S 05-a  nript
In00crenaryer  aial.f. Icseibs  coe   raoynit   e - aoabaead seat be                                            ..obLte-.
ha Lctta   roiyrclate -LI reoa-   ci rticese-I-. -iCosetedir                               ar..dresao  oeyoe Lbat- ulan I                   oa  -uSa.  nre  o 
rsrasy   boihsis  cpLia  co.      eaaa.idtaotc    . -isosbeentcoasi tll                                         1060. ba60l  1970170  oars
J.-nsOs  wIsea   yhtbs;a y%~.17    ~  97dtysacgrd   sds5r  r9e rt-fLb.p ss1 otracee L   nttbbsfrc,16.b-    adtg   aa
an  c    larhoba  tpoctnob   otacnlg  o  ersaoesneeata  inaait,aeE   sad gasll                                               as) yscong  oeannia   tan        ocC,
looasso,o bvel t106.-b. 197 abi197 da.                                                    iota.- tOflo.L  Iod byga dot.    f
bninap..y  cylupoe         ,y,annrb  rP            y nn   is 0tti-s Ia uboasI a-                         19n70na    rate    19t0 dastoe  ascTih mt,adi          lbrtrsa
oloacrl1   reso   ns    rtt  nrlysd2   rt a0L-~.Id -       - thabe   n                    00.17,adi8idn                  ms   r .o.....00- t-  M Ls nad aiL   tao    as
yon    rocb-l al.ninI   rntnt   esns   rna. Cheer_ I: etni                                   reicigp        -esto   tare I at . byloriro,  n    or t.               e
aorta rood barny; 1001-07, l9li  -nd tot? tat...L natoeonT baartote
hot cOta   ro  "I'llj Illobtd  so  ptt-h  ara   appi  ct -o  I.-
cu -r Ir.   -ps a.o  oas-  L, 3oo   ret dry; 1961-5 , lO7l too t97t ut.                   l1Obta  atSaTRIaLbtd
Cttil   on-as t--l D-ath ooe  3y h .....aat - --nuI a.acr  pso rnoa....d to                       Iteao ct hrbnsie  in-s   rotc co cast ard4 cLoa      sc e  by -cat
ane on~o  -. bers.  c c clca  to rbba its goop. for net ataspiatg la.-                    I plaeni. ciass   tO nr P ....rtea  27 p-rcot   nra P.a....               aren
tots  ita  erurd  rogtuec-as-  1960. 1970  ca 1905  beA_                                 00 hrr...tn. dg.
Itot .                                                                                         p.ryfI9G?  tty
baoitoer-   tbot  cna.  olr-rsi  einrsn--onsii          .. acatnttaa-afsit.
aitnoobbutOpon to.Lebsa hooecLoe,     pig,od  sLnyaltat"Itllbrpoen   oaelee   stenbrna   tro   e
-       o C      -  ocoacortL, rcltaobe                      ....ooaeapbIc                ptso icc         csn   cu-rs I.;toroot    e~etoieaa
rrnclotron    .ict ... L      ncr cuco&attb;-coo.  pno   a--,o-
bbs callsnutas and otapest, aitl us ninasne-rthnsea-d of1at.an-notst
tar tonhoilsa tons.                                     lit-   .d  i~
Pnoasoto  ocrh'onicto   - hantaooc  iobad hrcasee a -LottoLan  phos a-                                                 Eco-otira iot5Iio1 Data tt-.eLo
bas   f,titd trtaadtci-  e-huot atatseol              an.tcob    oiaaadPolo  aebprs
Porosnbn tr Ots on  aron -yoptsooo  inted  y rebe  atyrsr-atog                                                                      n-er aao



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita:  $1,420 (1981)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                            (at 1980 prices)
(million USS                         Actual                                           Projected
Indicator                    at current prices)
1981            1977    1978    1979      1980   1981         1982    1983      1984    1985    1986    1987
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /1             8,224.0           5.3      7.1     7.1       6.0    5.0         3.8      7.3      6.0      5.8      5.6     5.3
Agriculture                         1,111.2         -10.2     4.5    -4.8        6.1    9.0        -4.3    11.5       4.0      3.9     3.7      3.5
Industry                            2,663.6           9.8      9.0    11.9       9.9    2.1         3.9      7.5      7.3      7.0     6.7      6.4
Services                            3,329.3           5.6     7.4      8.7       3.9    6.4         6.5     6.3       6.1      5.9     5.7      5.5
Consumption                           6,350.7          10.4      5.8     4.6       9.9    7.0         7.0      4.1       7.4     6.3      4.1     5.3
Gross investment                      2,539.5           6.9    12.9      3.9       5.8    9.2        -5.0      8.8       1.1     1.0      1.8     3.1
Exports of goods and NFS              3,475.1           5.5      8.2    23.3       0.7    2.0         4.4      8.3      6.9      8.0    13.4      6.2
Imports of goods and NFS              4,141.4          16.7      9.6    14.3       7.2    8.4         4.0      3.5      6.2      5.8     7.8      6.9
Gross national product                8,292.8           5.8      7.9     7.5       6.5    5.2         3.6      7.2       5.9     5.5      S.3     5.2
Gross national savings                1,942.1          -7.2    14.8    21.8       -7.2   -0.8       -19.4    17.8      -2.0      0.5     7.9      4.6
PRICES
GDP deflator                                           76.0    80.1    88.3    100.0  109.7
Exchange rate                                           2.33    2.40    2.46       2.47   2.02
Share of GDP at market prices (M)                                     Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                                               (at constant prices)
1971      1976       1981      1986       1987       1991            1971-76    1976-81    1981-86    1982-87        1986-91
Gross domestic product /1  100.0       100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0              8.8         6.1         5.7        6.0          4.9
Agriculture              18.8       18.1       13.5      13.0       12.7       12.1              8.2         0.7        3.6         5.3 /2       3.5
Industry                 20.6       25.9      32.4       32.4       32.7      33.7              10.2        8.5         6.5         7.0          5.8
Services                 47.7       42.9      40.5       41.6       41.7       41.9              6.3        6.4         6.1         5.9          5.1
Consumption                  82.0       77.5       77.2      78.1       78.0       74.5              9.6         7.5         5.8        5.4          4.0
Gross investment             20.0       30.4       30.9       24.6      24.1       23.8             14.1         7.7         1.4        3.1          4.2
Exports of goods and NFS    23.8        29.1       42.3      44.1       45.3       46.5              5.6         7.6         8.2        9.0          6.1
Imports of goods and NFS    25.8        37.1       50.4      46.8       47.5       44.7             13.1        11.2         5.5        6.0          4.0
Gross national product       99.6       98.7      100.8      99.6       99.4       99.1              8.5         6.6         5.5        5.8          4.9
'Net factor income            -0.4       -1.3        0.8      -0.4       -0.6       -0.9                     -           -          -                  -
Gross national savings       17.6       21.1       23.6       18.0      17.9       20.6              2.9         3.6         0.2         5.5         8.0
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
1971      1976       1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                               21.4      24.2       30.0
Current expenditure                                           18.9      18.5       22.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                     2.5       5.7        7.8
Capital expenditure                                            6.9      11.4       10.6
Foreign financing                                              3.2       1.7        1.4
1971-76         1976-81         1981-86         1982-87         1986-91
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP grovth rate (%)                                           8.4             6.6             5.5             5.8             4.9
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                5.4            4.0              2.8             3.1             2.2
ICOR                                                         2.7             5.5              5.2            4.8              5.3
Marginal savings rate                                       24.0             25.2            20.6            23.0            30.2
Import elasticity                                             1.51            1.84           0.96             1.0             0.82
/1  GDP at market prices and components at factor cost.
/2  This growth rate reflects the decline expected in 1982; a least square growth
rate for the same period (1982-87) is 4.9, but the long-term projections for
agriculture are better reflected in the growth rates for the individual years
shown above.
EMENA CP TI-C
July 1982



-  23  -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita:  $1,420 (1981)
Annual Growth Rates
Amount                                                  (at 1980 Prices)
(million US*                             Actual                                            Projected
Indicator                at current prices)
1981              1977    1978    1979    1980    1981             1982     1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports              2,434.2              9.7      9.6    20.7     0.8      3.7            3.6     8.8      6.7     8.2    16.0     9.4
Crude oil                      1,249.7             12.4    12.8    12.4      0.2   -5.0              1.1     2.7   -1.8       1.8   -0.1      3.7
Other primary                    125.8              4.9  -15.7    25.1  -11.9   -3.3                11.6     8.7      8.8     9.0     8.9     7.7
Manufactures                   1,058.7              6.8    10.4    33.3      3.6    16.3             5.3    14.9    14.3    13.2    28.1/2  11.0
Merchandise imports              3,801.5             14.1    10.7    15.7      7.7      9.5            3.7     3.0      6.0     5.6     7.8     7.1
Food                             421.4              9.6      7.7    39.6   -6.8      9.4             2.9     1.1     2.7      5.3     5.0   -4.8
Petroleum                        756.6             13.8    15.1      9.7    13.5    13.9            18.5     0.6    11.3      8.2    21.7/2  13.8
Machinery and equipment          979.5              5.5    15.4   -2.6    -4.4    32.9              -7.1    -1.0    -0.7      0.0     0.0     7.7
Others                         1,644.0             21.6      6.5    24.9    15.3   -2.3              4.4     6.7      7.9     7.1     5.6     5.9
Price Index                                        Price Index
PRICES
Export price index                                 54.8    58.7    75.5   100.0   118.6            117.4   122.5   131.6  141.8   152.0   163.5
Import price index                                 72.6    76.6    85.3   100.0   116.8            127.4   135.6   147.6  160.2   172.2   184.3
Terms of trade index                               75.5    76.6    88.5   100.0  101.5              92.1    90.3    89.2    88.5    88.3    88.7
Composition of Merchandise Trade (I)                            Average Annual Increase (Z1
(at current prices)                                    (at constant prices)
1971    1976    1981    1986    1987    1991            1971-76    1976-81    1981-86    1982-87       1986-91
Exports                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                4.1        8.7         8.6        9.6         5.2
Crude oil                         24.5    40.9    53.7    36.3    35.2    30.7               4.6         6.3        0.7         1.3        -0.1
Other primary                     19.2    13.4     5.2      5.6     5.5     5.5              -5.4       -1.2        9.4         8.6         5.8
Manufactures                      56.3   45.7    41.1    58.1    59.3    63.7                 6.4       13.6       14.9        16.2         7.7
Imparts                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0               13.1       11.5        5.2         5.9         3.9
Food                              21.2    12.3    11.1    11.0      9.8     6.8               0.6       10.9        3.4         1.8        -5.3
Petroleum                          3.9    11.1    19.9    22.9    24.9    31.0               29.2       13.2       11.8        10.9         8.6
Machinery and Equipment           30.1    31.9    25.8    17.9    17.9    13.2               13.5       10.5       -1.8         1.2        -1.0
Others                            44.8    44.7    43.2    48.2    47.4    49.0               10.6       12.9        6.3         6.6         4.8
Share of Trade with                Share of Trade with                    Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)           Developing Countries (X)           Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (Z)
1970     1975     1980             1970     1975     1980                  1970    1975    1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                 62.6     48.6       n.a.           23.4     41.4       n.a.                 14.0   10.0      n.a.
Imports                                 62.9     67.1      n.a.            33.7     25.7      n.a.                  3.4     7.2      n.a.
/I Constant price data at 1980 prices.
/2 Increase in refining capacity.
EMENA CP 2C
July 1982



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million u85 at current prices
Population% 6.5 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita: $1,420 (1981)
Actual /1                                                  Projected
1971       1976       1979       1980       1981             1982        1983       1986      1987        1991
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & services                    -57.4    -417.0    -356.0    -472.6    -607.5                -934.4    -893.3  -1,171.4 -1,265.7   -1,258.7
Exports of goods & services                      469.4   1,479.5   3,137.5   3,912.3   3,902.4              4,120.5   4,680.2   7,403.0  8,546.4   13,632.1
Imports of goods & services                      526.8   1,896.5   3,493.5   4,384.9   4,509.9              5,054.9   5,673.5   8,574.4  9,812.1   14,890.8
Net transfers /2                                    52.0       52.7        61.0      100.0       36.4             32.4       32.4       24.3      24.0         24.0
Current account balance                             -5.4    -364.3    -295.0    -372.6    -571.1                -902.0    -860.9  -1,147.1 -1,241.7   -1,234.7
Direct private investment                           27.6      102.6        50.9      236.0      354.6            400.0      300.0      400.0    400.0         500.0
MLT loans (net)                                     55.3      167.9      494.2       323.9      188.0            502.0      651.0      916.3  1,010.9         994.7
Official                                          59.2      130.4      198.5      270.9       262.2           434.4      416.1       423.6    476.1        690.0
Private                                           -3.9       37.5      295.7        53.0     -74.2              67.6      234.9      492.7    534.8        304.7
Other capital                                       13.7       55.1    -126.2    -122.4         134.2               -          -          -         -
Change in reserves                                 -91.2       38.7    -123.9        -64.9    -105.7                -       -90.2    -169.2   -169.2         -260.0
International reserves                             114.8      304.5      415.5       455.7      568.6            568.6      658.8   1,087.4  1,256.6       2,176.6
Reserves as months of imports                        2.6        2.2         1.6        1.4        1.6              1.4        1.4        1.5       1.5          1.7
Actual /I                                                   Projected
1971      1976       1979       1980      1981              1982       1983        1986       1987       1991
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                     35.5        50.2       50.7       41.5      26.3              32.4       32.4       24.3        24.0       24.0
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                   105.2      229.5      643.8       535.1    514.9              842.9   1,048.4   1,485.1   1,689.7   2,247.1
Concessional                                        61.0      104.0       154.5      217.5    284.1              343.8      326.2      284.4      309.2      427.2
Bilateral                                         52.8       95.1      153.7      197.3    277.6                         264.6       238.6      255.2      337.6
IDA                                                4.8        8.9        0.2         1.0       0.6               1.0         -          -          -          -
Other multilateral                                 3.4        0.0        0.6        19.2       5.9              86.2       61.6       45.7       54.0       89.6
Non-concessional                                    44.2       125.5     489.3       317.6    230.8              499.1      722.2   1,200.7   1,380.5   1,819.9
Private                                           26.8       60.1      377.6      191.4    117.3              294.2      475.6       801.5      918.7   1,080.7
Official export credits                            3.2        9.9       42.6        52.5      36.3              76.2       96.3      214.5      268.5      522.3
IBRD                                              12.2       25.3       55.4        51.1      53.5              93.6      123.2      195.1      159.9      173.9
Other multilateral                                  -        30.2       13.7        22.6      23.7             49.1        27.1       29.6       33.4       43.0
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                     619.5   1,166.2   2,996.4   3,188.8  3,370.7               4,024.2   4,675.3   7,360.9   8,371.9  12,611.8
Official                                         440.0      971.6   1,830.7   2,024.0  2,280.3              2,769.0   3,185.2   4,423.2   4,899.3   7,422.2
TBRD                                            29.3      127.9      232.0      269.0    303.8              345.3      426.6       725.8      811.9   1,049.5
IDA                                             21.1       64.1       67.3       67.9      67.9              68.9        68.1       65.3       64.1       58.2
Other                                          379.6      779.6   1,531.4   1,687.1  1,908.6              2,352.8   2,690.5   3,632.1   4,023.3   6,314.5
Private                                          179.5      194.6   1,165.7   1,164.8  1,090.4              1,255.2   1,490.1   2,937.7   3,472.5   5,18Q.6
Undisbursed debt                                   352.5   1,109.5   1,694.6   1,685.5  1,170.6                1,539.9   1,515.1   1,851.4   2,143.4   3,036.9
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                         69.8        98.6      308.8      432.7    547.6              567.6      642.4      981.5   1,177.9   2,037.2
Interest                                          19.9       36.9      159.2      221.5    220.7              226.6      245.0      422.6       499.2      784.9
Payments as % exports                               14.9         6.7        9.8       10.9      13.9              13.8       13.7       13.4        13.8       14.9
Payments as 2 GNP                                    4.1          2.2       4.3        5.1       6.6               6.1        5.9        6.1        6.3        6.8
Average interest rate of new Loans (2)               4.9         5.4        7.1        7.1       6.7               7.2        8.0        8.2         7.3        7.4
Official                                           4.6        4.3        5.6         6.2        -                 -          -          -          -           -
Private                                            6.1        7.9        9.8        11.2        -                 -          -          -          -          -
Average msturity of new Loans (years)               23.3       16.6        15.8       17.3      19.6              16.7       15.2       14.5       14.9        15.0
Official                                          26.2       20.4        19.4       19.1        -                 -          -          -          -           -
Private                                           13.8        8.6        9.2         9.4        -
As 2 of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1980)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Maturity structure ot debt outstanding (2)
Amortization due within 5 years                                              36.8
Amortization due within 10 years                                             64.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (2)
Interest due within first year                                                4.5
/L Preliminary estimates for 1981.
/2 Including grants.
FMENA CP 2C
July 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1982) a/
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                                                  Amount (less
Credit                                                                                                   Cancellation)
Number       Year            Borrower                      Purpose                              Bank       IDA d/  Undisbursed
Thirty-one Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                   249.85      69.96
1068         1974     Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Rehabilitation                 12.20                   2.39
1088         1975     Republic of Tunisia             Urban Sewerage                            28.00                   1.45
1155         1975     Republic of Tunisia             Third Education                            8.60                   4.14
1188         1975     Republic of Tunisia             Second Highways                           28.00                  15.18
1340         1976     Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit                   12.00                   1.45
1431         1977     Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Development                    42.00                  12.27
1445         1977     SONEDE                          Fourth Water Supply                       21.00                   7.88
1504         1977     BDET                            Development Finance Company               30.00                   2.81
1505         1977     Republic of Tunisia             Small-Scale Industry Development           5.00                   1.75
1601         1978     Republic of Tunisia             Rural Roads (Third Highways)              32.00                  23.47
1675         1979     Republic of Tunisia             Second Urban Sewerage                     26.50                 21.21
1702         1979     SONEDE                          Fifth Water Supply                        25.00                   5.78
1705         1979     Republic of Tunisia             Second Urban Development                  19.00                  16.06
1746         1979     Republic of Tunisia             Second Fisheries                          28.50                  24.25
1796         1980     Republic of Tunisia             Southern Irrigation                       25.00                 24.03
1797         1980     Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                                   42.50                  16.41
1841         1980     Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Highways                           36.50                  35.46
1864         1980     Socidte Tunisienne de
l'Electricitd et du Gaz        Second Natural Gas Pipeline               37.00                  26.84
1885         1980     Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit                    30.00                 28.19
19i1         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Education                          26.00                  25.97
1969         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Small-Scale Industry Development          30.00                 30.00
1997         1981     Republic of Tunisia            Northwest Rural Development                24.00                 24.00
2003         1981     Societd Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz        Third Power                               41.50                  41.47
2005         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Health and Population                     12.50                  12.50
2012         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Textile Rehabilitation                    18.60                  17.09
2052         1981     Republic of Tunisia             Grain Distribution and Storage            42.00                  42.00
2108 b/      1982     Republic of Tunisia             Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)               35.50                  35.50
2113         1982     BDET                            Electrical and Mechanical Industries   30.50                     30.50
2134         1982     SONEDE                          Sixth Water Supply                        30.50                  30.50
2157         1982     Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Development                    22.00                  22.00
2197 c/      1982     Republic of Tunisia             Technical Assistance                       4.50                   4.50
TOTAL                                                                 1,056.25      69.96      587.05
Of which has been repaid                                                110.21       6.91
Total now outstanding                                                   946.04      63.05
Amount Sold                            14.33
of which has been repaid              13.18                              1.15
Total now held by Bank and IDA d/                                       944.89      63.05
Total Undisbursed                                                       587.05                 587.05
a/ Does not include the Third Urban Development Project, Loan 2223-TUN of $25 million approved December 16, 1982, the Fifth
Education Project, Loan 2230-TUN of $27 million approved December 23, 1982, or the Central Tunisia Irrigation Project,
Loan 2234-TUN of $16.5 million approved January 25, 1983.
b/  Not yet effective
i/ Signed on October 29, 1982; not yet effective
d/  Prior to exchange rate adjustment



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of September 30, 1982) a/
Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligator                      Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1962     NPK Engrais                    Fertilizers            2.0    1.5        3.5
1966     Socidte Nat. d'Invest.         Dev. Finance Co.               0.6       0.6
(now BDET)
1969     COFIT (Tourism)                Dev. Finance Co.       8.0    2.2       10.2
1970     Societe Nat. d'Invest.         Dev. Finance Co.               0.6       0.6
(now BDET)
1973     Socift6 Touristique            Tourism                 1.6    0.3       1.9
et Hoteliare RYM SA
1975     Societe d'Etudes et           Tourism                 2.5    0.6        3.1
de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord
1974     Industries Chimiques           Chemicals                      0.6       0.6
du Fluor
1978     BDET                          Dev. Finance Co.                1.2       1.2
Total Gross Commitments                              14.1    7.6      21.7
Less Cancellations,                                   9.3    1.8      11.1
Terminations, Repayments,
and Sales
Total Commitments now                                 4.8    5.8      10.6
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                     0.0    0.0       0.0
a/ In addition, IFC approved on June 17, 1982 (but has not yet signed) a
$40.0 million loan package to COFIT of which about $20 million equivalent
is from IFC's own account.



- 27 -
ANNEX I I
Page 3 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. 1068:       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September i8,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Irrigation rehabilitation works in the Medjerda area are complete.
However, farmers are not fully using the available water resources due to
limited distribution hours, lack cf on-farm development, and poor water
management.   Land reform is progressing and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984.  In the Nebhana area, rehabilitation investments have been
satisfactorily completed. Credit demand for basins and storage facilities
was less than originally expected, and a grading and packing station was not
built because of lack of capacity on the part of the cooperative which was
to construct and manage it. About $0.5 million of funds allocated for
credit are expected not to be used and to be cancelled after the Closing
Date. Land consolidation in Nebhana is expected to be completed by
mid-1983. Production of off-season vegetables under greenhouses is
encouraging.
Ln. 1088:       First Urban Sewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of ebruar
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date: December 15, 1982.
The project is now completed. Its major achievement is the
cleaning up of the Lake of Tunis where, before the project, more than half
of the sewage collected in Tunis was discharged with little or no
treatment. Under this project, the sewer system in the central area of
Tunis has been recalibrated, one existing treatment plant was rehabilitated
and extended, and two additional treatment plants were erected. In
addition, a canal along the northern bank of the Lake lias been dug and
collects today all stormwater which used to overflow under heavy rains. The
major benefits of the project are the improvement of the environment and of
the sanitary situation of Tunis, and the related release of land around the
Lake which is now developed by a governmental agency.
Ln. 1155:      Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness; March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983.
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
1/      These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX I I
Page 4 of 11
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. As a result, the Bank loan was decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6
million, to cover the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project.
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily according to the
revised schedule, with a slight delay of about three months in construction
works.
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 rmillion loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
Civil works on the Tunis-Bizerte highway and on the Hammamet-Korba
road in Nabeul have been completed. The remaining construction works on
other roads are well-advanced. The Sfax by-pass under Lot 8 on which there
is a difficult problem of expropriation will not be undertaken as part of
the project. All studies under the project have been completed and their
results are being implemented. A loan balance, due to appreciation of the
dollar since loan approval, may be cancelled.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
December 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
About 89 percent of the loan amount is disbursed. Subloans to
commercial farmers and agro-industrial investors are fully disbursed.
Subloans to small and medium farmers are fully commiitted and expected to be
fully disbursed by the Loan's Closing Date. Disbursements for subloans to
farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm plantations have
begun. Construction of irrigation infrastructure is in progress and
plantation is also progressing satisfactorily for three of the six
associations. However, drilling of artesian wells for the remaining three
associations is suffering some delays, and the category rmay not be fully
disbursed before the Closing Date.
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness; July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation continues to
be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is smoothly
underway.  The Sidi Salem dam is completed arid in operation.  The first



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
filling-up of the reservoir has progressed well. The power plant is
expected to be in operation by mid-1983. After some initial delays,
construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal is proceeding
more rapidly and completion by the end of 1983 seems possible. A 6 km
section was commissioned in June 1981, and a second section of 34 additional
km is expected to be commissioned in 1983, in time for the reinforcement in
the water supply of the SONEDE grid during the peak consumption period.
Works on the 1,400 ha Testour perimeter are ready, and irrigation is
scheduled to start during the current cropping season. Works on the Medjez
el Bab perimeter of 3,800 ha are now progressing satisfactorily, and are
expected to be completed by the end of 1983. Contracts for works for the
Safeguard of Citrus Plantations subproject in the Cap Bon area have all been
awarded; the anticipated completion date is end-1983. The irrigation
component is experiencing important cost overruns, but because of
Government's willingness to take action, no financing difficulties are
foreseen.
Ln. 1445;       Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
Most of the project facilities are now completed and in operation.
Disbursements including release of retention monies to contractors will be
completed in 1983.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of a Seventh Loan to
Banque de D6veloppement Economigue de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: Uctober 13, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
Both loans are fully committed. Unuer the project, BDET is giving
priority in its financing to projects which are located in the least
developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high
labor intensity or export-orientation.  Under the SSI pilot project, the
commercial banks' initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing
has been overcome. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian
authorities toward setting up a comprehensive program of Tunisian and
foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to the needs of
SSI, as agreed under the project. A new project approved by the Bank in May
1981 supports this program (see below Ln. 1969).



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Ln. 1601:       Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the eight provinces. The
complementary agricultural component, after an initial delay, is now
progressing satisfactorily, with the exception of the use of credit for
agro-industries. A Government request to expand the project to cover three
additional provinces has been approved.
Ln. 1675:       Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Works under construction are progressing satisfactorily, although
three stormwater collectors need to be retendered as bids were considerably
higher than anticipated and additional local funds have to be allocated.
The Government is studying appropriate measures to provide these funds to
complete the project expeditiously. Thirty-one contracts have been awarded
for a total dollar equivalent of US$50.2 million.  Bank's commritments amount
to US$20.8 million. Tenders for civil works of the Choutrana Treatment
Plant are being evaluated.
Ln. 1702:       Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
should be completed in mid-1983. Most of the project facilities are already
in operation.
Ln. 1705;       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The civil works are advancing well in Sfax and less satifactorily
in Tunis. Problems related to site acquisition were recently solved and
efforts are being taken to reduce cost overruns in core housing
construction.  About 40% of the civil works are completed.  The solid waste
component is still at a standstill due to managerial problems at the
District of Tunis. The technical assistance and studies are advancing well.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, i980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
Port infrastructure construction is well underway at all sites and
general progress is satisfactory. Procurement of boat hulls is underway and
bid awards for boat engines have been made.  Cold storage and ice making
plants for existing ports have been procured and bidding for civil works
superstructure at three new ports is underway.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
After a slow start in 1980, the project has gradually developed
momentum and is now progressing satisfactorily. However, delays already
experienced will set back the completion date of civil works from 1983 to
1985. Work will be underway on 11 of the 16 project perimeters before the
end of 1982.
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
Civil works at la Goulette are now progressing satisfactorily.
Dredging operations are completed and the precasting of cellular caissons
started early in 1982. Some delay was experienced in the settlement of the
reclaimed area, but this should not affect the project's completion date of
June 1984. Initial concrete casting problems at Sfax are now solved and the
new quay is being erected. The area occupied by the Navy has not yet been
vacated which might reduce slightly the length of the shallow-draft berth.
Civil works there are about 5 months behind schedule and completion is
expected by September 1983. Supervision is satisfactory in both ports.
Implementation of training programs for port personnel has started,
technical assistance being provided by UNCTAD. The study on workshops
reorganization and maintenance procedures is conducted by a group of
consultants (local and foreign) to which the contract was awarded.
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
The rehabilitation program is progressing well. Tfhe 1982 action
plan for maintenance is being implemented, and tenders have been awarded for
civil works. Road maintenance equipment is being delivered.
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980 - amended on July 15, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness:  December 9, 1981; Closing Date:  December 31,
1985.
The original project scope was modified because of uncertainties
related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project has been redesiglned
to utilize royalty gas from the Algeria/Italy intercontinental pipeline as a
substitute for premium liquid fuel products. The first branch pipeline to
Tunis has been completed and other branches will be completed during 1982.



- 32 -
ANIh'X LI
Page 8 of 11
Ln. 1885:      Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:  June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of the agricultural three-year
lending program of BNT (Banque Nationale de Tunisie) for mediumi and
long-term credit to small and medium farmers, production and service
cooperatives, commercial farmers and agro-industries. Disbursements have
started for production cooperatives and commercial farmers. However,
because Government funds are also available for similar purposes to farmers
and agro-industries under other programs which, unlike the Bank-financed
program, offer subsidies, disbursements are below the expected level.
Ln. 1961:      Fourth Education Project; US$26 million loan of May 18, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness; November 18, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The implementation of this project, which is entirely devoted to
skilled worker training and apprenticeship, is proceeding satisfactorily.
The first phase of construction has already been tendered. All the final
lists of furniture and equipment have been completed and the programs
reviewed, all but one package being retendered. The Government executing
agency (OTTEEFP) has already reviewed proposals on the technical assistance
to aid in reinforcing the management logistics and programs of the network
of vocational centers, and has retained and approved one of the proposals.
Ln. 1969:      Small Scale Industry Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of May 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: July 21,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project supports the Government's comprehensive assistance
program for small-scale industries through financial and technical
assistance. $29.35 million is to be administered by the Central Bank of
Tunisia and made available to small entrepreneurs through participating
banks. The remainder of the loan ($0.65 millioni) would strengthen the
appraisal and SSI technical assistance capacity of the Investment Promotion
Agency responsible for screening eligible subprojects. No commitments to
date.
Ln. 1997:      Northwest Rural Development Project; US$24.0 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date; September 30, 1987.
The project is designed to help finance a five-year time slice of
the Government's 15 year development program for the Northwest Region
through the establishment of institutions which could implement the program,



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
and the development of extension, research, credit, and livestock services.
The project would also start up specific agricultural, soil conservation and
forestry activities, together with productive infrastructure works.
Ln. 2003:       Third Power Project; US$41.5 million loan of July 15, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: April 21, 1982; Closing Date: December
, 1985.
The project will assist Tunisia in implementing the first three
years of a five-year program for the development of rural electrification,
and in rehabilitating the urban distribution systems by connecting about 990
villages in 15 Governorates to the national network, and improving the
supply of electricity in about 60 towns.
Ln. 2005:       Health and Population Project; US$12.5 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to support Government efforts to extend
basic health care to the whole population by 1990, through the provision of
better and more cost-effective health, family planning and nutrition
services to lower income groups in eight selected Governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's management capacity, improve and
expand the basic health care delivery system and healtlh education programs,
upgrade the training system, and train health personnel. All project
activities are well coordinated and project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily and according to schedule.
Ln. 2012:       Textile Rehabilitation Project; US$18.6 million loan of
October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: May 7, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Equipment procured under bilateral financing as well as major
productive machines financed under Bank loan have recently been commissioned
and are running on three shifts. Technical assistance is progressing
satisfactorily. Financial performance of the primary beneficiary of the
Bank loan (SOGITEX) continues to be satisfactory.
Ln. 2052:       Grain Distribution and Storage Project; US$42.0 million loan
of October 27, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 2, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to strengthen grain storage capacity;
reduce congestion, handling costs, demurrage charges and grain losses at the
main Tunisian seaports, and the cost of transport and handling of grain;
strengthen the technical capacity and financial management of the Office of



34 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Cereals (Oc); and lay the groundwork for further modernization of the system
of collection, storage and transport of domestic grain. The invitation to
bid for construction of silos has been delayed about a year and has not yet
been issued as a result of OC's difficulties in recruiting consulting
engineers. This recruitment is now underway. Procurement by SNCFT of rail
hopper cars and materials for construction of silo railway sidings is
underway. Consultants for technical assistance in management and finance
have been recruited by OC.
Ln. 2108;       Fifth Highway Project; US$ 35.5 million loan of May 14, 1982;
Planned Date of Effectiveness:  March 14, 1983; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
The project will help the Government continue its efforts to
provide farmers with improved roads, support services, and farm credit.
Some 1,200 kilometers on about 100 road sections throughout the country will
be improved, 55 extension centers will be constructed and equipped, and
credit will be provided. Consultant services to assist the Highway
Department and the Ministry of Agriculture will also be provided. Measures
to create a Project Coordinating Committee are being taken.
Ln. 2113;       Electrical and Mechanical Industries Project; US$ 30.5
million loan of May 14, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
December 2, 1982; Closing Date:  December 31, 1987.
The Banque de D6veloppement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) will
provide a $28 million credit line for supporting priority electrical and
mechanical industries and for general purpose lending to industry in
Tunisia. The remainder of this loan will be used by the Tunisian Government
to provide technical assistance in setting up a Technical Center for
Mechanical Industries, and a National Institute of Standardization and
Quality Control for manufacturing industries, and in conducting a study on
effective protection.
Loan 2134:      Sixth Water Supply Project; US$ 30.5 million loan of May 14,
1982; Date of Effectiveness:  October 20, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
The project provides for the expansion and improvement of water
supply systems in about 150 rural centers. It also includes the provision
of credit facilities to help finance individual house connections and the
installation of 80,000 meters for these connections. Thirteen subprojects
that would be implemented in 30 rural centers and financed under the loan
have already been selected by SONEDE and approved by the Bank. Civil works
contracts for a total amount of US$1.24 million have been placed for three
of the subprojects, and works on two of the contracts have started. Bidding
for civil works for the remaining subprojects is under way.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Ln. 2157:      Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Development Project; US$ 22.0
million loan of June 8, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
February 1, 1983; Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
The project will provide funds for a development project in which
emphasis will be placed on improving irrigation works and marketing
facilities in the regions of Medjerda near Tunis and Nebhana near Sousse.
The implementing agencies for the $55.1 million project, the Medjerda Valley
Development Agency and the Nebhana Development Agency, expect to increase
the production of vegetables, fruit, forage, industrial crops, livestock and
milk. Some 7,800 farmers from the two areas will benefit from the
improvements to be made under the project. The project will also provide
farm access roads, fruit and vegetable processing centers, cold stores and
milk collection centers.
Loan. 2197:    Technical Assistance Project; US$ 4.5 million loan of October
29, 1982; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 29, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project will provide technical assistance in identifying and
preparing investment projects and formulating policies for Tunisia's
agriculture, industry and energy sectors. The capabilities of the
institutions involved in these sectors will be improved, and assistance in
the start-up of a new agricultural promotion agency will be provided.



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TUNISIA
THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                             20 months (March 1981-October 1982)
(b)  The agency which prepared the project: Office National de l'Assainissement
(ONAS)
(c)  Project first identified by Bank:        January 1981
(d)  Date of Bank appraisal mission:          September/October 1982
(e)  Negotiations completed:                  February 1983
(f)  Planned date of loan effectiveness:    August 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(i)   As a condition of effectiveness, a Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be
executed between the Government and ONAS, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 44);
(ii)   ONAS would take, and the Government would support, every year
beginning in 1983 all measures including tariff adjustments required
to provide from internal sources and customer contributions at least
13 percent of annual average capital expenditures for that year and
the following year; this cash generation covenant replaces the
existing covenant in previous Project Agreements between ONAS and the
Bank (para. 53);
(iii)   ONAS would, before November 30 of each year beginning in 1983, on the
basis of forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, review the required
level of compensatory revenues, tariffs and property assessments for
the current and following year, and provide a copy of this review and
proposed adjustments to the Bank (para. 53);



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv)   ONAS would not incur any debt unless its projected internal cash
generation for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be
incurred would be at least 1.3 times ONAS' total projected debt
service requirements in such year; this replaces the minimum debt
service coverage ratio of 1.5 under previous Project Agreements
between ONAS and the Bank (para. 55); and
(v)    ONAS would maintain key monitoring indicators and report quarterly on
all aspects of projet implementation, including these indicators,
comment on any deviations from agreed values or dates, and if
necessary, take promptly any remedial action agreed upon with the
Bank (para. 56).



I



IBRD16721
T U N  I S IA                                                                                                      NOVEMBER 1982
THIRD URBAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOCATION  OF PROJECT  ZONES                                                                                               -
<                                A                     c2?40yre      {,fR~~~~~~~~~~         ~     ~~~~~ThORN  GCJ";  'N
37'-
-37¢)  \                             /          ,         ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~/           a tu    iGROUP, J  se
Be~~~o                       W~~~r'            ene~~~el T-ees
R Sewer Systems                      N                                                          M       elf >  B  K e'/
I    Stormwater Drainage System>/                    ,-oeea                                                 E
JendouboaDe N                                                                CbeO aburee El FSh,,
New Tr< ,                                                                    NobeulatmAPB'                N
NwTetent Plants -- C                                                             o**                               AP RON
Connection to Existin                  -                                                                                       GROUP|
Treatment Plants
®i   Provincial Capitals                      L   e
.= Rivers                   )                    Le Kef
=§-NNi=~  Salt Lakes                     Are                    Si one
Provincial Boundaries         0                                                                                                              36-
-  . -- International Boundari                                                                                                    SAHEL
<FKe1s~ Sgh-e          GROLJP
Measee~~~MonlOsti
--3                      vaeUmes Sou Har
Ko,rouon                              - Ubt
Sf~~~E-
r T              t     <S.*                                 >                    , -   I    ZEl Die-
-<             V/ '                    ~         ".                       "            a
.--    NTERECR                fl             Houm tSouk
\  ~    - - >  -  e/  '/ e r              N                                            ',~ L 
&         )                   t ~~~~~~~~~~ 1J,S 1    W                                           ! ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Meden,ne  -
FRANCc                                                                                                                                     /\ YGSVI..,'
<   ~~~~X~   tt <>><  >%           ~~33° ,                                                       fTcuQoou,se           sourHERNp           2 33
SPAI             U}           , G    5R C                                         -.|.
Ka~~~~~~~~~~
,            )~T U CISIA nM,a.
t    (i;   <   \                           0~~~~~~~~~~~ 20    40    sO    ao    150 
SFA
A LGE R IA      p                                             rl he rc ead res e,h- ,edoa so mlymtePnphe W orld~k ec/ e,ee'e', handelee,es,
J   L I E Y A               \.~~~~~~~~ eaeOe,eeev.e'e oucc sSee,euees,ev,y e, see ve, ony   ekem Wee Y   Bamy rnoeeno,e p         
\,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fe.e cry|0 /es,ea ecs e- ese eteeI2 
LItYS                  ""e~~afs                                                              GROesUePeveeve,e ee,ee,cee,se5reseee   
_______________________________________                 j5e                          / I  y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~34



