Report No. PID1270
Project Name                     Armenia-Transport Project (@+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       AMPE35765
Borrower                         Government of Armenia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Transport
Zajian 10, Yerevan, Armenia
Fax: 3742-56-05-28
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           October 29, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         May 30, 1999
Projected Board Date             November 30, 1999
Country and Sector Background
The Armenia Highway Project, approved on September 14, 1995, was
undertaken to assist the Government to preserve the Armenia road network,
thereby avoiding costly rehabilitation and reconstruction, and to improve the
operations of the Armenia Road Directorate (ARD). It is expected that the
Credit will be fully disbursed by the end of the 1999 construction season.
Much of the most heavily traveled part of the road network has been improved,
ARD personnel have been trained in the use of economic analysis, competitive
bidding has been introduced, the overall quality of the periodic maintenance
has been greatly improved, background work has been carried out by consultants
to prepare for routine maintenance by contract, and a road safety plan and
program have been designed and are ready for implementation. Budget support
for the road maintenance operations is still at an inadequate level due to the
continuing economic constraints that affect all aspects of the Armenian
economy, routine maintenance by contract has not yet been made operational,
and there remains a large backlog of deferred road maintenance. Also, Armenia
now needs to give attention to other aspects of its transport network in order
to provide the support necessary for private sector investment and growth.
The Armenia Railways Corporation (ARC) is in serious financial and operational
decline, with only limited service to and from Georgia; a breakdown of this
line would seriously hinder the shipment of bulk foodstuffs and other critical
goods from Europe, since Armenia's borders to Turkey and Azerbaijan are still
closed. There is also a need to improve the movement of goods and services
through the streamlining of transport operational procedures, as identified in
the Transport Sector Review carried out by the World Bank last year.
Project Development Objectives
The overall objective of the project is to improve the reliability and reduce
the cost of the Armenia transport system in support of expanding the country's
growth and development. Specifically, it will include:
(i) improvement of the main road network, with commensurate reductions in



total transport costs, and in the operational efficiency of ARD;
(ii) improvement of the rail service between Armenia and Georgia, and in the
operational efficiency of the ARC;
(iii) support to the Metro in Yerevan for emergency repairs to the main
electrical cables and escalators, and sealing of the Metro tunnel linings to
reduce the pumping needed to prevent eincursion of water into the system; and
(iv) improvement of trade supporting infrastructure and services.
Project Description
The project includes four components, described below:
Component 1: Road Rehabilitation of the most important parts of the main road
network, with special reference to routes important for interstate trade.
This component will include surface dressings, overlays, reconstruction and
elimination of traffic bottlenecks and accident black spots, and a
continuation of the institutional strengthening of the Armenia Road
Directorate (ARD) started under the IDA-financed Highway Project.
Component 2: Support for the Armenia Railways Corporation through the
provision of rails and sleepers, spare parts and technical support needed to
overhaul locomotives and railway cars, and the institutional strengthening of
the Railways Corporation through the creation of a separate operating company
("Rails") for the management of the infrastructure of the Yerevan-Tbilisi
line, another company ("Trains") to operate the movement of freight and
passengers over this line, and technical support, office supplies and training
of staff for these companies.
Component 3: Emergency repairs to the Metro's main electrical cables and
escalators, and sealing of the Metro tunnel lining to reduce the pumping
needed to prevent the incursion of water into the system.
Component 4: Improving Trade Supporting Infrastructure and Services,
including the following: (i) determination of the appropriate international
transport conventions to be adhered to, and assisting in their adoption; (ii)
introduction of appropriate legislation, regulations and documentation for
insurance companies and intermediaries, and for transport-related banking
services; (iii) improvements in procedures and facilities for cross-border
movements for both road and rail movements:    (iv) technical services to
improve truck transport operations through a review of the regulatory
framework and tax structure applying to the industry; and (v) assistance to
establish a freight forwarding industry in Armenia.
Project Costs and Financing
Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies but excluding
duties and taxes, are estimated at US$47 million, of which about 70 percent
are foreign exchange costs. An IDA credit of US$20 million would finance
about 46 percent of the estimated total project costs. The Government would
finance US$5 million, or 11.6 percent of total project costs. Loan co-
financing is being sought for about US$20 million, and grant co-financing for
US$2 million.
-2-



Implementation
The Ministry of Transport (MT) will have overall responsibility for project
execution. MT will establish, under the direction of the Under-Secretary of
Transport, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) capable of controlling and
coordinating the various project components. This unit will also have
responsibility for the implementation of the Transport and Trade Facilitation
Component. For this purpose, it will establish a coordinating Task Force with
membership to include all of the agencies of Government involved in this
component, including the Customs Bureau, the Railways Corporation, the
agencies responsible for insurance and banking regulation, the Ministry of
Finance, and the relevant departments within the MT.
The Armenia Road Directorate (ARD) will administer the Road Component through
its PIU that was established for the Highway Project. This PIU is thoroughly
familiar with World Bank procurement procedures, and can assist the Railways
and the MT in this regard.
The Armenia Railways Corporation (ARC) and the Metro will establish small
coordinating offices under the direction of a Coordinator, who will provide
liaison with the MT's PIU and the other agencies involved in the project.
Project Coordination: MT's PIU will be responsible for overall project
coordination, including the submission of work programs, quarterly progress
reports, and audits. It will also handle the coordination with the financing
institutions involved in the project, including the preparation and submission
of withdrawal requests. ARD and the Railways Corporation will, however,
maintain direct links to the financing institutions for day-to-day operational
matters such as the submission of procurement documents for review.
Sustainability
Sustainability in the road subsector is contingent on the establishment of an
adequate level of road user charges. It is also dependent on Government
leadership that recognizes that investments should be made on the basis of
economic analysis.
Sustainability of railway improvements depends on the establishment of an
effective railways organization, and freight and passenger charges that cover
operational costs.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank has had considerable experience in the transport sector in other
parts of the world, including Eastern Europe. The lessons learned from this
related experience include the need to ensure an adequate level of maintenance
expenditures, with priority given to maintenance over new construction since
it frequently produces a higher return on investment up to the optimum level
of maintenance expenditures; the need for strong and effective maintenance
organizations; the frequent need for improved technologies and methods; and
the importance of a sustainable, non-subsidized set of road user charges and
rail tariffs. These lessons have been incorporated into the design of this
project.
The Bank's experience with the Highway Project, which is the only World Bank-
financed transport project previously undertaken in Armenia, has been
extremely favorable. The Armenian counterparts have been conscientious and
serious in finding improved methods of operation, have accepted the need for
- 3 -



change, and have eagerly adopted the new technologies made available to them.
Also, there is a very constructive attitude on the part of the new leadership
of the ARC, and the generally favorable policy framework of the Government
remains in effect. IDA's relationship with the new leadership within the MT
is not yet well established, but relations have been satisfactory.
Poverty
The project will have a favorable but indirect impact on the rural poor,
who will have improved access to markets and urban centers. It will also
assist in job creation, both directly through the project activities and
through the increased investment that may result from improved transport in
Armenia.
Environmental Aspects
The project will have only a limited environmental impact since the road
and rail rehabilitation will take place on sites already in use for these
purposes. Care will be taken to assure that there is no adverse impact during
construction.
Program Objective Categories
The proposed project would support private sector development by providing
improved transport services at reduced cost both within the country and
abroad. It would also relieve the Government's financial management burdens
to the extent that an adequate level of road user charges and rail tariffs
result in income streams that do not have to come from the central government
budget.
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Anders Bonde, Task Team Leader, ECSIN
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-9272
Fax No.:         (202) 522-3641
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 13, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



