Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22206
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27760; IDA-27761; PPFI-P9130; TF-25535; TF-32103)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
MAY 14, 2001
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = Dram
1.0 = US$ 0.001818
US$ 1.0 = 550 Drams
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AR    -       Arnenia Road Directorate (later Arnenia Roads SS CC)
ERR   -       Estimated Rate of Return
EU    -       European Union
GOA   -       Government of Arnenia
HDM   -       Highway Design Maintenance Model
km     -      Kilometers
NPV   -       Net Present Value
PIU    -      Project Implementation Unit
PMS  -        Pavernent Management System
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:   Judy M. O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Director:    Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Manager:    Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Task Team Leader:    Anders Bonde, ECSIN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         l
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              l
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                      10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       1 1
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                      13
9. Partner Comments                                                                    14
10. Additional Information                                                            18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 26
Annex 8. Training Carried Out tJnder the Project                                      27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P035765                                      Project Name: HIGHWAY
Team Leader: Antti P. Talvitie                           TL Unit: ECSIN
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                       Repo,t Date: May 14, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: HIGHWAY                                       L/C/TF Nimber: IDA-27760;
IDA-27761;
PPFI-P9130;
TF-25535; TF-32103
Count,y/Department: ARMENIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/03/1994                              Effective: 01/02/1996        02/14/1996
Appraisal:  03/04/1995                               MTR: 11/01/1997           05/15/1998
Approval:  09/14/1995                             Closing: 12/31/1999          12/31/2000
Borrower/Ilmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA/ARMENIAN ROAD DIRECTORATE
Other Partniers:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Countny Manager:    Judy M. O'Conrnor                         Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Ricardo A. Halperin                       Dominique M. Lallement
Team Leader at ICR:   Antti Talvitie                          Anders Bonde
ICR Primary Author:   Robert H. Nooter
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=Highi, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performanice: HS
Borrower Perfornance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entrv: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Tinme: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objectives of the Highway Project were to assist in preserving the Armenian road network,
thereby avoiding costly rehabilitation or reconstruction at a later date, and to improve the efficiency of
Armenia's road maintenance operations for the future. The specific objectives were to:



(i) Help preserve the Armenian national road network and reduce transport operating costs by
expanding maintenance operations, including bridge and tunnel rehabilitation.
(ii) Help develop an institutional framework adapted to the requirements of the road sector in a
market economy.
(iii) Expand the resource base for road maintenance by encouraging appropriate road user charges.
(iv) Assist in developing an effective private road construction and engineering industry.
(v) Improve road safety.
The accomplishments of the project need to be measured in contrast to the conditions that existed at the
time of project preparation. At that time, the budget level for road maintenance had been reduced to about
7 percent of the funds available during the Soviet period, and frequently staff were not paid for extended
periods of time. Roughness and strength surveys were not being carried out as the staff did not know how
to operate the existing equipment, a laboratory existed but in name only, and work execution was based on
the Soviet style of fulfilling the plan with little regard for quality or cost consciousness. Quality control
was the responsibility of the executing contractors, and consequently the quality of workmanship was poor,
resulting in poor compaction, poor control of vertical finishes, incorrect grading of aggregates, the use of
unsuitable types of bitumen for surface dressings and uneven bitumen distribution, and poor quality of
pothole repairs, as pointed out in the Staff Appraisal Report.
All the objectives were unambiguous and consistent with the project's work program. The institutional
objective, in particular, was ambitious because of several years of neglect of the road sector and state of the
Armenian Road Directorate (AR) at the time of project preparation. In retrospect, however, it was realistic
since the AR management and the Government were committed and prepared to take bold decisions to
improve the situation. Educated personnel was available who could perform well if properly managed and
trained in new techniques.
Overall, the objective of preserving and improving the state of Armenia's roads was supportive of the
Bank's strategy for the rehabilitation of critical infrastructure. The road network is an important part of
Armenia's transport system. Its preservation and improvement of road traffic safety were necessary for the
strategic objective of fost&ring economic growth and private sector development. The Government, faced
with an extremely stringent budgetary situation, recognized that outside support was needed for both the
maintenance of the road network and for improving the AR effectiveness to do so. This strategy supported
separating the road district offices executing the road maintenance and construction services from AR,
privatizing or corporatizing them, and putting their operations on a commercial basis paid by the road
users.  In sum, the project objectives were appropriate and realistic, and were consistent with the
borrower's and the Bank's strategy for development.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained unchanged durng the life of the project.
3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs were estimated to be US$36.9 million consisting of the following components.
(a) Periodic Highway Maintenance (US$18.6 million). Surface dressing of about 1,200 km, overlays for
about 205 kin, and reconstruction of about 23 km of roads of the Interstate Road Network.
(b) Bridges and Tunnels (US$2.8 million). The repair of priority bridges and tunnels, and the provision of
equipment needed to establish and begin operation of a bridge inspection system.
(c) Materials for Routine Maintenance (US$2.6 million). Bitumen for the routine maintenance of the entire
paved national road network and fuel for winter maintenance for two years would be financed under the
project in order to expand the amount of routine and winter maintenance to be carried out by AR.
- 2 -



(d) Equipment and Spare Parts (US$5.7 million). Equipment for the introduction of new technology and
improved quality of road repairs, and spare parts to keep existing equipment functioning.
(e) Institutional Strengthening and Technical Upgrading (US$2.2 million). Consultant services, equipment
and training to assist AR to restructure its organization and operational procedures so that both routine and
periodic maintenance would be carried out on a contract basis with private contractors instead of a force
account; to introduce cost benefit analysis; to improve quality control of civil works; to improve planning,
road research and technology transfer capabilities; to develop and begin the implementation of a road safety
plan; to install a system of axle load controls; to carry out a study on financing of road maintenance; and,
to improve the efficiency of operations for road maintenance. This component would also include training
for the private road construction industry in contracting procedures, business administration and project
management, extensive technology transfer through a twinning program with France, and an EU-TEMPUS
program to upgrade the capability of Yerevan Technical University to provide education in highway
engineering and refresher courses for engineers.
(f) Project Implementation (US$0.6 million). Support for an office within the AR to manage project
activities, including the preparation of specifications and bidding documents, handling procurement and
project accounting, and the arrangements for training activities financed by the project.
(g) Physical and Price Contingencies (US$4.4 million). Physical contingencies of 10 percent of the cost of
works and equipment purchases and price contingencies calculated on the basis of estimated worldwide
inflation over the project period.
The project components were directly related to the achievement of the project objectives. The first three
components supported the objective of preserving the road network and reducing transport costs by
reducing road roughness and travel time. The fourth component, equipment and spare parts, supported
both the road preservation and the institutional strengthening objective through the introduction of new
technologies. The fifth component supported the institutional strengthening directly, including studies on
road user charges, development and training of private industry for civil works, and improving road traffic
safety. The project components were appropriately selected, and while these components were not easy to
carry out successfully, they were within the capacity of the road administration with the support from
qualified intemational consultants as planned. The project design adequately took into account the
experience from other countries, including the importance of giving preference to maintenance over new
construction, the need for economic analysis as the basis for deciding priorities for the use of limited
resources, the use of contracting for improving efficiency, and the need to develop a reliable source of
financing for road maintenance.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised, but adjustments were made in the amounts allocated to each
category. Specifically, there was a reduction in the amounts used for bridge improvements, since the repair
of bridges was determined to be less urgent than road improvement. Equipment purchases were scaled
back after the initial objective of introducing new pavement technology with modem equipment had been
met, and the remaining funds were used for road maintenance rather than for the purchase of additional
equipment. There was a need to adjust the periodic maintenance program because weather and traffic had
changed the physical condition of the roads since the road condition survey for appraisal. Due to the
deterioration that occurred during the several years that elapsed between the original survey, which was the
basis of the appraisal, and when the actual work was carried out, it was not possible to use as much
surface dressing (intended to extend the life of asphalt concrete roads that are still in relatively good
condition) as originally planned. Therefore, the kilometers of surface dressing were reduced and the more
costly and substantial periodic maintenance and reconstruction was increased, leading to improvements in
fewer total km of roads than in the original work program. However, this was anticipated during appraisal
(see para. 4.5 of the Staff Appraisal Report dated August 22, 1995), and did not represent any change in
-3 -



project objectives or a restructuring of the project itself. The actual project cost was US$36.65
million, compared to the original estimate of US$36.9 million. The revised components were as
follows:
(a) Periodic Highway Maintenance (US$25.50 million). Surface dressing of 305.23 km, overlays of
306.88 km, and reconstruction of 16.09 km of roads of the Interstate Road Network for a total of 628.2
km, compared to the appraisal estimate of 1,200 km, 205 Iam, and 23 km, respectively, for the reasons
explained above.
(b) Bridges and Tunnels (US$1.40 million). Renovation of the Pushkin tunnel, a 2000 meter long tunnel on
the road to Tbilisi. Establishment of a bridge inspection and a bridge management system with survey
equipment provided under a TRACECA grant.
(c) Materials for Routine Maintenance (US$2.46 million). Bitumen for the routine maintenance of the
paved national road network and fuel for winter maintenance for two years to meet the urgent need for both
routine and winter maintenance.
(d) Eguipment and Spare Parts (US$4.06 million). Equipment for the introduction of new pavement and
road maintenance technology to improve the quality of road repairs and spare parts for the existing
equipment. A Plant Pool was established to maintain the equipment and to make it available to contractors
on a rental basis.
(e) Institutional Strengthening and Technical Upgrading (US$2.21 million!.  Consultant services,
equipment and training to assist AR to restructure its organization and operational procedures and for the
training of the private road construction industry.
(f) Proiect Implementation (US$1.02 million). Support for a Project Implementing Unit (PIU) within the
AR to manage project activities. This included office equipment and supplies, support for operating
expenses, and the salaries for the PIU staff. In addition, IDA agreed to finance the integrated staff of the
PIU and AR after they were amalgamated into a single organization. The increase in the cost of this
category compared to the appraisal estimate was the result of the one year extension of the project that was
necessary to accommodate the additional funding that was made available through the supplemental IDA
financing (see para. 5.1), and the addition of the AR staff to the budget for the last year of the project after
the PIU and AR were merged.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR finds the quality at entry to be satisfactory. The objectives of the project were consistent with the
objectives of the CAS and Government priorities. The project design, with a heavy emphasis on
institutional strengthening, is appropriate for an organization in need of a major overhaul of its technical
and operational practices. The preparation took into account the Bank's safeguard policies including the
development of an appropriate environmental management plan. The project risks were appropriately
assessed and addressed in the project design, and the Bank's worldwide experience with similar projects
was applied. The economic analysis was done competently, and the final results are at the high end of what
was expected at appraisal. There was no Quality Assurance Group assessment of this project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall objective of assisting in preserving the Armenian (main) road network was fully achieved, and
there is a noticeable improvement in the road administration's (AR) management capacity, and condition of
the main roads. The road network that serves most transport demand in Armenia now provides a platform
for socioeconomic development and economic growth.  The institutional strengthening of the road
administration improved the efficiency of Armenia's road maintenance operations substantially, as
described later in para. 4.2 (e). Road condition improved markedly. Measured by the International Road
- 4 -



Roughness Index, road surface roughness reduced from 6.6. to 4.5 (m/kin). An improved schedule of road
user charges was put into effect (see para. 4.2 (e), even though the level of the charges and the amount of
transfers that are actually made from the Ministry of Finance to the road administration budget are not yet
at an adequate level to maintain the entire road network. An effective and efficient private road
construction industry developed during the project and now functions under the regime of competitive
bidding, and progress has been made in putting routine maintenance on a contract basis as well. An
ambitious road safety program was prepared, an accident reporting and analysis system was installed. The
road safety program will be implemented with financing from the recently approved Transport Project.
Although the persistent shortage of financing for road maintenance has created problems as discussed
below, the main road network has been improved at very low cost with workmanship at a high level of
quality. In many respects, the outcome of the project can be rated as highly satisfactory, considering the
modest initial beginnings: poor condition of the road network and an old-fashioned road administration.
However, owing to the persistent shortage of government resources to road maintenance, the overall project
is rated as Satisfactory.
4.2 Outputts by conmponents:
(a) Periodic Highway Maintenance. Outcome of this component was highly satisfactory, with a marked
improvement of the most heavily traveled roads in the country. At the time of appraisal, the main road
network was at a critical juncture and badly deteriorated due to six years of no periodic maintenance and
the poor quality of the previous maintenance work. The deterioration accelerated between the time of the
road survey that was the basis of appraisal and the time when work was actually carried out. The
consequence of this was that more substantial improvements had to be made than originally planned,
principally with the application of more overlays and leveling layers instead of simple surface dressings.
The total km of roads improved, therefore, was reduced from the originally planned 1,428 km to 628.2 km,
principally by a reduction of the planned 1200 km of surface dressings to 305.23 while overlays were
increased from 205 km to 306.88 km. The economic rate of return, however, was not only maintained but
was increased from 38.0 percent to 44.3 percent. Even more important, the overall roughness of the most
highly traveled 800 km of roads was steadily improved from an IRI of 6.1 in 1996 to IRI 4.5 at the end of
1999.
Equally important was the introduction of a number of new technologies and a significant improvement in
the quality of the road works. Special training and new equipment was acquired for surface dressings,
which were not well applied in former times, and this valuable technique enabled AR to extend the useful
life of pavements at relatively low cost. Close supervision and the introduction of full payment to
contractors only for works that meet the contractual standards have also increased the quality of road
works. The Soviet technical standards for materials and road works have been upgraded, and the required
specifications must now be met in order for the road works to be accepted. The overall effect of these
improvements will be observed in an extended life of the improved pavements, with consequent reductions
in maintenance costs in the future.
(b) Bridges and Tunnels. This component was primarily intended to initiate an effective bridge inspection
system. In addition, some sample bridges and/or tunnels were to be improved if the proposed works had an
economic rate of return greater than 12 percent. The bridge inspection system was set up and is operating,
and one tunnel, the Pushkin tunnel, was included in the works program. The Pushkin Tunnel is located on
an important route connecting Yerevan to Tbilisi, and was in very poor condition and virtually impassable
with extensive leakage that had destroyed most of the road bed in the tunnel. The alternative route required
traveling an extra 16 km on a curving, mountainous road that was sometimes impassable in winter. A
highly qualified Austrian consultant with extensive tunnel experience was engaged to make a design for
reducing the water leakage. The works are now completed, the tunnel is passable and in good condition,
- 5-



and the use of the much longer and more difficult road has been eliminated, thus reducing travel time and
costs.
(c) Materials for Routine Maintenance. Bitumen needed for routine maintenance was procured from the
Credit during the first two years of the project, since little or no funds were available for this purpose from
the Government's budget. This allowed potholes to be filled, which was essential to keep the road network
from  severe deterioration prior to the application of periodic maintenance improvements.  While
calculations for economic rates of return on pothole repair are difficult, experience elsewhere generally
show rates of return in excess of 100 percent.
(d) Equipment and Spare Parts. The project introduced new and improved types of equipment such as
bitumen distributors and aggregate spreaders for surface dressing, a mobile emulsion plant, powerful
modem trucks with snow plows, and equipment for pothole repairs. It was not possible to equip all the
District Offices with new equipment, which in any event were being corporatized or privatized into
commercial companies. AR established a plant pool for the first tranche of new equipment, as well as for
some of its existing equipment, which was then made available to all contractors on a rental basis at the
same rates for all contractors. The Plant Pool, which was set up as a Government-owned joint stock
company and operated as a commercial entity without Govemrnent support for its operating budget, entered
into an agreement with the Ministry of Finance to repay the cost of the equipment over a 25 year period,
with no grace period and no interest.
An international equipment expert calculated the rental rates that would be necessary to make the Plant
Pool operations commercially sustainable over the longer run. In practice, however, it was not possible to
charge equipment rental rates at the full rates that would cover depreciation and maintenance in view of
Armenia's low price structare and the contractors' lack of funds. For the first year, therefore, rates at 50
percent of the full rates were charged to assure that the contractors could become aware of the capability of
the new equipment to increase the quality of their work. In the second year, the rates were then increased to
65 percent of the full rates and to 85 percent in the third year. As the rates were increased, the equipment
became less fully utilized, and the Plant Pool could not meet its repayment obligations to the Ministry of
Finance. Consequently, tlhe amount of equipment originally planned to be purchased was reduced from the
planned level of US$5.70 million to US$4.06 million. The rental rates were decreased from 85 percent to
65 percent of the full rates in the fourth year in order to encourage use of the equipment. The Plant Pool
continues to have difficulty in achieving commercial viability due to the low price structure in Armenia,
aggravated by the decline in total road construction during the past year. This may improve as the level of
road work in Armenia increases over the next several years.
The introduction of new equipment was critical to the introduction of new technologies and for upgrading
the contracting industry's ability to carry out good quality work, in particular for surface dressings where
the available equipment was not capable of producing an adequate result. However, in hindsight a more
selective list of equipment should have been purchased, since the price structure in Armenia can not
support the full rates needed for commercial viability of some types of new equipment. When considering
equipment purchases in future projects, it would generally be preferable to leave this to the contractors,
and/or only consider equipment that is economically viable under existing local conditions.
(e) Institutional Strengthening and Technical UVpgrading. The project's greatest achievements were in
institutional strengthening. At the time of project preparation, AR had 4000 direct hire staff (down from
10,000 at the peak employment level of 1989), but not enough budget to pay them. During the first three
years of the project, an extended Project Implementation Unit (PIU) consisting of 25 persons was set up
that in effect carried out all of AR's (client) operations except for routine and winter maintenance. This
- 6 -



permitted the Director of AR to employ high quality personnel, including selecting existing AR staff and
also recruiting new staff. They were selected on a competitive basis and paid at rates higher than the
regular Government salary but still modest by international standards. Many of the 41 District Office
road maintenance organizations were converted to Joint Stock Companies and put on a commercial basis
without direct financial support frora the Government, and 19 of these were converted to private
companies.
The institutional strengthening of AR included the following:
-Standards and procedures for improved quality control were established;
-Staff was trained in the use of the World Bank HDM software, and planning and prioritizing of road
repairs is now based on its use.
-A Pavement Management System was installed and a data bank begun.
-Technical specifications were updated to be consistent with Western standards.
-Contracting on a competitive basis was introduced, and is now used for all periodic maintenance.
-Contracting for routine maintenance is now carried out on a pilot basis.
The staff and the contractors for the road construction industry were exposed to extensive training, both
in-country and abroad (see Annex 8). In total, more than 500 Armenians participated in training programs,
both in Armenia and abroad. Through an extensive training program under a twining arrangement with
France, and with financial support from the European Union, modem laboratory testing procedures were
introduced with the new equipment. The equipment was leased to a private engineering company that
carries out the testing for AR and the private contractors for a fee.
In 1998, AR merged the remaining portion of its organization with the PIU (along with additional
reductions in staff), creating a single organization of about 50 persons with the same salary structure for
everyone in the restructured organization. Personnel from the old organization were selected for the new
organization on a competitive basis. The new organization adopted the name "Armenia Roads SS CC",
and was legally established as a publicly owned Joint Stock Company (the abbreviation "AR" will continue
to be used throughout this report to indicate Armenia Roads as well as its predecessor organization).
A road safety plan was developed with the assistance of consultants financed by a grant from the
Netherlands, and the early phases of the program were implemented. This included training for the traffic
police, the introduction of an improved system for accident reporting, a computerized system for accident
analysis, and the holding of a National Road Safety Seminar to raise awareness about road traffic safety.
Accident statistics were revised to follow intemational standards, and the statistical data are now broadcast
on radio and television. Further portions of the plan will be implemented under the Transport Project that
has recently been approved.
At appraisal, the only road user charges in effect were a general tax on total revenues of 2.0 percent for
transport companies and 0.4 percent for all other companies. A study was carried out for establishing an
improved set of road user charges. As a result of the studies and discussions with the Government, the
general revenue tax was dropped and replaced with an increase in the fuel excise tax rate of 10 percent.
Also, a vehicle registration tax, a special set of fees for heavy vehicles, and a transit tax were introduced,
resulting in a road user tax structure that is now appropriate. However, the level of taxation is still not
sufficient to cover the full cost of road maintenance, and the revenues from the road user charges go
directly to general revenues.
-7 -



In summary, an impressive array of improvements was undertaken and successfully absorbed by the
Armenia Roads SS CC, with significant improvements in road quality and much reduced costs of future
road maintenance operations.
(f) Project Implementation. The establishment and operation of the PIU, and its eventual integration with
the rest of AR, is described above. By the time of project completion, AR's direct hire staff had been
reduced from 4000 to the 50 persons that carry out the planning, contracting and supervision of works.
The road works are all performed on a contract basis. The use of project funds for paying salaries to AR
personnel that were higher than the minimal Government wages was a critical factor in making these
institutional improvements possible. It permitted the hiring of high quality staff through competitive
selection and the maintenance of high performance standards within the organization.
Co-financing, on a grant basis, was made available from a wide variety of sources, as follows:
The EU financed the Highway Survey that provided the feasibility study for the project
preparation.
A Japanese PHRD grant for US$447,000 financed organizational studies for AR and its District
Offices, provided for consultants to provide assistance in improving quality control and the development of
the private road construction industry, and extensive training of contractors, and in highway planning,
project management, design and review of specifications, and in bridge and tunnel design.
The Netherlands financed consultants to carry out a road safety survey and to assist in the
preparation of the Road Safety Plan.
France provided technical experts and training related to road technology, and laboratory services
and equipment, with the cost of travel and subsistence for the French consultants and for the trainees paid
by EU-TACIS.
TRACECA financed the installation of a Pavement Management System and a Falling Weight
Deflectometer, and studies related to winter maintenance.
EU-TACIS, through its Tempest Program with the University of Birmingham and Trinity College,
Dublin, provided technical support and training for the upgrading of Civil Engineering training at the
Yerevan Institute of Architecture and Construction.
Sweden financed consultants to assist AR in learning to carry out routine maintenance by contract.
The Japanese Government financed studies of landslides in Armenia and how to mitigate their
effects.
The co-financing was organized by the IDA staff, who assisted in the preparation of the terms of reference
for the consultant activities. The cost of the project co-financing included in Annex 2 does not include the
Highway Survey or the PHRD grant, which were provided during the project preparation phase, The total
cost of the rest of the co-financing was recorded as US$780,000 by the PIU, although the actual cost may
have been substantially higher when all costs not available to the PIU are taken into account.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, the Periodic Maintenance component, with an estimated cost of US$18.6 million without
contingencies, representing 57 percent of the total project base costs, had a calculated ERR of 38.0 percent.
No NPV was required, or calculated, at that time. The actual ERR for this component, which cost
US$25.50 million, was 44.3 percent. The World Bank HDM model, adapted to Armenian conditions, was
used for both calculations, with the actual rate of return based on updated traffic counts at the time of
completion, the actual roughness of the pavement after completion of the work, and updated values for
vehicle operating costs. Benefits resulted from the reduction in vehicle operating costs, caused by reduced
roughness of the road surface and reduced transport time, and the reduction in road maintenance costs
-8 -



caused by the higher quality of the road works. The cost of the renovation of the Pushkin tunnel, which
enabled the use of the shorter and better route, was compared to the use of a longer alternative route.
NPVs were calculated at completion to be US$102.5 million, assuming a cost of capital of 12 percent. No
other components had calculated rates of return at the appraisal stage.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated during project preparation since ARD was not a revenue
producing entity.
4.5 Institutional development imipact:
This is described fully in para. 4.2 (e) above. As mentioned, this component made the most significant
impact of the project, since it created a road administration that had the capacity to plan and carry out
future road works with a greatly improved efficiency and quality. Areas that need emphasis in the future
include:
-Routine maintenance by competitive contracting should be extended to all routine maintenance.
-The Road Safety Plan should be irnplemented.
-The results of the landslide study should be implemented.
-Additional new technologies, including the use of cold emulsion and recycling, should be introduced.
-The achievements made under the Highway Project should be preserved and strengthened.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governminent or implementing agency:
At the time of appraisal, there was a specific commitment from the Kuwait Fund to co-finance the project
with a contribution of US$15.0 million. In order not to delay project star-tup, and since the project had
many small components that could be easily divided between the co-financiers, the financing plan was
arranged as parallel financing. The Kuwait Fund changed its position and decided not to finance its part of
the project. When additional IDA funds became available, an amount of SDR 11.0 million (equivalent at
that time to US$15.0 million) was approved by the IDA Board of Executive Directors as Supplemental
Financing for the Highway Project. As a result of the delay in arranging this additional financing, the
project was extended for one additional year, with the Closing Date changed from December 31, 1999 to
December 31, 2000. This change in financing arrangements did not have any detrimental effect on the
project other than to extend the implementation period by one year.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Financing from the Governmnent for counterpart funds and for AR's regular budget was the major, and the
only serious problem during the entire life of the project. The full amount of counterpart financing was
frequently not available until well after the completion of individual contracts. IDA's frequent intervention
to secure these funds did to some extent relieve the situation temporarily, but arrears would arise again in
the following year. Regarding AR's budget, the Credit Agreement had a condition (Section 4.02 (a)) that
the Government would "provide to AR, promptly as needed, the budgetary resources for road maintenance
not covered by the project activities, at an increasing level not less than the rate of increase in the
Borrower's overall revenues". The intention of this provision was to assure that the IDA financing led to
additional Government spending for road maintenance, and to keep the Government from becoming
dependent on outside assistance permanently. Generally, the Government met this condition, but only after
frequent delays. In the final year of the project, the Government set a budget level that met the overall
commitment level, but with restricted funds from privatization proceeds that did not allow adequate
financing for winter and routine maintenance. The financing shortfalls are not unique to this project,
however, but are typical of a general shortage of finance that plagues the Government in all sectors of the
-9-



economy.
5.3 Factors generally suibject to inmplemnenting agencyi control:
Generally, the implementing agency, AR, performed extremely well, as described above. However, in the
last year of the project, appointments of deputy directors were made by the Government to the AR staff,
that were in excess of the agreed staffing levels and without the competitive selection process that had been
agreed to as a basis for the integrated organizational structure. This problem has now been resolved after
IDA intervention.
5.4 Costs andfiniancing:
Para. 4.2 describes the changes in the design of the maintenance works due to the additional deterioration of
the road before the works began, which resulted in less km of roads repaired and a higher cost per km
because of this additional work. This was foreseen in the Staff Appraisal Report. Another factor leading
to the increased cost per km of the surface dressings was the need for more leveling layers than were
included in the appraisal estimates. While this increased the cost, it also increased the benefits since it led
to lower vehicle operating costs than would have been the case with surface dressings alone. A comparison
of the estimated and actual costs for each type of operation is:
__ _ ___  Estimated Cost- US$ per km   Actual Cost- US$ per km
Surface Dressings                          7,000 (no leveling)       20,480 (leveling included)
Overlays                                  32,000                      57,440
Reconstruction                           132,000                     148,960
An examination of the contracts, however, revealed that the unit costs used in the original estimate were
very close to the actual costs of the work that was performed. Specifically, a comparison of estimated and
actual costs of surface dressings and overlays is as follows:
Estimated Cost  r s uare meter  Actual Cost er s uare meter
Cost of Surface Dressing                 US$1.00                        US$0.97
Cost of 5 cm Overlay                     US$4.70                        US$4.06
Cost of 6 cm Overlay                    Not available                   US$4.66
These unit costs for surface dressings and overlays compare very favorably with unit costs for similar
operations in other countries, as does the cost per km for reconstruction. However, it is likely that better
planning and design would have reduced the volume of the leveling layer and hence the costs of the final
product. This aspect of pavement design needs more attention in the future.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainahilit ratinig:
Sustainability of project objectives is likely primarily because of the substantial achievements in
institutional strengthening and the introduction of competition within the road construction industry.
Modem road management systems supported by timely data are used for planning and prioritizing the use
of resources, new technologies, an adequate laboratory, and an effective quality control system are now in
place and are not likely to be set aside, as their utility is obvious to their users. The road administration is
integrated at a salary level that is low but higher than normal Government pay, which should aid in the
retention of qualified staff. The commercialization and privatization of the road construction companies is
- 10-



in place and is unlikely to be reversed, as it is consistent with established Government policy. Further
reinforcing the progress that has been made is the financing that will be available from the recently
approved Transport Project (Cr. 3375..AM), which will provide administrative support for AR's staff on a
declining basis, as well as additional funding for periodic maintenance. On the negative side, budget
resources from the Government continue to be less than optimal, although a provision in the Transport
Project seeks to find a longer term solution to this problem. Also, a failure of the Government to meet its
obligation to finance AR's staff salaries as the IDA support declines could threaten the retention of well
qualified staff. Therefore, while on balance the prospects for sustainability are good, it would be
premature to rate sustainability as highly likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
(a) The transition of AR from a large, unwieldy and inefficient Government operation to a lean, 50 person
professional staff at a pay level that is reasonable by Armenian standards has already taken place. Further,
the Transport Project includes provisions for the gradual increase in AR's budget level, for additional road
maintenance financing from IDA for another four years, and continued institutional support from qualified
international consultants to continue the work of updating technical standards, introducing additional new
technologies, improving the bridge management system and maintenance technology, and implementing the
road safety program that was prepared under the Highway Project.
(b) The most effective monitoring indicator is the use of annual surveys of road roughness to determine the
condition of the main road network. The initial survey was for the most important 800 km of roads; this
has been extended to about 1300 km now, and will continue to be extended as road maintenance expands to
a larger portion of the network. Also, the level of resources available each year will provide some
indication of the amount of maintenance that can be carried out, which in tum is essential for maintaining a
viable road construction industry.
(c) Follow-up by IDA will take place through the supervision of the Transport Project, which has already
been signed and was declared effective in March, 2001.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in identifying, preparing and appraising the Project was highly satisfactory. The
Bank staff identified and prepared a project that was consistent with the country's development strategy and
the Bank's CAS. Project preparation was completed in three missions, starting in October 1994 and
concluding in March 1995, with negotiations held in July 1995 followed by Board Presentation on
September 14, 1995. Thus the entire preparation process from the first identification mission to Board
Presentation was carried out in less than one year. The amount of Bank staff time used for project
preparation and negotiation was 78.5 staff weeks, considerably below the Banks average.
During the preparation process, good working relations were developed with the Bank's counterparts, who
were fully involved in every aspect of project preparation. Grant financing from a wide variety of donors
was secured, and Finland in particular was helpful in completing the selection of roads to be improved and
in assisting in the early phases of the institutional strengthening process. The Bank staff correctly assessed
that AR, with no prior experience with World Bank-financed projects, would need assistance in
procurement and in financial management, and brought in appropriate experts to assist in both of these
areas. The institutional component was ambitious, but in retrospect was achievable since virtually every
aspect of the planned program was completed satisfactorily. Formal performance indicators were not in
use by the Bank at the time of project preparation, but were introduced shortly after project startup and
- II -



carried on throughout the project's implementation.
7.2 Suipervision:
The Bank's supervision of the project was highly satisfactory. Total time devoted to supervision to date is
85.89 staff weeks. The introduction of AR to Bank procedures, assisting in the creation of the original PIU
and the later organizational restructuring of AR to integrate the PIU with the remaining organization,
providing guidance to AR in the selection of qualified consultants, and working cooperatively with those
consultants in the introduction of new technologies were all carried out in an exceptional manner. Relations
with the Bank's counterparts were close and cooperative, and ideas were freely exchanged in both directions
on difficult organizational and personnel issues throughout the life of the project. Cooperation with the
Bank's field office was good, and management support was requested and received in a supportive manner
throughout. An adequate amount of time was spent on supervision, both in AR's headquarters and in field
visits to see the results of the works at first hand.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The Bank staff performance overall is rated as highly satisfactory for the reasons outlined above. Of
special importance was the planning and initiation of an effective road administration suitable for a market
economy, equipped with modem technical skills and methods of operation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower carried out its responsibilities for preparation in a timely and cooperative manner. At the
time of project preparation, AR was not an effective organization, eroded by years of bad practice and
inadequate budgets. Its leadership during the project's preparation deserves much credit for having the
vision and initiative to undertake a complete restructuring of the road administration, with the adoption of
new methods of operation with which it was not familiar. The leadership did everything possible to assist
in the preparation of the project, and made wise choices in selecting the personnel for the expanded PIU
operation, which facilitated implementation. For these reasons, the borrower's role in the preparation is
rated Highly Satisfactory.
7.5 Government inplementation performance:
The Govemment has consistently supported the commercialization and privatization of road maintenance
and construction operations, which permitted the reduction of the excessive levels of staff in the old road
administration. It also implemented a restructuring of road user charges in an appropriate way, as
described in para. 4.2 (e). The principal shortcoming in regard to the project's implementation, however,
was the Govemment's inability to provide the level of counterpart and AR budget financing that is needed
to keep the road network in good condition, as described earlier. While it eventually met its conimitments
as outlined in the Credit Agreement, payments were consistently late, and left contractors unpaid for
considerable periods of time. Also, the level of funding for AR's budget has not increased sufficiently for
Armenia to meet its minimum road maintenance needs without outside assistance. The problem of shortage
of funds for essential operations is not, of course, limited to road financing but is endemic in all aspects of
government operations in Armenia. In the last year of the project, appointments were made by the
Government to the AR staff, as deputy directors, that were in excess of the agreed staffing levels and
without the competitive selection process that had been agreed as a basis for the integrated organizational
structure.  Although this problem  was resolved after IDA intervention, it affected negatively the
Government's performance during this later period. Overall, the Government's role in the implementation of
the project is rated as marginally Satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The AR leadership used excellent judgment in selecting staff that were experienced in road technology and
- 12 -



were prepared to work hard to learn Bank guidelines and new methods of operation. AR followed through
on the implementation of the project by tireless work and effort to make the project a success. Some
mistakes were made in the early stages of trying new technologies such as the first year's efforts to apply
surface dressings, some of which were not of high quality. However, as the contractors found that work
that did not meet the specifications was not paid for, they quickly learned from these mistakes and corrected
them. AR helped by conducting special training to contractors on surface dressings, and the work in
subsequent years was of high quality. AR utilized the available technical assistance effectively, while
absorbing the new skills in such a manner that they could be carried on after the outside experts were gone.
It also learned the Bank's procurement procedures so that it could apply them with minimal delays,
although this ability has been reduced recently due to personnel changes. Overall, however, AR's
implementation of the project is rated as Highly Satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower peiformance:
Overall, the borrower's performance is rated as Satisfactory, as the project was able to achieve its
objectives effectively in spite of the delays in financing described above.
8. Lessons Learned
There are a number of lessons that can be learned from this project, some of which have been observed in
other projects previously but which are reinforced by the experience with the Armenia Highway Project.
These include:
a. Good Counterparts Make Good Projects. The AR leadership used excellent judgment in selecting
staff that were experienced in road techmology and were prepared to work hard to learn Bank guidelines and
new methods of operation. While the project made additional resources and opportunities available, the
work had to be carried out by the AR staff. The ability to pay higher than the extremely low Government
salaries greatly facilitated the selection of qualified staff. Unfortunately, some of the highly qualified staff
departed near the end of the project. The selection and training of replacements will be critical to the
success of the successor Transport Project.
b. Overall Road Costs Can Be Reduced by 50 Percent or More Compared to Soviet Period
Operations. Armenia was spending about US$60 million per year on road maintenance during the last
years of the Soviet period. By the emphasis on cost consciousness through the use of economic analysis,
the introduction of competitive bidding, improved road maintenance technology including better technical
standards, better quality controls, and timely application of maintenance works, the roads in Armenia's
national road network should be able to be kept in good condition for about half of this amount. This level
of savings, which is similar to ECSINs experience in several other former Soviet countries, should be made
known to governments that are considering whether to restructure and revise the operations of their road
administrations.
c. Government Support at the Highest Level Is Critical for Carrying Out Necessary Restructuring.
Changing senior personnel, reductions in direct hire staff through the conversion of public companies to
commercialized status, separating the management of the road administration from the service delivery
units, and supporting the use of competitive bidding is only possible with a government that has the vision
to move to a new manner of operating. In this case, the basic philosophy of the Government was
supportive of the changes that were needed, and it not only supported but in many cases initiated these
changes.
- 13 -



d. It Is Difficult to Assure a Steady and Reliable Source of Financing for Road Maintenance Without
Some Special Financing Arrangement. The Armenian experience of persistent uncertainty in the
availability of budget funds for road management once again demonstrates that, as a rule, when left to the
regular budgetary process, road maintenance gets an inadequate level of funding even when specific road
user charges generate an adequate level of income. There is no unanimity, inside or outside the Bank, of
the merits of Road Funds. Critics of Road Funds argue that these 'earmarked' funds reduce the
government's flexibility, reflect poor governance and may lead to inefficiency and even misuse. The
proponents of Road Funds argue that roads should be put on 'fee for service' basis and that a road tariff, a
special levy on fuel, should be placed in a Road Fund and used for road management Road Funds would
assure that financing will be forthcoming in a predictable manner, which is essential for good planning and
management, for carrying out effective road maintenance operations and maintaining a healthy and
competitive road construction industry. Road Funds are also a good way to link road user payments to
road maintenance and road conditions. It would be important for the Bank to investigate the institutional,
technical, legal, public acceptance, and planning issues, and experiment when possible, to determine
whether a road tariff, based on a road user charge study and collected using inexpensive IT technology,
could replace the road user charge part of the excise tax on fuel (or fuel surcharge). Such a road user tariff
would help establish a level playing field across all modes of transport and ensure predictable road budgets.
e. The Introduction of Plant Pools Must Be Carefully Planned. The experience with the Armenian
Plant Pool makes clear that the operation of Plant Pools is fraught with many perils. While in some cases it
may be the only means of upgrading technologies requiring modem equipment, as was the case in Armenia,
the purchase of Plant Pool equipment should be limited to the minimum necessary for this purpose. On the
whole, it is preferable to let the contractors solve their own equipment problems.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrow'er/inmplenzenting agency:
Armenia Highway Project
Introduction
Motor car roads are important part of Republican transport system. In conditions of a poorly developed
railroad system because of country's mountainous relief, motor car roads have crucial importance in the
country's economic and social development. The role of Armenia highways is irreplaceable in the
international transportation sphere. To perform this role properly it is necessary to have an effective and
safe and not damaging to the environment, road network, that will meet road users requirements.
The quantity of road repair works decreased from 1988 on and in 1993 these works stopped. This led to a
situation that the accumulated quantity of not-completed repair works increased sharply. In 1996 the total
backlog was 14145 km. In 1993-1995, only general maintenance works were implemented. So, the roads-
were under a big threat of deterioration, with big problems in maintenance and rehabilitation activities.
It was necessary to undertake urgent measures to save the roads, otherwise it would be necessary to make
much more expensive investments in the future. To achieve this purpose, the Armenia Government, jointly
with the World Bank, developed the Armenia Highways Rehabilitation Project. Implementation of the
Program would increase maintenance works and extend the roads' functioning time, reduce transportation
costs, and reduce the quantity of traffic accidents.
- 14-



The project had following objectives:
1. To carry out in Armenia capital and periodic maintenance works
2. To expand sources of financing for roads maintenance through introduction of special taxes, imposed on
road users.
3. To establish effective private roads construction industry.
4. To promote in creation of a new roads construction industry, corresponding to market economy.
5. To improve Road Safety
The economic efficiency of the Project was estimated as 38% EIRR (Economic Internal Rate of Return).
One must note, that even 12% is a rate that is considered as satisfactory.
Highways rehabilitation works and road sections selection and planning.
One of the improvements provided in the Highways Project was the selection of the rehabilitation works,
based on effective analysis of "expenditures and savings". Closely connected two branches of the economy
- roads rehabilitation [costs] and transport means maintenance [savings in road user costs] - had earlier
been studied and financed separately. Economic analysis of their cause and effect relationship that justified
the investments' necessity didn't exist.
In 1995 within the Highways Project, for the first time, Armenia began to use HDM model for economic
planning of road investments' effectiveness. HDM model was developed by the World Bank and was
introduced in over 80 countries. Currently, timely road pavement condition surveys, traffic volume and
their type, and periodic HDM calculations are the effective base on which monthly plans of Highways
Rehabilitation Project were created. Sections to be rehabilitated are selected from among the republican
roads, having strategic importance, according the most "effectiveness principle", i.e. these are the sections
where investments lead to the maximum transport costs reduction, usually several times higher than
investments costs. This way the most essential parts of national riches are saved and also it is a step to
involve the republic in the intemational transportation system.
Such planning system, which is based on road pavement dynamic changes, can function only using an exact
and complete data base. Consequently, monthly plans within the Project, starting from the conditions study
and until Design and Bidding document preparation, were formed in close cooperation with foreign
specialists, having high qualification and selected through ICB. Thus the Project provided new modem
technologies' introduction in the republic and assisted to improve Armenian specialists' qualification.
Civil works and their supervision
Credit program's civil works summary results are as follows: Totally rehabilitated roads sections of
628.2km length, including the following works: Surface dressing - 305.23km; Asphalt-concrete pavement
306.88km; and Reconstruction - 16.09k1n
The Highway Project was implemented according to the Credit Agreement and according to the Highway
Project plans and rules, jointly developed by Republic of Armenia (RA) Government and the World Bank.
Procurement of main works, services and goods were carried out through competitive bidding method. The
process was controlled by the following system:
-  All civil works, supervised by international independent supervisors, were selected through open,
competitive bidding.
- 15 -



-  In compliance with RA Government decision, a Government Council was established to solve basic
problems and to approve results of the bidding process, related with the Highway Project.
- Every week the specialists and independent supervisors reported on implemented works quantities,
current state, progress and also discussed problems that arose during the work. The minutes of the
meetings were submitted to RA Transport and Communication Minister and to RA Government.
- Process of the Project implementation was discussed periodically during RA Transport and
Communication Ministry board meetings.
- Monthly, quarterly, and annually reports on implemented work, as well as upon requirement, were
submitted to RA Transport and Communication Ministry, RA Economy and Finance Ministry, to RA
Government, and to the World Bank.
Equipment and Materials Procurement.
Decrease of activity in road construction during 10 years and the sharp lack of financial resources,
necessary for repair and procurement of spare parts for existing road equipment, transportation means, and
asphalt plants led to serious deterioration of road equipment base. With 10 years old and poorly repaired
equipment it was impossible to cany out repair and maintenance activities on road network with high
quality. That is why, within the Highway Project, a plan was prepared and implemented for procurement.
It had the following objectives:
- To repair and restore that part of existing technical base, which was necessary to fulfill works within
the Highway Project.
- To provide the road construction industry with new equipment in order to meet new quality
requirements and also to introduce new, modern technologies.
- To procure European standards laboratory equipment, aiming to realize materials' and works' quality
control based on the newest equipment and testing methods not used earlier in the republic.
- Through equipment, bitumen and fuel procurement to promote SSCC "Armenian Roads" to realize
winter and routine maintenance implementation.
- Taking into account the transport blockade of the republic and also necessary assistance to Contractors
during the first construction season, to procure and to distribute required bitumen quantity.
- Aiming to introduce competitive bidding principles, to introduce market relationships and also to
maintain and to repair procured equipment, to establish a Plant Pool, which would meet modem
technical requirements and would be well equipped.
- Aiming to realize implemented works' quick control on site, productive activity of the PIU, to procure
computers, vehicles and other organization equipment.
Experience exchange and training
One of the basic links of the Highway Project was training and improvement of special skills of Armenian
specialists, involved in all stages of road construction process, introduction of new technologies and
equipment, creation and implementation of a complex program of institutional management and quality
control process. This became an intellectual and professional base, without which it would have been very
difficult to make serious change in the road sector.
Within the Highways Project broad measures were fulfilled in order to improve the professional skills of
Armenian specialists. During about 60 lectures and seminars, organized with an assistance of the best
foreign experts, more than 500 Armenian specialists have got knowledge and studied management,
construction and modem supervision methods. About 40 specialists were trained in different European
countries and the USA.
16 -



Implementation by the World Banrk and RA Government
The Bank management and assistance activity during the Project's preparation and implementation was
highly estimated. Permanent and essential assistance of the World Bank Project working group has been
one of the major components of the Project successful implementation, including the road sector structural
improvement, the road industry basic reorganization, privatization and transition to the market economy,
also the introduction of new effective technologies and methods.
According the actual requirements, during the process of the Project implementation, all permissions and
money allocations have been done by the World Bank in the shortest terms that provided the Project
implementation without difficulties.
The RA Government in the main has fulfilled it's obligations within the Credit Agreement, concerning the
Project control and management, effective use of the Credit, the road sector structural improvement, and
the implementation of the privatization process. The cofmancing allocation delays, arisen from the budget
shortage have always been discussed in the Government and the allocations have been done within the
possibility.
The legislation base, concerning the collection of funds for the road maintenance and rehabilitation
activities was improved. A number of laws on roads has been accepted, in order to create the Road Fund.
There were preliminary investigations which will be further developed in the Transport Project, and in the
corresponding law, the mechanism will be improved for creating reliable financing sources for the roads
maintenance and rehabilitation.
Conclusion on effectiveness of the RA Highways Project implementation.
1. Road Maintenance Planning:
In 1995 within the Highways Project, for the first time in the republic, HDM model was used for economic
planning of roads investments; the moidel was developed by the World Bank and was introduced in over 80
countries. It was introduced as part of an automatic road pavement management system.
2. Creation of Private Road Construction Industry.
One of the achievements of the Highways Project was the promotion of the process for internal road
construction market. In the years just before the Project, because of the financial crisis, the roads
construction sector was in almost absolutely destroyed state. Thanks to the Highways Project
implementation, it became possible to reanimate this sector. To reach this objective, and within the
Highways Project, necessary spare parts were procured, making it possible to restore the technical and
equipment base of the enterprises. Currently in the republic there are functioning about 30 enterprises able
to compete and there is no threat of market domination by foreign road construction companies. In the road
sector, within the Highway Project, was introduced works awarding method through competitive bidding.
Currently through competitive bidding are awarded not only rehabilitation works of the Highway Project,
but also the ones financed through the Budget. In the next 2 years routine and winter maintenance works
will also be awarded through competitive bidding procedures.
- 17 -



3. Social trend of the Highways Project
-  During implementation of the Highways Project works annually about 2500 working places were
available for the local staff in different regions of the republic.
- Implementation of the Highways Project had a stable influence on the local construction industry
development and therefore on National Gross Revenue increase.
4. Introduction of new technologies
New technologies were introduced in different stages of the road construction industry ( for example,
bitumen emulsion production and use, materials and production quality testing system, equipment and
methods of road pavement condition survey, modem computerized planning and management system, data
base and realistic prognosis systems), creating a sufficient base whose further successive development will
make the republic able to march in step with the world's most developed countries in the road sector.
5. Technical base rehabilitation and replenishment and assistance to the routine and winter
maintenance works
Many years of slump in economic situation led to the collapse of road construction technical base. As a
priority matter all necessary equipment and asphalt plants were rehabilitated through the procurement of
spare parts. To provide highways pavement of high quality, modern equipment of high productivity was
procured. Aiming to realize competitive bidding principles, to establish market relationships, to maintain
and to rehabilitate the procured equipment, a Plant Pool was created, which meets modem technical
requirements.
6. Road safety 5 year program
In order to improve road safety in the republic, 5-year road safety program was developed jointly with a
UK consultant company. When it is realized, the quantity of road accidents will decrease and, as a
consequence, economic damages will decrease as well.
E. Zakharyan
Minster of Transport and Communication
(b) Cojinanciers:
None
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
None.
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:        ........
i Indloetor_mti                     Pr*etd In last P$RI                   ACbLA.| E$ at
Average roughness of the main 800 km of   6.08 at project startup in 1996.   4.653 at the end of 1999
the national road network
Number of District Offices put on a   All                                    All
commercialized basis
Number of District Offices Privatized  17 out of 31                          17 out of 31
Fatalities per year                   299 in 1995                            249 in 1999
Output Indicators:
. . CatoriMstutx                    PrVctsd In last PSR                   ActioalateM EsIm tl
Km of surface dressing                305 km                                 305.23 km
Km of overlays                        306 km                                 306.88
Km of reconstruction                  16 km                                  16.09
Roughness of road sections subjed to  Average IRI before improvement- 6.43   Average IRI after improvement- 3.76
improvement
Percentage of periodic maintenance subject 0 at project startup              100 %
to HDM analysis
Percentage of ARD's resourses spent   0 at project startup                   57 %
through competitive bidding
ARD's total budget                    US$3.8 million at project startup      US$4.6 million in 1999
Percent of ARDs budget spent through  0 at project startup                   64 percent
private contractors
End of project
19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
EIstirmate    Estimate      Aprsa
Project Cost By dCompoient            b US$ mifion    US$ miltion
Periodic Road Maintenance                           18.60           25.50
Bridges and Tunnels                                  2.80            1.40
Routine and Winter Maintenance                       2.60            2.46
Equipment and Spares                                 5.70            4.06
Consultant Services and Training                     2.20            2.21
Project Administration                               0.60            1.02
Total Baseline Cost                                 32.50           36.65
Physical Contingencies                              2.90            0.00
Price Contingencies                                  1.50           0.00
Total Project Costs             36.90          36.65
Total Financing Required             36.90           36.65
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
ca 0           : tegory  t:: 00 Procurement Method
1. Works                     1.80          8.90         0.00          12.80       23.50
(1.50)       (7.60)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (9.10)
2. Goods                     4.10          0.00          1.10         4.50         9.70
________ __  (4.10)   (0.00)        (1.10)       (0.00)       (5.20)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          1.00         2.00         3.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.00)       (0.00)       (1.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.70         0.00         0.70
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.70)       (0.00)       (0.70)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      5.90         8.90          2.80         19.30        36.90
(5.60)       (7.60)        (2.80)       (0.00)       (16.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method I
Expenditure Category     itB           NCB          O            N.B.F.     Total Cost
_ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  _     Othe.    _ b_ _ _ _
1. Works                     17.40         4.00         0.00         5.50         26.90
(13.84),     (3.18)        (0.00)       (4.38)      (21.40)
2. Goods                     5.58          0.00         0.78         0.16         6.52
(5.58)       (0.00)       (0.68)       (0.13)       (6.39)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         1.40         0.81         2.21
- 20 -



(0.00)         (0.00)        (1.40)         (0.00)         (1.40)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.99           0.03          1.02
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.99)         (0.00)         (0.99)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        22.98           4.00           3.17           6.50         36.65
(19.42)        (3.18)         (3.07)         (4.51)       (30.18)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2, Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Com onent (in lJS$ million equivalent)
l                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate .   . . . . ..a
~~~~~~~IDA                Go-t   -of            MA ltovt.           COF.    I DA   Covt vCOF.
Periodic Road            17.41      3.30      0.00      20.20      5.30      0.00    116.0  160.6   0.0
Maintenance
Bridges and Tunnels       2.30      0.60      0.00       1.20      0.20       0.00    52.2   33.3   0.0
Routine and Winter       2.97       0.00      0.00       2.43      0.03      0.00     81.8   0.0    0.0
Maintenance
Equipment and Spares      6.52      0.00      0.00       3.96      0.10      0.00     60.7   0.0    0.0
Consultant Services and   1.20      0.00      2.00       1.40      0.03      0.78    116.7   0.0   39.0
Training
Project Administration   0.60       0.00      0.00       0.99      0.03      0.00    165.0   0.0    0.0
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The estimated economic returns were calculated using the World Bank HDM-3 computer model designed
for highways. HDM-3, adapted for the cost structure of the particular country involved, calculates an
economic rate of return based on benefits derived from the reduction in vehicle operating costs resulting
from improved road conditions, including reduced transport time because of less congestion and higher
vehicle speeds, reductions in vehicle maintenance, and the reduced need for future maintenance. At the
time that this appraisal was carried out, the Bank was not using Net Present Value (NPV) calculations on a
regular basis, and none was calculated for this project. Also, as the Bridges and Tunnels investments had
not been specifically identified at appraisal, no economic rates of return were calculated for this
component.
The actual ERR calculation at project completion was also calculated using HDM-4, but with updated
traffic figures, the actual cost of the works, and the actual roughness of the improved pavement.
ERR at Anpraisal    Actual Cost   ERR at Completion    NPV at
Completion
(%)            (US$ million)     (%)               (US$ million)
Surface Dressing          38%              6.25 m.          40.4%             39.7
Overlays                  75%             17.63 m.          48.8%             62.2
Reconstruction            17%              2.40 m.          22.7%              0.6
Overall Average-          38%             26.28 m.          44.3%             102.5
Periodic Maintenance
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:                 _
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performa cc Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implemcntation   Development
Month/Year   Count           Specialty                       Progress      Objective
IdentificationlPreparation
October 1994               2   Engineer, Economist
November 1994              3   Engineer, Economist,
Participation Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 1995                 3   Engineer, Economist,
Participation Specialist
Supervision
October 1995                3   Engineer, Economist,               S               S
Procurement Specialist
February 1996               2   Engineer, Economist                S               S
June 1996                   2   Engineer, Economist                S               S
October 1996                2   Engineer, Economist                S               S
March 1997                  2   Engineer, Economist                S               S
September 1997              3   Engineer, Economist, Financial     S               S
Specialist
May 1998                    2   Engineer, Economist                S               S
August 1998                 2   Engineer, Economist                S               S
February 1999               2   Engineer, Economist                S               S
June 1999                   2   Engineer, Economist                S               S
October 1999                3   Engineer, Economist,               S               S
Procurement Specialist
May 2000                    2   Engineer, Economist                S               S
September 2000              3   Engineer, Economist,               S               S
Procurement Specialist
ICR
September 2000             2    Engineer, Economist                S               S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
_________ _  ____ _  =           No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation          56.5/56.5                 169.1/169.1
Appraisal/Negotiation               22.0/22.0                   58.3/58.3
Supervision                         85.9/90.0                 379.6/418.0
ICR                                   0.0/4.0                    0.0/12.0
Total                             164.4/172.5                 607.0/657.4
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
l Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
ELPhysical                                *H OSUOM ON ONA
El Financial                              O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Li Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
LiEnvironmental                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
a Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
ZOther (Please specify)             OH   OSUOM  O N  O NA
(Traffic Safety)
L Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Ei Other (Please specify)                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U:=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            *HSOS OFu OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU  OHU
0 Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
n Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  u  O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS OS    0  U  0 HU
E Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   O U   O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoire for the ICR mission to Armenia of September 7 to 16, 2000 for the Highway Project
2. Staff Appraisal Report of the Armenia Highway Project- August 22, 1995
3. The Armenia Highway Survey- Final Report dated January 1995 by TechnEcon
4. Transport Sector Review for the Republic of Armenia- May 30, 1997 by the Infrastructure Operations
Division, ECA, World Bank
5. Road Network Survey in Armenia and Four Year Investment Program Development- Dorproject, dated
January 1999
6. Technical Services for Road Safety- Final Report dated June 1997 by Ross Silcock Limited w/TRL
Limited and Dorproject
7. Final Rep[ort for Armenia Landslide Project- D2 Consult, Austria, dated October 2000
8. Armbuild Project Final Report on Developing the Civil Engineering Degree Course of the Yerevan
Institute of Architecture and Construction, transmitted 4/2/01
9. Road Condition Report and Economic Analysis for 1996 Work program, FinnRoad
10. Routine Road Maintenance by Contract, SweRoad, 1998/10/21
11. Development of a Routine Maintenance Contract System, Project Completion Report, Volume 1 and
2, Tacis, December 1997
12. Implementation of Pavement Management Systems, Tacis, December 1996
13. Armgiprodor Laboratory Report- Organization, Training, Test Technologies and Equipment- SEEE,
October 1995
14. Armenia Roads Administration,Final Report, Institutional Development, ASL Consulting Engineers,
Mr. Serop Der- Boghosian
- 26 -



Additional Annex 8. Training Carried Out Under the Project
An extensive training program was carried out under the Highway Project for the growth of professional
skills of Armenian experts, both in ARD and the road construction industry. About sixty seminars and
training study programs were arranged by highly qualified foreign experts and more than five hundred
Arnenian technical personnel participated. They studied modem ways of supervision, techniques of
management, and construction. About fifty of these have been trained in different countries of Europe and
in USA.
Training - 1996:
a)    Winter maintenance works on base of modem methods (8 experts, one week, Finland, FinnRoad),
b)    Training of local supervisors (5 experts, two weeks, Finland, FinnRoad),
c)    Training for operators of SISU multifunctional heavy vehicles ( 5 experts, one week, Finland,
SISU),
d)    Training on laboratory equipment use within Govemnment of France technical assistance
framework (4 experts, two weeks, France),
e)    English language training and courses on computer mastering (12 specialists, two months,
Armenia).
f )    Training for ARD staff in WolId Bank procurement procedures by Bank staff
Seminar-studies
a)    Requirements on quality of construction materials and technology of mixer preparation, equipment
condition and ability to meet the requirements (250 experts, 3 days, Yerevan, Vanadzor, Goris, Armenia
(DorProject Institute),
b)    Requirements on WB bidding documents and contract conditions (23 experts, one day, Armenia,
HPIU),
c)    Actions on road safety improvement (37 experts, two days, Armenia, RossSilcock),
d)    Data base creation and work principles by PMS within Traceca Project framework (42 experts,
two days, Armenia, Kocks Consult).
Training -1977:
a)    Road safety (4 experts, two weeks, 5 experts, one week, Great Britain, Ross Silcock),
b)    Training on road construction supervision, on methods of bitumen emulsion utilization, on survey
of pavement condition within framework of cooperation between Transport Ministries of France and
Armenia ( 9 experts, two weeks, France).
Seminars:
a)    8 seminar-studies on road maintenance within Traceca program framework (127 experts, Armenia,
Kocks Consult, FinnRoad),
b)    3 seminar-studies on road safety (73 experts, Armenia, Ross Silcock).
First All-Armenian scientific seminar has been held on principal issues of road safety traffic in Armenia
(80 experts, Armenia, Ross Silcock, HPIU).
Training- 1998:
a)    Road infrastructure and road fund management methods at Birmingham University (1 expert, two
- 27 -



weeks, Great Britain, Birmingham University),
b)    Produce and utilization of bitumen emulsion (3 experts, two weeks, France),
c)    Planning and Management of roads (3 experts, three weeks. Sweden, SweRoad).
Seminars:
a)    Requirements for employees of road-construction companies on acceptance of works and technical
specifications for construction contracts, requirements on laboratory tests, on supervisors' obligations at
sites (100 participants, three days, Armenia, HPIU).
Training and seminars - 1999
1. Exhaust gases and environment protection - Yerevan Architectural - Construction Institute Center of
Excellence (YACICE), 12.05.
2. Highways  construction and exploitation- modem technologies, design and management - SSCC
Armenian Highways,YACICE, 15.05.
3. Goods and services procurement - Yerevan, 25-26 May.
4. Measurement standardization - SSCC Armenian Highways, 25.05.
5. 2 weeks training, organized by Kuab company representatives and
concerning utilization of the deflectometer, June
6. Training of 4 Armenian specialists in France devoted to bitumen
emulsion application problem, 7-21 June, 99
7. Training, organized by 2 French specialists in Armenia, devoted to
bitumen emulsion application problem, 21.06 - 05.07.
8. Within TACIS and French - Armenian cooperation programs 2
Armenian specialists participated in a training organized for them in
Autan ( France ), 6-18 September. Main examined problems
concerned asphalt, bitumen emulsion application, new technologies etc.
9. Within TACIS and French - Armenian cooperation programs a French
specialist organized in Armenia on 20-30 September training in a form
of practical work and consultations, concerning laboratory control of
asphalt works, besides he provided ARD technical literature.
10. Training in methods of applying Routine Maintenance by Contract- SweRoad.
11. Quality management and ISO - 9000 - seminar organized by
international organization ISO for developing countries ( DEVCO)
and held in Yerevan in September
12. A collaborator of SSCC Armenian Highways started the first cycle
(3 month ) of his training in Paris ( program CESROUT)
- 28 -



13. Highways management - seminar helcl in Sweden in September
with participation of 2 collaborators of SSCC Armenian Highways.
14. A collaborator of SSCC Armenian Highways participated in training
organized by National School of Bridges and Highways, 21.10-18.11.
15. Construction designs management questions - participation in a
seminar organized by YACICE on 6. 10. 99
16. Some issues of asphalt application - participation in a seminar
organized by YACICE on 10-11 Noveimber.
17. Some aspects/issues of Highway Engineering - participation in a
seminar organized by YACICE on 2-3 December.
- 29 -






IBRD 26937
44                   T,o S1E,oo--  446-                                                      1                                            48'
GEORGIA                , To Omo, B-gr,lesoe   '
>       Vo~~~~~T Bogd-novA D-,  tm4'  rs.,                        -               
41 -  - Steponcto *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-
k4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
<    , 4t  ;~~~~~ X                              > g f AZERAIJA                                HIHA PROJECT
MG   JR;K0MAIN ROAD NETWORK
R   ERVtIFO              AN  FE -S  S   ZONE
TRKY /) - __   A r IhU-:,   tr
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E RO KSAI   iWl\S } '
MN 44RMARD ROD 4ERK
r                                                                                 P~~T ToSR5I  c11 -ROJIL TROADS
To N   'cMvan -  Dolorss  / *-4 ~ ~  MLJNAIOUS- EADW  ON
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
C)F IRAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RSROR
39  oo'~~~~oooFoo<                                p                                                          4   10   ST   35  40   SR   6TK,Io,..eTers  35'~~J- k  0  OWN/VILAGE
TURKEY R- RIVERS
I      J~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAR IAI~LA~CRIG'AS
V.ik                           MARY OADS (OTHER)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MA 19



