Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2776-1 AM
 (Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 17, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2776-1 AM
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1997, between the REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Highway Project) dated October 2, 1995 (the Development Credit 
Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project); (B)
the Borrower has 
requested the Association to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project by increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit 
Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 11,000,000); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the
Development Credit Agreement
Page  2
      Section 1.01.  Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
adding a new Subsection (e) as follows:
      "(e)
‘Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement (Highway Project) between the 
Borrower and the Association, dated October 2, 1995."
      Section 1.02.  Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
            "Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, 
     on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the 
     Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
     equivalent to twenty-one million three hundred thousand Special 
           Drawing Rights (SDR 21,300,000) in two tranches, the first 
           tranche being an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten 
           million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
           10,300,000) (the First Tranche) and the second tranche being an 
           amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million 
           Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,000,000) (the Second Tranche)."
      Section 1.03.  In Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, the 
following new paragraph (d) is added:
             "(d)
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
all amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account or made subject to a special 
commitment pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall initially 
be 
charged against the First Tranche until that tranche has been exhausted, 
and 
shall thereafter be charged against the Second Tranche."
      Section 1.04.  In Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, the Closing 
Date is amended to read as December 31, 2000.
      Section 1.05.  A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
      "; provided, however, that commitment charges on the Second 
Tranche shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the 
date of the Amending Agreement."
      Section 1.06.  The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Amending Agreement.  
The percentages of expenditures to be financed as set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Amending Agreement shall be applicable in respect of payments made for expenditures 
incurred on or after the date of this Amending Agreement.
      Section 2.01.  This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Bank that: (a) the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action; and (b) the Borrower 
has submitted to the Association a schedule of road user charges and the timetable for 
its implementation acceptable to the Association.
      Section 2.02.  As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
      Section 2.03.  This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of 
the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
      Section 2.04.  If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Page  3
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Rouben Shougarian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Judy O’Connor
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Loan
      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
   Amount of the
      Credit
    % of
     Allocated
Expenditures
   (Expressed in
    to be
Category
         SDR Equivalent) 
  Financed
(1)
Civil works
           10,750,000
85%
(2)
Equipment,
            7,160,000
100% of foreign
materials and
expenditures,
supplies
                        100% of local
                              expenditures
                              (ex-factory cost)
                              and 85% of local
                        expenditures for
                              other items procured
                              locally
(3)
Technical
Assistance and
Training
(a)
for Part E of    80,000
100%
the Project
(b)
for Parts A and C
  720,000
100%
of the Project
(4)
Operating costs
        541,247
      100%
of the PIU
(5)
Refunding of
         78,753
      Amounts due
Project
                        pursuant to
Preparation
                        Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
                        of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
            1,970,000
TOTAL
                 21,300,000
Page  4
