mi짼以
/ & 딧 님  ·  기    · & 떼 … & . &. & ■’
■·」，&...&..,,.. . ·」：. &／눕： ·―.1 「― .-．·「。．.,．··． .&―신
!,-.&..．·．.&:.& -X..&‘· 」．(,-,&....!,&.,...&&r·‘.”。겹ㅑ，,(l,.｀…’··．. ’『， 「■．』’&. /,．눕［-
·…ㅑ．·，\1&1.\,―쩐 &./(-’··－떼’-.1&--&.．· -l떼」1.,&-,4．·―.，·―.J.―「―.


﻿CRE, DIT NUMBER 2776 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMIENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         &r.-    1995


﻿Credit Number 2776 AM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       OCTOV   M         , 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
ARMENIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)    the Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development a loan (the Kuwait Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
$15,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement) to be enered into between the Borrower
and the Kuwait Fund;
(C)    the Borrower intends to contract from the European Union (the EU) a
grant (the EU Grant) in an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EU Grant Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and the EU;
(D)    the Borrower intends to contract from the French Government a grant
(the French Grant) in an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the French Government
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the French Government;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inir alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with modifications thereto set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿2
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the'Bank, is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "ARD" means Armenian Road Directorate, a public agency operating
under the authority of the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and Communications;
(b)    "PIU" means Froject Implementation Unit established within ARD;
(c)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated
March 23, 1995 and April 5, 1995 between the Borrower and the Association.
(d)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount,in
various currencies equivalent to ten million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 10,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdravm from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the


﻿3
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
US dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 'to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as
may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum o
n the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿4
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
March I and September 1 commencing March 1, 2006 and ending September 1, 2030.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 1, 2015 shall be
one and one-fourth per cent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through the ARD with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall


﻿5
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including those for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a


﻿6
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall provide to ARD, promptly as needed, the
budgetary resources for road maintenance not covered by the project activities, at an
increasing level not less than the rate of increase in the Borrower's overall revenues.
(b) Not later than November 15 of each year until completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall submit to the Association an annual financing plan for the next fiscal
year which shall include, inter alia: (i) budget allocations for ARD to finance its share of
project activities; and (ii) budget allocations for ARD to finance road maintenance not
covered by the Project activities, as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿7
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    that the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement, the EU Grant Agreement and the
French Government Grant Agreement (Cofinanciers' Agreements) shall
have failed to become effective by June 30, 1996 or such later date as
the Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(b)    (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this Section:
(A)      the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
the Kuwait Fund Loan, EU Grant, French Grant or any
other loan or grant made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms thereof, or
(B)     the Kuwait Fund Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)   Paragraph (i) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿8
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition of
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have adopted a revised
schedule of road user charges acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the Genxeral Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Republic of Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿9
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                     248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
ByXhf                         AWIV
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By A/ ~~L            ,.44~3e
Ai'A Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit                % of
Allocated           Expenditures
(Expressed in            to be
Category                  SDR Equivalent)          Financed
(1)    Civil works                      5,100,000      85%
(2)    Equipment,                       3,000,000      100% of foreign
materials and                                   expenditures,
supplies                                         100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 85%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)    Technical Assistance
and training
(a) for Part E                     130,000       100%
of the Project
(b) for Parts A and C              510,000       100%
of the Project
(4)    Operating costs                    260,000       100%
of the PIU


﻿11
Amount of the
Credit                % of
Allocated           Expenditures
(Expressed in            to be
Category                  SDR Equivalent)          Financed
(5)    Refunding of                      200,000      Amounts due
Project                                         pursuant to
Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                         of this Agreement
Unallocated                      1,100,000
TOTAL                           10.300,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)    the term "operating costs" means incremental operating costs, including
staff salaries (other than salaries of government officials), office rent, furnishings,
utilities, maintenance, and communications.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 640,000 equivalent
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after March 15, 1995.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for goods and works under
contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (ii) for services provided by consulting
firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iii) for services provided by
individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (iv) for
operating costs under contracts not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in preserving the Borrower's road
network and in improving the efficiency of the Borrower's road maintenance operations.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Periodic Highway Maintenance
Surface dressing, overlays, and reconstruction of roads selected in accordance
with the criteria specified in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
engineering design and supervision services required for these works.
Part B: Materials for Routine Maintenance
Provision of imported materials, such as bitumen, vehicle fuel and spare parts,
for the routine maintenance of the national road network.
Part C: Bridges and Tunnels
(1)    the repair of priority bridges and tunnels; and
(2)    provision of equipment and engineering services needed for the
establishment and commencement of operation of a bridge inspection system.
Part D: Equipment and Spare Parts
Provision of equipment needed to permit the introduction of new technology and
improved quality of road maintenance, and spare parts needed to keep existing
equipment functioning.
Part E: Institutional Strengthening and Technical Upgrading
(1)    Provision of consultants' services to assist ARD to restructure its
organization and operational procedures in a manner consistent with the Borrower's
privatization objectives; to introduce cost benefit techniques; to improve quality control,
to improve planning, road research and technology transfer capabilities; to develop and
start implementing a road safety plan; to install a system of axle weight control, and,
generally to improve the efficiency of operations for road maintenance.


﻿13
(2)    Training for ARD   and the private road construction industry in
contracting procedures, business administration and project management.
Part F: Strenothening of the PIU's Implementation Capacity
Provision of financial support to the PIU in carrying out the Project activities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section 1. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section
as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines anj paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of this Part B.
(a)    Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)    Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to
be carried by domestic contractors.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per contract and $8,900,000
equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.


﻿15
2.    International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, and
$900,000 equivalent in aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.     Direct Contracting
Goods, which are of proprietary nature and costing $200,000 equivalent in the
aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project s.all be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association,
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to (i) all contracts for goods and works estimated to cost $300,000
equivalent or more, (ii) the first two contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of Part C. 1, and (iii) all contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part C.3,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultant's services financed by the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-


﻿16
based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms
acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets,
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment
of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this
exception to prior Association review shall not apply to (i) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (ii) single-source selection of consulting firms, (iii) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (iv) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (v) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.     The Borrower shall maintain the PIU referred to in Section 1.02(b) of this
Agreement which, at all times, shall be staffed and shall operate in accordance with the
implementation arrangements agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
2.     ARD shall use cost benefit analysis, in accordance with the principles agreed
between ARD and the Association, to determine the actual road segments to be repaired
under the Project, as well as for all investments in the road sector during execution of
the Project, and shall only undertake projects with a positive Net Present Value.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
"Net Present Value" means the present value of all expected cash inflows from
an investment discounted at the cost of capital of twelve per cent f:12%),
compared to the initial investment.
3.     Prior to inviting bids for civil works, ARD shall make public the list of
equipment available on a rental basis for work to be carried out by contractors under the
Project, with uniform rental rates for all bidders. ARD shall ensure that the rental rates
will be set at a level adequate to cover the depreciation of equipment, its maintenance,
and a reasonable rate of return on the investment.
4.     Before November 15 of each year during execution of the Project, ARD shall
prepare annual work programs for the next calendar year and shall review these
programs with the Association before implementing them.
5.     The Borrower shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfac, y to
the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the obje ives
thereof; and (b) review with the Association, by November 1, 1997, the progress made in
the implementation of the Project; and shall take all necessary measures to execute the
actions identified and agreed upon between the Association and the Borrower during
such review.
6.     The Borrower shall:
(a)    carry out a study on: (i) the required level of financing needed to
maintain the Borrower's road network; and (ii) the possible financing and collection
mechanisms for road maintenance; and


﻿18
(b)    review with the Association, not later than January 1, 1997, the results
and recommendations of the study referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and
by July 1, 1997, put into effect the recommendations on financing and collection
mechanisms agreed with the Association.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence


﻿20
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as


﻿21
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


