Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11372-GUA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(SEA DEFENSES AND ROADS)
FEBRUARY 22, 1993
Department III
Infrastructure Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Dollar (G$)
Official Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 1993
US$1.00 = G$ 125.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAD         -      Civil Aviation Department
CDB         -      Caribbean Development Bank
GDP         -      Gross Domestic Product
CGED        -      Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development
CTPU        -      Central Transport Planning Unit
EEC         -      European Economic Community
ERP         -      Economic Reform Program
ERR         -      Economic Rate of Return
GAC         -      Guyana Airways Corporation
GAHEF       -      Guyana Agency for Health, Environment & Food
GDP         -      Gross Domestic Product
HD          -      Hydraulics Division
IDA         -      Intemation Development Association
IDB         -      Inter-American Development Bank
IMF         -      International Monetary Fund
MOA         -      Ministry of Agriculture
MOPWCRD  -         Ministry of Public Works, Communications and
Regional Development
O&M         -      Operations and Maintenance
PEU         -      Program Executing Unit
RAD         -      Road Administration Division
THD          -     Transport and Harbours Department
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                             i
I. BACKGROUND                                                        1
A. The Setting                                           1
B. The Transport Sector                                  2
C. Transport sector Expenditures                         4
D. Sector Issues                                         6
E. Sea Defenses                                          9
HI. THE PROJECT                                                       11
A. Project Origin and Preparation                        11
B. Rationale for Bank Group's Involvement                12
C. Project Objectives                                    13
D. Project Description                                   13
E. Project Costs and Financing                           16
F. Project Implementation                                18
G. Procurement                                           19
H. Disbursements                                         21
I. Special Account and Auditing                          21
J. Economic Justification                                22
K. Environmental hnpact                                  23
L. Project Monitoring                                    24
M. Project Risks                                         26
The report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited Guyana in June 1992.
The mission comprised Messrs./Mme. Peter Gyamfi, Highways Advisor, Jose Maria
Alonso-Biarge, Highways Engineer, and Gordon Bodeley and Monica Duquesnay,
consultants. Peer review was provided by Messrs. John Flora and Malise Dick. The
report was prepared under the supervision of Mr. Graham Smith and Mr. Peter Ludwig,
Division Chiefs, and Mr. Yoshiaki Abe, Director, Ms. Sonia Molina, Mr. Alberto Zegada,
Ms. Silvia Delgado and Ms. Ophelia Haase assisted in its production.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont's)                            Page Ng.
m. AGREEMENTS REACHED                                        26
IV. ANNEXES
1. Details of the Transport Sector              28
2. Road Maintenance                             35
3. Adequacy of Road-User Taxation               41
4. Road Administration Division PEU             47
5. Sea Defenses                                 50
6. Hydraulics Division PEU                      57
7. TIdal and Morphological Measurements         60
8. Environmental Assesment                      62
9. Environmental Monitoring Training Program    66
10. Technical Assistance to CTPU                69
11. Creation of National Port Authority         71
12. Economic Analysis for sea Defenses          74
13. Economic Analysis for Roads                 76
14. Environmental Considerations                86
15. Supervision Strategy                        89
V. TABLES
1. Transport Sector Expenditures 1985-89        92
2. Sector Investment Program 1992-97             92
3. Project Outlays by Year and Agency            93
4. Project Implementation Schedule               94
5. Schedule of Credit Disbursements              95
MAP
IBRD Map No. 24266



GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Boffower:         The Republic of Guyana
Executing Agencies: Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Regional Development
and Ministry of Agriculture
Credit Amoun:     US$26.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Standard IDA Terms, with 40 years maturity
Pject Qbjectives:  The main objectives of the project would be to: (a) assist in the immediate
repair and reconstruction of deteriorated critical sections of the sea
defenses system and lay the basis for the development of efficient O&M
system for sea defenses, (b) improve the overall performance and
efficiency of the management and operations of the transport sector;
(c) facilitate agricultural, agro-industrial and mining production,
particularly for export, through reduced transport costs, both from farm
to market and from market through export routes to international markets;
and (d) help reduce the need for premature replacement of transport
vehicles, spare parts and fuel imports and thus save scarce foreign
exchange resources.
Project Description: The project would consist of: (a) assistance for the repair of critical
sections of the sea defenses system and the establishment of effective
management of the coastal areas within the Hydraulics Division, including
the design and implementation of adequate cost recovery measures to
provide reliable financing for O&M of the systems as well as the
establishment of a data bank for tidal and morphological measurements;
(b) the rehabilitation with minor alignment and subsequent maintenance of
selected high priority main roads, including the Essequibo coast road and
the Linden Highway and bridges; (c) preventive maintenance by a two-
year contract for about 88 miles (141km) of selected paved roads in the
main network; (d) the institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Public
Works, Communications and Regional Development (MOPWCRD)
through technical assistance to the MOPWCRD's Central Transport
Planning Unit (CTPU) for improving transport planning and project
formulation and of the Road Administration Division (RAD) for the
supervision of project implementation and to MOPWCRD for the study
and establishment of a national port authority; and (e) purchase of office
equipment, airport fire fighting equipment and all-terrain vehicles.



- ii -
Benefits:         Cost savings to road users and avoidance of major road reconstruction
costs and preservation of the sea defenses, to protect agricultural and
residential areas and capital infrastructure, would be the primary benefits
of the project. The estimated ERRs of the project range between 20 to
30% for the road components to about 39% for the sea defenses
component. Significant benefits would also accrue from the institutional
strengthening and training and research programs.
Risks:            There is a risk that project implementation could be delayed because of
the lack of timely counterpart funding. This risk will be minimized
through cofinancing arrangements with the CDB which leaves the
Government to finance only US$2.0 million (6% of project costs). Also
the allocation of adequate budgetary provisions on an annual basis is a
condition of the credit. At negotiations, the Government confirmed its
capacity to provide these funds. There is a risk that project benefits may
not be fully sustained after project completion because of MOPWCRD's
weak institutional capacity. The Government has undertaken to assign
suitable counterparts under the project who will, after project completion,
assume the key responsibilities within the implementing agencies.
Furthermore, both the IDB Technical Cooperation Agreement and its on-
going Road Rehabilitation Project include institutional strengthening of the
RAD. Lastly, under the proposed IDA Public Administration Reform
Project, the conditions would be created to make the recruitment and
retention of both experienced Guyanese and new engineers easier through
enhanced compensation at the engineers' level.



- iii-
Estimated Costs:
(in|Millions of US Da at.May 19      ) 
____________________________I__LocalCost: Xreign:Cot   ToZ&At:Cost
CIVIL WORKS:
Essequibo Coast Road                                   1.72            6.88             8.60
Linden Highway and Bridges                             1.04            4.16             5.20
Road Maintenance                                       0.29            1.16             1.45
Road Rehabilitation & Main.                          3.04            12.21            15.25
Sea Defenses Rehabiliation                           1.42             4.28             5.70
SUB-TOTAL                                               4.46            16.49            20.9S
EQUIPMENT:
Office and Vehicles                                    0.01            0.29             0.30
Fire and Equipment for CAD                             0.10            1.90             2.00
SUB-TOTAL                                               0.11            2.19             2.30
CONSULTING SERVICES:
Tidal and Morph. Study                                 0.01            0.09             0.10
Highways Finance                                       0.01            0.09             0.10
Off-port Container Terminal                            0.01            0.19             0.20
Environmental Assessment                               0.01            0.09             0.10
National Port Authority                                0.01            0.29             0.30
Studies                                              0.05             0.75             0.80
Supervision of Construction                          0.05             0.95             1.00
HD                                                     0.15            0.85             1.00
RAD                                                    0.15            0.85             1.00
CTPU                                                   0.06            0.34             0.40
National Port Authority                                0.02            0.18             0.20
Technical Assistance and Training                    0.43             3.17             3.60
__________________________________ ----------------------------------------------------1
SUB-TOTAL                                               0.48            3.92             4.40
PPF                                                  0.00             0.75             0.75
BASE COST                                              5.05            23.35           28.40
Physical Contingencies                               0.65             2.47            3.12
Price Contingencies                                  0.45             2.03             2.48
TOTAL COST                                              6.15        :27.85            -4.       -



- 1v -
Financina Plan:
IDA Credit               4.35   | 21.65    |26.00   |             76.47|
|Caribbean Development    1.15         4.85         6.00           17.65
Government of Guy'ana     0.65   _    1.35         2.00  _5.88
Intimated4j Disbursements (i $..........             ion
Annual:        0.00    4.28"    5.00 26.00         5.00      4.00      1.72
Cumulative:    0.00    4.28"p   9.28    15.28    20.28       24.28    26.00
Rate  of  Return     The  overall ERR  for the investment component, above 80  of
total project costs, is over 33%. The returns on the
institutional development component has not been quantified,
but are expected to be high.
sJ Including payment of PPF and deposit to special  account.



I. BACKGROUND
A. The Setting
1.01        Guyana, with an area of 83,000 square miles and a population of
approximately 750,000, is located on the northeast coast of South America and bordered
by Venezuela, Brazil, and Suriname. Economically, the country's most important region
is the 270 mile long and 10-40 mile wide coastal plain which, with only 5% of the land
area, contains 90% of the population and produces about 80% of the gross domestic
product (GDP). Rich alluvial soil has made the sugar and rice growing coastal plain, the
country's agricultural center. Much of the coastal region is, however, below high-tide
level and has to be protected against flooding by dikes. Canals for drainage and
irrigation crisscross the region.
1.02        Since 1988, Guyana has been implementing a medium-term Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) aimed at addressing serious domestic and external imbalances
in the economy and establishing the basis for renewed economic growth. The ERP has
been supported by an IMF standby arrangement and an IDA Standard Adjustment Credit
both of which were approved in June 1990 as well as by similar assistance from the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), and
bilateral donors. Under the ERP, Guyana has undertaken far-reaching adjustment
measures and structural reforms, implying a fundamental shift in economic policies
towards a market-oriented economy. The overall fiscal deficit has been reduced; the
exchange and trade system has been liberalized and the exchange rate unified; virtually
all price controls have been removed and consumer subsidies eliminated; the incentive
framework for the private sector has improved and state intervention in agricultural,
industrial, and commercial activities has been curtailed; progress has been made in
restructuring and reducing the size of the public sector, including tax reform,
strengthening expenditure controls and privatization of public enterprises; a shift to
market-based instruments of monetary control has been initiated; arrears to multilateral
and bilateral donors have been cleared; and a social impact amelioration program has
been introduced. However, Guyana's existing debt service burden continues to place a
major constraint on the Government's ability to address the large social and
infrastructural needs of Guyana.
1.03        Guyana's economic performance improved markedly in 1991. Recorded
real GDP increased by about 6 percent after four consecutive years of decline. The
exchange rate stabilized during the second half of 1991, and the rate of inflation slowed
to about 20 percent on an annual basis during the last four months of the year. The
overall deficit of the public sector (including the Bank of Guyana) narrowed from 65
percent of GDP in 1990 to 45 percent in 1991, reflecting mainly a sharply improved
performance of the Central Government and of the state enterprises and lower public
investment outlays. The external current account deficit also declined, from US$148
million in 1990 to US$119 million in 1991, mainly as a result of higher export receipts,



- 2 -
while gross intemational reserves exceeded the program target by a substantial margin
and increased to the equivalent of more than six months of merchandise imports at end-
1991. The recovery in economic activity continued during the first half of 1992 and real
GDP growth for the year as a whole is expected to be about 6.5 percent. Inflation
slowed further, with prices increasing by about 12 percent during the first nine mor.ths,
which is broadly consistent with the revised target of 15 percent of the year. There was
a significant decline in interest rates and, at the same time, private sector financial
savings expanded at a much faster pace than envisaged in the program. In addition, the
overall deficit of the nonfinancial public sector amounted to about 70 percent of that
envisaged in the program during the first half of the year, and gross international
reserves increased by a further US$19 million during the first nine months of 1992,
compared with a decline of US$5 million in the program. Some progress was made in
reducing external debt and debt-service obligations with the cancellation of loans
amounting to US$155 million by the United States, Canada, and the Netherlands, and a
debt-reduction agreement was reached with Brazil. Guyana was also able to retire its
entire commercial bank debt totalling around US$93 million, including principal and past
due interest, through the use of grant funds made available under the debt reduction
facility for IDA countries.
B. Transport Sector
1 .    The Transrt System
1.04        The transport system of Guyana is concentrated in and along the sugar and
rice growing areas of the coastal plain, with very little traffic to or in the interior. The
main highway system, about 1610 miles long, of which 326 miles paved, lies mostly
along the coast (see IBRD Map No. 24266). It is estimated that roads carry over 90%
of the domestic passenger traffic and about a third of the freight. River transport
accounts for about two-thirds of freight, mostly bauxite and timber and agricultural
products (sugar cane), and a significant share of passengers to and from some sizable
settlements in the interior accessible only by water. Transport along the coastal plain by
necessity has to involve the use of ferries or speed boat to cross the many large rivers.
Domestic air transport services, provided by Guyana Airways Corporation (GAC) and
various private operators, are essential in reaching some remote areas where other means
of transport are unavailable. The Timheri International Airport is capable of receiving
aircraft up to the size of the Boeing 707.
1.05        The existing transport facilities provide adequate accessibility, in terms of
spatial distribution, to all the economically and socially active parts of the country. No
new investments are needed, in that respect, except if major, new agricultural or mining
development takes place outside the areas currently served by the system. Also, except
on very few facilities, transport flows are low and will continue to be so for at least the
next ten years. Expansion for capacity or major upgrading of the system would therefore



- 3 -
not be economically justifiable. Practically all transport facilities are, however, at an
advanced stage of deterioration due to more than a decade of little or no maintenance.
Less than 20% of the road network is estimated to be in good condition; the wharves at
the Georgetown port and at Linden are badly deteriorated; one of the Transport and
Harbours Department's three ferries needs urgent repair and the domestic airfields are
in very poor condition. The emphasis for the short and medium term therefore clearly
needs to be placed on the rehabilitation and better maintenance and operation of existing
facilities. Of priority, in this regard, would be those facilities that help to induce a quick
supply response in the economy. A detailed presentation of the transport sector facilities
and services as well as highways administration, maintenance, planning, expenditures and
financing is provided in Annex 1. The issues and strategy outlined in this section are
consistent with the conclusions and recommendations of the 1992 IDA Infrastructure
Strategy Review Paper discussed with the Government.
2.    Sector Organization and Regulation
1.06        The  Ministry  of Public  Works, Communications  and  Regional
Development (MOPWCRD) has overall responsibility for the planning, construction,
operation and regulation of the transport sector: through its Road Administration Division
(RAD) for roads, the Transport and Harbours Department (TDH) for ports, shipping and
river transport, the Civil Aviation Department for airports and airfields, for regulating
air transport and for licensing aircraft and pilots. The Central Transport Planning Unit
(CI PU) of the MOPWCRD has the responsibility for planning and coordinating transport
sector investments including integrating the investment proposals of the sector's agencies
and establishes project priorities. CTPU is also responsible for proposing transport
policy changes and for reviewing transport tariffs and charges.  The Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) participates in the sector through the development of the feeder road
system.
1.07        Organizationally, the transport sector's management is well covered,
except for water transport, where the creation of a national port authority [para. 2.07,
2i(e)] , to oversee the long term development and regulation of the ports, would be
desirable. All functions required to run the system are in place, but the following
problems hinder its proper functioning:
(a)   the existing de facto decentralized responsibility for roads to the regions
is ineffective since the regions have neither the resources, manpower nor
technical capacity to carry out their responsibility. The reversion of
responsibilities, at least for the main road network, should be undertaken
immediately under the Chief Road Officer and the RAD of the
MOPWCRD, who are the person and entity legally responsible for all
public roads in Guyana;



(b)   there is excessive government involvement in the activities of the transport
sector that could be carried out by private companies. For example, the
recently incorporated General Construction Company Limited, the only
construction company in the country capable of undertaking reasonably
large projects, is, for all practical purposes, a govemment-controlled
company. The river ferries are Government-owned as are two shipping
companies - the Guyana Shipping Company-and Guyana Engineering
Company and Guyana Airways Corporation. The Government is trying
to privatize the shipping companies, but does not have a similar plan for
the ferries which appear to be making some profit only because
depreciation of assets are not taken into consideration.  IDA  is
encouraging the Government to continue its efforts to privatize the
revenue-earning entities in the sector, including the ferries;
(c)   as in all other public sector institutions, there is a high vacancy rate in
MOPWCRD, due to the low salary levels and to the unavailability of
qualified personnel due to high levels of emigration. For example, five
of the seven technical positions within the CTPU, and 13 of 17 technical
positions within RAD are vacant.  Both these units have a clear
understanding of their mandate but are only able to respond to the very
basic needs of the Ministry. The Govemment needs to fill the vacant
positions through the recruitment of local experts on better-paid, fixed-
term contracts in the short term and the recruitment and training of young
engineers under enhanced civil service compensation, currently being
crafted by the Government.
(d)   the ClPU, because of its lack of staff and the relatively more powerful
positions of the govemment-owned transport entities, does not have full
control of its transport coordination function as the entities submit their
proposals directly to the State Planning Secretariat (SPS).
C. Transport Sector Expenditures
Past Snding
1.08        Expenditures in the transport sector, both capital and recurrent, for the
period 1985 to 1989 are shown in Table 1. Capital expenditures have showed a
significant increase in 1988 and 1989 due mainly to expenditures on the Black Bush
Polder Road, on bridges, particularly the Demerara Harbor Bridge, and on equipment
for the Civil Aviation Department. Maintenance expenditures are not recorded separately
from  MOPWCRD's other recurrent expenditures.  The IDB-financed Technical
Cooperation Agreement is aimed at improving maintenance management including better
accounting. The expenditures in the sector have been very low, at about 2.5% of total
- ----  ----



public sector spending. A spending level of about 10% would be more realistic for
Guyana.
2.    Future Spendiny
1.09        The current highest priority needs in the transport sector, across the board,
are the rehabilitation and maintenance of deteriorated infrastructure and equipment and
technical assistance to carry it out. In the road subsectLr the investment priorities are:
(i) rehabilitating the Georgetown - Timehri Road (about US$6.5 million); (ii)
rehabilitating the stretch of road between Georgetown and Mahaica (US$8.6 million);
(iii) rehabilitating the Essequibo Coast Road (US$8.6 million); (iv) resealing the
Soesdyke - Linden Road and strengthening its bridges (US$5.2 million); (v) rehabilitating
the West Coast Berbice Road (US$6.0 million); (vi) rehabilitating selected, high priority
feeder roads and trails (US$6.0 million); (vii) rehabilitation of the Demerara River
bridge; and (viii) providing technical assistance to the CTPU and to the RAD of the
MOPWCRD.
1.10        Work is continuing on construction of a road, being financed by Brazil
from the Brazilian border to Georgetown which has a shorter access to the sea for export
products from the state of Roraima. The road is already passable from the border to the
Essequibo River (about half the final distance within Guyana); from there it is to be
extended to Linden. The design standards adopted for the road appear inadequate for the
type of heavy trucks traffic that would be using it. Very heavy maintenance would be
required. The Government would need to collect a transit tax at the Georgetown port
on goods destined to be carried on the road to cover the loan payment and maintenance
of the road. Moreover, the Government needs to review the environmental impact of
the road's construction; potential harm to the rain forest, indigenous population and
disturbance of the swamps traversed by portions of the road should be studied and
mitigated. At negotiations, the Government agreed to prepare an environmental impact
assessment for the road and review the results with IDA by December 31, 1993. The
Guyana Association for Health, Environment and Food (GAHEF) is capable of carrying
out such a study in-house with consultants' assistance. The date of June 30, 1993 was
established as a limit to initiate arrangements between MOPWCRD and GAHEF to
prepare the study.
1.11        In the ports and river transport subsector, the investment priorities are:
(i) repair of ferries and other essential floating equipment and ferry moorings; (ii)
building a container freight station in the vicinity of Georgetown Port and (iii)
rehabilitating and upgrading the navigation systems in the Georgetown port and on the
major rivers.
1.12        In the airrts subsector, the recommended investments are mostly related
to the Timehri Intemational Airport. These are: (i) improving the communications and
navigational aids to bring the airport to intemational standards; and (ii) providing crash,



- 6 -
fire, and rescue equipment, adequate security systems, operations and maintenance
equipment, and adequate shed facilities for transit freight.
1.13        These priorities translate into the sector investment program shown in
Table 2.
1.14        The proposed investments for 1992-1997, an average of about US$12
million, far exceed the US$4 million annual average spent from 1985-1989. There is no
cause for alarm, however, since practically all the financing for the 1992-1997
investment program is secured. The Government intends to use expatriate technical
assistance and foreign contractors to implement the program.
D. Sector Issues
1.   Inadequate Staffing of Sector Institutions
1.15        Staffing of the sector's agencies is weak; in most units, manpower has
dwindled to the unit chief and an assistant. Improving the staffing situation, a public
sector-wide problem, will require a significant increase in salaries and improvement in
job satisfaction for professionals. The existing US$100 per month average salary for an
engineer with 8 years of professional experience only encourages emigration. As a first
step, the Government intends to increase the salaries of selected, key professional staff
through the proposed IDA Public Sector Reform Project. The necessary next step,
involving general salary increases for all professional staff, should be undertaken soon
thereafter. The Government should also step up its recruitment and training of young
professionals. The ongoing IDB-financed Technical Cooperation Agreement is assisting
the Government to develop and start the implementation of a medium and long-term
strategy. In the short term, the agencies will need technical assistance to carry out their
functions and, especially to implement the increasing donor-funded projects in the
pipeline. Such assistance should be through the engagement of qualified nationals in the
private sector on fixed term contracts on terms and conditions competitive with the
private sector in Guyana or through consultants, expatriate and local. The project would
provide for consultants and fixed-term experts to strengthen RAD and CTPU [paras.
2.07, iii (a and c)]. At negotiations, the Government agreed to recruit the corresponding
counterpart staff in RAD and CTPU under the conditions created by the proposed IDA
Public Administration Reform Project, which is consistent with this project. The
Minister of Finance confirmed that adequate funds would be provided in the annual
budgets for this purpose. The counterpart staff would be incorporated later on as
permanent staff in the respective institution. In the long-term RAD and the Hydraulics
Division (HD) of the Ministry of Agriculture should recruit and train young engineers
to complete the staff of these agencies. The proposed Public Administration Reform
Project, through its salary restructuring, would facilitate this. Meanwhile, the project
would also provide for consultants and fixed-term experts to strengthen HD (para. 2.07,



- 7 -
iii b). In the institutional strengthening of the agencies, the underlying objective would
be to have as much work, both services and civil works, done by the private sector as
possible with the agencies concentrating on planning, policy formulation and preparation
and management of the contracts with the private sector.
2.    Neglect of Q&M
1.16        The deteriorated state of the transport infrastructure stems from insufficient
operation and maintenance (O&M) of the facilities.  In addition to the staffing
deficiencies noted above, inadequate operational and management systems, insufficient
funding, especially of foreign exchange, and lack of accountability of the agencies are
the main causes. For the Government-owned shipping companies and ferry operations,
which are all revenue-earning entities, the Government should ensure that O&M is given
primary priority in the entities' budgets. For the road subsector, the ongoing IDB
Technical Cooperation Agreement (US$1.2 million) is expected to make a start in solving
the managerial and operational problems. The funding problem is more difficult to
resolve since Guyana stiUl suffers from acute financial constraints and all sectors
simultaneously need enormous funds. It is unlikely that Government can allocate more
than the current US$0.3 million per year for road maintenance. The donor community
must therefore help in financing maintenance for at least the next four years at an
estimated cost of about US$3.0 million per year for roads which are still maintainable
(Annex 2). The Government should use the time to build up adequate capacity for
O&M. The project will finance the maintenance of the project roads subsequent to their
rehabilitation and a two-year contract for preventive maintenance for about 88 miles (140
km) of high priority paved roads, now in good or fair condition, that could significantly
deteriorate if no maintenance is carried out in the next two to three years, which is the
time needed to start the implementation of the maintenance programs resulting from the
IDB Technical Cooperation Agreement (US$1.2 million), (see Annex 2). The
Government agreed at negotiations to submit to IDA, by June 30, 1994: (a) a reliable,
needs-based O&M maintenance program and budget covering the period January 1995
to December 31, 1998, the program should clearly define the mode of execution, i.e.
which activities are to be carried out by private contractors and which by force account;
(b) a training program for RAD staff to manage and administer maintenance both by
contract and by force account; (c) a financing mechanism for road maintenance whose
implementation is expected to begin January 1, 1995 (in that regard, the possibility of
earmarking a sufficient portion of road-user taxes should be considered); and (d) a
system to ensure the accountability of RAD for maintenance funds, including the
establishment of a National Roads Fund Committee to oversee the use of the possible
earmarked funds.
3.    Cost Recovery in the Sector
1.17        None of the sector's revenue earning entities - the two shipping companies
and TDH's ferry services - has full cost recovery; they all aim for the recovery of out
of pocket costs. The roads subsector, with a total road-user charge receipt per year of



- 8 -
US$16.9 million, fully recovers the cost not only of the US$5 million per year currently
spent on roads but would also cover adequately the estimated US$12 - 14 million needed
annually for the next five years to restore the network and prevent its further
deterioration (Annex 3). The Government intends to privatize the two shipping
companies, as it has done with one, the former Guyana Trading Company. For the TDH
ferry services, the EEC is studying TDH's finances, as part of its ferry rehabilitation
assistance and will be insisting on proper cost recovery as a condition for further
assistance. For the roads subsector, the problem is one of allocating a sufficient portion
of the user-charge receipts for O&M. This is unlikely to happen soon with existing
revenues since the Government relies on these charges which are easy to collect. On the
other hand, there is some room for a surcharge on fuel which could be earmarked for
O&M. The last budget included reductions in fuel taxes which could be reinstated during
the next one in the form of such a surcharge. At negotiations, the Government agreed
to present to IDA, no later than June 30, 1994, its arrangements for funding road O&M
and has undertaken to implement the agreed program which is expected to begin January
1, 1995.
4.   Ineffective Highways Administration and Maintenance
1.18        Highway administration has since 1985 been carried out by the RAD and
the regional authorities. RAD's role has been restricted to the overall development of
the main network and to advisory and technical support to the regions, while the regions
have been carrying out whatever improvement, rehabilitation and maintenance of the
roads in their regions. The regional authorities have neither the technical capacity nor
resources to perform their functions. On the other hand, RAD which still has some
capacity (4 professional-level staff) has practically nothing to do since there has been
virtually no road development over the past decade. The maintenance funds allocated
to the regional authorities are not only insufficient, but also not necessarily spent on
maintenance. Moreover those regions which try to execute maintenance are hampered
by lack of technical capacity and equipment. In fact, one of the regions has over the past
three years handed back its maintenance to the RAD which carries it out using small
local contractors. Because it has been performing no maintenance or construction
responsibilities, RAD has practically no road equipment; its few pieces date back to pre-
regionalization days and have been poorly maintained. RAD has moreover given up the
supporting services for preparing, implementing and monitoring road maintenance
programs.
1.19        The Government needs to strengthen RAD to carry out the development,
administration and maintenance of the main roads; maintenance of feeder roads and trails
should remain under the regions. Currently, 13 out of its 17 authorized positions remain
vacant and the 4 staff on board are totally demotivated due to low salaries, absence of
any professionally-challenging assignments and lack of future career prospects. The
IDB, through its Technical Cooperation Agreement, is providing technical assistance to,
inter alia prepare detailed functions for RAD and assist in strengthening it. Bringing the



- 9 -
RAD to its required institutional strength would take at least seven to ten years. The
proposed salary restructuring in the public sector under the proposed IDA-financed Public
Administration Reform Project, which would significantly raise engineer's salaries,
would help in retaining the existing staff and in recruiting young engineers to man RAD
in the long-term. The Technical Cooperation Agreement is also helping to prepare a
maintenance program and strategy. The IDB intends to subsequently assist the
Government, through a follow-up project to carry out this program and strategy. In the
meantime, RAD would need extensive technical support to implement the IDB and
proposed IDA projects and private contractors to maintain the main network. As a start,
the IDA PPF provided a technical assistance (1 engineer and road administration expert)
to assist it in supervising consultants' detailed engineering and bid preparation and, in
contract administration for maintenance works to be contracted out. The project will
provide for technical assistance to RAD to supervise the project roads. To strengthen
RAD itself would require the hiring and retention of qualified staff.  With the
improvement in the country's economic and political situation the return of qualified
Guyanese engineers and economists has picked up as has the potential for filling RAD's
vacancies.  Such personnel can, however, only be successfully recruited under
compensation arrangements competitive with the local private market. The project will
assist the Government in staffing a Program Executive Unit (PEU), within RAD, to carry
out the road rehabilitation program to be financed by IDA and IDB. The establishment
of this PEU will be a condition for credit effectiveness. At negotiations, the Government
agreed to assign to the PEU the duties and counterpart staff outlined in Annex 4, not
later than September 30, 1993.
E. Sea Defenses
1.20        Guyana's coastline of 430 km, which generally lies from 0.5 to 1 m below
sea level, is protected by a sea defenses system totalling some 340 km, of which about
107 km are concrete walls, 153 km are a mangrove belt backed up by an earth
embankment, and 80 km of natural sand banks. Over 90% of the concrete walls, built
between 25 to 50 years ago, not rehabilitated since and poorly maintained, have severely
deteriorated and are experiencing frequent breaches, leading to flooding and increased
salination of the coastal areas. A recent EEC-financed study by consultants DHV
(Holland) found that 36 km of the concrete sea walls are in a seriously deteriorated state
and require maintenance promptly, another 71 km of the concrete walls would need only
rehabilitation within the next decade, if they were maintained properly, and the remaining
233 km, consisting of earth dams protected on the seaward side by a substantial depth
of mangrove and natural sand banks, are in relatively good shape and could last the next
20 years with proper maintenance. Out of the 36 km, which need emergency works,
approximately 30 km will be repaired with EEC, IDB and CDB financing and about 4
km with IDA financing under the proposed Project. Annex 5 contains more detailed
information on sea defense conditions and proposed rehabilitation. For the remaining sea
defenses, the Government intends to undertake selective rehabilitation as it becomes



- 10 -
necessary. Part of HD's institutional development, to be financed by the EEC, would
be aimed at developing the planning capacity within the HD to identify these sections.
1.   Institutional Arrangements for Sea Defenses
1.21        Responsibility for the construction, management and maintenance of the
sea defenses rests, under the Sea Defense Act of 1982 and the Transfer Act in 1988, with
the regional democratic authorities. The Act also provides for the re-establishment of
the Guyana National Sea and River Defenses Board to oversee all matters concerning sea
defenses, but the Board has not yet been established due to the recent change of
Government. The HD of the Ministry of Agriculture has, since January 1990 been
assigned responsibility for the design and construction program on all sea defenses. The
maintenance responsibility, however, continues to be with the regions.
1.22        The regional authorities have neither the funds nor, what is more
important, the staff capacity to carry out their responsibilities properly. Nor is it likely
that they will be able to attract the necessary qualified staff to do so. The responsibility
for managing and maintaining the coastal areas needs to be re-centralized within the HD.
At the same time, HD does not currently have sufficient capacity to manage, including
design and supervision, the upcoming large sea defenses activity in Guyana (about US$42
million within the next four years). HD basically consists of a Chief, Deputy Chief and
Senior Hydraulics engineer who are also responsible for drainage activities in the coastal
areas and national parks. HD will therefore have to carry out all rehabilitation and
maintenance by private contractors and design and works supervision by consultants. HD
will need to strengthen itself to manage the consultants' and contractors' activities. The
project would assist the Government to staff within HD a Program Executing Unit (PEU)
to carry out the sea defenses program being or to be financed by the IDB, CDB, EEC
and IDA and to recruit staff or consultants for it. The establishment of the PEU in HD
and appointment of a coordinator is a condition for credit effectiveness. At negotiations,
the Government agreed to assign to the PEU the duties and counterpart staff outlined in
Annex 6 and to provide the necessary funds (about US$300,000 per year) in the budget
to operate the unit.
2.    Cost Recovery for Sea Defenses
1.23        The limited government financing for sea defenses comes in the form of
treasury allocations to the regional councils and to HD. There is no specific cost
recovery mechanism for sea defenses. The government's argument has been that, with
over 90% of the population benefitting from sea defenses, the beneficiaries encompass
the total population and a user tax would be essentially equivalent to a general tax.
There is a strong case, however, for a separate graduated sea defenses tax, even if it
were in the form of a general tax with the receipts earmarked for sea defenses operation
and maintenance. Such a tax cannot, however, be put into effect now, given the already
low incomes in Guyana. Donor agencies would therefore have to finance all the
rehabilitation and maintenance works for at least the next three years while the



- 11 -
Government is putting in place such a tax. As part of the preparation of the project, the
Government has engaged an expert to study the cost recovery and financing of sea
defenses. The results of the study are expected to be ready by end-March 1993. In the
longer term, the Government should seriously consider setting up an autonomous agency
with the power for cost recovery to manage sea defenses. At negotiations, it was agreed
that the Government will submit to IDA, not later than September 30, 1993, the results
of the cost recovery study and will propose a plan of action for the implementation of
the agreed recommendations by June 30, 1994. The implementation of the agreed plan
is expected to begin January 1, 1995.
3.    Expenditures on Sea Defenses
1.24        Very little funds were spent on sea defenses during the period 1980 to
1987. Since 1987, the EEC, as part of its Lome III grant, has spent about US$5 million
on materials, equipment and technical assistance for emergency repairs of sea defenses,
the DHV study and training for HD staff and local contractors. The DHV study
recommends an investment program of US$28 million between 1993 to 1996, with some
US$4 million in 1993 and US$8 million annually thereafter to protect the area. The
economic rate of return of such a program would be over 70%. Funding for the
program has almost been committed with US$14.8 million and US$4.1 million loans
granted by the IDB and CDB and with EEC and IDA considering, between them, more
than US$20 million, including funds for maintenance for at least the next four years and
research.
HI. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Preparation
2.01        In January 1991, an IDA mission visited Guyana, at the request of the
Government, to assist in identifying key investments needed to generate a supply
response to its ERP and to prepare project profiles for the selected projects for
presentation to the Donor Community at the Consultative Group Meeting for Guyana held
in Paris in June 1991. The mission also reviewed the management and operations of the
transport and sea defenses sectors and, was requested by Government, following
discussions with the SPS, the Ministry of Finance and MOPWCRD, to consider IDA's
project assistance in key areas in which IDA would have a comparative advantage in
assisting Guyana in the sectors. These recommendations took into consideration the
ongoing or planned activities of other donors, mainly the EEC, the IDB and the CDB.
After the first preparation mission in September 1991, the Association granted a Project
Preparation Facility in the amount of US$750,000 to the Government for consulting
services to study and carry out detailed engineering of the components of the project.



- 12 -
2.02        Originally, the project was expected to include also assistance for the
rehabilitation of the Demerara River bridge, replacing the engine of one of TDH's ferry
boats, rehabilitation of moorings and the creation of an off-port container park. The first
three elements were later eliminated because the EEC, which had been assisting the
Government with them was able to mobilize the necessary resources to finance them on
its own. The creation of the off-port container park was removed from the project
because port operators had in the mean time improved their container capacity at the
wharves, and the potential complications concerning appropriation of property, passing
enabling legislation and managing the facility, in the absence of a national port authority,
became clearer. It was agreed with the Government to defer such assistance for a
possible future project, but to include the technical, economic and financial feasibility
studies and detailed engineering, if it proved feasible, in the project.
2.03        The detailed engineering of the selected roads has been substantially
completed. The finalization of this work and the completion of detailed engineering for
sea defenses, being carried out by consultants with financing under the PPF, are expected
by mid-May 1993. The Government is also studying the cost recovery and a financing
mechanism for sea defenses.
2.04        During project preparation an IDA Infrastructure Review mission visited
Guyana in 1992. That mission's findings and recommended strategy for infrastructure
are incorporated into the design of the project. The preparation also benefitted from two
donors' meetings in Guyana in 1992 on a common strategy for sea defenses. Lastly, the
recommendations of the project on compensation for MOPWCRD and HD staff are
consistent with those of the proposed IDA Public Administration Reform Project, which
is expected to be shortly presented to the Board.
B. Rationale for the Bank Group's Involvement
2.05          The main elements of the Bank Group's assistance strategy, over the
medium term, are aimed at the continuation of the Economic Recovery Program which
includes: (a) facilitating the development of the private sector as the principal engine of
economic growth; (b) supporting the Government's divestment and rehabilitation efforts
in the key productive sectors of the economy (bauxite and sugar) with a view to arresting
a further decline in output and to improve the overall performance of both sectors;
(c) assisting in the rehabilitation of the basic social and economic infrastructure;
(d) implementing an economic and sector work program to support the Government's
ERP and to enhance the role of the private sector in the economy, notably in the
development of non-traditional exports; and (e) through the Caribbean Group for
Cooperation in Economic Development (CGCED), assisting Guyana in its efforts to
mobilize the resources needed in external financing in the form of both balance of
payments support and new investments to facilitate the implementation of the
Government's Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP). The project will ensure that



- 13 -
the economic infrastructure needed to support the supply response underlying the ERP's
goals is in place by: (a) helping to repair critical sections of the sea defenses system,
which supports agricultural production, as well as introducing effective coastal area
management, (b) rehabilitating and maintaining critical components of the transport
infrastructure which are necessary for the efficient delivery of farm and mining inputs
and for the evacuation of the country's principal exports, bauxite, sugar and rice, and (c)
improving the management and operational efficiency of transport sector agencies.
Although the Bank Group has not made any loans to Guyana's sea defenses and transport
sector for some time now, the Bank Group's past experience in Guyana's sea defenses
and its leadership in the area of road maintenance places it in a good position to offer
assistance and guidance to Guyana. Also, the project is expected to play a catalytic role
in helping to attract additional donor assistance in cofinancing for further critical
investments in the sector and provide a framework for coordinating such assistance.
C. Project Objectives
2.06         The main objectives of the project would be to: (a) assist in the immediate
repair and reconstruction of deteriorated critical sections of the sea defenses system and
lay the basis for the development of an efficient O&M system for sea defenses, (b) to
initiate improvements in the overall performance and efficiency of the management and
operations of the transport sector; (c) facilitate agricultural, agro-industrial and mining
production, particularly for export, through reduced transport costs, both from farm to
market and from market through export routes to international markets; and (d) help
reduce the need for premature replacement of transport vehicles, spare parts and fuel
imports and thus save scarce foreign exchange resources. These objectives aim at
implementing a medium-term infrastructure strategy necessary to support a supply
response in the economy to the ERP. It is fully recognized that other issues exist in the
sector which will not be addressed by the project, but over the long-term and through
other instruments.
D. Project Description
2.07        The project consists of: (a) rehabilitation and subsequent maintenance of
about 4 km of critical sections of the sea defenses system and the establishment of
effective management of the coastal areas within the Hydraulics Division, including the
design and implementation of adequate cost recovery measures to provide reliable
financing for O&M of the systems as well as the establishment of a data bank on tidal
and morphological measurements; (b) the rehabilitation with minor alignment and
subsequent maintenance, on a limited basis, of the Essequibo coast road and the Linden
Highway and bridges; (c) preventive maintenance of selected high priority roads; and (d)
the institutional strengthening of MOPWCRD through technical assistance to the CIPU
for improving transport planning, project formulation and monitoring of potential



- 14 -
environmental impacts, the RAD for the supervision of road rehabilitation and the THD
for ports management. The project will also finance technical and economic studies for
the creation of an off-port container terminal, a study for the establishment of a National
Port Authority, an environmental assessment of the Brazil-Guyana road, a study of
highways subsector financing and the purchase of equipment including fire-fighting
equipment for the Timehri Airport all-terrain vehicles and office equipment.
1 .    Civil Works
(i)   Sea Defenses: the reconstruction and subsequent maintenance of sections
of sea defenses totalling 4 km between the Demerara and Mahaicony
rivers, which need emergency works.  The exact sections, design
methodology and standards are included in Annex 5;
(ii)   The Essequibo Coast Road (60 Km): the construction and paving of the
Supemaam - Adventure section (13 km); resurfacing, with minor
alignment, of the Adventure - Anna Regina section (22 km), and
replacement of pavement and construction of new shoulders for the Anna
Regina - Charity section (25 km), including the reconstruction of bridges
and subsequent maintenance for four years;
(iii) The Linden Highway: the reconstruction of about 4 km of deteriorated
sections of the road, the resealing of the remaining 65 km and the
replacement of the wooden decks of 8 bridges with concrete structures and
subsequent maintenance of the above for four years; and
(iv)  Preventive Maintenance: the preventive maintenance of selected high
priority roads (141 km) not included in the IDB or CDB projects and now
in good or fair condition that could significantly deteriorate if no
maintenance is carried out in the next two to three years, which is the
time needed to start the implementation of the maintenance programs
resulting from the IDB Technical Cooperation Agreement (US$1.2
million). (Annex 2)
2.    Consulting Services
(i) Studies
(a)   establishment of a data bank on tidal and morphological
measurements along the Guyana coastline, as a first step of a
study, the balance of which is to be financed by IDB under the
forthcoming coastal zone management program (Annex 7);



- 15 -
(b)   a study of highways subsector financing;
(c)   technical, economic and financial studies for the creation of an off-
port container terminal;
(d)   an environmental impact assessment of the Guyana-Brazil road
(Annex 8); and
(e)   a study for the establishment of a national port authority.
All these studies should be completed at project mid-term review in line with paras. 2.29
and 3.01 and the project implementation schedule detailed in Tables 3 and 4.
(ii) Engineering Services
(a)   engineering design of about 4 km of sea defenses; and
(b)   construction supervision for all the civil works financed under the
project.
(iii) Institutional Strengthening and Development Services
(a)   technical assistance (about 96 man-months) to the RAD  for
managing the implementation of road projects (scope and outline
terms of reference in Annex 4);
(b)   technical assistance (about 96 man-months) to the HD  for
managing the implementation of the 1993-1996 sea defenses
rehabilitation program (scope and outline terms of reference in
Annex 6);
(c)   technical assistance (about 30 man-months) to the CTPU to
strengthen (i) transport planning and policy formulation, including
the establishment of a transport data bank and carrying out of
specific studies; and (ii) the incorporation of environmental
considerations in the planning, design, construction and
maintenance of transport facilities and training of CTPU staff
through both in-house and overseas courses (outline scope of
services in Annexes 9 and 10); and



- 16 -
(d)   technical assistance (24 man-months) to assist the Ministry of
Public Works, Communications and Regional Development in
establishing a National Port Authority (Annex 11).
3.    Equipment
(a)   Provision of necessary office equipment (desk-top computers and
appropriate printers, photocopy machines) and two all-terrain
vehicles each for the CTPU, RAD and HD for project/program
management; and
(b)   provision of fire fighting equipment (two fire trucks and an initial
stock of movable spare parts) for the Civil Aviation Department
(CAD).
E. Project Costs and Financing
2.08        The total project cost, net of taxes and duties, including US$3.12 million
in physical contingencies and US$2.48 million in price contingencies, amounts to
US$34.0 million with a total foreign exchange component (FEC) of some US$27.8
million (82%). Price contingencies have been determined on the basis of estimated price
increases of 3.9 % for 1993 and 1994, and 3.8% for 1995-96. The project cost
summary is shown in the following page, and in Table 3 by year and financing agency.
2.09        The cost estimates for sea defenses and road rehabilitation, improvement
and works are based on quantity estimates and unit prices from engineering studies
financed by the EEC, current unit prices on similar works being financed by IDB and
cost estimates from contractors in neighboring countries. The costs of engineering and
consulting services are based on MOPWCRD's experience in contracting for similar
services financed by the PPF. The cost of studies, technical assistance and training was
estimated by detailed costing of all elements using man-month rates for consultants
comparable to those incurred during project preparation. To estimate the FEC of civil
works, equipment and imported materials components, recent civil works contracts in
Guyana have been used. The FEC for consulting services was estimated assuming that
supervision contracts and technical assistance and studies would normally be awarded to
foreign firms or a joint venture of foreign and local firms. For goods to be procured
under the project, the FEC has been estimated at 90%, based on the CIF prices at port
of entry into Guyana and free of import duties and sales tax. Physical contingencies of
10% of the cost of civil works have been provided.



- 17 -
Projelct cost
(in Milions  f US DolUr at         1     p        - _-:-_           |
Lo-a- Cost.  :Foreig Cost     Tot-: Cost
CIVIL WORKS:
Essequibo Coast Road                             1.72          6.88           8.60
Linden Highway and Bridges                       1.04          4.16           5.20
Road Maintenance                                0.29           1.16           1.45
Road Rehabilitation & Main.                    3.04           12.21          15.25
Sea Defenses Rehabiliation                     1.42           4.28           5.70
SUB-TOTAL                                         4.46          16.49          20.95
EQUIPMENT:
Office and Vehicles                             0.01           0.29           0.30
Fire and Equipment for CAD                      0.10            1.9           2.00
SUB-TOTAL                                         0.11          2.19           2.30
CONSULTING SERVICES:
Tidal and Morph.                                0.01           0.09           0.10
Highways Finance                                0.01           0.09           0.10
Off-port Container Terminal                     0.01           0.19           0.20
Environmental Assessment                        0.01           0.09           0.10
National Port Authority                         0.01           0.29           0.30
Studies                                        0.05           0.75           0.80
Supervision of Construction                    0.05           0.95           1.00
HD                                              0.15           0.85           1.00
RAD                                             0.15           0.85           1.00
CTPU                                            0.06           0.34           0.40
National Port Authority                         0.02           0.18           0.20
Technical Assistance and Training              0.43           3.17           3.60
SUB-TOTAL                                         0.48          3.92            4.40
PPF                                            0.00           0.75           0.75
BASE COST                                        5.05          23.35          28.40
Physical Contingencies                         0.65           2.47           3.12
Price Contingencies                            0.45           2.03           2.48
TOTAL COST                                       6.15           27.85          34.00



- 18 -
2.10        The IDA credit of US$26.0 million will finance 76.5% of the project cost;
the CDB will finance US$6.0 million (17.6%) for the Linden Highway and Bridges; and
the Government of Guyana the remaining US$2.0 million (5.9%). Although not included
as a part of the project, MOPWCRD is receiving a Technical Cooperation Grant of
US$1.2 million from the IDB for consulting services for institutional strengthening of
RAD and for developing a maintenance program and strategy. IDB is also financing the
rehabilitation of two main road sections and of 1,000 km. of minor roads and trails.
During the negotiations the Government agreed to provide the US$2.0 million project
counterpart funds (an average of US$300,000 per year). The specific amounts for each
year of project implementation will be agreed during the annual project implementation
reviews, depending on the funds required to continue project implementation.
F. Project Implementation
2.11        Execution of the transport sector components of the project would be the
responsibility of MOPWCRD. The RAD would manage the contracting of road civil
works, related consulting engineering services for construction supervision and the
consulting services for its portion of technical assistance. A Program Executing Unit
(PEU) will be established in RAD to implement the road components of the project. The
composition and functions of the Unit are included in Annex 4. MOPWCRD would also
be responsible for procurement of office equipment and vehicles for CTPU and RAD and
fire fighting equipment for the CAD. The Ministry of Agriculture, through its HD, will
be responsible for the implementation of the sea defenses components of the project. A
special PEU will be established within HD for that purpose and for the implementation
of the IDB, CDB and EEC sea defenses projects. The composition and functions of the
Unit are included in Annex 6. The establishment of the above PEUs for roads and sea
defenses and naming of coordinators will be a condition of credit effectiveness (see paras.
1.19 and 1.22). The project will finance four posts in each PEU (RAD and HD): the
Coordinator, Financial Controller, Civil Engineer and Contract/Procurement Specialist.
The remaining staff and operating costs, including administration office and general
running costs will be financed by IDB (in the case of RAD), the EEC (in the case of
HD) and the Government. Not later than September 30, 1993, the Government will also
recruit, with the salary scheme to be implemented under the proposed Public
Administration Reform Project, the corresponding counterpart staff who will be
incorporated later on as permanent staff in RAD and HD respectively. It is expected that
as the reforms under the Public Administration Reform Project have an impact on
recruitment and retention of staff, the functions of the PEUs will be transferred to
Government staff. The arrangements and schedule for this transition are to be agreed
at the mid-term project review. The project will also provide for the services of a
procurement agency to assist in the procurement of fire fighting equipment.



- 19 -
G. Procurement
2.12        Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the Bank Group
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, May 1992". The
selection and appointment of consultants for studies and technical assistance will be
consistent with the August 1981 'Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency." The Guyana's public
procurement procedures are generally consistent with the Bank guidelines.
2.13        Works. TIl civil works components (covering sea defenses as well as
road rehabilitation and maintenance) include contracts for US$25.9 million (only 19.5
with IDA financing). Civil works contracts for road rehabilitation are estimated to cost
US$17.1 million (only 10.7 with IDA ninancing) and for road maintenance US$1.80
million. Sea defenses rehabilitation is estimated to cost US$7.00 million. Contracts for
sea defenses and road rehabilitation and maintenance valued at US$1.0 million each or
above will be awarded through international competitive bidding (ICB) and when valued
below the US$1.0 million limit, if not in excess of US$2.0 million equivalent in
aggregate, will be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to IDA.
2.14        Equigment. Materials and Goods.  Fire fighting equipment will be
procured through LIB, given the highly specialized nature and relative low value of this
equipment. All-terrain vehicles to be imported and financed under the project will be
procured through LIB among established dealers in Guyana. Office equipment, parts and
materials will be grouped in packages valued at above US$100,000 and procured through
ICB. However, small groups of items costing less than US$25,000 and not exceeding
US$0.55 million in aggregate, may be procured on the basis of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers. For the purpose of bid evaluation under ICB, goods
manufactured in countries belonging to the Caribbean Community (CARICOM),
including Guyana, may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines. A summary of procurement arrangements is presented in the
Table in the following page. The project will be completed in about six years in
accordance with the project implementation schedule presented in Table 4. Both the
schedule and above arrangements for the management of project procurement
implementation were reviewed and confirmed during negotiations.
2.15        IDA will review ex-ante all procurement documentation under ICB and
LIB procedures as well as LCB documents for work contracts estimated to cost above
US$500,000 equivalent. LCB documents for work contracts valued US$500,000
equivalent or below, will be subject to ex-post-review by IDA. All other procurement
documentation will be retained by SNC and subject to selective ex-post review by IDA.
Under these procedures IDA's prior review will cover more than 80% of total contract
values.



- 20 -
Summary of Procurement Arrangemnent
(US$ Million equivalent) a/
Pt 'roject Cospoo4Nlt                                WB          LOU        O;0 0   000 02 t~t  N000C1000 00<t * 000000wlt 0iX   Totaltal
Works
Sea Defenses Rehabilitation                             7.00       -              -        -       7.00
(6.53)    (-)             (-)      (-)     (6.53)
Essequibo Road Rehabilitation                          10.70       -              -         -      10.70
(10.06)    (-)             (-)       (-)    (10.06)
Linden Highway Rehabilitation                             -        -              -       6.42      6.42
Road Maintenance                                        1.80       -              -         -       1.80
(1.70)    ()()                      -)      (1.70)
Equipment Materials and Goods
Office Equipment and Vehicles                        0.22 e/       _1b/                     -       0.33
(0.22)8/    (-)           (0.10)      (-)     (0.32)
Fire Equipment, Spare Parts,                            1.75       -          0.44b/        -       2.19
and Materials                                          (1.75)    (-)          (0.41)       ()      (2.16)
Consultants
Works Supervision                                         -        -         0.76c/    0.33         1.09
(-)     (-)       (0.76)        (-)      (0.76)
Institutional Strengthening                               -        -          2.85d/       -        2.85
(-)     (-)          (2.85)      (-)     (2.85)
Studies                                                   -        -          0.87c/        -       0.87
(-)     (-)          (0.87)      (-)     (0.87)
Miscellaneous
Refinancing PPF                                                                0.75         -       0.75
-      (-)          (0.75)      (-)     (0.75)
(-)
TOTAL 00?IBOSlIS OtXB3t3                              21.47        -.5.78                 6.5      34.00
TOTAL______________________________(20.26)                     ;  7 0(-)   :1(5    74 )   :()     (26.00)
NIF - Not IDA Financed
a/ Figures in porentheifs are the mournt finwnced by IDA
b/ Shopping
c/ ConsuLting servieI
d/ Consulting *ervices, training, tultion end feLlowships
e/ Limited Internationa lBidding (LIB)



- 21 -
2.16        Equipment procurement for fire fighting equipment will be carried out with
assistance of a procurement agent to be financed under the project. All procurement of
consultant services will be done in accordance with Bank Group guidelines and
procedures. Training activities will be performed by technical assistance consultants or
executed by contract with external training agencies or universities in the Caribbean.
These arrangements were agreed at negotiations and the date of June 30, 1993 was
established as a limit to initiate the arrangements with the agent or agents for handling
the procurement of fire fighting equipment.
H. Disbursements
2.17        Disbursements of the IDA credit would be made against:
(a)   94% of total expenditures of civil works on: (i) sea defenses, (ii)
rehabilitation with minor alignment and maintenance of the Essequibo
Coast road and (iii) routine and periodic maintenance by contract for the
two-year period from July 1993 to June 1995;
(b)   100% of foreign expenditures of imported goods; 100% of the ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured goods; and 90% of local expenditures for
imported goods procured locally;
(c)   100% of total expenditures, excluding taxes, for professional services; and
(d)   100% of total expenditures, excluding taxes, for training.
2.18        Funds from the IDA credit are expected to be disbursed over a period of
six years, in line with the standard profile for transport projects in the region and current
experience with the pace of project implementation in Guyana. Based on the assumption
that the credit would become effective by July 1993, the closing date will be June 30,
1999. The funds include a project preparation facility advance of US$750,000 and
retroactive financing in an aggregate amount of up to US$450,000 with respect of
payments made for expenditures incurred since April 1992, which would be made for
engineering and technical assistance services and training included in the Institutional
Development Program. At negotiations, all disbursement-related matters and retroactive
financing were agreed, with the Government. An estimated schedule of disbursements
is given in Table 5.
I. Special Account and Auditing
2.19        To maintain an adequate flow of funds to finance eligible project
expenditures with a minimum administrative delay, the Government will establish a



- 22 -
Special Account in a bank acceptable to IDA, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. IDA will, at the Government's request, deposit an aggregate amount equivalent
to a maximum of US$2.0 million (4 months of estimated expenditures) from the credit
into the Special Account. Records of Special Account proceeds and outlays will be
available for review by Bank supervision missions and subject to annual audit.
Disbursements will be made on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures for civil
works whose contractual value is less than the equivalent of US$100,000 and for goods
whose contractual value is less than US$25,000.  The corresponding supporting
documentation will be verified on a routine basis during the supervision process.
2.20        IDA will require that an independent auditor; (i) audit all credit accounts
and expenditure categories for accuracy; (ii) consistently apply procedures and methods
satisfactory to IDA that conform to generally accepted auditing standards; (iii) carry out
its auditing work in a timely manner (annual reports will be presented no later than four
months after the end of each calendar year); and (iv) render an impartial judgment in its
auditing role.
J. Economic Justification
2.21        The project will: (a) by strengthening the MPOWCRD and its agencies,
ensure that transport investments are directed to high priority areas thus increasing their
returns; (b) help to reduce transport costs in support of agricultural and industrial
development and exports; (c) help to prevent further salination and flooding of
agricultural areas in the coastal zone, thus preventing a decrease in yields, (d) prevent
flooding and damage of capital infrastructure and, (e) strengthen the implementation
capacity of the Hydraulics Division and avoid wastage of funds. The project will yield
an overall ERR of about 33% for the investment component (about 80% of total project
costs). No economic return has been calculated for the institutional strengthening
components since the benefits, while expected to be substantial, are difficult to quantify.
2.22        Sea Defenses Component: A detailed economic analysis of the sea defenses
component of the project, carried out by consultants DHV and SRK, is included in
Project File No.1 and summarized in Annex 12. The analysis compared various
alternative levels of investments to restore and maintain the sea walls against the benefits
of preventing corresponding levels of losses in the form of low agricultural yields,
damage to industrial, commercial, service and residential property. An incremental
economic rate of return analysis was carried out starting from a "do nothing" base and
changing the base to different levels of technically feasible and reasonable investments.
For the selected sections of sea walls requiring rehabilitation, the level of investment with
the highest incremental return yielded an economic rate of return of about 39 %, over the
assumed 12-year life of the investment.



- 23 -
2.23        Road Components: A detailed analysis of the road components of the
project, carried out by MOPWCRD with the assistance of consultants as part of their
feasibility studies of the roads, is included in Project Files Nos.2, 3 and 4. A summary
of the methodology used in the analysis as well as a summary of the relevant tables is
presented in Annex 13. The analysis compares the economic costs of the road
investments with the benefits derived from savings in vehicle operating costs, driver and
passenger time savings, avoidance of premature reconstruction and savings in accident
costs expected from the rehabilitation works on the Essequibo Coast Road and the
reconstruction and resealing on the Linden Highway and the savings in vehicle operating
costs and savings from reduced spoilage from the feeder roads improvements.
2.24        Essequibo Coast Road (60 km) : This road section is one of the most
important and heavily trafficked parts of the main road network in Guyana. It serves a
major rice producing area of the country. The existing road, with some sections
carrying traffic over 1,200 vehicle per day (of which more than 32% are trucks), is
unpaved for the first 4 miles and has lost the pavement for the following 4. The
remainder of the road has a highly deteriorated surface. The proposed improvements
will reduce vehicle operating and therefore transport costs, save driver and passenger
time and reduce accidents and yield an economic rate of return of about 29%, based on
reductions in vehicle operating costs alone over the 20-year economic life of the road.
2.25        The Linden Highway (70 km): This paved road with 9 major bridges
links Georgetown, through Soesdyke, with Linden, the principal bauxite mining center
and second most populated city in Guyana. It is one of the few road connections to the
interior. The Linden Highway would become even more important when the road link
between Linden and Mabura on the Brazilian border, the so-called Brazilian road, is
completed. The existing road carries from 940 to 1180 vehicles a day of which more
than 13 to 31 % are trucks, depending upon the section. With the completion of the
Brazilian road, traffic is expected to increase rapidly by, at least, 50% with more than
half the increase in heavy trucks. Based on the reduction of vehicle operating costs and
the postponement of the cost of premature reconstruction, the proposed works will yield
an economic rate of return of about 27% over the 12-year economic life of the proposed
works. In the economic analysis, the investments in the replacement of the bridge decks
have been handled as an integral part of the road investments since the existing wooden
decks would not be able to handle the increased traffic, especially of the heavy vehicles
from the Brazilian road.
K. Environmental Impact
2.26        The nature of the project, mostly improvement and rehabilitation of
existing roads and sea walls in already developed corridors, is such that environment is
not a major issue, except for quarry sites and asphalt fumes during construction.
Environmental/social assessments are being carried out as a part of the detailed



- 24 -
engineering for the project roads to ensure that the road designs make adequate provision
for (a) sufficient control of asphalt fumes, (b) redress of damage at quarry sites, (c)
adequate shoulders for safety, (d) safe sites for sales stands for local peasants and
artisans, and adequate provision for non-motorized traffic, where applicable, (e)
protection of cultural and tourist sites, and (f) adequate cross-walks in urban areas. The
construction technical specifications for the proposed roads will provide adequate
protection from dust and air pollution and disposal of waste material during construction.
Moreover, the MOPWCRD has agreed to appoint an Environmental Officer in the
CTPU, by December 31, 1993, to assist in monitoring the incorporation of environmental
considerations in the planning, design, implementation and maintenance of transport
facilities and in the operation of transport services . The officer will work only part time
on the environment because of the current acute shortage of staff in the Ministry and the
assistance being already provided by the Guyana Agency for Health, Environment and
Food Policy (GAHEF) (Annex 14). GAHEF (or any successor entity with its
environmental impact assessment functions) will assist MOPWCRD in organizing training
programs for its staff under the project. Moreover an environmental impact assessment
of the Brazilian road will be carried out under the project (para 1.10).
L. Project Monitoring and Semi-Annual Consultations
2.27        MOPWCRD, through the CTPU, and the Ministry of Agriculture, through
the HD, will prepare quarterly reports, on their respective components, for IDA
providing: (i) information on progress and expenditures for project financed civil works,
consulting services, and equipment purchases, as well as estimates of expected progress
and expenditures during the forthcoming quarter; (ii) evaluation of the road network and
sea defenses condition and of maintenance programs; (iii) the status of credit
disbursements against forecast; (iv) the amount of counterpart funds allocated to the
project in the fiscal year and the amount actually spent; and, (v) the effects to the project
on the environment during the period reported. Every six months the report will, in
addition, contain in summary form, RAD and HD expenditures, especially pertaining to
their respective maintenance and investment budgets, lengths of roads and sea defenses
maintained respectively and an up-dated evaluation of road network and sea defenses
condition and of the maintenance programs. Finally, the Government will submit to IDA
a project completion report by December 31, 1999 or six months after the credit is
closed, whichever is earlier.
2.28        To monitor progress towards the civil works and the institutional
development objectives of the Project effectively, it was be agreed at negotiations that
the Government will at a minimum meet with representatives of IDA twice yearly to
review and discuss (i) progress in carrying out the civil works, including revisions found
to be necessary; (ii) the proposed annual road maintenance programs which would be
presented to the Ministry of Finance (MOF); (iii) progress of technical assistance and
training which would be financed by others; (iv) the results of environmental monitoring



- 25 -
carried out by the MOPWCRD; and (v) audit reports. The project will be monitored
against the project implementation schedule (Tables 3 & 4), the estimated schedule of
disbursements (Table 5) and the following action program:
DANM         -C    i
June 30, 1993           - Arrangements with GAHEF to prepare the environm. assessment for the Lethem-Linden rad (pam. 1. 10).
- Afrangements with the agent for handling procurement (par. 2.16)
September 30, 1993      - Assignment of duties, budget and taff to the PEUs (pars. 1. 19, 1.22 aNd 2.11).
- Agreement on the results of the ea defenses coat-recovery study (para. 1.23).
December 31, 1993       - Completion of the environmental asweasment for the Lethem-Unden road (par. 1.09).
- Appointment of an environmental officer for CTPU (par. 2.26).
June 30, 1994           - Maintenance program and budget for roads for the period January 1995 - December 1998 (par. 1. 16)
- Arrangements for funding 0 & M of the road network (par. 1. 17).
- Implemerntation plan of the agreed recommendations of the ea defenses cost-recovery study (par. 1.23).
- Arrangement to organize training coursea on environment monitoring for MOPWCRD people (par 2.26).
- Completion of review and recommendations of the existing transport policy (Annex 10).
December 31, 1994       - Establishment of transport data bank (Annex 10).
- Completion of information and analysis of existing plans of all public transport ector entities (Annex 10).
December 31, 1995       - Completion of the contract for preventive road maintenance.
- Terms of reference for the mid-term project review (pars. 2.29).
June 30, 1996           - Completion of the following studies (para. 2.07):
* Data bank along the coastline on tidal and morphological measurements
* Creation of an off-port container terminal
* Esablishment of a national port authority
- Arrangements and schedule for the transition to Government saff of the PEUs of HD and RAD (par. 2.11).
June 30, 1997           - Completion of the transition to Government Staff of the PEUr of HD and RAD.
June 30, 1998           - Com,pletion of the training program for RAD staff (par. 1. 16).
- Completion of the training program on environment monitoring (Annex 9).
2.29                One of the above reviews to be carried out in June 30, 1996 will be a
formal mid-term review according to terms of reference submitted by the Government
and agreed with IDA no later than December 31, 1995. At negotiations, it was agreed
with the Government that the review will cover: physical progress of the project;
execution of the institutional strengthening program; implementation of the road
maintenance plan; and compliance with the action program above. Furthermore, the
arrangements and schedule for the transition of key positions in the PEUs of HD and
RAD, initially staffed by IDA-financed experts, to Government staff will also be agreed
at the mid-term project review (para. 2.11). The supervision of project implementation
will be carried out according to the Supervision Strategy in Annex 15.



- 26 -
M. Project Risks
2.30        There is a risk that project implementation could be delayed because of the
lack of timely counterpart funding. This risk will be minimized through cofinancing
arrangements with the CDB which leaves the Govemment to finance only US$2.0 million
(6% of project costs). Also the allocation of adequate budgetary provisions on an annual
basis is a condition of the credit. At negotiations, the Govemment confirmed its capacity
to provide these funds. There is a risk that project benefits may not be fully sustained
after project completion because of MOPWCRD's weak institutional capacity. The
Government has undertaken to assign suitable counterparts under the project who will,
after project completion, assume the key responsibilities within the implementing
agencies. Furthermore, both the IDB Technical Cooperation Agreement and its on-going
Road Rehabilitation Project include institutional strengthening of the RAD. Lastly, under
the proposed IDA Public Administration Reform Project, the conditions would be created
to make the recruitment and retention of both experienced Guyanese and new engineers
easier through enhanced compensation at the engineers' level.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMIENDATION
3.01        During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)   Government will prepare an environmental assessment for the Lethem-
Linden road and review the results with IDA by December 31, 1993
(para. 1.10);
(b)   the staffing arrangements for RAD and CTPU and the timetable for
recruitment by the Government of the local experts to fill the vacancies in
RAD (paras. 1.15 and 2.11);
(c)   Government will assign, to the Program Executing Units in HD and RAD,
the duties and staff indicated in Annexes 4 and 5, and provide the
necessary funds in the budget to operate the units, by September 30, 1993
(paras. 1.15, 1.19, 1.22, and 2. 11);
(d)   Government agreed to submit to IDA no later than June 30, 1994, a
needs-based O&M program for the road network, including the
arrangements for its financing, covering the period January 1995 to
December 31, 1998, whose implementation is expected to begin January
1, 1995, and a training program for RAD staff (para. 1.16);



- 27 -
(e)   Government will furnish to IDA the results of the sea defenses cost-
recovery study IDA by September 30, 1993 and will propose a plan of
action for the implementation of the agreed recommendations of the study
not later than June 30, 1994 (para. 1.23);
(f)   Government will provide adequate project counterpart funds in the annual
budgets during project implementation, according to the funds needed (to
be agreed during the annual reviews) to continue project implementation
(para. 2.10);
(g)   procurement of works, services and equipment under Bank Group
guidelines (para. 2.12); procurement of fire fighting equipment will be
carried out with the assistance of a procurement agent or agents, for which
the Borrower will enter into contractual arrangements not later than June
30, 1993 (para. 2.16);
(h)   Government will appoint an environmental officer for CTPU not later than
December 31, 1993 (para. 2.26);
(i)   Government will enter into appropriate arrangements with GAHEF or any
successor entity, in order to organize training programs for MOPWCRD
staff, not later than June 30, 1993 (para. 2.26);
(j)   project progress review and monitoring arrangements, including quarterly
reports and biannual meetings to review progress in civil works,
maintenance programs, technical assistance and training and the results of
environmental monitoring carried out by the MOPWCRD (paras. 2.27 and
2.28); and
(k)   mid-term review in June 30, 1996, between the Government and IDA,
according to terms of reference submitted by the Government and agreed
with IDA no later than December 31, 1995; the review will cover:
physical progress of the project; execution of the institutional
strengthening program; implementation of the road maintenance plan; and
compliance with the agreed action program; and, include arrangements
and schedule for the transition of key positions in the Program Executing
Units of HD and RAD, initially staffed by IDA-financed experts, to
Government staff; (para. 2.29). All the studies financed by the Credit
should be completed by the mid-term review (para. 2.07.2).
3.02        The establishment of the PEUs in HD and RAD, including the appointment
of coordinators, will be a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 2.11).
3.03        Subject to the above agreements, the project is suitable for an IDA credit
of US$26.0 million at standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.






- 28 -
ANNEX I
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILS OF THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Highways Subsector
a.    The Road Network
1.        The main road network of Guyana, approximately 1610 miles' long, is divided
functionally into: (i) a primary network of 308 miles (19%) comprised mostly of paved roads
along the coastal area and river banks serving primarily the agricultural sector, and the road to
Linden which serves the mining and forestry sectors; (ii) a coastal area minor road system
(feeder roads) of nearly 321 miles (11%) which connects the agricultural areas along the coast
to the primary road network; and (iii) a system of interior roads and trails 980 miles (67%) long
serving the interior of Guyana. Approximately 88% of the primary roads and 13% of the
coastal area minor roads, are paved (Table 1). Of the total network, only 271 miles (17%) is
estimated to be in good condition.
Table 1: Guyana's Road Network
by Road Classification, Surface Type and Condition
Paved (miles)             n             ...(mi )
Good : air  Poor  Sub- .God  Pur :Poo   Sb   TOTAL. .:.
Primary Network     95    116   61    272    -        -    36    36      308    19
Coastal Area         -    26    15    41        -    15   265   280    321    20
Minor Roads
Interior Roads       -     13     -     13    176   274   518   968    981    61
and Trails
TOTAL                95   155    76    326   176   289   819   1284   1610
Percentage           6      9     5            11   18   51
=slur          = and    _- =r=-=l-
1. This total excludes urban streets and milnor trails.



- 29 -
2.          The road infrastructure is in a deteriorated state. Little or no maintenance has been done
on the primary road network for nearly 15 years leading to its rapid deterioration particularly of those
links carrying high traffic volumes: the road between Georgetown and Timehri International
Airport (24 miles, with about 13,000 vpd near Georgetown), the Georgetown to Mahaica road
(18 miles, about 5,000 to 8,000 vpd) and the Essequibo Coast Road (38 miles, about 1,200 vpd).
The other paved roads, which carry relatively low traffic volumes and are much newer, are still
in reasonably good condition but will need resealing, resurfacing or overlaying soon.
Rehabilitation of the first three roads above-mentioned and for the replacement of the bridges
on the Linden highway and preventive maintenance of some selected paved roads are the highest
priorities in the road subsector. The IDB has recently approved a loan for the first two roads
and the project will provide for the third (IDA) and for the Linden Highway (CDB) and for
preventive maintenance of about 88 miles of paved roads in the primary network (IDA).
3.          Most feeder roads leading to the farming areas off the primary roads and the
interior roads and trails are poorly constructed, poorly maintained and nearly impassable during
the rainy season. The poor condition of these roads has become a real bottleneck to the
transportation of agricultural products. A feeder roads and trails rehabilitation and maintenance
program is urgently needed. The IDB, as part of its Agricultural Sector Loan, is rehabilitating
about 1000 km of interior farm access trails.
4.          The streets of Georgetown are in generally poor condition. Most of it is flooded
after heavy rains. There evidence that some work has been done on the arterial roads.
However, the local streets serving residential areas, have been left unattended over the last
several years. A program for city streets improvement should be considered as part of an urban
project for Georgetown.
The Road Transport Industry
5.          The transport industry in Guyana is quite efficient. Public passenger transport is
provided mostly by a reasonably new stock of privately owned vehicles made up of about 2400
minibuses and 7000 hire cars2 with enough capacity to satisfy current demand. These vehicles
came in service to replace the now-defunct, government-run Guyana Transport Services Limited.
Beginning in 1985, individuals were permitted to import minibuses and in 1986 the import policy
was expanded to give duty free concessions for their importation. Minibus and hire car
operations are licensed by the MOPWCRD to operate on specified routes. Fares are regulated.
Such regulation is not uncommon for public passenger transport and does not appear to be
hurting the efficiency of the industry.
2. Passenger car-size vehicles providing service along major corridors. Figures provided are
for 1989 and were obtained from the Central Transport Planiing Unit of the Ministry of
Communications and Works.



- 30 -
6.          Freight transport is being provided by an aged fleet of about 1800 single unit
trucks (2 and 3 axles) and some 140 tractor-trailers. Import restrictions have hindered the
acquisition of new trucks. Spare parts are readily available but at a high price. The current
liberalization of foreign exchange is already helping to improve truck and spare parts imports.
A high proportion of agricultural produce is transported by tractors or by trucks owned by the
producers. Freight transport rates are not regulated with customers and truckers negotiating
prior to the provision of the service. Existing regulations govern only axle loads, vehicle
dimensions and vehicle safety inspection, but these are unfortunately not strictly enforced.
Highways Administration and Maintenance
7.          Responsibility for highway administration has since 1985 been divided between
the Roads Division of the MOPWCRD and the regional authorities by the regionalization law.
RAD's role has been restricted to the overall development of the main network and to advisory
and technical support to the regions while the regions were made responsible for the
improvement, rehabilitation and maintenance of the roads in their region. The regional
authorities have neither the technical capacity nor resources to perform their functions. On the
other hand, RAD which still has some capacity (4 professional-level staff) has practically nothing
to do since there has been virtually no road development over the past decade.
8.          Highways maintenance is the responsibility of the regional authorities who receive
whatever little maintenance funds are allocated directly from the treasury. These funds are not
only insufficient, but are also not necessarily spent on maintenance. Moreover those regions
which try to execute maintenance are hampered by lack of technical capacity and equipment.
In fact, one of the regions has over the past three years handed back its maintenance to the RAD
which carries it out using small local contractors. Because it has no maintenance or construction
responsibilities, RAD has practically no road equipment; its few pieces date back to pre-
regionalization days and have been poorly maintained. RAD has moreover given up the
supporting services for preparing, implementing and monitoring a road maintenance program.
9.          The Government needs to recentralize the development, administration and
maintenance of the main roads under RAD; maintenance of feeder roads and trails should remain
under the regions. The Government has confirmed, by legal opinion that RAD is responsible
for all roads. However, RAD would need strengthening for its new role. Currently, 13 out of
its 17 authorized positions remain vacant and the 4 staff on board are totally demotivated due
to low salaries, absence of any professionally-challenging assignments and lack of future career
prospects. The IDB, through a Technical Cooperation Agreement TCA (US$1.2 m), is providing
technical assistance to, inter a  prepare detailed functions for RAD and assist it in developing
a maintenance program and strategy for the road network. The TCA also includes training of
RAD staff. Bringing the RAD to its required institutional strength would take at least seven to
ten years. The IDB intends to subsequently assist the Government, through a follow-up project,
to fund the program. The proposed salary scheme under the IDA-financed Public Administration
Reform Project, which would significantly raise engineer's salaries, will help in retraining the
existing staff and in recruiting young engineers for man RAD in the long-term. Before these



- 31 -
arrangements come to fruition, however, both the recently appraised IDB highway project and
the project will provide for the financing of maintenance, to be executed by private contractors,
during the six-year project implementation period. In the meantime, RAD would need extensive
technical support to implement the IDB and proposed IDA projects and private contractors to
maintain the main network. As a start, the IDA PPF has provided technical assistance (1
engineer and administration expert) to assist it in supervising consultants' detailed engineering
and bid preparation, in contract administration for maintenance works to be contracted out and
for setting up an administration/financial management system for the IDB and IDA projects.
The project would provide for technical assistance to RAD to supervise the project roads. To
strengthen RAD itself would require the hiring and retention of qualified staff. With the
improvement in the country's economic and political situation the return of qualified Guyanese
engineers and economists has picked up as has the potential for filling RAD's vacancies. Such
personnel can, however, only be successfully recruited under compensation arrangements
competitive with the local private sector. The project would assist in financing fixed-term
contracts of qualified Guyanese for that purpose as well as expatriates to perform key functions.
(See Annex 4).
Highway Planning
10.         Highway planning is the responsibility of the CTPU which, like RAD, is poorly
staffed. Of its 7 approved professional-level positions six are vacant. To date, this has not been
a major shortcoming since there has been practically no road investments; in fact a
comprehensive transport sector plan developed in 1975 with consultants assistance remains
totally untouched. With the expected upsurge in road activity however, CTPU has neither the
data nor the resources to cope with its planning functions. CTPU is currently being assisted by
a road expert being financed under the PPF. The recruitment of at least three local staff
(engineers, transport economists and planners) to fill positions already approved by Government
is urgent. The project would provide for their further training, if necessary. The PPF is
providing for the establishment of a road data bank, including the facilities, computers etc..
This assistance is included under the project. Closer coordination between RAD and CTPU to
avoid duplication and ensure that road investments are consistent with the transport sector policy.
For example, the IDB-financed TCA is expected to assist RAD in carrying out a complete
physical and condition inventory of the road network. The results should be made available to
the CTPU for its data bank and planning activities.
Highways Expenditure and Financing
A.   Expenditures
11.         Budgetary allocations for roads, most of which go directly to the regional
authorities, have averaged about US$4.38 million of which US$1.88 million for operations and
maintenance. The actual sums spent are unknown, but it is believed that it would not exceed
more than 50% of the funds. A few roads and bridges were built or improved, but there is very
little evidence of maintenance. Moreover the allocations themselves, about US$1911 per km is



- 32 -
far less than the US$8750 per km per year being spent on the average by Latin American
countries. For O&M, the allocations were US$1.88 m compared with estimated needs of
US$5.77 m per year.
B.   Highway Cost Recovery
12.         Highways expenditures in Guyana are recovered through road-user charges in the
form of taxes and duties on motor fuels, lubricating oil, spare parts and tires, and imported
vehicles, tolls and vehicle registration and licensing fees. Total annual receipts averaged about
US$16.9 m during 1985 to 1990. Recently, the tolls on all roads, except the Demerara River
bridge, have been abolished by Government, but the impact of that decision will be insignificant
on receipts and in the long run beneficial to the country since the receipt did not cover the
administration and accounting costs for the stations. The user charges far exceed the US$4.38
m annual spending for roads, is almost 9 times the allocation for O&M and would be some 3
times the amounts necessary for proper O&M. During project preparation, the desirability and
feasibility of earmarking a portion of the road-user charges to cover at least highways
administration and maintenance was discussed with the Government; capital investments will
continue to be covered from the treasury. The rationale was (i) that the country was currently
losing an estimated US$9 m to 12 m on additional vehicle operating costs arising from
insufficient maintenance, (ii) relying on the central allocation of funds had failed, and (iii) if
local or regional contractors are to be encouraged to participate in road maintenance - and their
participation would be indispensable for at least the next ten years - a more reliable, consistent
source of funding maintenance should be established. The Ministry of Finance prefers an
approach which would have the MOPWCRD prepare a realistic, technically defensible budget
to be approved in the usual budget procedure, but has agreed to review the feasibility of
earmarking. The project finances technical assistance for a study on coast recovery in roads.
The recommendations of the study will be presented to IDA not later than June 30, 1994.
C.   Ports
13.         The common-user wharves at Georgetown, where all general cargo imports are
handled, are owned and operated by two nationalized trading companies and two private ones.
The wharves are generally in very poor state, the total effective frontage is short (2700 ft) and
the depth alongside low (about 20 ft at high tide). Moreover, the mud-bar across the estuary
currently limits entry to vessels drawing 16-21 ft, depending on tidal conditions. Parts of the
wharf decks are progressively being renovated, but they still cannot bear heavy equipment and
vessels therefore have to unload with their own cranes or derricks onto trailers, which are then
towed to the adjacent land area. The various port operators are currently seeking financing to
improve their facilities. As almost all the general cargo arrives in containers, and space behind
the wharves is only a narrow strip, containers are piled as much as four high in some cases,
making operations very difficult and costly. An offshore container terminal would greatly assist
in freeing the port area and improving the efficiency of container handling. The project provides
for economic, financial and engineering feasibility studies and detailed engineering for such a



- 33 -
park. The bauxite loading facility at Linden, owned and operated by the mining company, is
also in deplorable condition.
14.         There are no reliable statistics on the cargo handled at the Georgetown port, but
its volume is known to be low and the pressure to improve port facilities and operations is
therefore not very high now. With the current upswing in the economy, however, and the
expected transit freight traffic from Brazil after the second tranche of the Brazilian road is
completed, the port's operational capacity would become insufficient within the next seven years.
The THD has so far rightly left the development of the port's facilities to the operators
restricting its role to piloting, inspection and coast guarding. It needs to also start paying
attention to the long-term strategic development of Guyana's ports, even if the ports remain in
private or parastatal hands, and to the regulation of the private operators. TDH is currently too
busy operating its ferries to play that role. The establishment of a national ports and rivers
authority to perform inter alig the long-term planning and regulatory role is strongly
recommended. The authority should be under MOPWCRD, but separate from the TDH. The
project provides technical assistance to study the legal and financial status and the form and
functions of the authority and to help in establishing it.
D.    Ferry services
15.         Ferry services are provided across the mouths of the Demerara, Berbice and
Essequibo rivers for coastal area vehicular and passenger traffic and are also available across
the Corentyne River for traffic between Guyana and Surinam. The ferries are often down for
lack of maintenance and spare parts. Coastal vessels substitute temporarily for the ferries in
such cases. Recently, the ferries have been complemented by a large fleet of privately-owned
small speed boats which are heavily patronized in spite of charging tariffs twice those of the
ferries. EEC, under its Lome III and IV, has refurbished two of three vessels and will start
rehabilitating the remaining one soon. EEC is also considering purchasing two additional new
ferries for TDH. Given the interest and efficiency shown by the private sector in the river
transport industry, the government should allow the private sector to absorb any additional
demand beyond that which can be satisfied with the EEC assistance. The private boats need to
be properly licensed and inspected for sea worthiness and properly qualified manning. This
should be one of the functions of the proposed National Ports and Rivers Authority. To ensure
that the TDH operates its ferries efficiently and profitably, the EEC is currently studying
alternative financial cost recovery strategies for the ferry services and intends to insist on the
application of tariffs which will ensure cost recovery for fleet renewal, maintenance and
operations.
E.    The Demerara River Floating Bridge.
16.          An extremely important river crossing is the 1.2 mile floating bridge across the
Demerara River, constructed as a temporary structure some seventeen years ago. The bridge
is the most efficient connection between Georgetown and the half of the country west of the
Demerara river. Due to lack of sufficient maintenance, inadequate design of the anchoring



- 34 -
system and old age, sections of the bridge have been collapsing, more frequently recently. The
maintenance problem is due mostly to insufficient funds. Although the bridge is operated as a
toll facility, its receipts are not earmarked for its O&M. EEC is studying ways to rehabilitate
and prolong the life of the existing bridge since a new bridge is prohibitively costly for Guyana
at this time.
F.    Airport Infrastructure and Facilities.
17.          At Timehri (the main airport located at about 24 miles from Georgetown), the
navigational aids, communication equipment, safety aids, security equipment and terminal
building have not been properly maintained. At present, a number of the basic navigational aids
are unserviceable, awaiting repair or replacement. Cargo facilities are practically non-existent
at Timehri; the present insufficient undercover storage space at the airport results in cargo
having to remain in the open, exposed to the elements until it is put on an aircraft.
Government's plans to enter into concession arrangements with foreign airport operators for
Timehri have failed so far because the exceptionally poor existing state of the airport. As a
minimum, Timehri should upgrade its safety equipment and provide shedding for transit goods.
Government is currently using local funds to expand the passenger lounges and to build cargo
storage facilities at the airport. With the introduction of the US$8 departure tax last year,
revenues at the Timehri airport increased dramatically and the govemment is planning to create
a financially-autonomous airport authority. In the meantime, the project will provide for two
fire-fighting trucks for the airport. The Ogle Airfield, five miles east of Georgetown, is
designed for short take-off and landing aircraft such as those used by Guyana Airways
Corporation (GAC) for its domestic flights. There are an additional 190 airfields scattered
throughout the country. The most important of these is the Lethem airstrip with a 6400 ft, 75
ft wide bitumen runway. Most of the airfields are in poor condition and the CAD plans to select
the most important ones for rehabilitation.
18.         GAC provides regular scheduled service between Timehri and three domestic
airports (Lethem, Mabaruma and Mathews Ridge) and charter services to the mining centers.
In addition, private operators provide charter air service to these remote areas. There are plans
to divest the GAC.






- 35 -
ANNEX 2
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD MAINTENANCE
Maintenance Administration
1.          The RAD, under the Public Works branch of the MOPWCRD, shares with the
Regional Administrations the responsibility for the maintenance of the road network in Guyana.
This arrangement did not give the expected results as the Roads Administration Division (RAD)
as well as the Regions never had the manpower, the equipment nor the budget to carry out their
assignment. Furthermore, the Division also handles the maintenance and improvement of the
declared public roads in the Georgetown Metropolitan area, while the city councils are
responsible for the maintenance of the other city streets.
2.          The RAD is composed of three sections: Traffic, Maintenance and Construction.
These sections are headed by a Chief Road Officer reporting to a Chief Works Officer who in
turn reports to the Permanent Secretary. Presently, as the post of Chief Works Officer is
vacant, the Chief Road Officer also serves as acting Chief Works Officer. As it exists today,
the RAD is practically an inactive maintenance organization. Actually, the Division is obliged
to contract out all maintenance and rehabilitation work to small private contractors. One of the
main reasons for this situation is the high rate of vacancy.
3.          The amounts shown in the next table were obtained from the Deputy Permanent
Secretary and represent the expenditures for the past five years, as well as the current year
budget for road and bridge maintenance.
Description      Cuffent      1991       1990      1989       1988      1987
Budget
US$        US$        US$        US$       US$       US$
Maintenance      100,000     46,700     38,900      Not     20,800     4,300
of Roads                                           Avail.
Maintenance      206,300    138,900    109,300      Not      83,300    66,900
of Bridges                                         Avail.
TOTAL            306,300    185,600    148,200      Not    104,100   71,200
l_ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   A vail.



- 36 -
These figures show that very little importance was given to road maintenance during the last five
years. Furthermore, the current budget, even representing a substantial increase with respect
to expenditure for last year, is obviously inadequate, considering the amount of required
maintenance work.
Other Findings and Recommendations
4.          Maintenance planning has not been practiced before. In addition:
(i)   No comprehensive maintenance system exists;
(ii)  no operational reports are produced to monitor planned versus actual
accomplishment;
(iii)  no equipment in working condition was located;
(iv)  basic maintenance management system components, such as work activities, levels
of service and performance standards are not defined;
(v)   a significant number of managerial positions are vacant; and
(vi)  there is no a well defined maintenance organizational structure.
5.          To improve this situation, the following actions are recommended and supported
by the project:
(i)   Provide technical assistance to strengthen the managerial and technical skills of
existing and new personnel;
(ii)  strengthen the RAD, in order to provide the organization and resources needed
to eventually assume overall road maintenance responsibility;
(iii)  centralize all road maintenance activities in the main network under the RAD;
(iv)  create a Control Section responsible for internal auditing, budgeting and
accounting;
(v)   establish three districts under the authority of the RAD;
(vi)  design a maintenance management system;
(vii)  implement a reporting system to monitor planned versus actual work program
accomplishments, productivity and costs;
(viii) develop a new salary scale for qualified personnel; and,
(ix)  provide adequate maintenance equipment to the RAD and establish an Equipment
Section, within the RAD, responsible for equipment operation and preventive
maintenance.
Actions on items (i) through (iii) will be undertaken under the ongoing IDB Technical
Cooperation Agreement and Main Roads Rehabilitation Project and under this project. Actions
on the remaining items would await the completion of an in-depth study being carried under the
IDB Technical Cooperation Agreement.



- 37 -
6.          Procurement of the recommended equipment, and consequently the establishment
of the equipment section, should be time phased, contingent upon the implementation of the
proposed actions.
Proposed Maintenance Organization
7.         In order to create a well-structured maintenance organization, the following
institutional changes must be implemented:
(i)   Reorganize the RAD, with a headquarter located at the MOPWCRD compound
and three Districts located respectively in Georgetown, Anna Regina and New
Amsterdam;
(ii)  centralize all road maintenance planning, administration and management, as well
as supervision of the maintenance program, under the authority of the RAD; and,
(iii) establish a Maintenance Implementation Unit consisting of managerial,
administrative and planning personnel located at the RAD headquarters and field
personnel located at the district offices, assisted by individual consultants.
Maintenance Program
8.          The Road Maintenance Program  for 1993-97 was prepared during project
preparation. For this purpose, 15 maintenance activities were defined with its corresponding
work measurement unit (e.g. cubic yard). Two levels of maintenance, desirable and minimum,
were considered. These levels of maintenance were defined by a set of quantity standards (e.g.
square yards of patching per year) with a separate standard for each activity. Quantity standards
were fixed based on the experience on countries with similar characteristics. Modifying factors
to the quantity standards were introduced according to pavement condition, surface type, climatic
regions, pavement age and policies (e.g. manual or mechanical execution). Data on pavement
condition were collected in the field, through surveys by individual consultants.
9.          Once the maintenance activities and the levels of maintenance (expressed in
quantity standards) were established, annual work quantities were determined for each
maintenance activity by multiplying the corresponding quantity standards by the appropriate
inventory quantity. The amounts and types of resources required to carry out the annual work
quantities were determined by using each maintenance activity's performance standard which
define the activity, the daily resource requirements, the expected daily accomplishment and the
approved work method. Annual costs for each activity were determined by multiplying the
resources required by unit costs for labor, equipment and materials. The sum of all annual
activity cost is the maintenance budget.
10.         For the desirable program, the length of the network considered under
maintenance in the period 1993-97 was 308 miles of primary roads, 321 miles of coastal feeder



- 38 -
roads and 980 miles of interior roads, less the part of the primary network under reconstruction
or rehabilitation in the same period financed by IDA, IDB and CDB. An annual amount for the
maintenance of the Demarara Harbor Bridge was also included. The total desirable maintenance
budget for 1993-97 resulted in the equivalent to US$18.1 million, of which US$0.4 million is
for pavement replacements, US$13.2 million is for routine maintenance and US$4.5 million for
activities considered as periodic maintenance.
11.         For the minimum maintenance program, only 88.2 miles of the main network
were considered. This length corresponds to those roads now in good or fair condition that
could significantly deteriorate if no maintenance is carried out in the next two to three years,
which is the time needed to start the implementation of the maintenance programs resulting from
the IDB Technical Cooperation Agreement (US$1.2 million). Therefore, the minimum
maintenance program covers only the period 1993-95. It was prepared on the same basis that
the desirable program but, changing the level of maintenance and, therefore, the annual work
quantities. The total minimum maintenance budget for 1993-95 is the equivalent to US$1.45
million, of which US$25,600 is for pavement replacement, US$299,300 for periodic
maintenance and US$1.13 million for routine maintenance. This minimum maintenance program
will be finance by the project and carried out by contract under ICB procedures.
12.         The length of the network considered and the details of the 1993-97 desirable
program are shown in Table 1. The figures corresponding to the minimum program are shown
in Table 2.



GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION
Road Maintenance Program (1993-1997) (Desirable)
(US$1000)
:                 _               - 9 ______ _ _ _ ___                                           0_
*T   ..Drbmi,,Rr2 ___ 
*Bubi3                                                                                                   17.3 .7.3                    17.3  17.3
i:;ia;s E:3 GGS11E3 _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~604.2  248. M9                                                 430.8  244.6  675.4
*   .k D_aara (1)
:-I - T-; ii                                                                                    34.4   1252  49.6
t Denuarar                                                                                        319.8   12O  447.8                  11.1  111.1
af~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. 122-5__235 _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MI                                                      3        _  ,6        I O' N19.Ci3v0 S4.O495.50 11030(
|b)Coasta Feeder Roads      _                               
|Pavd                            Pak                                         MO 6582.0   6S6  147.6  82.  .6  147.6  82.0   65.6  147.6  82.0   65.6  147.6
to                    2                           280.2 w    i 34S.O 280.2    280.245.e   2807.2o   i    7i O 5280.2 427.82
ic) Interior Roads  Tailsk 'i3 7 l                                                  980.7  980.7 tisAm  inilc  980.7  980.7 WSSI.0 permnilc  980.7  980.7
a _   _     @        n     l        I      | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~3301 133M010-   133C0 130.30.      1         13101 13.10.01
_ ..............  _ *   . -.'- !           :     '    t     R@i;rbL
PM  - Palodo Maeuiuit
ROll * Ro5n Mmnlnso
(1)    hb *mw MRi_lwn nm FkoDd by DB
(         *   Rehabsond ManlMndu    Fhna d by This Pr t PON    I
()   *  Ib            and Mainma    Fhnanced bv This ProbA (ICDA)
Rr
Fia * UMA rI.WKI



GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION
Road Maintenance Program (1993-1995) (Minimum)
(US$1000)
Primary Roads
East Coast Demerara (1)
West Coast Berbice (1)
East Bank Berbice
Corentyne                50.80 Good           18.4 333.1  351.5          21.3  280.0  301.3   652.8
East Bank Demarara (1)
WestBankDemerara          9.20 Fair           69.0  88.2  157.2         119.3  61.6  180.9   338.1
West Coast Demarara      19.70 Fair     25.6  64.9  120.2  210.7          6.4  90.8  97.2   307.9
East Coast Essequibo      8.50 Fair                  88.0  88.0                65.0  65.0   153.0
Essequibo Coast (2)                                  
Soesdyke Linden (3)   I       I     IIII
Key
P.R. = Pavement Replacement
PM   = Peiodic Maintenance
ROU  = Routine
(1) = Rehabilitation and Maintenance Financed by IDB
(2) = Rehabilitation and Maintenance Financed by This Project (IDA)
(3)  = Rehabilitation and Maintenance Financed by This Project (CDB)



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ADEQUACY OF ROAD USER TAXATION AND APPROPRIATE
MECHANISMS FOR HIGHWAY FINANCING
1. Introduction
During project preparation, data was collected and a preliminary analysis made
of road financing in Guyana. The basic questions addressed were:
- how much do road users pay in Guyana?
- how much is spent on the road system and how efficiently?
- how much is needed to be spent on roads?
- how should road administration and maintenance be financed?
2. Existing Situation
2.1 Revenue from Road User Charges
Sources of funds for the road sector may be divided into three categories:
(a)   User charges: fuel taxes, annual road licensing fees, taxes on freights and fares
and, tolls;
(b)   transfers from the Treasury of general duties and tax revenue on incomes, profits,
sales, services and imports; and
(c)   loans: bonds, suppliers and commercial bank credits and extemal loans from
Intemational Financing Agencies.
Current thinking on road-user charges is that direct taxes (fuel taxes and tolls),
which to some extent measure highway usage, should at least cover the marginal cost of
maintaining and operating the highway system as opposed to network expansion. In this context,
maintenance is interpreted as routine and periodic maintenance, including seals coats and
overlays to rehabilitate existing pavements. The expansion of the road network and capacity
increases can be financed from transfers and loans programmed in accordance with the macro-



- 42 -
economic policy of the Government. An order of magnitude estimate based on available
statistics for 1987, 1988 and 1989 and conservative assumptions on parts usage indicates average
yearly receipts from taxes and charges paid by road users as follows:
Taxes and Duties on Fuel and lubricants                             6.45
Tolls on the Soesdykke-Linden Rd, Corentyne and, Demerara Bridge    1.16
Taxes and Duties on Vehicles                                        3.61
Taxes and Duties on Spare parts and Tires                           4.80
Vehicle Licenses                                                    0.88
i   .     i    i  iL  . iN   I   i      .   E 7   -. . .    .   i  : . .      .    . .. . . . . . .  .   .........   .......
Of this total, user charge on fuel and toll receipts amount to US$7.61 million.
2.2 Expenditure on Roads in Guyana
The MOPWCRD has the responsibility for the construction, upgrading, operation
and maintenance of national roads in Guyana. However, maintenance has been delegated to the
Districts who in the recent past have submitted their budget proposals directly to the Central
planning Office leaving the Ministry with little opportunity to scrutinize these requests and
monitor performance. There is no earmarking of taxes and all revenue goes directly to general
funds. The highway sector does not even have access to revenue from the three toll plazas on
the Corentyne Road, the Soesdyke-Linden Road and the Demerara Harbour Bridge, one of the
few direct charging mechanisms, and these toll plazas are operated by the Ministry of Finance.
The lack of a strong central administrative structure for highway has made it difficult for the
road sector to present their case for higher budgets in competition with other sector.
The funding mechanism and administrative structure have not produced
satisfactory results in that the roads are inadequately maintained, the road sector is understaffed,
and lacks equipment and/or replacement parts. For example District No.2, responsible for all
roads in the Essequibo Coast, reported that it only has 26 workers for roads, one lorry and no
replacement parts for its single grader. Even on those roads still in good condition, there is a
shortage of pavement marking and evidence of shortcomings in routine maintenance.
Expenditures on roads between 1985 and 1989, presented on the following page, reflect this
situation:



- 43 -
I           ~~~~~Values i  $   il~
11985       1986      198          8       1989i 
Capital Expenditure
Roads                    3.11      2.40      1.75      3.73        1.50
Others                   0.96      1.09      0.45      0.88        4.21
Subtotal          4.07      3.49      2.20      4.61        5.71
Current Expenditure
Roads                    2.14      3.18      1.62       1.27       1.18
Others                   1.90      2.65      1.69      3.41        0.64
Subtotal          4.04      5.83      3.31      4.68        1.82
TOTAL 0    MTE  - 8.11      9.32    -                       i.51  9. 79.3
Even assuming that all current transport expenditures by the districts go on
highways, average yearly expenditure on new roads, maintenance, bridges and purchases of
equipment and spare parts has only been US$ 4.38 million or US$ 2,9830 per mile as opposed
to an average of expenditures of US$ 14,000 per mile for the Latin American and Caribbean
Region as a whole over the past five years. It should be emphasized, however, that in Guyana
nearly all these funds have gone on maintenance and improving existing roads whereas the
statistics quoted for other countries include new construction and paving works.
2.3 Comparison between Revenue and Road Expenditures
This preliminary analysis thus indicates that road users in Guyana pay nearly four
times more than the expenditures on their roads and part of the revenue is used to subsidize
other sectors of the economy. This is the case in most countries and indeed the situation would
be serious if other revenues were used to make up shortfalls in the highway sector. Furthermore,
taxes and duties from fuel and lubricants and tolls (US$7.61 million) alone are more than annual
expenditures on highways (US$ 4.4 million) assuming that all current and capital expenditures
have been for routine maintenance and special rehabilitation projects.
2.4 Estimated Maintenance Needs
The question which next arises is: is this level of maintenance funding sufficient
and being used efficiently? An estimate of annual maintenance needs based on assumed
maintenance strategies and unit costs prevailing in some other Latin American and Caribbean
countries but which excludes reconstruction of badly deteriorated roads, indicate that needs are



- 44 -
over 30 % higher than average expenditures in the recent past but still less than revenue derived
from fuel duties, taxes and tolls. Furthermore, (a) the Districts do not necessarily spend all their
transport funds on roads and (b) the current system is not functioning adequately.
A. Maintenance Strategy.
Paved Roads
Roads with ADT 1000:
Routine Maintenance at US$ 3,200 per mile per year plus Asphalt Concrete
overlay at 15 year intervals (US$ 90,000 per mile).
East Coast, East & West Bank Demerara, West Coast Demerara, Georgetown
Bypass, approximately 190 miles.
Other Paved Roads:
Routine maintenance at US$1,600 per mile per year plus chip seal every ten years
(US$ 20,000 per mile), approximately 136 miles.
Unpaved Roads
Routine and periodic at US 1,000 per mile per year, approximately 1280 miles.
Demerara Bridge: Maintenance at US$ 1.33 million per year (based on 1988\89\90 average).
Administration & Contingencies at 20% for all items.
B. Annual Costs
Paved Roads ADT 1000:  US$ 1.75 million per year
Other Paved Roads:      US$ 0.49 million per year
Unpaved Roads:          US$ 1.28 million per year
Demerara Harbour Bridge  US$ 1,33 million per year
Subtotal                US$ 4,85 million per year
Administration &
Contingencies           US$ 0.72 million per year
Total                   US$ 5,57 million per year



- 45 -
2.5 Recommendations.
Unlike other forms of transport, the road subsector has no means to charge users directly
for the service provided, exception being tolls on special facilities. Hence the subsector has to
rely on taxes for its revenue and the Ministry of Finance is usually reluctant to allow earmarking
of fuel taxes for highway maintenance and improvement. Thus highway authorities must compete
for scarce general revenue funds with other sectors of the economy. This means that the highway
authorities must be able to present a convincing case for their budget request and its timely
release. They must also be able to show what has been done with former budget allocations.
Under the circumstances, it is suggested that further consideration be given to:
(a) progressively introducing maintenance by contract on the primary road system with
the advantages of:
- higher productivity;
- adequate records of work done and cost; and
- more flexibility in removing equipment from one road or region to another;
(b) fuel prices (gasoline = G$172 per Imperial gallon and diesel G$170 per imperial
gallon) are higher than international standards and taxes and duties on fuel for road users
cover even the new maintenance need estimates. Under the circumstances it would be
difficult to suggest any fuel surcharge to cover the gap between the past trend in road
expenditures and the new estimates. On the other hand, there are considerable benefits
to be gained from ensuring that at least this new level of funding be guaranteed to the
road sector. These benefits include: lower vehicle operating costs savings and lower
construction costs from timely routine and preventative maintenance procedures rather
than letting the roads deteriorate to a situation where large sections of the pavement have
to be reconstructed (e.g. Essequibo East Coast Road);
(c) capital expenditures on new road construction would be programmed in accordance
with macro economic planning policies; and
(d) preparation of up to date record on highway conditions and technical papers to clearly
show the budgeting authorities, Government and Parliament the costs of neglecting
maintenance.
2.6 Road Financing
Experience in Latin America and elsewhere in the world has clearly demonstrated that
where road funds have been established for maintenance, roads have been relatively well
maintained. These road funds have been constituted by earmarking a portion of the motor fuel
taxes which go directly into a commercial bank account in the name of the road agency



- 46 -
concemed. A well defined, coasted road maintenance program is agreed between the road
agency and the government at the beginning of the year and the use of the funds as well as the
attainment of the agreed physical objectives is closely monitored, quarterly during the year, by
the government.
The possible introduction of the above approach was discussed with the Minister of
Finance. While accepting the clear need for a consistent and adequate source of maintenance and
administration funding for the road subsector, the Minister indicated that the Govemment during
the current period of high foreign debt payments and extreme budgetary deficits, would be
unable to establish such a fund. He indicated, however, that govemment would give very high
priority to allocating sufficient budgetary funds to a well-prepared road maintenance program.
The project includes a study of road financing and arrangements for funding O&M of the road
network, which will be presented to IDA by the Government not later than June 30, 1994. A
separate mechanism for financing the maintenance of feeder roads, which are expected to be
under the responsibility of the regions, is being studied as part of a consultants' study being
financed by IDB.



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROAD ADMEINISTRATION DIVSION'S PROGRAM EXECUTING UI
Scope and Functions of Unit
drafting TORs, letters of invitation and assisting with the evaluation of consultant
proposals and drafting of consultants' contracts;
assisting, at the request of the Permanent Secretary of MOPWCRD, in negotiating
consultants' contracts; and
-     supervising consultants' work, including the review and monitoring of progress.
Program Administration and Financial Management
-     carry out the day-to-day administrative management of the project, including drafting,
for the PS or Minister's signature, all communications on the project between the
MOPWCRD, consultants and contractors and the IDB, IDA and CDB;
-     assisting with the procurement of office equipment and supplies and vehicles under the
projects;
-     keeping accounts for expenditures, credit and loan disbursements for RAD components
of the IDB, CDB and IDA projects;
-     preparing withdrawal applications for the three Banks; and
-     preparing the basic information necessary for the annual audit of the projects'
accounts.
Staffing
A Unit Coordinator for all road projects: a qualified local staff, or a foreign or
national expert, full time with at least 8 years of experience as a civil engineer (36
months);
a Financial Controller for 24 months starting from program inception;



- 48 -
a Contract/Procurement Specialist for 12 man-months; and
a Road Engineer for 24 months.
(See Appendix for Staff Organization Chart)
Counterpart Staff
One local, qualified counterpart for each of the above experts.
Support Staff
Two qualified secretaries (computer literate), an accountant, one typist/filing clerk,
two drivers and one cleaner.
Reporting Responsibilities
-     All staff of the Unit would report directly to the Unit Coordinator who would in turn
report to the Chief Roads Engineer.



- 49 -
PROJECT EXECUTION UN1T (RAD)
I            8!E1ErA
it~~~~~~UL






- 50 -
ANNEX S
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
SEA DEFENSES
Introductio
1.          Coastal defenses are constructed to protect the population and the economic assets
in the interland against flooding. Over the past few years, the Hydraulics Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Regional Democratic Councils have been faced with a series of
breaches, near breaches and major damages to sea defenses all along the coastline. Up to
recently, the Hydraulics Division and Regional Democratic Councils were having difficulty
coping with the sea defence problems. With the implementation of this in other internationally
financed projects it will be possible to put the Hydraulics Division in a position of preparedness
to cope with the problems on a short term basis.
2.          In the meantime, what is being pursued is a more comprehensive approach to the
entire sea defense problem with a view of meeting the immediate, short-term and long-term
needs. Because of the number of locations, the extent of work which needs to be done and the
and the huge expenditure involved in these works, it is necessary to work out a phased program
of activities. Part of this program will be financed by the project.
Existing Situation
3.          Guyana's sea defenses comprise a considerable number of different types, ranging
from concrete sea walls and rip-rap slope protection to timber or steel sheet pile revetments and
earth dams. In the past the tendency has been to rebuild traditional concrete sea walls where
these have failed. Various wall slopes and methods of toe protection were constructed.
4.          Several different sea wall profiles have been used. The typical sea wall is the so
called "Standard Ministry Design" comprising a rigid grouted boulder revetment, a concrete
wave wall and a steel sheet pile screen, protecting the toe of the construction. Because of a
number of disadvantages of the grouted boulder slope, in the more recent designs this part of
the construction has been replaced by a reinforced concrete slope.
5.          The rip-rap slope protection was introduced in the late eighties with the
construction of a few kilometers of sea defense in the West Essequibo area. It is at present
considered in most parts of the world as a very suitable form of protection.



- 51 -
the toe of the sheet pile wall against the erosion induced by the vertical wall. The expected life
time of such construction is about 3 years. Other forms of repair comprise the protection of
eroded slopes by the placement of boulders and the strengthening of concrete walls by repairing
cracks and the placement of boulders.
7.          Unfortunately filter cloth has not been used in repair works, due to its
unavailability in the past. As a consequence the core of sea dams, protected against erosion by
a layer of boulders only, will still be eroded although at a slower pace. The expected life time
for such protection is about 2 years.
Condition of Sea Defenses
8.          The majority of the concrete sea walls is old, from 25 to 50 years, and in bad
condition. The walls have suffered from lack of maintenance during the last 20 years. Since
the design life for simple concrete structures exposed to the sea is normally of the order of 30
years, it can safely be assumed that most of the sea walls have exceeded their design life.
9.          A survey on the ground was carried out to assess the condition of the dams along
the whole of the coastline. As a result, the sea defenses have been subdivided in three groups.
Group A includes a total length of approximately 36 km of walls in such a poor state that
immediate action, whether intermediate repairs or complete replacement, is called for. Group
B includes the remaining part of the concrete defenses with a remaining lifetime of 10 years or
more, provided proper maintenance is carried out. This group also includes many short parts
of coastline between longer sections of concrete defenses, where other types of a sea defenses
exists, such as temporary boulder slopes, timber revetment, embankment with boulder protection
and permanent rip-rap. These types of defense have been included since extensive rehabilitation
works will probably be required in the medium or longer term. Group C includes the remaining
part of the coastline, consisting mainly of earth dams protected by a substantial depth of
mangrove belt. Apart from normal maintenance, there is no need for further construction
activities.
10.         The lengths of each group of sea defenses per region are shown in the following
Table.



- 52 -
SEA DEFENSE GROUPS
Region            Group A            Group B           Group C
(km)              (km)               (km)
2                   12                23                 22
3                   10                28                 88
4                   4                 20                 --
5                   4                 --                 65
6                   6                 --                 77
Total               36                71                 252
11.         Out of the 36 km included in Group A, which need emergency works,
approximately 30 km will be repaired with EEC, IDB and CDB financing and about 4 km in
regions 3 and 4 will be financed by IDA and are included in the project.
Areas Included
12.         During project preparation, 7 km of sea defenses between the Demerara and
Mahaicony rivers and on the West Bank of the Demerara River were considered for
rehabilitation. These areas of sea defense were identified by the Hydraulics Division as being
in a critical condition and in need of urgent attention. The existing defense will be rehabilitate
or replaced in order to give it a design life of at least ten years. The sections of sea defense
under consideration are the following:
Clonbrook - Greenfield        1500m
Nimes - La Retraite            1250m
Turkeyen                       600m
Lowlands                       300m
Mon Repos - Lusignan          2400m
Hope - Enmore                  950m
Proposed Design
13.         The sections of sea defense identified in para. 12 require either rehabilitation or
complete reconstruction. The Clonbrook-Greenfield section requires complete reconstruction.
In this case a rip-rap slope has been selected. A rip-rap slope has the benefit of being
straightforward to construct and maintain, efficient at dissipating wave energy, and capable of
accommodating settlement in the sea dam. Fig. 1 shows a typical section of the rip-rap slope,
which is intended to be a ten year design. The basis of a ten year design is that it is constructed



- 53 -
to the existing foreshore level and should be rehabilitated in the event of a fall in foreshore level.
The design is based upon a significant wave height of 1.2m and a period of 8 sec.
14.         The Nimes- La Retraite section, in the West Bank of the Demerara River, requires
also reconstruction, but the typical section, shown in Fig. 2, is based upon less severe wave
conditions. However the effects of tidal currents and scour are more severe in the riverain
areas, so careful attention has been paid to the toe design.
15.         The Turkeyen and Lowlands sections require only rehabilitation. The works will
involve:
raising of the wave wall by construction of a reinforced concrete coping, as
shown in Fig. 3;
concrete repairs to the slope of the sea defence;
raising and rebuilding of the sea dam to design crest level.
Costig
16.         Costing for new sections of sea defence has been based upon standard rates for
rip-rap slope generally used by the Hydraulics Division and on unit costs estimates provided by
foreign contractors. The total cost for the 7 km. of sea defenses is about US$12.4 million.
Since the credit cannot finance all the sections considered, only four sections are included in the
Project: Clonbrook-Greenfield (1 ,500m.), Nimes-La Retraite (1 ,250m.), Turkeyen (600m.) and
Lowlands (300m.), at a cost of US$5.7million. Should savings in the other sections or other
civil works financed by the Project were available, the remaining two sections, Mon Repos -
Lusignan (2400m.) and Hope - Enmore (950m.) at a cost of US$6.7 million could be also
financed by the project.



FIGURE 1
s
.'1*
FEi
E~ L



Figure 2
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed Design for Riverine Areas
4.0181l          1.92M 
l  I  et   18.7m00
.-   .L
E ~ ~     ~        ~       ~      ~       :     E
C4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
2Z14.5G00t
I   SI 13.4 GO~~~~~~I\



Figure 3
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Typical Wave Wall, TurheyenlOgle
24m                1                Z1m
LA
oanm
EAs*V wal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



i              r                              I             ;           I
I:



- 57 -
ANNEX 6
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROEC
HYDRAULICS DIVISION PROGRAM EXECUTING UNIT
Scope and Functions of Unit
drafting TORs, letters of invitation and assisting with the evaluation of consultant
proposals and drafting of consultants' contracts;
assisting, at the request of the Permanent Secretary of MOA, in negotiating
consultants' contracts; and
supervising consultants' work, including the review and monitoring of progress;
Progam Administration and Financial Management
-     carry out the day-to-day administrative management of the project, including
drafting, for the PS or Minister's signature, all communications on the project
between the MOA, consultants and contractors and the IDB, IDA and CDB;
-     assisting with the procurement of office equipment and supplies and vehicles
under the projects;
-     keeping accounts for expenditures, credit and loan disbursements for HD's
components of the EEC, IDB, CDB and IDA projects;
-     preparing withdrawal applications for the three Banks; and
-     preparing the basic information necessary for the annual audit of the projects'
accounts.
Staffing
A Unit Coordinator for all sea defenses projects: a qualified local staff, or a
foreign or national expert, full time with at least 8 years of experience as a civil
engineer (36 months);
a Financial Controller for 24 months starting from program inception;



- 58 -
a Hydraulics Engineer for 24 months; and
a Contract/Procurement Specialist for 12 man-months.
(See Appendix for Staff Organization Chart)
Counterpart Staff
One local, qualified counterpart for each of the above experts.
Support Staff
Two qualified secretaries (computer literate), an accountant, one typist/filing
clerk, two drivers and one cleaner
Reporting Responsibilities
-     All staff of the Unit would report directly to the Unit Coordinator who would in
turn report to the Chief Hydraulics Officer.



PROJECT UXUCUTION UWIT  (RD)
+SCUIY+          IIPXNCXP.L CONTROLLERI                                          RCRKN
I    l              ~       ~      ~      ININZI                    I 
+ACRSOUNT  CLNRx+   TPISXA T/    +  +DRIVRR 2 +I
+(1)           +  +FILING CLERK + +CLEANER   +
++++++++-H-++++++ +++++++++++++++ ++++++++++++ 
..........           .......
++++++++++...,,_
+ CONSULTANTS   +      CONSULTANTS           CONSULTANTS           CONSULTANTS
+ SUPERVISION   +      SUPERVISION           SUPERVISION           SUPERVISION
+ AND SITE      +       AND SITE              AND SITE             AND SITE
+ DESIGN TEAM   +      DESIGN TEAM           DESIGN TEAM           DESIGN TEAM
+++++++ +++++-++++                           
+++++++ I +++++111                                                               a 
+ CONTRACTORS  +       CONTRACTORS            CONTRACTORS          CONTRACTORS
+ SEA DEFENSE  +       SEA DEFENSE            SEA DEFENSE          SEA DEFENSE
+    (EEC)      +        (IDB)                  (CDB)                 (IDA)
XIDA FUNDING
++++++++++++   EEC FUNDING






- 60 -
ANNE 7
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABIOLITATIONPRJC
DRAFr OUTLIN TE:RMS OF REFERENCE FOR
TIDAL AND MORPHIOLOGICAL MEAStlREN
Introduction
The HD has responsibility for the care and maintenance of sea and river defenses. The
protected coast which is 340 kilometers in length is made up of sea defenses comprising natural
sand banks, earthen dams, various types of concrete structures and rip rap revetment.
A sea defense program to rehabilitate or replace 36 kilometers of deteriorated sections of the
coast is being embarked upon with the assistance of multi national donor agencies. It is
envisaged that a further 70 kilometers of replacement sea defenses will be undertaken in the near
future.
Although a sea defense design has been decided upon certain basic infbrmation such as wave,
current and wind data is lacking. The objective of this technical assistance is the establishment
of a data base for the parameters which will be utilized on the future programs. This is
particularly important in view of climatic changes which can effect future designs, as the coast
of Guyana being below high water sea level only accommodates drainage during low stages of
the tidal cycle. Therefore, with sea level rise the period for drainage will be reduced and hence
there is an important need for this information. Three wave recorders required for data
collecting will be procured under the EEC Lom6 4 facility. The information will later merge
into the forthcoming IDB financed coastal zone management program.
Objectives
a)    setting up a data bank for tidal range measurement and wave data recording on a daily
basis;
b)   installation and running of wind recording instrumentation to be incorporated in the data
base;
c)   investigation of the soil parameters pertaining to the coastal regions; and
d)    advise on the procurement and installation of Wave Rider Buoys and wind recording
equipment.



- 61 -
Project budget.
Marine Geologist/Engineer 4 m/month US $ 15,000           60,000
Equipment                    Computer,                      3,000
Boat and engine/trailer       6,000
4 x 4                        9,000
Wind recorder                5,000
Soil testing                                               5,000
Report production etc                                      5,000
Miscellaneous                                              7,000
100.000
Inplementation
The Hydraulics Division will provide counter part staff as follows:
-Technician/Engineer
-Out Boat Operator
-Driver.
Office accommodation and supporting secretarial staff will be provided by the Hydraulics
Division.



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
DRAFT OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT OF BRAZIL4IN ROAD
Background
1.          On October 4th, 1989, a bilateral agreement was signed by the Presidents of
Guyana and Brazil for the construction of a road from the Guyana coast to Brazil. The purpose
of the road was to facilitate the traffic of goods and people from the state of Roraima in Brazil
to Guyana's capital, Georgetown. The road will also enable farmers in the Rupununi to take
their cattle and other produce directly to market in Georgetown.
2.          Paranapanema (a Brazilian construction firm) signed the road building contract
with the Ministry of Communications and Works on 3rd November 1989. The road project
consists of the design and construction of approximately 346 kilometers of new road and road
structures between Lethem on the Guyana-Brazil border and Mabura Hill. This road will link
up with existing roads to provide a direct route to the Atlantic coast of Guyana.
3.          Construction of the road has commenced and a number of concerns with regard
to the impact of the road have been expressed especially in relation to its effects on the
Amerindian settlements and the primary forests near or through which the road passes.
4.          To date, an Environmental Impact Assessment has not been conducted. It has
become imperative that such a study be executed to determine present and future impacts of the
project and to recommend measures to mitigate any negative impacts.
Objective
5.          To assess the environmental impacts of construction of the Guyana-Brazil road
and to make recommendations for mitigation of adverse impacts.
Tasks
6.          The EIA team is expected to work along with local counterparts to execute the
following:



- 63 -
(a)   identify and prioritize concerns in relation to the project. In this record, the team
is expected to liaise with the relevant specialist agencies, both governmental and
non-governmental as well as consult with the sections of the society most likely
to be affected by the project;
(b)   identify and predict to the extent possible and assess the biophysical and social
impacts of the project;
(c)   identify monitoring and mitigation measures; and
(d)   prepare an Environmental Impact Statement on the project for submission to
GAHEF and IDA.
The EIA should include:
-     A description of main characteristics of the project.
-     Discussion of the impacts of the project (present and predicted).
-     Analysis of significant impacts of the project.
-     Any adverse environmental effects which cannot be avoided.
-     Indication of limitations or constraints of the study.
-     Suggested measures to reduce effects and monitoring effects of the
project.
Staffling Needs
7.          A multidisciplinary team of expatriate consultants is required to carry out the tasks
outlined above. The team should consist of the following:
An ecologist with specialization in Wlldlife Ecology.
An engineer with experience in forest road construction.
-     An EIA manager (a consultant with experience in ElAs of this type).
The team must also include the following local counterparts:
A counterpart team leader from GAHEF.
A member of GAHEF staff to work along with the Ecologist.



- 64 -
-     A representative of the Amerindian Research Unit of the University of Guyana.
-     A Hydrometeorological Officer.
A Forester.
-     A Sociologist.
-     An Engineer.
Execution and Administrative Arrangements
8.          GAHEF will act as the coordinating Agency for the execution of the EIA of the
Guyana-Brazil Road. The Agency will be responsible for all administrative arrangements for
the execution of this project.
9.          The team leader should arrive in Georgetown at least one (1) week prior to the
arrival of the other expatriate consultants and work along with GAHEF in acquiring all
background information which will be necessary for the successful completion of the project.
10.        Each consultant will be expected to prepare with the assistance of their local
counterparts field report on the project. This is to be submitted to the team leader, IDA and
GAHEF, within one (1) week of completion of field work.
11.        The team leader is expected to coordinate the reports of the other specialists in his
team and with the assistance of his local counterpart, submit to IDA and GAHEF a final
statement on the EIA, not later than one (1) month following the completion of the field work.
Duration of Project
12.        It is the expectation that this study will be completed within three months of its
commencement and not later than December 31, 1993.



- 65 -
Budget
Item                      ]      Cost (US$)
Field Equipment                                           1,600
4-Wheel Drive Vehicle                                    20,000
1-Micro-Computer                                          6,500
Operating Expenses                                        2,740
Reconnaissance Flight                                      800
Salaries of Ecologist and Engineer                       24,640
$3,080/wk x 4 x 2
Subsistence for Ecologist and Engineer                    6,400
$800/wk x 4 x 2
Salary of EIA Team Leader                                24,640
$3,080/wk x 8
Subsistence of EIA Team Leader                            6,400
$800/wk x 8
Remuneration of Local Counterparts                        3,360
$480/mo x 7
Subsistence for Local Counterparts                        5,600
$200/wk x 4 x 7
Remuneration of Driver                                     300
$150/mo x 2
Subsistence for Driver                                     800
$200/wk x 4
Remuneration of Secretary                                  150
$ 150/mo
Contingencies                                            10,393
10% of Total
Total                                                    114,323



- 66 -
ANNEX 9
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING TRAINING PROGRAM
1.    Objectives. To develop cadre of personnel trained to:
(a)   conduct training sessions for lower level staff of various agencies and institutions;
and
(b)   conduct environmental monitoring activities, including EIA's at different locations
in Guyana.
2.    Duration. 4-5 years.
3.    Composition
(a)   Short in-country training courses.
(b)   Evaluation workshops.
(c)   Short-term overseas attachments.
(d)   Medium-term overseas fellowships.
4.    Institutions
(a)   Ministry of Agriculture.
(b)   Ministry of Public Works Communication and Regional Development.
(c)   Guyana Agency for Health Sciences Education, Environment and Food Policy.
(d)   Guyana Natural Resources Agency.
(e)   Mahaica, Mahaicony, Abary/Agricultural Development Authority.
5.    Scope. At the end of five (5) years, at least twenty (20) persons would have benefitted
from training courses both in-country and overseas to be able to carry out effective
environmental monitoring and training in the regions of Guyana.



- 67 -
(a)   Fifteen (15) at least for short in-country training courses at least once per year.
(b)   Five (5) at least from short overseas training--i to 3 months duration.
(c)   Five (5) at least from medium-term overseas fellowships--one per year.
6.    Cost
(a)   Five (5) consultants (overseas based) for one week per year each:
air fare: US$2,000               US$10,000
boarding/lodging @US$60/day each             3,000
(b)   Local resource personnel:
ten (10) one week sessions              US$ 2,000
five (5) persons at each session
(c)   Training:
five (5) two week sessions -
one (1) per year
or
ten (10) one week sessions -
twice per year
(1)   transportation                     US 1,000
(2)   rental of building/material            1,000
(3)   snacks, etc.                           2,000
(4)   sundries                                 500
(d)   Short-term overseas attachments:
(1-3 month courses)
travel five (5) persons over period     US$10,000
fees                                         8,000
upkeep                                       3,000
sundries (insurance, etc.)                   2,000
(e)   Overseas Fellowships:
five (5) persons for one (1) year each



- 68 -
travel                        US$10,000
fees (College/University)               20,000
upkeep                                  15,000
sundries (insurance, etc.)               5,000
Total                               US$90,500
7.    Trining Institutions
Local:     (a)   Guyana Agency for Health Sciences Education, Environment and
Food Policy
(b)   University of Guyana
Overseas:   (a)   Aberdeen University
(b)   University of the West Indies
(c)   Technical University Dresden
(d)   Dalhousie University, Canada
(e)   University of Salford, England






- 69 -
ANNEX 10
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE CENTRAL TRANSPORT PLANNING UNIT
Introduction
1.         The CTPU of the MOPWCRD is responsible for: (i) planning and coordination
of public transport sector investments; (ii) formulating transport sector policy to ensure transport
efficiency; and (iii) reviewing transport rate proposals, for both the parastatals and for-hire
passenger transport and the tolls on the Demerara River Bridge. The CTPU currently has only
one professional staff, a recently promoted Unit Chief. MOPWCRD) needs to hire at least two
more over the next year if the Unit is to have any impact on the sector's functioning. Moreover,
several key issues coming up over the next two or three years will require strong contribution
from the CTPU. Among these are: highway financing and the issue of earmarking road-user
charges, the separation of MOPWCRD's regulatory and operator's roles in river transport, the
need and feasibility of establishing a national ports authority, the creation of a commercial-based
off-port container terminal and its implications for Georgetown city transport and the next phase
of the development of the main road arteries emanating from Georgetown into the coastal areas.
The CTPU would need technical assistance both for developing its capability and for support in
carrying out its functions in the short to medium term.
Objectives
2.          The objectives of the institutional strengthening of the CTPU would be:
to develop CTPU's in-house capacity to plan and coordinate transport
sector investments;
to improve CTPU's policy formulation capability; and
-     to  enhance  CTPU's  ability  to  review  and  make  appropriate
recommendations on transport pricing.
Outline Scope of TA Services
3.          -     establish a transport data bank for all facilities, transport flows, prices,
costs, etc.;
-     collect available information and analyze existing plans of all public
transport sector entities;



- 70 -
review existing transport policy and make recommendations thereon;
review the existing pricing policy in the sector and rates structure and
make recommendation thereon;
assist the CTPU in supervising the study for the national port authority and
the associated analysis on the separation of the river transport regulatory
and operating functions, the study of the feasibility of earmarking for road
maintenance and the study for the future developmental needs of the major
road arteries; and
the training of counterpart staff in the above.
Staffing
two experienced transport economist/planners, one for a period of 18
months and the other for 6 months;
short-term experts for an aggregate of 6 months.
Counterparts
two local professional-level counterparts will be recruited and assigned to
work full time with and be trained by the above experts; they will be
incorporated later on as permanent staff; the counterparts' positions have
already been approved by the Government.
one of the above counterparts to be sent for periods aggregating 12 months
for training in the environmental considerations affecting the transport
sector.
Estimated Costs
cost of technical assistance experts - 30 months at US$10,000 all inclusive
= US$300,000
overseas training of counterparts - 5 staff @  3 months per staff @
US$2,000 per month = US$30,000
overseas training of one counterpart in environment - US$10,000
To the extent possible, the MOPWCRD will seek overseas scholarships from
agencies such as the UNDP, the EEC, UNESCO for the above overseas courses.



- 71 -
ANNEX 11
GUYANA
ENFRASTU UR  REAIIATION PRtOJECT
CREATION OF NATIONAL PORT AUSTHORITY
1. Problems:
The Transport and Harbours Department (CMD) is a department of the Ministry of
Communications and Works (MCW), and responsible, within designated harbour areas, for the
following functions:
-     control of ship movements
-     the provision and maintenance of navigational aids;
-     the operation of pilotage services;
-     maintenance dredging;
-     hydrographic services;
-     the assessment of harbour dues and other port charges;
The operation of THD suffers from:
a)   inefficient day-to-day operation, including difficulties in obtaining timely operating
decisions;
b)   insufficient salary levels to keep qualified staff employed within the department;
c)    difficulty in performing adequate financial planning, and in obtaining funds,
particularly for capital projects, as all revenue generated by THD is transferred
to the Public Revenue Fund;
d)   lack of incentives to operate efficient and on a cost recovery basis;
e)    equipment and facilities in bad need of maintenance and repair, insufficient and
outdated equipment, and lack of funds to rectify the situation;
Cargo is handled in the Port of Georgetown at two private terminals operated by John Fernandez
and Muneshwer (formerly Guyana national Trading Corp.), and at two government owned
terminals operated by GNEC and GNSC. The main problems with this arrangement are:
f)    no liaison between 'waterside' operations and the cargo handling operations;



- 72 -
g)    no overall administration and coordination between all the various port activities,
and between the Port and the adjacent municipal areas;
2. Recommendations:
It is recommended that:
a)   the old concept of creating an independent "Guyana Port Authority" (GPA),
charged with the responsibility of administrating all port and river transportation
activities in the country, be revitalized; and
b)   the GPA be autonomous body confirmed in statutes, with the authority to operate
completely independent of the Government, having an autonomous Board of
Directors making all essential operating and business decisions, and all revenues
generated by GPA remaining with GPA for the operation and further development
of its ports and other facilities.
3. Implementation of Recommendations:
It is proposed that a senior Port Management Specialist and a senior Management Consultant are
engaged, who, together with appropriate local staff and Government officials, are given the task
of:
-     analyzing alternative corporate structures for GPA;
-     define GPA goals and objectives;
-     define GPA organization and personnel resources;
-     develop administrative and operational policies and procedures;
-     develop financial terms of reference, including delegation of authority
levels with regard to financial matters;
-     method of transferring operating authority and responsibilities, facilities,
and financial resources to GPA.
The above team shall also analyze whether the following operations should fall within the
responsibility of GPA, or be operated as separate entities:
-     pilotage services;
-     hydrographic surveying;
-     dredging of ports and waterways;
-     supply and maintenance of navigational aids;
-     operation of an off-dock container storage facility.
A specific analysis shall be made as to whether GPA should continue to operate government
owned cargo terminals, and whether GPA should be responsible for the allocation of berths,
including the allocation of berths from and to privately operated terminals.



- 73 -
4. Timetable and Costs:
a) Timetable:
- analyze alternative GPA structures, financial
implications, management and administrative
policies for GPA, and operating policies
and procedures                                            3 months
- draft procedures for the formation of GPA,
including the financial relationship with
the Government                                            2 months
- analyze which operations should be included
as part of GPA, and which should be privatized            1 month
- review how the Government's cargo terminal
operations should be treated under a GPA system           1 month
- draft the corporate structure of GPA                      2 months
Total consulting time                                       9 months
Total consulting elapse time                                5 months
b) Consulting Costs:
- Port Management Specialist    US$ 12,000/month
5 months                   US$ 60,000
- Management Consultant         US$ 12,000/month
5 months                   US$ 60,000
Total consulting fees                                       US$ 120,000






- 74 -
ANNEX 12
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABlLITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS FOR SEA DEFENSES
General
1.      A generalized economic analysis of the sea defenses system in Guyana was carried out
by consultants DHV (Holland) and is included in Project File No. 1A. The analysis
compared various alternatives levels of investments to restore and maintain the sea
walls against the benefits of preventing corresponding levels of losses in the form of
low agriculture yields, damage to industrial, commercial, service and residential
property. An incremental economic rate of return analysis was carried out starting
from a "do nothing" base and changing the base to different levels of technically
feasible and reasonable investments. For each level, the corresponding benefits were
estimated. The consultants' study showed that rehabilitation of about 36 km of sea
walls to provide them an additional 12-year life yielded, the highest economic rate of
returns over 38%.
2.      The above analysis was updated by consultants SRK for the 4 km  of sea walls
selected for rehabilitation under the project using the same methodology used by DHV,
but with investment costs based upon more detailed cost estimates. SRK's analysis
included Project File No. 1B. The analysis and its results are summarized below:
3.      The 4 km of sea defenses to be included under the project constituted as follows:
(a)   Clonbrook - Greenfield (1500m);
(b)   Nimes - La Retraite (1250m);
(c)   Turkeyen (600m); and
(d)   Lowlands (300m)
Separate economic analysis has been carried for each of the above sections since they
differ in the type and costs of repairs required. The benefits are, however, uniform
for the sections and were therefore estimated globally and assigned proportionately to
the sections with respect to lengths.



- 75 -
4.      The repair costs are based on detailed engineering and final cost estimates. The
corresponding economic costs used in the rate of return calculations are derived from
the financial costs by subtracting taxes. The costs of maintenance subsequent to the
repairs are based on HD's experience from the EEC-financial emergency works.
Benefits
5.      Quantified benefits from the proposed repair works include prevention of losses: (a)
in agricultural yields; (b) industrial; (c) commercial; (d) services; and (e)
residential property. The cost estimates for such potential losses were estimated in
close collaboration with the Ministries of Agriculture, Public Works and Local
Govemment as well as the managing agencies of the various utilities.
Economic Analysis
6.      The costs, both repair and maintenance and the benefits, by source, for one of the
project sea wall sections, the Clonbrook - Greenfield section is shown below as an
illustration.
Cost and Benefit Stream for Sea Defenses
!100:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .. X *     . ..... ..f0S ~it0044000-3J000 
Etima ted Costs                  Bnft
R   . . . . . >  _    . .    ~~~~~~~~~~ .   ..  ......  
Year               Fnnca               Economic
1                  1.48                 1.18                 5.1
2                  4.44                 3.56                  1.3
3                  1.48                 1.18                  0.4
4                                                             0.6
5                                _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _1.3
6                                                             0.3
7                                                             0.3
8                                                             0.3
9                                                             0.3
10                                                            0.3
Economic Rate of Return - 26.5%



- 76 -
ANNEX 13
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS FOR ROADS
I.      Essequibo Coast Road
1.      The Essequibo Coast Road is one of the most important roads in Guyana. Its area of
influence includes major rice, fruit and vegetable - producing areas which account for
about 80,000 tons of paddy, about 30% of the country's total annual rice production,
and some 7,000 tons of fruits and vegetables.
2.      The existing road can be divided into three distinct sections based on road
characteristics and traffic as follows:
(a)   Supenaam - Adventure (14.2km) with a ADT of about 440 vpd, with poor
condition of the existing road (about 6 km impaired and the remainder with
total pavement loss);
(b)   Adventure - Anna Regina (19.4km) with an average ADT of about 1080 vpd,
with poor to fair condition of the existing road; and
(c)   Anna Regina - Charity (24.9km) with an average ADT of about 250 vpd and
very deteriorated road pavement.
3.      The construction costs used in the economic analysis are based on detailed cost
estimates produced by Crown Agents and Partners from the detailed engineering
studies for the road during September - December 1992. The following costs have
been in the analysis:
Road Section               Economic Costs
Supenaam - Adventure      US$1.8 million
Adventure - Anna Regina    US$4.0 million
Anna Regina - Charity      US$2.8 million
Total                      US$8.6 million



- 77 -
The above costs include the base cost estimates as of December 1992, a physical
contingency of 10% and construction supervision of 6%. The economic costs are
estimated as the financial costs less taxes.
4.      The benefits used in the economic afalysis have been taken as the reduction in vehicle
operating costs resulting from road rehabilitation. Savings in accident costs and time
have not been included in the benefits which should therefore be considered under-
estimated.
5.      Estimates of current traffic are based on counts conducted by RAD in 1990 and more
recent counts in 1992 by Consultants, Crown Agents and Partners. The results are
shown in Table A13.1.
6.      Traffic growth, from both normal growth in economic activity and from generated
traffic, has been estimated by Crown Agents based on projections of economic
development in the area and the input of the road improvement/rehabilitation.
In general, the following growth rates have been forecasted:
Viehicle lIe                                                Growqth
Passenger cars                                              6.7
Light vehicles                                              5.6
Trucks                                                      3.2
Tractors                                                    2.9
Buses                                                       0.7
7.      The vehicle operating costs used in the analysis were developed from the Hire Vehicle
operating cost model, but using applicable representative vehicles and units costs in
Guyana. Table A. 13.2 shows the elements of costs for the various vehicle classes.
8.      The maintenance costs in the 'without" project case covers routine maintenance and
twice-yearly grading on the unpaved sections, and routine maintenance and patching
on the paved stretches. In the 'with' project case, the maintenance policy includes
routine maintenance, annual patching and resurfacing. The HDM m model has been
used to determine the optimum maintenance strategy in such a case.
9.      For the evaluation of the economic feasibility of the proposed road improvements, a
comparison has been made for the total costs - road rehabilitation and maintenance and
vehicle operating costs - between the "with" 'without" project scenarios using the
HDM III model.
The results, presented in Table A. 13.3 indicates that the proposed road rehabilitation would
yield an economic rate of return of 29.5%.



- 78 -
II.     The Soesdyke - Linden Road (43.7-khn)
1.      The Linden Highway links the Linden, the bauxite mining town with Georgetown, the
capital city as well as providing access to the interior of the country. The road has
9 major bridges with concrete sub-structure; 8 of them have timber decks. The
existing road, a two-way single carriageway with asphalt pavement on 22 feet and sand
asphalt shoulders of 5 feet, remains in generally good condition although areas of
distress - fatigue cracking, thermal cracking, rutting and distortion and circular
depression - have been identified.
2.      The surfacing of the bridges is extremely damaged, with many potholes and significant
cracks. The parapets are generally very decayed with many support bolts either
heavily corroded or missing.
3.      A feasibility, conducted by consultants Roughton and Partners (UK), for rehabilitating
the bridge abutments, replacing the wooden decks with reinforced concrete slabs and
repairing and resealing the damaged road sections, is included in Project file No. 3.
The following is a summary of the salient points.
4.      For the analysis the road has been divided into two sections based both on the
differences in traffic as well as road conditions as follows:
(a)   Soesdyke - Kurukuru (16 km) with a traffic of 966 vpd with local failures,
corrugations and distress; and
(b)   Kurukuru - Linden (38 km) with a traffic of 754 vpd, with a relatively sound
road surface.
The bridges have been evaluated as an integral part of the road.
5.      The construction costs of the "with" project scenario have been estimated by
Consultants Roughton and Partners based on detailed quantities and costs for the
proposed road and bridge works. Both financial and economic costs have been
estimated by consultants.
6.      The road and bridge maintenance costs for the "without" project scenario have been
based on routine bridge and road maintenance. For the "with" project scenario,
consultants have based the maintenance costs for bridges on Guyanese and other
experience and for the roads sections on the HDM III policies.
7.      Traffic estimates for the road was carried out by both the MOPWCRD and Roughton
and Partners and are shown in Table A13.4.
8.      Traffic Grwth for the road has been estimated taking into consideration the expected
future traffic from Brazil with the completion of the Brazilian Road.



- 79 -
9.      The Vehicle Operating Costs used in the analysis were based on the HDM Vehicle
Operating Cost Model , but using applicable representative vehicles and unit costs in Guyana.
Table A13.5 shows representatives values for various vehicle classes.
10.     For the evaluation of the economic feasibility of the proposed road and bridge works,
a comparison has been made for the total costs between the "with' and "without" project
scenarios using the HDM m Model. The results, presented in A13.6, indicate that the proposed
road and bridge works would yield a rate of return of 18.7% over the 12-year life of the
/investments.



GUYANA
Essuibo Coast Road
AADT for Im
VEHICLE TYPE                      CAR   LCV    UGHT   M-H   TRACTOR  MINIBUS  AADT
TRUCK  TRUCK
station                                                                       __
Darbmouth                         48         26        24         22           68            70         258
Annae gina                        604        155       43         90           177          302        1,371
Abraham Zuil                      243        153       52         158         206           165         977
A4v. (to Au Rina)                 351        5240      56         142          58           126         785                              0
Adv. Cro S'naam)                  323        40        46         133          56           107         705
Adv.(toFerry)                  1158    I  66   j  62              60           22                   I  4661
X X4
I->z
I (A



ANNEX 13
- 81 -                            Table Al.
GUYANA
E_ouiho Coast Road
Elements of Vehicle Operations Cost
(G$ at 120 = 1US$)
VEHICLE TYPE                    CAR           LIGHT         LIGHT       MED-HEAVY   MINIBUS
COMMERCIAL  TRUCK    TRUCK
Tyre Price (a)
Financial                       7055          7170           9010         29775           7170
Economic                        5125          5525           7500         23450           5525
Econ/Fin                        0.73          0.77           0.83          0.79           0.77
Crew Hour (b)
Financial                        25             38            38            50             38
Economic                         18             27            27            46             27
Econ/Pin                        0.72          0.72           0.72          0.91           0.91
intenawe Labour                         I
Financial                        69             69            69            69             69
Econonic                         63             63            63            63             63
Econ/Pin                        0.91          0.91           0.91          0.91           0.91
P1leragf Time (d)               _
Financial                       6.9           12.2           15.7          15.7            5.1
Economic                        6.1           10.9           14.0          14.0            4.5
Econ/Fin                        0.89          0.89           0.89          0.89           0.89
Overbeads_ _                                                             __     _         _ _
Financial                       23000        28000           30000         92000          30000
Econonic                        20470        24920           26700         81880          26700
Econ/fPm                        0.89         0.89             0.89         0.89           0.89



- 82 -
Table A13.3
GUYA ANA
HM STUDY
SLthORY OF COMPARISON OF ALTERNATIVE
(USS Million)
DISCOUNT RATE              ORIGINAL    ALTERNATIMS   NET                INTERNAL
12.5%                      LENGTH                           PRESENT   RATE OF
VALUE       RETURN.
Link Such: SupomnChCbadly    SB. KM      ALT1 vs. ALT         1.062     Many (Pot
Hole.
Patching)
Link Such: Supernam-ChaT     58. KM      ALT2 vs. ALTO        1.403     many
lReslaling)
Link Such: Supemam-Chauity    58. KM     ALT3 vs. ALTO        8.632     27.1
(Resurfacing
__________             ~~~~~1 1/2"  th.)
Link Such: Sup      u8nam-Charity    S. KM  ALT4 vs. ALTO     9.172     29.5
(Resurfacing
2"- i.)
Link Such: Supenam-Charity    58. KM     ALTS vs. ALTO        8.392     26.2
(Resurfacing
2 1/2' th.)



GUYANA
SoesykLndaL ShS
Cars,Vans  Jeeps,     Mini      Light     Heavy                        Total    Total
Year                          Landrover  Buses    Trucks   Trcks    Buses    Tractons  PCU          Vehicles
1980                453         130        36        24        50        66         3      1,042     762
1981                290         77          13       20        61        43         1       753      505
1982                475         118        33        36        56        36         6      1,016     760
1983                354         131        32        43        56        48         8       966      672
1987              _ 331         116        86        50        71        43        14      1,039     711
1989                262         103        222        13       86        14         6       932      706
1991                193         123        235                            17        3       896      668
1992                263         189        335       24        104       20         4      1,235     939
Aver. Annual Ghth.
1983-1992 (%)       -3.2       4.2         29.8    -6.3        7.1     -9.3      -7.4                3.8
Aver. Annual Grth.
1980-1992 (%)       -4.4       3.2         20.4       0        6.3     -9.5       2.4                1.8
- x
(D 



GUYANA
Soesdyke - Iinden HA hw1ay
Vehicle Onerating Costs per Km per Vehide
(US$ at Roughness 2S00him/)
| __ __ ____                       ROUGHNESS = 2500 (mm/kin)
VUIICLE
Type           Cbu                 2500            2700          2800          3100        3500           40         4500
2            Jeeps,              0.1072         0.1125        0.1140         0.1184       0.1233       0.1368       0.1442
____        andos                                                                                                                      oo__
3             Mini Busm          0.1093         0.1122        0.1136         0.1181       0.1250       0.1353       0.1454
4             Lig  Trucks        0.2964         0.3121        0.3144         0.3167       0.3143       0.3368       0.3375
s             Heavy Trucks       0.3419         0.3503        0.3518         0.3566       0.3614       0.3779       0.3867
6             Buses              0.1350         0.1352        0.1357         0.1374       0.1407       0.1450       0.1500
7       __Tmacton                0.1318         0.1351        0.1360         0.1384       0.1408       0.149        0 .1522
PHl 
(DX>
:> 
'n



- 85 -
ANNEX 13
Table A13.C
HDM STUDY RESULTS F'OR LINDENHIWA
SUtUMLARY OF COMPARIS1ON OF ALTERNATIVS
(USS Million)
DISCOUNT RATE =        ORIGINAL   ALTERNATIVES  NET           INTERNAL
12.0%                  LENGTH                       PRESENT  RATE OF
VALUE    RETURN -
LINK SOLI: SOESDYKE-     67. KM     ALTI vs. ALTO    .290      35.2 (Pot
LINDEN                                                        Hols
Patching)
LINK SOLI: SOESDYKE-     67. KM     AL12 vs. ALTO    2.362    21.8
LINDEN                                                  _     (Rdeling)
LINK SOLI: SOESDYKE-     67. KM     ALT3 vs. ALT0    .208     Many
LINDEN                                                        (Resurfacing
1 112" th.)
LINK SOLI: SOESDYKE-     67. KM     ALT4 vs. ALTO    -.897    Many
LINDEN                                                        (Rsturfacing
LINK SOLI: SOESDYKE-     67. KM     ALTS vs. ALTO    -1.794   Many
LINDEN                                                        (Resurfacing
2 1/2- th.)



- 86 -
ANNEX 14
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABIUTATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
I.      Introduction
With a large portion of its territory covered by virgin forest, the presence of
indigenous peoples and the economically important, but environmentally sensitive coastal areas,
Guyana needs to pay serious attention to the environmental impact of its development activities.
Some recent events seem indicate that the requisite level of attention is not being given. For
example, no environmental impact assessment was made of the so-called Brazilian road, the first
half of which has already been built, before its start and none has still been carried out. Also,
there has been recent complaints from environmental against the Demerara Logging Company
logging in areas protected for the indigenous Amerindians.
H.      Existing Environmental Laws on Sea Defenses and Transport
There is no law governing the monitoring and correction or mitigation of
environmental impact in Guyana. A draft Environmental Act for the purpose has been submitted
for legislation, but its passage into law was originally delayed by the suspension of parliament
and more recently by the government's pre-occupation with the preparation of the 1992/93
budget. The draft provides adequate safeguards for environmental protection.
Four main public agencies are involved in monitoring environmental protection: the
Guyana Natural Resources Agency (GNRA), the Guyana Agency for Health Sciences,
Education, Environment and Food Policy (GAHEF) and the Ministries of Health and
Agriculture through their respective environmental monitoring units. There is also a National
Council for the Environment with representatives from all relevant ministries and governmental
agencies, which is expected to set environmental policy and, through various government bodies,
monitor compliance with the policy.
GNRA is responsible for ensuring that all new concessions for the exploitation of
natural resources comply with the environmental standards included in the draft law. GAHEF
on the other hand, deals with all other types of developmental projects.



- 87 -
III.    Sea Defenses Activities
Sea defenses activities can potentially have adverse impacts through the damage to the
natural environment at quarry sites and possible destruction of mangrove stands. GAHEF, with
the assistance of CIDA, is conducting an environmental impact assessment of the development
activities in the coastal zone of Guyana. A copy of the progress report was not available during
project preparation.
V. Transport Activities
No systematic EIA has been prepared for transportation projects or activities.
Although the MOPWCRD is represented on the national council for the environment, it has not
been bringing up its projects for review. This is partly because the ministry does not have any
professionally trained staff. While a full environment unit may not be necessary or feasible
within the ministry it would be essential to have at least one trained environmentalist working
in the CTPU. Moreover the rest of MOPWCRD staff would benefit from: (a) a seminar on
environmental consideration to be addressed in the design and construction of transport facilities,
and (b) guidelines on incorporating these considerations routinely in their design work.
GAHEF is willing and able, with the assistance of a short-term consultant, to organize
such a seminar and develop guideiines for MOPWCRD. The project will provide financing for
such assistance. In addition, MOPWCRD will appoint one of its existing economists or
engineers for training in environmental affairs either within GAHEF or overseas.
IV. Environmental Impact Assessment of Project and Brazilian Roads
Environmental impact assessment of the project roads are being carried out as part of
the consultants' detailed engineering studies for the roads. For the Brazilian road, the first
section of which has already been completed, the Government will, as a component of the
project, conduct an EIA. This will be done by GAHEF with the assistance of foreign
consultants, financed by the project.
V. Monitoring of Environmental Impact of Transport and Sea Defenses
Transprt
Institutional Arrangements
MOPWCRD does not have an environmental unit or officer in charge of monitoring
the environmental impacts of transport activities. The only possible point of review is within
the National Environmental Council (NEC), an advisory body with representatives from all the
ministries. MOPWCRD is represented at the council which meets at regular intervals and on
special ocassions when important environmental issues arise. GAHEF and the Environmental



- 88 -
Monitoring Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture both play important roles in the review and
monitoring of the environmental impact of feeder roads activities.
Under the project, MOPWCRD will appoint a Transport Environmental Officer on a
part time basis to monitor the incorporation of environmental considerations in the planning,
design, implementation, maintenance and operation of transport facilities. The project will
provide for the training, overseas or locally, of the appointed staff. GAHEF has had good
experience in training its staff and has agreed to assist the MOPWCRD in the selection of
institutions for training as well as providing support for managing the conduct of EAs for
transport activities.
The tasks of the Environmental Expert would be as follows:
(a)   to review systematically all transport sector investment and maintenance
activities to identify possible environmental problems or issues and to bring
them to the attention of the Minister of MOPWCRD and to the NEC;
(b)   to make recommendations to MOPWCRD on actions to be taken on identified
problems or issues;
(c)   to initiate the conduct of EA by consultants where necessary and to review,
with the assistance of GAHEF or GNRA, the EAs;
(d)   to follow up on the implementation of the recommendations of the EAs; and
(e)   to ensure that the environmental specifications written into roadwork contracts
are adhered to.
Sea Defenses
Institutional Arrangements
Sea defenses come under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
which has its own environmental monitoring unit. The unit has not, however, systematically
reviewed the environmental considerations on sea defenses. GAHEF, with the assistance of a
CIDA-financed consultant, had started carrying out an environmental assessment of the impact
of sea defenses activities. The study was not completed due to the shortage of funds. IDB is
preparing a Coastal Area Management Project which would include an environmental study of
sea defenses. Items considered include the effect of quarry operations for boulders for sea walls,
the effect of modifying the sea defenses on mangrove stands, etc.






- 89 -
ANNEX 15
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION STRATEGY
The project includes a large number of components: sea-defenses and road
rehabilitation, preventive road maintenance, purchases of equipment, technical assistance, and
a comprehensive training program. Furthermore, the project has to be monitored in the context
of a substantially larger investment program for the 1992-97 period. Experience under previous
credits in other countries shows that the average ten man/weeks per year for supervision is
insufficient to provide effective control over the program in a country with such a weak
institutional capacity as Guyana.
To reduce the need for IDA manpower, an expanding monitoring and reporting
role will be played by the Borrower through the Project Executing Units (PEUs) in the Roads
Division of MOPWCRD and in the Hydraulics Division of MOA. RAD and HD will recruit
consultants, to be financed by the credit, for assistance to the PEUs and supervision of works.
The consultants will report each quarter to the MOPWCRD, MOA, and IDA. All issues which
will arise will be dealt with in joint meetings between the Government and IDA and during semi-
annual project reviews. During these meetings remedial actions will be agreed upon.
We intend to have a two-pronged IDA supervision. First, to allow intensive
field supervision we will recruit a local consultant for a period of about 12 staff-weeks, in
stretches of 3 weeks. After each 3-week assignment he will send to the Bank a report
identifying any project issues. This arrangement will not be too costly, as we expect to pay
about US$3,000 per month, so the 12 weeks will cost us no more than about 4 weeks of regular
staff. Second, we will provide about 12 staff-weeks of in-house supervision: 8 staff-weeks of
the engineer's time (mainly for procurement and monitoring of technical assistance tasks and
implementation of road maintenance plan) and 4 staff-weeks for the economist (cost-recovery,
road and sea defenses financing and budgeting, etc.).
In sum, we plan to dedicate about 24 staff-weeks to supervision, at a cost which
is equivalent to only 16 staff-weeks. Thus, supervision will be intensive but its cost within
reasonable limits. We intend to put a special effort into a project launch workshop planned for
August 1993 (once the credit is declared effective) to establish the grounds for project
implementation and supervision.
We have also provided semi-annual project reviews and a mid-term project
review with the participation of the Government (MOPWCRD, MOA and Ministry of Finance)
and IDA. The semi-annual reviews will cover the following: (i) progress in carrying out the
civil works, including revisions found to be necessary, (ii) the proposed annual road maintenance



- 90 -
programs which would be presented to the Ministry of Finance (MOF), (iii) progress of technical
assistance and training which would be financed by others and (iv) the results of environmental
monitoring carried out by the MOPWCRD; and (v) audit reports. The project will be monitored
against the project implementation schedule, detailed in Table 3 and 4, the estimated schedule
of disbursements, Table 5, and the attached action program.
A mid-term project review will be carried out on June 30, 1996 coinciding with
a semi-annual review, and will cover: physical progress of the project; execution of the
institutional strengthening program; implementation of the road maintenance plan; compliance
with the attached action program; and the arrangements and schedule for the transition of key
positions in the Program Executing Units of RAD and HD, initially staffed by IDA-financed
experts, to Government staff.



- 91 -
ACTION PROGRAM
DATE                                     ACTIO
June 30, 1993    - Arrangements with GAHEF to prepare the environm. assessment for the
Lethem-Linden road (para. 1.10).
- Arrangements with the agent for handling procurement (para. 2.16).
September 30,   - Assignment of duties, budget and staff to the PEUs (paras. 1.19, 1.22
1993             and 2.11).
- Agreement on the results of the sea defenses cost-recovery study (para. 1.23).
December 31,    - Completion of the environmental assessment for the Lethem-Linden road
1993             (para. 1.10)
- Appoinment of an environmental officer for CTPU (para. 2.26)
June 30, 1994    - Maintenance program and budget for roads for the period January 1995 -
December 1998 (para. 1.16)
- Arrangements for funding 0 & M of the road network (para. 1.17).
- Implementation plan of the agreed recommendations of the sea defenses cost-
recovery study (para. 1.22).
- Arrangements to organize training courses on environment monitoring for
MOPWCRD people (para. 2.26).
- Completion of review and recommendations of the existing transport policy
(Annex 10).
December 31,    - Establishment of transport data bank (Annex 10).
1994            - Completion of information and analysis of existing plans of all public transport
sector entities (Annex 10).
December 31,    - Completion of the contract for preventive road maintenance.
1995            - Terms of reference for the mid-term project review (para. 2.29).
June 30, 1996    - Completion of the following studies (para. 2.07):
* Data bank along the coastline on tidal and morphological measurements
* Creation of an off-port container terminal
* Establishment of a national port authority
- Arrangements and schedule for the transition to Government staff of the PEUs
of HD and RAD (para. 2.11).
June 30, 1997    - Completion of the transition to Government Staff of the PEUs of HD and
RAD.
June 30, 1998    - Completion of the training program for RAD staff (para. 1.16).
- Completion of the training program on environment monitoring (Annex 9).



- 92 -
Table 1
- f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........    ..............................                      "'    ~   ' 
Current Expenditures                3.95              5.67             3.39             4.68            2.21
Capital Expenditures                3.98              3.40             2.25             4.61            6.93
TOTAL                      7.93             9.07             5.64             9.29            9.14
As a %E of Total GoG
Expenditures                       2.1696            1.52%            1 .85%           2.54%           4.30%
Source: Central Transport Planning Unit of MCW
Table 2
. .. .......~.maus  uku
0''''""''1  '    ""9"'i'-.'-.''.."""'''"''""''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  ....
Demerara Bdge. Rchb              EEC                   5.0        1.0                                       6.0 |
Rchb. G'town-Socadykc            IDB                   2.1        6.4       2.1                             10.6 |
Rchb. Tirnchri Airport            -         3.0        4.5        1.5                                       9.0 |
Demerara River Nav.               -                    1.0                                                  1.0
Soesdyke.Linden Rd.              CDB                              2.2       3.0                              5.2
Rehb. P erry Pleet               EEC                   1.5        1.5                                       3.0
Rchb. peeder Roads               IDB                   1.0        20        2.0        1.0                  6.09
Rehb. W. Coaut Berbicc           IDB                              1.0       3.0        2.0                  6.0 |
Rehb. Essequibo Rd.              IDA                   3.0        4.4        1.2                            8.614
Container Park                   I    
Rchbtu. reswnMa6c                                       1.4       1.5       2.0        14.             4.5         |
Source:la n tra Tranpo r     t Plnnn  Unit                                             5.0        2.5       10.
f   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........    ..........,......                           ..   .g...',,, ,,  ,., -,a     gi  g.....
__ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   ..........                               ........            ..    ....... '.'1
==L=~~~~~~~.. ........-



r4
.0
E
-lit    _ WI,    WI    tig   Ill    Ill        WI    ar.t   WI         - Iwo   two   11   WI        WIl    W       W             1w1  we       il to       II      I twe  WI a  __tee_______T __    LS** gaqd
Iwo                    S |__   |ere                                                                                                                  o re             Sle      l       ott                 ' 1' tK f e  mge  ^_f 
eW,   we    Sr          r11 Ire                            _S        we   io    we t  o *lL       1*      we    wi   ire        we    ere  WI  owt   we   we we                      Fr- A
I_II t*  WI@    WI    II        WI                             WIs                         WI                rW                                      Ol                il                g    U    vr L Ir tw  _*  _
z} ~~~~~~~et'                                                                                                                                  Z *e                                    Vs --W _
o*| r   we                e    owe                     oe   owe                           *o   et'                                             et'   we                                Go         VW _d -. P
O    WI         WI      tI      WI                             W oW                                                       WIe  e                     w r e                             s e        1t    W_ 
i       WW* WI    W e                                                                WIe  rWe W                            re I    I                                                               eV W  "" _
W       WWI     Ir      W      W                _* l                                 I"    or         _                                        : IzI WI   _                             Mt    WVWJ36         -.
Ws             owe      r       io                     own   as'      owe            ets   ere      we              .W   or"  *r               et'  ow   ow"                 on'        on, _         -.  "
WI      WI1r   WI       Wi    WIS    G         ow       Ws IWI    oe to              wI    t         we oe         w sIWI    WI                 WIMS&e'   W Wowe It'                   36          O36i6*
WG    W    W    WI   we                                       WI              Ws   We _                                   *WI  WI  W   WI          I" W                            IW 31    N- _WdV P**-10
we    S"        ore * "  _e                          _*'                                                   ews e    owe   gos                  et'f*s _et's           ogl         Ong wo*   _       1" P" 1-I
033114*11 100
gm     e#       WS      IV        s    A"      I''      WI   O"       C       re    on    we         r     ewe       tf A"        WS     it  _|@l d_S_       e@oOo                                     "
W*s    W        W       Wr    _ I    WI          I     W      W Is IWI  GW    U'Is  WI  W                                                                             we
WI  WI  WI      Wi    ~~~~~                                   ~~w:  Wi"I    W       W w"  IWI   WI.  WI  IS                                                                       Wll    U wel
WI    WI    ill         WI      We I                          WI              to'sIOi'S                            WI    Ws    WS    I            e   W                     We _II's   _136    IIPI-WP _ _O
_we             are    S        we      r r      "     I _*  gel             el'o     .      .                            we   r      l    1   C"   W            wel t"          SW    Wa _A@    r-  sl _A__
WI    _*        51              W       0      WI      WIs  rI        WI   ill      WI W           W        1W                   WI    ill   WI W          *1   WIG WI  WI  _I               q3AA-II3
ad'os   Y       aovweo wea Are                 owe  olw Aoet                 twsoWIse                     :    two  if                     a  O` Aoireu AS  wett Aowe
ILkLWL          AOIl    W Val          WIW   BO    AO  VaI    W Oil         WAO      Val  IL             III AS, Vo Ii    iL           II    wi  1wIM           WIe  vI         WIgm   WI     ql3lIlI
_ _ _ _ _ _                _ _         __ __ _                                                                       _ _         __                    _                 _ _
AO119011 sNYUVUAAWI 11.110LanasasoUd
n_VUU
*                        s|~~~~~~~51100-S



- 94-                                  Table 4
GUYANA                                            Tablb 4
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABIUATION
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ESTIMATED ANNUAL CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER PAYMENTS
(US$ MILLION)
PROJECT YEAR                       TOTAL
PROJECT COMPONENT                          93/94  94/95   95/96  96/97  97/98        PAYMENTS       REMARKS
Works
Sea Defenses Rehabilitation                  0.70    2.10   2.10   1.40    0.70           7.00        ICB
......... xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Essequibo Road Rehabilitation             . 1.07    3.21   3.21   2.14    1.07           10.70        ICa
......... xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Linden Highway Rehabilitation                0.64    1.93   1.93   1.29    0.64           6.42         NIF
......... xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Road Maintenance                             0.18    0.54   0.54   0.36    0.18           1.80        ICa
......... xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
EQUIPMENT MATERIALS AND GOODS
Office Equipment and Vehicles                0.11    0.11   0.11                          0.33    LIS/SHOPPING
...xxxxxxxxx
Fire Equipment and Spare Parts and Materials         1.10          1.10                   2.19    LIB/SHOPPING
...xxxxxxxxxxxxx
CONSULTANTS
Works Supervision                            0.10    0.30   0.33   0.24    0.12           1.09
..xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Institutional Streghtening (T.A.)            0.77    0.77   0.65   0.55    0.11           2.85
..xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxX
Studies                                     0.22    0.16   0.49                           0.87
..XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
MISCELLANEOUS
Refinancing PPF                             0.75                                          0.75
TOTAL COST INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES           5.27   10.62   8.87   6.74    2.63          34.00
(IDA FINANCED)                              4.43    8.20   6.52   5.14    1.87           26.00



- 95 -                                Table 5
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF IDA DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursed in              Cummulative
Quarter                   Disbursemet       Cumulative
US$m               US                %
FY 1994
September 30, 1993          2.78                        2.78             10.7
December 31, 1993           0.50                        3.28             12.6
March 31, 1994              0.50                        3.78             14.6
June 30, 1994               0.50     4.28              4.28              16.5
FY 1995
September 30, 1994          1.00                        5.28             20.3
December 31, 1994           1.00                        6.28             24.2
March 31, 1996              1.60                        7.78             29.9
June 30, 1996               1.60     6.00               9.28             35.7
FY 1996
September 30, 1995          1.50                       10.78             41.5
December 31, 1995           1.50                       12.28             47.2
March 31, 1996              1.50                       13.78             53.0
June 30, 1996               1.50     0.00              15.28             58.8
FY 1997
September 30, 1996          1.25                       16.33             63.6
December 31, 1996           1.25                       17.78             68.4
March 31, 1997              1.25                       19.03             73.2
June 30, 1997               1.25     5.00              20.28             78.0
FY 1998
September 30, 1997          1.00                       21.28             81.8
December 31, 1997           1.00                       22.28             865.7
March 31, 1998              1.00                       23.28             89.5
June 30, 1998               1.00     4.00              24.28             93.4
FY 1999
September 30, 1998          0.60                       24.78             96.8
December 31, 1998           0.50                       25.28             97.2
March 31, 1999              0.50                       25.78             99.2
June 30, 1999               0.22      1.72             26.00            100.0
K                                                -, .  7F,>-R.Y.<$;,,.wkj.e sD.G   2Z X t
Anumptions:
Loan signing date:                     April 1993
Loan effectivaxen:                      ly 1993
Project Completion:                    December 199
LAn Closing Date:                      Jun 1999
Includes payment of PPF and initiel deposit to Special Account.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24266
KtMarowhara~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t ~~~~~~GUYANA
<e,9 4A>>NFRNFRATRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
oz  w  \ $W2g  f tsy   \                       CIVIL WORKS
<U   o   ,>           J              )JiS                           ~~~~~~~~~~ATlANTIC
4   +7-                 X  guX    X                                    ~~~~~~~~OCEAN
LsI;X]            SUPENMM8/) S9w   ,GEORG~ETOWN
EQU              (     K AIC
\ A/lme. \t; | {VREEDENESDYK,5 terweo.gt
(5  Ke  < 9   ;         <             3    i    5  NDEII   C          >~~~~~~~~~~~~NE
\   01       - 9 $                  J  =SIIMC/KEM {t/)  FRIENDSH          ({}SLeldon~~~~~TERDA
\ / z tl / P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J E6..l
REHABILITATIONCOMPONENTS:                             KURUP   u                  (
FINANCED BY IDA           J KTt                       UUU^I   
_ ROAD REHABILITATION (                               /     NDIG )          /
*{-ROADMlAINTENANCE          ~                                       / f       S  U   R  I N   A    M    E
SEA DEFENSES                 tg1) 50
FINANCED BY CDBJ,, f IE
ROADS                          7                   ,0  1      0  30  40  10   4
FINANCED BY IDB                                   ,                                         S   \0 20   40   60 8
_ ROADS                     <7 vK nno\                          t              >KILOMETERS
PR MARY ROADS          LETHE ;)        J&     
SECONDARY ROADS                                        J          
TRACKS                                                              ;               e       \
60NATIONAL CAPITAL          WIHA6AI  <tR                                                      8
O   TOWNS                                t\%_7                                                    s
INTERNATINAL AIRPORT      Ro51)           HA TONg
PORTS                                        ISATN)                                     L 
RIVERS                      lf</4                                             4    
INTERNATINAL BOUNDARIES  60>      fWMDA                           
PA                          Ar L A N T I C <f
E0      A                                                                                             11   -1  g J -GeroTs f The Wo Id 8-sk
; BRAZIL ) J B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R  A    Z   I L    ." Ld -t Kw G
p                                                                                                  .. P      O    uh b-udo f
NOVEMBER 1 992



