Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20055
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2477-GUY)
March 15, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This Document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guyana Dollar
US$1 = G$ 125 as of 01/01/1993
US$ = G$ 180 as of 02/01/2000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDB         -      Caribbean Development Bank
GDP         -      Gross Domestic Product
CTPU        -      Central Transport Planning Unit
EU          -      European Union
HD          -      Hydraulics Division
IDA         -      International Development Association
IDB         -      Inter-American Development Bank
IMF         -      International Monetary Fund
MPWCRD   -         Ministry of Public works, Communications and Regional
Development
O&M         -      Operations and Maintenance
PEU         -      Program Executing Unit
RAD         -      Road Administration Division
Vice-President - David De Ferranti
Director - Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director - Danny Leipziger
Staff Member - Bernard Becq



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.....................................................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ................................................... 1
B. Achievement of Objectives .........................................................                             2
C. Major factors Affecting the Project .................................................                           4
D. Project Sustainability .........................................................                                6
E. IDA  Performance .........................................................                                      6
F. Bofrower Performance .........................................................                                  8
G. Assessment of Outcome .........................................................                                 8
H. Future Operations .........................................................                                     9
I. Lessons Learned .........................................................                                        10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment ......................................................                               13
Table 2: Related bank Loans .........................................................                               14
Table 3: Project Timetable .........................................................                                14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..........  14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..................................    15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ........................................                              16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .....................................................   17
Table 8A: Project Costs .........................................................                                   19
Table 8B: Project Financing .........................................................                              21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .................................................    21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...................................................    22
Table 11: Compliance With Operational Manual Statements .......................  26
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Input .................................................    26
Table 13: Bank Resources Missions .....................................................    27
ANNEX A: COMPLETION MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
ANNEX B: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
MAP IBRD 24266R
This document has; a restricted distibution and may be used by recipints only in the
perfotmance of their official dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authodzadon.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2477-GUY)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
in Guyana, for which Credit 2477-GUY in the amount of SDR 19 million equivalent was
approved on March 25, 1993 and made effective on July 9, 1993.
The credit was closed on Government request on May 17, 1999, shortly before the original
closing date of June 30, 1999. Final disbursement of SDR 14,374.34 was made on June 11,
1999, at which time the cumulative disbursements totaled approximately SDR 15.00 million, i.e.
about 78.9% of the total revised IDA credit of SDR 19.00 million, and a balance of SDR
3,991,151.64 was canceled. The Special Account has been closed with the reimbursement to
IDA of the remaining SDR 539.43 on October 12, 1999. The reimbursement of ineligible
expenditures in an amount of US$1,045,590.50 (equivalent to SDR 764,320) is pending, upon
receipt of which the balance of SDR 4,755,471.64 will be canceled, and the credit closed.
Government, by letter of President Jagdeo, dated 18th November 1999, agreed to refund the
above-captioned amount in two installments, with the first refund by end-March 2000, and the
second by end-June 2000.
The ICR was prepared by Bemard Peccoud, Road-sector Consultant, with the assistance of
Rajeev Swami, Financial Officer, and Peter Ellis, Economist; revised by Bernard Becq, Task
Manager; and reviewed by Jeffrey Gutman, Sector Manager, and Max Pulgar-Vidal, Sector
Leader.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during two IDA's completion missions, on June 14-17, 1999,
and September 13-24, 1999. It is based on documents in the project files and discussions with
the Borrower.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2477-GUY)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The four objectives of the project were to: (a) repair and reconstruct deteriorated sections
of the sea defenses system and lay the basis for the development of an efficient operations and
maintenance system for sea defenses; (b) improve the overall performance and efficiency of the
management and operations of the transport sector; (c) facilitate agricultural, agro-industrial and
mining production --particularly for export-- through reduced transport costs; and (d) reduce the
need for premature replacement of transport vehicles, spare parts and fuel imports.
2.    The project included 3 major components: (A) civil works, including the reconstruction,
rehabilitation and maintenance of 4 kilometers of sections of sea defenses and around 200 km of
roads; (B) studies and institutional strengthening to improve sector management capacity, and
implement reforms in road, sea defenses, port management and financing; and (C) equipment
purchasing, including office equipment and vehicles.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project development objectives have not been met despite some progress made
during project preparation and early implementation. Achievements in repair and reconstruction
of sea defenses and rehabilitation of roads have been significantly less than expected.
Sustainable improvements in the operations and maintenance, and financing of both sea defenses
and transport sectors did not take place during the life of the project. The key policy reforms
necessary to set the foundation for sustained modernization, increased financing capacity, and
efficient management of the road and sea defenses sectors, have usually not been adopted. The
project did not significantly contribute to the reduction of the high construction costs and vehicle
operating costs.
4.    Operations and Maintenance System for Sea Defenses. No significant rehabilitation
works were undertaken, due to repeated procurement difficulties. Numerous stretches of sea
defenses remain in poor condition or vulnerable. Overall, the maintenance backlog has increased
during the project period, and no feasible and sustainable cost-recovery mechanisms have been
put in place. Thus, the Government was neither able to shift its maintenance strategy from
emergency/curative maintenance to preventive maintenance, which should form the basis of an
efficient operation of the sea defenses system, nor cope with the acceleration of sea defenses
deterioration.



- 11 -
5.    Management and Operations of the Transport Sector. Achievements with regard to
strengthening sector institutions have been quite limited. An exception is the port sub-sector,
where the capacity of staff in charge of sector management has improved, and where
comprehensive and feasible reforms have been designed and are about to be implemented. The
management and maintenance systems of the road sector, in particular, have not really improved
significantly. Although studies aimed at institutional redesigning were carried out as planned,
training took place, and some equipment was provided, no significant institutional reform has
taken place.  This was in large part due to the fact that objectives with regard to the
implementation of prerequisite reforms were either slower to materialize than anticipated, or did
not materialize at all. The civil service reforms under the IDA-funded Public Administration
Project (PAP) implemented between 1993 and 1999, did not materialize as early as expected due
to delays experienced during early implementation. GOG salaries, for example, still remain
significantly lower than international comparators, even after improvements achieved under the
PAP, which has made it difficult to recruit new qualified civil servants. This has also contributed
to the inability of the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (IRP) to meet its objectives of
sustainable institutional strengthening. In addition, the inability of the Project Executing Unit
(PEU) of the Road Administration Division (RAD) to effectively manage the road component
reduced the efficiency of implementation of this component. It also raised serious concerns
regarding the design and use of this type of implementation arrangements in Guyana. Overall,
the transport-sector institutions were left weaker at the end of the IRP than at the beginning in
terms of the permanent staff's quantity, capacity and motivation. With the exception of the port
and maritime transport sub-sectors, sustainable organizational, operational, and procedural
changes did not, and are not expected to, take place as planned without further assistance.
6.    Reduced Transport Costs and Replacement of Transport Vehicles and Spare Parts. The
project is not expected to have significantly contributed to the improvement of transport
facilitation and to the reduction of foreign exchange expenditures, and transport costs are
unlikely to have been reduced. This is mostly due to the fact that the road network is still not
properly maintained, and that road conditions have not really improved since the physical
objectives were not met. There was little Government-funded road maintenance during the
project implementation period, and, despite donor-funded contracts, maintenance was far below
the level required for efficient operations. Overall Government funding of the road sector has
not significantly increased, at least not to the level required by the existing network. The
efficiency of road maintenance operations --which remain quite limited-- does not show any
significant improvement. No data is available to show that any reduction occurred in the need
for premature replacement of transport vehicles, spare parts and fuel imports.
7.    The overall outcome of the project is unsatisfactory, not only because of the failure to
meet stated development objectives, but also due to limited achievements in the implementation
of the various components. Civil works have been significantly less than planned. Although a
few periodic maintenance contracts were carried out, the rehabilitation of the Essequibo Coast
Road was not completed by the end of the project. Other road rehabilitation works were co-
financed by CDB and IDA. In addition, minor rehabilitation and/or repairs of eight kilometers of
sea defenses have been carried out under IDB, EU and GOG-funded projects. The equipment
component was largely implemented, except for the procurement of some specialized equipment
for sea defenses purposes.



- iii -
8.   IDA's performance is considered unsatisfactory with regard to supervision, due to
deficient supervision during most of the implementation period. Supervision missions were
often not staffed appropriately, and made inaccurate ratings and reporting, especially with regard
to the lack of compliance with covenants and failed implementation of policy reforms. IDA has
not been proactive enough --when not complacent-- in assessing and monitoring implementation,
issues, and raising concerns about deficiencies in procurement, delayed implementation, and lack
of capacity-building activities.  Performance is rated satisfactory for the identification,
preparation and appraisal, although a number of assumptions regarding implementation capacity
and maintenance budgeting were overoptimistic.  IDA  may also have overestimated
Government's capacity, and possibly commitment, to adopt all the reforms necessary to properly
implement the project. In retrospect, while the proposed project management approach has
proven not to be effective, no alternative may have been possible at the time to both ensure
sustainable strengthening of capacity in Government and discharge project management
responsibilities.
9.    The Borrower's overall performance is also deemed deficient. Implementation issues
raised above highlight general problems associated with project implementation in Guyana. This
project implementation has been hampered by serious financial management deficiencies, overall
poor management of the road component by the RAD-PEU, a slow and unpredictable
procurement and contract management process, and a lack of institutional strengthening.
Government has not complied with many credit covenants, and the level of counterpart funds has
been consistently lower than agreed. Government also failed to capitalize on early progress with
policy reforms with a strong commitment to first adopt and then implement reforms. The
Borrower's performance is also considered weak with regard to technical quality of both sea
defenses and roads, despite technical assistance funded under the project and the various studies
carried out.
10.   The most important component from a sustainability point of view --studies, institutional
strengthening, and reforms in management and financing-- failed. This is due to the lack of
proactive implementation, limited transfer of know-how by consultants, and, in most cases,
because the studies carried out under the project have not been properly carried out or failed to
make appropriate recommendations. The key operational and administrative changes necessary
to strengthen performance have not been adopted or adequately implemented during the life of
the project. The prospects for this to occur now will be limited without further attempts at
addressing institutional strengthening issues through the adoption of civil service capacity and
strengthening measures. Studies making recommendations for key policy reforms in the
management and financing of the road sector have not always been properly carried out. They
often led to recommendations that were infeasible and not fully relevant to the specific
conditions encountered in Guyana. Regarding sea defenses, recommendations for policy reforms
were more appropriate, but the key cost recovery mechanisms have not been endorsed by clear
decisions.



- iv -
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
11.   The limited results of the project, in particular with regard to the lack of sustainable
improvements in Government operations and procedures, are mostly due to weak performance
during the implementation of the project. Implementation suffered from inefficient procurement
and contract management, lack of capacity building, lack of monitoring capacity, and insufficient
IDA supervision. The project suffered from similar problems to those experienced in other
projects in Guyana.
12.   The procurement process from both PEUs (RAD and HD) has in general been slow and
faulty. As a result, only a few small contracts were awarded for sea defenses rehabilitation. In
the road sector, poor procurement and contract management resulted in the cancellation and
termination of two large contracts for the rehabilitation of the Essequibo Coast Road (ECR)
before completion. The second contract also experienced significant cost overruns and numerous
delays, with site and financial mismanagement serious enough to spur the Government to
terminate the contract. The audit report of the Auditor General concluded that IDA funds had
been misused, and that the project's financial management was grossly inadequate. The
Government is now committed to reimburse IDA in the amount of roughly US$1 million in
ineligible expenditures.
13.   The Government had to rely on the PEUs, since it did not have the capacity to properly
monitor project activities. The Government could not fully assess all RAD-PEU's performance
limitations, and was therefore unable to address some serious implementation issues in a timely
manner. In addition, project activities related to capacity building were few, and associated legal
covenants were never fully complied with; such as, for example, the provision of a
comprehensive training program for RAD, the regularization of key PEU positions, and the
recruitment of new staff to fill vacancies in HD and RAD.
14.  In addition to the lack of Government implementation capacity, the project suffered from
ineffective (and often complacent) IDA supervision during most of its implementation. Project
performance was not appropriately assessed by IDA mid-1998, particularly with regard to the
lack of progress on the policy reform front, the lack of compliance with basic obligations
regarding procurement, counterpart funding, and a number of other legal covenants. Issues
relating to poor project implementation and management-in particular financial management-
were raised and led to a downgrading of the project's performance ratings. It had become clear
that major issues were affecting the project and that project objectives would not be achieved.
This occurred too late in the execution period, though, to enable the IDA and the Government to
redress the situation.
15.   The Borrower has not submitted any formal plan for the operational phase of the project.
During post-implementation, the project is expected to be limited to the completion of the
Essequibo Coast Road rehabilitation, and the maintenance of major roads. The Government is,
however, also committed to address the institutional issues of the road sector on a broader scale,
building on the experience of the project. It is expected that the sea defenses sector issues will be
addressed under a new EU-funded project, but there is no indication that the maintenance issue
will be addressed in the short term. This sector needs a broader strategy, with a multi-year



- v -
expenditures program, and new cost-recovery mechanisms. The Government is eager to follow-
up on the ongoing institutional reforms in the port and maritime transport sector, and to support
pilot investments aimed at facilitating river navigation and improving the access of rural products
to urban markets.
The key lessons learned are:
16.   PEUs have been used in countries where Governments have limited implementation
capacity. In Guyana, PEUs were aimed at helping implement projects and strengthening
Government's capacity. Neither objective was achieved at the end of the project. The PEUs
proved inefficient, the RAD-PEU was mismanaged, and Government did not have the capacity to
monitor them. In cases such as these, it is recommended that IDA adopt project implementation
arrangements that are primarily focused on efficiently discharging its fiduciary and procurement
responsibilities, including delegated management mechanisms. This requires that Government
recruits quality staff and closely oversees their performance, but does not interfere with day to
day operations.
17.   As long as the Borrower does not have sufficient capacity to plan and manage a sector,
which requires sustainable institutions and high level qualifications, IDA-funded projects should
include assistance in developing the institutional structures for comprehensive sector
management.
18.   Regardless of the project's implementation arrangements, the Borrower's supervision and
monitoring capacity should be realistically assessed through a full-fledged institutional risk
analysis, and taken into account in both project design and supervision.
19.   Sound project implementation requires commitment of the Borrower to provide the
required counterpart funds. The provision of counterpart funding may have to be linked to
reforms of the fiscal and/or cost-recovery mechanisms for maintenance.
20.   The Borrower should be a partner to policy reforms long before the start of the project, so
as to really understand the critical interdependence of all aspects of the reforms program, and the
linkages between reforms and the implementation of the investment and maintenance program.
This would allow the Borrower to carefully phase the implementation of reforms, and focus early
implementation on the adoption of key reforms, which should be rooted in a comprehensive and
well-designed sector strategy.
21.   The implementation of civil works should be well-planned and monitored, through: (i)
sound and transparent procurement methods; (ii) clear and detailed contract monitoring
procedures (both financial and technical, including quality assurance planning); (iii) enhanced
monitoring of consultants; (iv) independent audits; and (v) maintaining planning and
programming systems and keeping them operational over the years.
22.  IDA supervision requires: (i) appropriate staffing; (ii) close monitoring by management,
and full support from senior management on decisions related to difficult and/or controversial
activities and reforms; (iii) proactive follow-up on compliance with all agreements and legal



- vi -
covenants; (iv) supervision focused on institutional issues; (v) timely monitoring of
achievements through increased frequency of supervision missions, which will depend on the
risks involved and issues to be addressed; and (vi) avoiding too high a turn-over of Task
Managers.



- 1 -
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2477-GUY
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A - Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were to: (1) repair and reconstruct deteriorated sections of
the sea defenses system, and lay the basis for the development of an efficient operations and
maintenance system for sea defenses; (2) improve the overall performance and efficiency of the
management and operations of the transport sector; (3) facilitate agricultural, agro-industrial and
mining production-particularly for export-through reduced transportation costs; and (4) to
reduce the need for the premature replacement of transport vehicles, spare parts and fuel imports.
2.    The project included 3 major components: (A) civil works, including (i) reconstruction
and rehabilitation of 4 kilometers of sections of sea defenses, (ii) rehabilitation of around 60 km
of the Essequibo Coast Road, (iii) rehabilitation and maintenance of the Linden Highway, and
(iv) preventive maintenance of around 141 kilometers of high priority roads; (B) studies and
institutional strengthening consisting of (i) 4 studies for the construction of an off-port container
terminal, (ii) the establishment of a Port Authority, (iii) the environmental impact of the Lethem-
Linden Road, and (iv) road sector financing, and (v) the provision of technical assistance to the
Central Transport Planning Unit (CTPU), the Hydraulic Division (HD), and the Road
Administration Division (RAD) of the Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Regional
Development (MPWCRD) to improve sector management capacity, and implement reforms in
road, sea defenses and port management and financing; and (C) the purchasing of equipment,
including office equipment, vehicles for CPTU, RAD and HD, equipment for moving the mud
bank, and fire-fighting equipment.
3.    Project objectives were clear and in line with sector priorities. Due to oversights in the
project design, however, the objective of improving sector management was actually too
ambitious. Achieving this objective would have required the IDA-funded Public Administration
Reform Project, which was being implemented at the same time, to succeed in reforming the
salary structure of civil servants, and to strengthen project management units to the point where
they could effectively discharge their responsibilities and transfer know-how to related
government departments. Civil service reforms were slow to materialize, hence preventing the
Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MPWC) from hiring staff with the requisite
skills, which in turn hampered the feasibility of other objectives.



- 2 -
B - Achievement of Objectives
4.    The project development objectives have not been met, largely because the borrower
failed to adopt institutional strengthening measures and key policy reforms during the
implementation period. This occurred despite progress made in this regard during project
preparation and early implementation. In particular, significant and sustainable strengthening of
maintenance policies and procedures have not taken place, and most development objectives
related to physical infrastructure have not been met. As a result, some of the major issues in the
sector remain insufficiently addressed, including: inadequate staffing of sector institutions,
neglect of operation and maintenance of sector infrastructure, insufficient funding for sea
defenses, lack of financing for road infrastructure maintenance, and ineffective highway
administration and maintenance.
5.    With regard to the first objective, physical outputs have been limited as no significant sea
defenses works were undertaken using IDA credit proceeds, due to unresolved procurement and
funding issues, and the subsequent reallocation of resources to the rehabilitation of the Essequibo
Cost Road. An in-depth review of the overall condition of the sea-defense sector, carried out in
June 1999 by a Dutch consultant, concluded that "Guyana is losing the war against the sea".
Some rehabilitation and repair works were carried out on eight kilometers, a few under CDB
parallel financing and most using GOG resources and under EU and IDB-financed operations.
These works were carried out by local contractors, mostly with walls of wood instead of
concrete, resulting in a reduction of the durability of the works from 50 to 10 years; and have not
been enough to implement the rehabilitation program  as planned.  This prevented the
Government from shifting its maintenance strategy from emergency curative maintenance to
preventive maintenance, which is the basis of an efficient operations and maintenance system.
Numerous stretches of sea defenses (planned for rehabilitation under the project) remain in poor
condition or vulnerable, and new stretches are beginning to deteriorate. Overall, the maintenance
backlog has increased since Project Appraisal, as sea defense works have, since 1992, progressed
at less than half the rate required to cope with the urgency of the problem.
6.    The necessary institutional reforms in sea defense management largely remain to be
implemented. Sea defense cost-recovery mechanisms have not as yet been adopted. This is due
to the poor condition of the infrastructure, since preventive maintenance was not carried out, and
also possibly a result of studies not having defined feasible mechanisms. HD-PEU stated that
recommendations were clear and practical, but did not offer any explanation as to why they have
not been adopted and/or implemented by Government. The infrastructure's poor condition
implies curative and costly maintenance, which coupled with a lack of cost recovery makes
finance problematic, thereby seriously jeopardizing the sustainability of the sea defenses system.
7.    Some positive results in terms of capacity-building were achieved in the Hydraulics
Department, due to better overall project and financial management by the HD-PEU, and the fact
that staff in HD proved more capable than those of the RAD-PEU with regard to technical
expertise and procurement. The increase of infrastructure rehabilitation needs over the project
period combined with the lack of funding, may have however led to increasing frustration among
the HD's staff.



- 3 -
8.    Concerning the second objective, achievements have been quite limited, except in the
port sub-sector where the capacity of staff in charge of sector management has improved. Yet,
studies aimed at redesigning the transport-sector institutions were carried out as planned, training
took place, and some equipment was provided. Contrary to what was expected at appraisal, the
reform of the Public Administration and civil service salary restructuring did not take place, and
the staff of the Project Executing Unit of the Road Administration (RAD-PEU) were not
recruited into civil servants at the end of the project as expected. In addition, a significant
number of positions in MPWC are not filled, and staff morale and capacity are still low. This
helps to explain why institutional reforms in the management and financing of the various sub-
sectors did not take place as planned.  Studies carried out under the project made
recommendations which have not been adopted, sometimes rightfully so, since they were either
infeasible and/or irrelevant. The studies have, therefore, not been followed by sustainable
organizational, operational, and procedural changes in the administration and management of
transport and road operations.
9.   In the road sector, achievements have been very little with regard to the overall capacity-
building of RAD staff and road management tools. Due to its poor performance in both
procurement and project management, the RAD-PEU neither provided a role model for, nor
improved the capacity of its existing staff. RAD-PEU's growing importance in management
during the project's implementation has prevented capacity-building from taking place in RAD
itself. No qualified staff from the RAD-PEU has joined RAD as planned, few staff have been
trained, and not many professional staff remained in the Ministry. As no vacancies have been
filled, there is less capacity in the administration at the end of the project than at its inception.
This largely inhibited significant improvements in the overall performance and efficiency of the
management and operations of the transport sector. MPWC indicated that the RAD staff were
not given an opportunity to participate in the PEU activities.
10.   The management and maintenance systems of the road sector have not significantly
improved. The road maintenance funding mechanisms, recommended by a study financed under
the project, have not been implemented. This is in part due to macroeconomic constraints, which
were aggravated by an apparent lack of commitment, but also because the study only provided
generic recommendations that were infeasible. CTPU has not been strengthened as expected,
and has only one staff member remaining as the environmental officer-who was hired in
compliance with a project covenant, but who resigned before the end of the project. The data
management computerized system, installed in CTPU with project financing, never worked
properly and is now out of commission, implying that there is still no reliable and comprehensive
road data, and that the established data bank is not operational.
11.   Comprehensive and feasible reforms have, however, been designed in the port and
maritime transport sectors, and are about to be implemented. Key staff of the port and maritime
administration have apparently benefited from the project. They acquired broader knowledge
and understanding of their sector, in large part due to their significant involvement in defining
and designing the reforms. This is also due to the fact that the issues of inefficient administrative
organization in the port and maritime administration were addressed up-front and not by-passed
via the creation of ad-hoc entities, such as PEUs.



-4 -
12.   The third and the fourth objectives are difficult to assess as transport costs and expenses
are not monitored properly, comprehensive budget data is difficult to collect, and there is no data
regarding the reduction in the need for premature replacement of transport vehicles, spare parts,
and fuel imports. In addition, there is no evidence of lower transport costs, nor clear benefits
with regard to the facilitation of agricultural and mining production and foreign exchange
earnings. These cost reductions and savings were expected to stem from the improvement of
road conditions, but are unlikely to have materialized, since: major road works were not
completed, and the road network was still not properly maintained at the end of the project. The
maintenance backlog for the road network has most likely increased during the project period.
Minor exceptions are a couple of preventive maintenance contracts, although Government-
financed maintenance has remained largely insufficient and far below the level required for
efficient operations throughout the project. Overall Government funding of the road sector has
not significantly increased, at least not to the level required by the existing network. The
efficiency of road maintenance operations --which remain quite limited-- does not show any
significant improvement. Vehicle Operating Costs (VOCs) are not, therefore, expected to have
been reduced as a result of the project, which in general has had no significant impact on road
conditions, maintenance operations, and funding.
C - Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.  Inefficient Procurement and Contract Management. Lack of achievements in terms of
physical outputs in both sea defenses and road rehabilitation is largely the result of poor
procurement management by HD-PEU and RAD-PEU. The procurement process has generally
been slow and faulty, which resulted in many bid cancellations and re-bids, delayed awards, and
eventually the reallocation of credit proceeds from the sea defenses component to road works
without clear justification. The HD-PEU failed to contract sea defense rehabilitation works
despite several attempts. Although standard IDA documents were used, bids were called several
times on the basis of the same bidding documents contrary to basic IDA procurement guidelines.
Such a succession of failed tenders most likely resulted in a lack of credibility and discouraged
serious potential international contractors from bidding on civil works in Guyana, even when
financed by donors.
14.   The RAD-PEU did not perform better. A first contract for the rehabilitation of the
Essequibo Coast Road (ECR) had to be cancelled due to the failure of the contractor to execute
the contract. The RAD-PEU then called twice for bids on the remaining works, again on the
basis of the same bidding documents, and a contract was finally awarded to a new foreign
contractor. The management of this contract from inception to termination, has been marred by
numerous and significant delays, cost overruns, poor site management, weak (yet expensive)
supervision that were not responsive to client needs, and faulty financial management. Along
with decisions and payments made without due consideration to contract clauses, these issues
raised major questions about the quality of the management of the contract. Following the
withdrawal in late 1998 of the Auditor General's qualified opinion on the Guyana fiscal year
1997 accounts, a technical and financial audit was carried out in early 1999 and concluded that
major contract mismanagement had occurred. The Government is currently carrying out an
investigation on the alleged misuse of funds under this ECR contract.



15.   Lack of Capacity Building. Despite the fact that low capacity of MPWC staff and
inadequate organization were the major issues to be addressed according to project documents,
the project failed to implement relevant activities in this regard. Objectives related to capacity-
building were never met, such as, for example, the provision of a comprehensive training
program for RAD, the regularization of key PEUs positions, and the recruitment of new staff to
fill vacancies in HD and RAD. None of the covenants related to capacity-building (6 out of the
21 legal covenants in Table 10) have been met. The only activities which were somewhat
implemented in terms of capacity-building, was the training of HD and RAD counterpart staff by
PEU staff. The effectiveness of this training is questionable, however, considering the poor
performances of both PEUs. In addition, MPWC has not succeeded in internalizing new
operational procedures, nor in implementing policy and organizational reforms necessary to
resolve the capacity issue. This may also be linked to the fact that no RAD staff were
specifically assigned as counterparts to the PEU experts.
16.   Lack of Monitoring Capacity. The Government did not monitor and control closely
enough the implementation of the project by the PEUs. Implementation has been weak
throughout the project, and the delays and cancellations of components or activities that kept
occurring could have been avoided through action at the Ministry level. The Ministry did not
appear to be too closely involved with implementation, though, except towards the end of the
project. Ministry staff were not in a position to effectively supervise and assess the PEUs
performance, and to react in time when problems occurred. The RAD-PEU kept underestimating
the necessary time and effort to design, plan and execute civil works, carrying out questionable
procurement practices, and mismanaging its activities on behalf of MPWC. While the HD-PEU
generally provided better project and financial management, it has not been very proactive in
implementing the expected activities under its component, and activities were better managed by
HD itself.
17.  Insufficient IDA Supervision. The project suffered from inadequate IDA supervision
during most of its implementation. Project performance was not appropriately assessed by IDA
until mid-1998, particularly with regard to the lack of progress on the policy reform front, and
the lack of compliance with basic obligations regarding procurement, counterpart funding, and a
number of legal covenants. Follow-up on agreements reached at the mid-term review (MTR)
was not effective. Supervision thereafter was not very proactive and was technically limited.
This may be due to the fact that supervision was probably carried out by staff who did not always
have the adequate background, although it seems that too few people were involved in
supervising what was indeed a very complex project, especially given the number of institutional
reforms required and capacity constraints faced.



- 6 -
D - Project Sustainability
18.   Sustainability is unlikely to materialize because institutional and organizational
improvements have been limited in all areas, except for port and maritime administration. The
PEU approach proved inadequate to improve Government performance, not so much because the
specific PEUs failed in properly manage the project (although this was a critical issue that
contributed to discredit this kind of ad-hoc project management in Guyana), but rather because
"external" assistance did not bring about better operational procedures in RAD and HD. Neither
PEU transferred know-how to the staff in the relevant ministries nor trained them, and this
eventually demoralized the civil servants within MPWC.
19.   The issues of inadequate staffing of sector institutions, ineffective road administration,
and lack of road maintenance remain largely unresolved. The project did not succeed in
establishing the sine qua non conditions for a well-managed road sector, which include a
comprehensive (and sound) road management system, efficient (or cost effective) maintenance
procedures, and funding mechanisms based on reliable and timely sources of revenues for road
maintenance. The situation in the sea defenses area has not improved either, especially with
regards to infrastructure condition, sector management, funding and cost recovery. Since most
project objectives were not achieved, with reforms in the road and sea defenses sectors not
implemented during the almost six-and-half years of project implementation, the likelihood that
they would be after project completion is very low.
20.   Although the ongoing reforms in port administration and maritime transport are only
linked to the project through a few studies and some training, achievements appear likely to be
sustainable in this sector. The planned new port and maritime authority is expected to be
managed by competent civil servants who have benefited from project-financed training. The
private sector in charge of most of the port operations are very supportive of the design of the
new   administration   and  the   expected   choice   of  its  senior  management.
21.   Much remains to be done with regard to institutional and organizational reforms in order
to significantly impact operations in the transport sector. Further progress is required in
restructuring MPWC, improving planning and management of the sector, reducing the cost of
civil works, increasing cost recovery, and finding alternative sources of revenue for maintenance.
This needs to take place within the framework of an overall strategy for the sector, with action
plans to implement institutional and organizational reforms for different modes still in need of
restructuring (roads, river navigation). Continued support is also required for ongoing reforms in
the ports and maritime transport sub-sectors.
E - IDA Performance
22.   Overall, IDA's performance is considered unsatisfactory with regard to supervision,
which has been deficient during most of the implementation period.  Although IDA's
performance is rated satisfactory during identification, preparation and appraisal of the project, a
number of assumptions regarding implementation capacity and maintenance budgeting were



- 7 -
probably overoptimistic. Some components relied upon the implementation of too many
operational improvements and difficult institutional reforms in order to succeed (e.g. funding and
cost recovery, capacity-building across the board). IDA may also have overestimated the
commitment of GOG to adopt all the reforms necessary to properly implement the project --on
the basis of early assurances during project preparation and early implementation-- and has
subsequently not been proactive enough in reacting to problems during implementation. In
retrospect, while the proposed project management approach has not been effective, no
alternative may have been possible at the time to both ensure sustainable strengthening of
capacity in Government and discharge project management responsibilities.
23.   Supervision is considered deficient, except for the project inception period and during the
last year of the project. Implementation issues, in particular with regard to procurement and
financial management, were actually raised only towards the end of the implementation, too late
to be addressed effectively. Actually, after the first two early supervision missions, very few
supervision missions took place during the following years (only 3 supervision missions in
almost 3 years between November 1993 and August 1996). Inappropriately-staffed missions
carried out during and after the mid-term review can be characterized by a lack of proactive
monitoring, and sometimes complacency. The missions did not properly assess implementation
issues, nor did they raised concerns about deficiencies in procurement, delayed implementation,
and lack of capacity-building activities. In particular, there was no monitoring of disbursements
for the ECR road. Ratings of the project have been inadequate, especially with regard to the lack
of compliance with covenants and failed implementation of policy reforms.
24.   The mid-term review, led in September 1996 by a single IDA staff member, failed to
recognize implementation issues and to propose measures to improve project implementation.
Although it focused on physical works, mostly through a detailed account of past activities, it
failed to recommend/take action with regard to critical procurement issues. The mission --in a
single paragraph of the 8-page Aide Memoire-- simply deemed satisfactory all institutional
activities without investigating their implementation status.  It did not question the
recommendations of studies, although some were fairly general and/or quite questionable as to
their appropriateness for adaptation to the specific conditions in Guyana. The mid-term review
resulted in a project restructuring, which consisted in transferring credit proceeds from the sea
defenses component to the road component in order to finance the expected cost overruns of the
rehabilitation of the ECR. This was done without a critical review of the procurement issues at
stake with regard to the sea defenses component, nor a technical evaluation of the design options,
cost BOQ, and contractor implementation plan for the ECR.
25.  In June 1998, a new Task Manager took over the project, and some issues were raised.
An in-depth review of the compliance with project covenants was carried out, resulting in a
dramatic revision of former assessments.  It then became clear to IDA (5 years after
effectiveness) that major issues were affecting the project and that project objectives would not
be achieved. Based on the assessment of the first supervision mission of the new Task Manager,
only 3 out of 21 covenants (see table 10) were considered fully complied with, and 7 partially
complied with. On this basis, the project's rating was downgraded from satisfactory to
unsatisfactory. The appropriateness of this downgrading was confirmed in early 1999 when the



- 8 -
audit of the ECR contract and project accounts concluded that the project suffered from serious
mismanagement and that funds had been misused.
F - Borrower Performance
26.   The Borrower's overall performance is also deemed deficient. Issues raised above in
Section C highlight general problems associated with project implementation in Guyana. Project
implementation has been hampered by serious financial management deficiencies, recurrent
delays, a slow and unpredictable procurement and contract management process, a serious lack
of institutional strengthening, and a lack of policy reforms in the road maintenance and sea
defenses sectors. In addition, there has been partial or total non-compliance with credit
covenants, and a level of counterpart funds consistently lower than agreed. Also key is the fact
that early progress with policy reforms has not been sustained with commitment to first adopt
and then implement difficult decisions.
27.   The overall management of the road component by the RAD-PEU has been poor, and
numerous deficiencies in many of its aspects (financial, supervision, procurement) have been
found to exist. There is evidence that basic principles of sound financial management have been
violated by inappropriately using IDA funds to cover expenditures incurred under other projects.
Many inconsistencies were found in the project files regarding SOE Withdrawal Applications,
including inaccurate Accumulated Expenditures for contracts paid under the project. The files
were found to be incomplete, in particular with regard to contracts with contractors and
consulting firms for studies, design and supervision. Some of the larger contracts are missing,
which renders it difficult to determine whether expenses reported for reimbursement were valid.
Based on the findings from the latest audit report conducted by the Auditor General, IDA is
seeking reimbursement of about US$ 1 million in ineligible expenditures, which the Government
has committed to reimburse.
28.   The Borrower's performance is also considered weak with regard to technical quality of
both sea defenses and roads works, despite technical assistance funded under the project and the
various studies carried out. Options for road construction and rehabilitation, for example, are
still based on crushed stone base layer instead of stabilized soil, which has been proven the best
and most economic solution in the past, in Guyana and in similar countries. Sea defenses works
have often been carried out with lower standards than those envisaged at project inception, as
minor rehabilitation and repairs rather than large-scale reconstruction took place.
G - Assessment of Outcome
29.   The overall outcome is unsatisfactory because of its failure to meet development
objectives. In addition, there was also a lack of sustainable improvements in Government
operations and procedures, slow adoption and implementation of the institutional reforms
deemed necessary for good sector management, limited implementation achievements,
recommendations from studies not endorsed, and ad-hoc training. The only major investment --
the Essequibo Coast Road (ECR) rehabilitation-- was not completed by the end of the project,
with an 8-kilometer section still to be rehabilitated.



- 9 -
30.   Most policy reforms, which were supposed to set the foundations for sustained
modernization and improved efficiency of the road and sea defenses sectors, have not been
implemented.  Institutional restructuring has been limited to recommendations (often
questionable ones) for new institutional arrangements to encourage cost recovery and establish
funding mechanisms for sea defenses and road maintenance. As such, no significant institutional
reforms have been adopted. Staff strengthening and capacity-building activities have not
resulted in a more efficient Ministry with better qualified staff. Overall, the restructuring of the
sector entities and the implementation of funding reforms, the strengthening of the Ministry's
capacity to better plan and manage the road and sea defenses sectors, and the full divestiture of
the State from inefficient production and force account activities, remain to be established. The
exception is the port administration and maritime transport sector, where reforms seem to be on
the right track
H - Future Operation
31.   The Borrower has not submitted any plan for the operational phase of the project. During
post-implementation, the project is expected to be limited to the completion of the Essequibo
Coast Road rehabilitation, and the maintenance of major roads. Procurement for the completion
of the remaining 8km of ECR rehabilitation works is ongoing under Government financing.
32.   Issues in the sea defenses sector are expected to be addressed under a new EU-funded
project, but there is no indication that maintenance problems will be addressed in the short term.
A June 1999 assessment clearly demonstrated that it is critical to urgently prepare and adopt a
comprehensive strategy to cope with an increasingly alarming situation. This will most likely
require a broader multi-donor project to cope with the maintenance backlog.
33.   The Government is eager to follow-up on the ongoing institutional reforms in the port
and maritime transport sector. Government is also willing to support pilot investments aimed at
facilitating river navigation and improving the access of rural and agricultural products to urban
markets. The establishment of the new port and maritime authority will require additional
assistance from donors in order to finalize the design of the institutions --actually to kick-start
operations on the ground --and train new staff.
34.   In the road sector the Borrower is committed to build on the experience of the project,
and to address institutional issues on a broader scale. This sector needs deeper reforms than
planned under the project, as PEUs have proven not to be viable management solutions in
situations where the Ministry does not have enough qualified staff to plan, program, supervise
and monitor them.



- 10-
I - Lessons Learned
35.   With regard to MPWC operational capacity, the development strategy implemented under
the project failed. The use of the RAD and HD PEUs as an alternative solution to the lack of
capacity of the regular administration staff in project implementation appears risky. Both of
these PEUs did not yield the expected results of strengthening staff capability and qualifications.
Establishing these two PEUs also did not resolve any of the overarching sector issues, such as
poor sector planning and management, which require sustainable institutions and high level
capacity. There was no clear incentive for these PEUs to train permanent staff, or truly involve
them in the decision-making process, or to reward technical tasks. This ultimately led to the
permanent staff becoming demoralized, not fully supporting the project's objectives, and
avoiding decisions and implementation issues.
36.   Given the Government's lack of capacity to supervise project implementation units that
are external to its administration, IDA assistance will be required on two fronts. Firstly, clearly
defined alternative management and institutional arrangements, oriented more towards
comprehensive management of the sector and delegated management mechanisms for project
implementation, are needed.  Secondly, project management units aimed specifically at
discharging fiduciary and procurement responsibilities would still be required.  These
arrangements call for supervision by capable staff, with in-depth reviews of consultants' findings
and recommendations related to institutional aspects and sector reforms.
37.   The following actions should be taken in similar projects:
(a)   PEUs have been used in countries where Governments have limited implementation
capacity. In Guyana, for example, PEUs were supposed to help implement projects and
aid in strengthening Government's capacity. Neither result materialized in this project,
the PEUs were mismanaged and Government did not have the capacity to monitor them.
In cases such as these, it is recommended that IDA adopt project implementation
arrangements that are primarily focused on efficiently discharging its fiduciary and
procurement responsibilities, including delegated management mechanisms.  This
requires that Government recruits quality staff and closely oversees their performance,
but does not interfere with day to day operations.
(b)   As long as the Borrower does not have sufficient capacity to plan and manage a sector,
which requires sustainable institutions and high level qualifications, IDA-funded projects
should include assistance in developing the institutional structures for comprehensive
sector management.
(c)   Whatever the project implementation arrangements, the Borrower's supervision and
monitoring capacity should be realistically assessed through fully-fledged institutional
risk analyses, and taken into account in both project design and supervision.



- 11 -
(d)   Sound project implementation requires commitment of the Borrower to provide the
required counterpart funds. The provision of counterpart funding may have to be linked
to reforms of the fiscal and/or cost-recovery mechanisms for maintenance.
(e)   The Borrower should be a full partner in policy reforms, and should posses a complete
understanding of the (often-critical) interdependence of all aspects of the reform
programs, and of the linkages between reforms and the implementation of the investment
and maintenance programs.  Reforms should be carefully phased-in, and early
implementation should focus on the adoption of key issues.  This requires a
comprehensive and well-designed overall sector strategy.
(f)   Civil works should be implemented in a well-planned manner, through sound and
transparent procurement methods, clear and detailed contract monitoring procedures
(both financial and technical, with quality assurance planning), enhanced consultants'
monitoring, independent audits, and planning and programming systems should be put in
place, maintained and kept operational over the years.
(g)   IDA supervision needs to be enhanced, in particular through appropriate staffing. Task
managers should more closely monitor implementation, receiving full support from
senior management on decisions related to difficult and/or controversial activities and
reforms. Also needed is proactive follow-up on compliance with all agreements and legal
covenants, with supervision focused on institutional issues. Finally, achievements should
be monitoring in a timely manner, through increased frequency of supervision missions,
and a high a turn-over of Task Managers must be avoided, if possible.






- 13 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2477-GUY)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of         Substantial    Partial     Negligible      Not
Objectives                                                       Applicable
Macro Policies                                                        X
Sector Policies                                          x
Financial Objectives                                     X
Institutional Development                   X
Physical Objectives              __         X
Poverty Reduction                    _                                X
lGender Issues                                                        X
!Other Social Objectives                                              X
Environmental Objectives                                 X
Public Sector Management                                 X
Private Sector Management  _                                          X
[B. Project Sustainability      Likely         Unlikely         Uncertain
C. IDA Performance            Highly         Satisfactory      Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                   X
Preparation                                      X
Appraisal                                        X
Supervision                                                        x
D. Borrower Performance       Highly         Satisfactory       Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                      X
Implementation                                                     X
Covenant Compliance                                                X
Operation (if applicable)                                          X
E. Assessment of     Highly      Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     Highly
Outcome         Satisfactory                               Unsatisfactory
x                       I



- 14 -
Table 2: Related IDA Loans
(N/A)
Loan Title          Purpose                             Year of   Status
Approval
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned          Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project                       06/21/1991
Summary)
Preparation                                             03/25/1992
Appraisal                                               06/29/1992
Negotiations                                            01/25/1993
Board Presentation                                      03/25/1993
Signing                                                 04/08/1993
Effectiveness                                           07/09/1993
Midterm Review                                          09/21/1996
Project Completion                                      05/17/1999
Loan Closing                       06/30/99     _
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY  1993  1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Appraisal Estimate         0.00   4.28    5.00    6.00    5.00    4.00    1.72
Revised Appraisal Estimate
Actual /a                 2.655  3.061   5.275   2.085   4.098   3.985   0.243
Actual as % of Estimate       -  71.52   105.5  34.75   81.96  99.625   14.13
Actual as % of Revised
Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement
a! Based on IDA's Procurement Office last recorded disbursement October 12, 1999.
Note: The Estimated amount in 1994 (US$4.28 million) included the payment of the PPF and the
deposit to the Special Account.



- 15 -
Table 5 - Summary of the outcomes - Performance indicators
Project activities as defined in the ICR          Planned at       Actual
Appraisal
2. PART A: CIVIL WORKS
A. 1 Reconstruction and preventive maintenance of sea defenses   4 km           4 km
(maintenance
But by IDB)
A.2 Rehabilitation of Essequibo road                             60 km        59.06 km
.  A.2.a Construction and paving                          13 km         10.54 km
.  A.2.b Resurfacing and minor alignment                  22 km         34.18 km
.  A.2.c Replacement of pavement and shoulders            25 km          80 km
* A.2.d Reconstruction of bridges
A.3 Rehabilitation of the Linden Highway
*  A.3.a Reconstruction                                    4 km          3.6 km
.  A.3.b Resealing                                        65 km          51 km
*  A.3.c Replacement of bridge wooden decks                 8              7
*  A.3.d Preventive maintenance for the first 4 years     4 years       0 years
A.4 Preventive maintenance of 141 km of roads for three years   141 km         141km
3 years       3 years
3. PART B: STUDIES AND
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
B.1 Studies
.  B. l.a Construction of off-port container terminal                 US$ 401,000
B.l.b Establishment of a national Port Authority    US$ 120,000       US$ 0
9mos.         Omos.
.  B.l.c Environmental impact of Lethem-Linden Road   US$ 114,323   US$ 147,151
3 mos.
.  B. l.d Highways sub-sector financing                US$ 100,000    US$ 76,694
38mw
B2. Institutional Strengthening
.  B.2.a TA to HD for program implementation and tidal    96 mm       US$ 412,000
measurement
.  B.2.b TA to CTPU and RAD (transport and environment    30 mm       US$ 233,729
management)                                                           13mm
X   B.2.c TA to RAD for project implementation            96 mm      US$ 1,275,000
*  B.2.d TA to MOPWCRD to establish a Port Authority      24 mm          US$ 0
4. PART C: EQUIPMENT
C.1 Office Equipment and vehicles for CTPU, RAD and HD           3 set          9 set
2 4X4         4 4X4
C.2. Equipment for mud bank movement research                               Not procured
C.3. Fire Fighting Equipment for the Airport                      2 u            2u



- 16 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(There were no indicators in the SAR for Operation but those attached to the covenants -
See table 10)
Key Operating Indicators in SAR       Estimated                Actual



- 17 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study           Purpose as Defined      Status                        Impact of Study
in SAR
Technical, economic    Freeing the port area   Done - Draft  Unsuccessful. Actually, the study focused on an off-dock
and financial study for   and improving the  report June    container terminal built within an existent Government
the construction of an    efficiency of container 30, 1995  owned port facility in very poor condition. This study
off-port container     handling                             concluded that such terminal is not economically nor
terminal                                                    financially viable and therefore cover a much more
extensive scheme involving redevelopment of the
waterfront and creation of a modern container berth.
Since the current facilities will be sufficient to meet the
decreasing demand and that private operators are able to
develop their facilities according to the needs, there is no
justification for Government's funded extension of port
capacity. The private sector is very dynamic in this area:
there are two additional privately owned and operated port
facilities since the appraisal was done. Finally, the study
does not take into account the future creation of a Port
Authority in its proposal for the institutional arrangement
and does not propose institutional arrangements which
would allow the facility to benefit to all operators.
However, the need for an improvement of the container
handling is still a relevant issue, which the study fell short
to address.
Establishment of a     Need to establish a    Done - Draft  Partial impact. The study resulted in the decision from the
national Port Authority  body to perform     report May     Government to create a Port Authority (XXX act). The
long-term planning   1995           study was conducted in a close collaboration with private
and regulation of                   operators and thus the Port Authority (PA) is welcomed by
private river and port              the port community as designed in the study. However,
operators.                          the study fall short in not defining adequate action plan
which allow PA to be efficient in the short term. The issue
of the future statutes of the ferries operations, which is
currently under the authority of the staff supposed to be
transferred to the PA, is not addressed. The very purpose
of the study was to separate the sector management and
the regulatory activities from the ferry operations.
Transferring overstaffing to the new PA would rapidly
jeopardize its capacity to meet the demand and its
credibility. This explains, at least partially, why the
setting up of this body was not done under the project
although TA was planned under the Project to help the
Government in the implementation. Additional studies
and support to the Government will still be needed in
order to finalize the restructuring of Harbors Department
and make PA operational and efficient.
Environmental impact   To address the        Done           Successful. This study allowed donors to consider the
assessment of the      concerns with regard                financing of the construction of this road which is about to
Lethem-Linden Road    to the impact of the                  start.
road on Amerindian
settlements and
primary forest.



- 18 -
Study          Purpose as Defined      Status                       Impact of Study
in SAR
Highway sub-sector    To secure resources                 Partial success. The study does addresses adequately the
financing             for road maintenance                institutional aspects since the Road fund operations still
rely a lot on the MPWC which has a low capacity. In
addition, it proposes sources if funds which are not
feasible in the current economic environment, Alternative
resources  should  be  considered  and  institutional
arrangement rethought.



- 19 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item as defined in the SAR          Appraisal  Estimate          Actual  Latest
(US$  Million)            (US$  Million)
Local    Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   ComFment
Costs      Costs            Costs    Costs               s
5.  PART A: CIVIL WORKS
A.1  Reconstruction and preventive               1.42       4.28     5.70    0.00     0.00      0.00
maintenance of sea defenses
A.2 Rehabilitation of Essequibo road             1.72       6.88     8.60    4.465    8.186    12.651
* A.2.a Construction and
paving
* A.2.b Resurfacing and
minor alignment
* A.2.c Replacement of
pavement and shoulders
* A.2.d Reconstruction of
bridges
A.3  Rehabilitation of the Linden                1.04       4.16     5.20    0.00      0.00     0.00
Highway                                                  _
*   A.3.a Reconstruction
*   A.3.b Resealing                      ___
* A.3.c Replacement of
bridge wooden decks
*   A.3.d Preventive
maintenance for the first 4
years
A.4 Preventive maintenance of 141                0.29       1.16     1.45    036       1.92     2.28
km  of roads for three years
6.    PART B: STUDIES AND
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
B. 1 Studies                                     0.05       0.75     0.80    0.00      0.00     0.00
*   B. L.a Construction of off-          0.01       0.19     0.20    0.00     0.401    0.401
port container terminal
*   B. 1 .b Establishment of a           0.01      0.29      0.30    0.00     0.00     0.00
national Port Authority
*   B. l.c Environrmental                0.01       0.09     0.10    0.00     0.149    0.149
impact of Lethem-Linden
Road
*   B. l.d Highways sub-sector           0.01       0.09     .010    0.002    0.074    0.076
financing
B2. Institutional Strengthening                  0.43       3.17     3.60
*   B.2.a TA to HD for                   0.15       0.85     1.00    0.00     0.412    0.412



- 20 -
Item as defined in the SAR            Appraisal  Estimate             Actual  Latest
(US$  Million)              (US$  Million)
Local     Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total   Comment
Costs      Costs              Costs    Costs                  s
program implementation
and tidal measurement
*   B.2.b  TA  to CTPU  and                 0.06       0.34      0.40    0.019     0.234     0.253
RAD (transport and
environment management)
*   B.2.c  TA  to RAD  for                  0.15       0.85       1.0    0.408     0.867     1.275
project implementation
*   B.2.d  TA to MOPWCCRD                   0.02       0.18      0.20     0.00      0.00     0.00
to establish a Port
Authority
7.  PART C: EQUIPMENT
C. 1 Office Equipment and vehicles                   0.01       0.29      0.30    0.057     0.394     0.451
for CTPU, RAD and HD
C.2. Equipment for mud bank                          0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
movement research
C.3. Fire Fighting Equipment for the                 0.10       1.90      2.00     0.00     1.252     1.252
Airport



- 21 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Item                    Appraisal Estimate    Actual/ Latest  Estimate
(US$ Million)                (US$ Million)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Costs     Costs              Costs    Costs
IDA Project              4.35      21.65    26.00      4.54     16.28     20.82
CDB Project/b            1.15       4.85     6.00
Gov. of Guyana           0.65       1.35     2.00      1.01      0.00       1.01
TOTAL                    6.15      27.85    34.00      5.55     16.28     21.83
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A



Table 10 - Status of Legal Covenants
Section     Covenant   Present      Original      Revised                  Description of Covenant                         Comments
Class      Status*      Fulfill       Fulfill.
Date          Date
3.01(b)     02          CP                                     Borrower shall provide counterpart funds in its  Not complied with after 1997
annual budget for any year of project
implementation, in an amount equivalent to
No less than US$300,000.
3.03(a)     13          C           06/30/1993                 By not later than June 30, 1993, the Borrower  The latest procurement of additional foam
shall enter into contractual arrangements with an   to keep the equipment operational was not
agent for handling the procurement of fire fighting  completed as agreed.
equipment under Part C.3 of the Project.
3.04(a)     13         CP           06/30/1994                 By not later than 6/30/1994, or such later date as    A revised 1999-2002 maintenance
IDA may agree, borrower, through MPWCRD      program has been submitted in October
shall furnish to IDA an operations and       1998, but little maintenance, in particular
maintenance program and financing plan for the    preventive, takes place due to insufficient
road infrastructure covering the period from  funding.
1/1/95 to 12/31/98, including, inter alia, a
definition of the methods for the execution of such
program.
3.04(b)     13         NC           06/30/1994                 By not later than June 30, 1994, or such later date   No comprehensive and systematic training
as IDA may agree, the Borrower, through      program for RAD high level staff has
MPWCRD shall furnish to IDA a training       taken place, and no attempt was made to
program for RAD (MPWCRD's Road               qualify lower-level technicians. There is
Administration Division) staff to administer the  now less capacity in the Ministry of
operation and maintenance of the road        Transport and Hydraulics than at project
infrastructure.                              inception.
3.04 C      13, 02      CP          06/30/1994                 By not later than June 30, 1994, or such later date   The recommendations of the road
as IDA may agree, the Borrower, through      maintenance funding mechanisms study
MPCRD shall fumish to IDA a financing        have not been endorsed in that a road
mechanism for road maintenance, including, inter  Maintenance Fund was created but
alia, an analysis of possible earmarking of road-    remains non-operational. Operational
user taxes.                                  procedures to collect directly and/or
transfer user charges in a commercial and
autonomous management (Road Board



Section    Covenant   Present     Original      Revised                 Description of Covenant                       Comments
Class      Status*     Fulfill      Fulfill.
Date         Date
with private sector representatives needs to
be put in place.
3.05       05          NC                                    The Borrower shall maintain unit the completion    PEU not staffed as per requirements
of the project a Project Executing Unit within  anymore following removal of PEU
RAD for purposes of Parts A.2, A.3 and A.4 of    Coordinator. Project implementation
the Project, with functions and staff satisfactory to  unsatisfactory largely a result of failed
the Association.                           PEU management.
3.06(a)    13          CP         09/30/1993                 The Borrower, through MOA shall by not later  Although the Study was completed, no
than September 30, 1993, carry out and furnish  cost recovery mechanism has been
the results of a cost recovery study and strategy    implemented as yet (study
for the management and financing of sea defenses.  recommendations allegedly not practical).
No change to the arrangements for the
management of sea defenses has been
made.
3.06(b)    05         NC          06/30/1994                 The Borrower, through MOA, shall, by not later    No attempt was made with regard to the
than June 30, 1994, propose a plan of action for    elaboration and implementation of a time-
the implementation of the recommendations of the  bound plan of action to implement
study mentioned in 3.06(a).                recommendations of the above study.
Technically, the latest amendment of the
DCA relieved GOG from this covenant.
Although some TA funds were still
earmarked to assist on the policy front,
they had not been used by the end of the
Project implementation period.
3.06C      05          NC                                    The Borrower, through MCA, shall carry out such  See above on 3.06 (b)
a plan in accordance with a timetable satisfactory
to the Association. These plants are now being
___________  carried out by the Ministry of Public Works
3.07 (a)   05          NC          12/31/1993                With regard to Part B.2 (b) of the Project  Not complied with anymore since the
(provision of technical assistance), the Borrower,   Environmental Officer resigned from
through MPWCRD, shall, by not later than Dec.    CTPU, and GAHEF has been disbanded
31, 1993, appoint and thereafter retain an  without a clear devolving of
environmental officer for CTPU (MPWCRD's    responsibilities to permanent staff in the
Central Transport Planning Unit) to be in charge   transport administration.



Section     Covenant   Present     Original      Revised                 Description of Covenant                        Comments
Class      Status*     Fulfill       Fulfill.
Date         Date
of monitoring the execution of such Part of the
Project.
3.07 (b)    05         NC          06/30/1993                 With regard to Part B.2(b), the Borrower, through   See above. Training programs have not
MPWCRD, shall by not later than June 30, 1993,   been conducted.
enter into appropriate arrangements with GAHEF
(Guyana Agency or Health, Environment and
Food Policy) or any successor entity with
environmental functions, in order to organize
training programs for MPWCRD staff and prepare
an environmental impact assessment of the
Lethem-Linden road.
3.07C       13         C           12/31/1993                 With regard to Part B.2(b), the Borrower, through  Environmental impact assessment of the
MPWCRD, shall, by not later than December 31,   Lethem-Linden road completed, and works
1993, review with IDA the results of such   expected to be completed in October 1999
environmental impact assessment.            under CDB funding.
3.08        05         NC                                     The Borrower shall, through MOA and         The number of vacancies is greater than
MPWCRD, respectively, carry out the recruitment  ever due to poor working and salary
of local and/or foreign experts to fill the HD's and  conditions, which has a significant impact
RAD's vacancies.                            on the sustainability of the Ministry's
overall capacity.
3.09        13         CP                                     Borrower shall, through MOA & MPWRCD, but   Not fully complied with anymore as no
not later than 3/31, 6/30, 9/30 & 12/31 of each  overall progress report has been submitted
year, beginning on 9/30/93, furnish to IDA  after 1997.
progress reports on execution of their respective
parts of project. Progress reports to be furnished
on 3/31 & 9/30 shall include a summary of RAD
& HD expenditures for previous 6 months, inter
alia, data pertaining to maintenance & investment
__________ ______ A____     Lbudgets, etc. o be furnished on
3.10 (a)    05         CP                                     The Borrower, through MOA and MPWCRD,       Information reviews of progress in the
I____I_____  I___________            Ishall, by no later than June 30 and December 31    execution of the Project have been held,



Section     Covenant   Present     Original      Revised                 Description of Covenant                        Comments
Class      Status*     Fulfill       Fulfill.
Date         Date
of each year, starting in 1993, review, jointly with  including during the Implementation
IDA, the progress in the execution of the Project   Completion mission. In addition, most
and the annual road and sea defenses maintenance  original studies have been completed,
plans to be presented to the MOF.           except the tidal and Morphology Study,
but mostly remain without direct
application. Independent project
performance assessment completed in
March 1999.
3. I Od(b)    05       CP                                     The Borrower, through MOA and MPWCRD,       Not complied with at the end of (he latest
shall furnish to IDA, at the end of any such  plan for the remaining implementation
review, an annual plan of action including specific  period due June 30, 1998 was not
goals and projections for Project Implementation   submitted). The Borrower is expected to
for the subsequent 12-month period.         prepare a plan for the operation of the
Project by October 1999, including road
and sea defenses maintenance plans, and
plans to follow-up on those studies.
3.1 0(d)    13         C                                      The Borrower, through MOA and MPWCRD,       Complied with.
shall, by no later than December 31, 1995, furnish
to IDA, for its approval, the terms of reference for
the review referred to in the paragraph (3.10(e)).
3.10 (e)    05         NC                                     The Borrower, through MOA and MPWCRD,       Mid-term review held in 1996 made few
shall, by not later than June 30, 1996, review,  recommendations and little follow-up
jointly with IDA, the progress in the execution of  occurred.
the Project, the performance of the Borrower's
obligations under this Agreement, the
achievement of the objectives of the Project, and
the results of the studies carried out under the
Project.
3.12(a)     05         NC                                     The Borrower, through MOA and MPWCRD,       Neither arrangements, nor a plan, have
shall, by not later than June 30, 1996, prepare a  been elaborated for the sustainable transfer
program for the transition of key positions of the    of PEUs staff to GOG relevant
Project Executing Units to the Borrower's regular  departments.
staff.
3.12(b)     05         NC                                     The Borrower, through MOA and MPWCRD,        Comments to previous covenant apply.



Section      Covenant   Present          Original        Revised                     Description of Covenant                               Comments
Class        Status*       Fulfill         Fulfill.
Date            Date
shall carry out such program in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to IDA
4.0ld(b)      02           NC                                           The Borrower shall furnish to IDA as soon as        The audit for FY1997 has finally been
available, but in any case not later than four     submitted to IDA more than 10 months
months after the end of each such year a certified    after the due date, with a qualified opinion.
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors.    The FY1998 audit report due June 1, 1999,
._________ __________ __________  ____________  Status Ok to FY1996.                           was submitted in September 1999.
*Status:
C                -       Complied with
CD               -       Compliance after Delay
NC               -       Not Complied with
SOON             -       Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP               -       Complied with Partially
Covenant Class:
I = Accounts/audit
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds
4  counterpart funding
5 = management aspects of the project or executing agency
6  Environmental covenants
7  Involuntary resettlement
8 - Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covcred by categories 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13 = other



- 27 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Borrower has not complied with the Operational Policies regarding Financial Management
(OP/BP 10.02). The audit reports that had been submitted to IDA were mostly submitted several
months after the required date. Audits had initially been performed by inexperienced staff, which
resulted in the oversight of several management and control weaknesses, and the unqualified
audit report for the period ended December 31, 1997, was later recalled by the Auditor General
due to the late discovery of mismanagement of the project accounts. Reports did not comply with
IDA standards and guidelines, with the exception of the revised audit report for the period ended
December 31, 1998. The Borrower did not always utilize the Special Account for the purposes
for which it was intended, as some ineligible expenditures and expenditures not related to the
project paid out of the Credit had to be recovered after the Project was cancelled by Govermnent.
IDA failed to be proactive in following up with the constant lack of compliance with audit
requirements and financial management covenants, as it did not proceed with enforcing such
procedures as withholding replenishments of the Special Account or suspending disbursements.
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs/a
Stage of          Planned               Actual
Project Cycle        Staff-     US$       Staff-      US$
Weeks                Weeks
Through Appraisal          N/A       N/A               _
Appraisal                  N/A       N/A
Negotiation To Board       N/A       N/A               _
Lending Activities         N/A       N/A             _   202,136
Supervision                                          _   233,365
Completion/a                                    7.31      38,917
TOTAL/                  _      ___                        474,418
/a As of December 1999.



- 28 -
Table 13: IDA Resources: Missions
Performance   Rating /a
Stage of Project   Month/  Number    Days    Specialized Staff   Implement-    Develop-                  Type
Cycle           Year        of        in           Field            ation          ment              of
Persons     Field      Represented        Status       Objections        Problems
Through Appraisal
Preparation         09/91
Preparation
Preparation
Pre-appraisal
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
Appraisal
Post-Appraisal      11/92     3          7         E; EC; HE
Supervision                                                                                                        _
Supervision 1       11/93     1          5         HE                 S              S            PMP, PP
Supervision 2       04/94     2                    HE; EC             S              S            TAP
Supervision 3                                                                                     PMP
Supervision 4       03/95     1          5          HE                S              S
Supervision 5       09/95                                             S              S            PMP
Supervision 6       06/96
Mid Term Rev.       09/96     1          5         00                 S              S            PMP; PP
Supervision 7       05/97     1          8         00                 S              S            PMP, PP
Supervision 8       11/97     1          5         00                                S 5          PMP
Supervision 9       05/98     3          5         E; TM; 00          U              U            C; FP; PP; PMP
Supervision 10      12/98     1          7         TM                 U              U
Pre-completion     06/99      1         3          TM                       _
Completion           09/99     3          12         Fin., Con. TS     _
/a Based on Project Status Reports (Form 590)
Staff Skills: DC= Division Chief, E= Engineer, HE= Highway Engineer, 00= Operation Officer, TS= Transport Specialist
Problems: C= Compliance with Covenants, CF= Counterpart Funding, FP= Financial Performance, Progress, PP= Procurement Progress, PMP=
Project Management Progress, SP= Studies Progress, SPR= Sector Policy Reforms, TAP= Technical Assistance Progress



- 29 -
ANNEX A
GUYANA
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2477-GUY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION - SEPTEMBER 1999
AIDE MEMOIRE
A World Bank Mission, composed of Bernard Becq, Bernard Peccoud and Rajeev Swami visited
Guyana September 13 to 21, 1999, to carry out a completion mission of the Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project (IRP). The mission met with Minister Xavier, Ministry of Transport and
Hydraulics, and officials from the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MPWC), and
the Auditor General and his deputies. The mission would like to express its gratitude to the
Government of Guyana (GOG) and its staff for their cooperation and assistance during the
mission. This Aide Memoire summarizes the main findings and agreements reached with
MPWC.
Assessment summary
1.    Some achievements obtained in certain areas. Progress in assessing/defining necessary
reforms is commendable, in particular in the port sector, but also with regard to support to
environmental matters in the road sector and sea defenses (follow-up operations funded under
other multilateral and bilateral agreements). Some road maintenance was carried out using the
credit proceeds. Some training took place in MTH-MPWC, and the procurement of critical
equipment was also successful (fire fighting, and office equipment including computers and
software to manage a transport data bank). A number of studies has also been completed in the
road and sea defenses sectors (see below).
2.    The overall mission assessment is, however, that the Project has not overall yielded the
results expected, and that the targeted outputs have not been achieved. The Project development
objectives have not been fully met. Development outcome indicators are mostly showing limited
progress. Physical outputs have been limited and institutional issues have not been fully
addressed, which will likely result in a lack of sustainability. Implementation suffered from a
number of drawbacks, including failed financial management and derailed procurement, which
resulted in delays. A number of legal covenants were not complied with, in particular with
regard to counterpart funding and capacity-building (see updated report on covenants status in
Annex 1). Most studies did not see their recommendations fully taken into account and/or being
translated in significant sector reforms, and a few have been deemed fairly weak.



- 30 -
3.    While the Project design may have suffered from a few oversights, especially regarding
the feasibility of the proposed management arrangements and expected human resource
development, it was generally sound, and performance of both the Bank and the Borrower is
deemed satisfactory in that regard. Performance during implementation, however, has been
unsatisfactory, except for the first year of implementation, mostly due to lax Bank supervision
and inadequate project management by the Borrower. GOG officials provided very valuable
insights into the reasons for the unsuccessful outcome and weak performance, in particular with
regard to the limited achievements in the physical components, the institutional and financial
constraints still faced by MPWC after the project ended, and the lack of transfer of know-how to
the road administration of the Ministry.
4.    Sustainability is unlikely to materialize, particularly in the transport/road sector, without
further support as the project had not been successful in fully achieving project development
objectives and satisfying performance indicators during the credit executing period. In particular,
much remains to be done to consolidate the limited achievements in institutional and
organizational reforms to positively and significantly affect operations. The issues of inadequate
staffing of sector institutions and ineffective road administration and maintenance remain largely
unresolved. Further progress is required in restructuring MPWC, improving road maintenance
planning and management, reducing the cost of road works and increasing road maintenance
funding and/or finding alternative independent sources of revenue.
5.    The mission assisted the Borrower in preparing its contribution which is expected to be
ready before the end of October. The mission also prepared with MPWC performance indicators
to monitor operations and development impact (Annex 2). In general, the mission gathered
information as needed. IDA is still to be submitted: (i) the project final report as per the
Development Credit Agreement; (ii) all Government maintenance budgets for the period 1994-
1998 (planned and executed); (iii) Sea defenses: ECR completion and hand-over report, and PEU
quarterly and bi-annual reports. In addition, it is expected that GOG will submit: (i) its
contribution to the ICR before October 31, 1999; (ii) the Operational Plan and finalized
Performance indicators for the post-completion phase of the project by October 31, 1999; and
(iii) the FY 1999 Audit Report on or before the due date of April 30, 2000.
Development Objectives
6.    The IRP objectives were to: (a) repair and reconstruct deteriorated sections of the sea
defenses system and to lay the basis for the development of an efficient operations and
maintenance system for sea defenses; (b) improve the overall performance and efficiency of the
management and operations of the transport sector; (c) facilitate agricultural, agro-industrial and
mining production, particularly for export, through reduced transport costs; and (d) reduce the
need for premature replacement of transport vehicles, spare parts and fuel imports.
7.    While some objectives have been partially met, the overall mission assessment is that the
Project has not fully met these objectives. With regard to the first objective, physical outputs
have been limited as no sea defenses works were undertaken using IDA credit proceeds due to
unresolved procurement and funding issues, and subsequent reallocation of resources to the



- 31 -
rehabilitation of the Essequibo Coast Road. Some significant works were carried out by local
contractors under an IDB-financed operation and GOG's own resources, but the planned
rehabilitation program was not implemented on time. This does not allow the Government to
shift its maintenance strategy from emergency curative maintenance to preventive maintenance.
Numerous stretches of sea defense remain in poor condition and very vulnerable. The necessary
institutional reforms largely remain to be implemented. Sea defense cost recovery mechanisms
have not as yet been adopted, possibly a result of studies not having provided clear guidance as
to which feasible mechanisms could be put in place. Some results in terms of capacity-building
were obtained in the Hydraulics Department-HD, largely due to acceptable project and financial
management by the Project Executing Unit, HD-PEU. It is expected that the EU-funded Sea
Defences Rehabilitation Program will allow Government to follow up on policy issues and
continuing the necessary rehabilitation investments.
8.    Concerning the second objective, the major road works were not completed at the end of
the Project, except a couple of preventive maintenance contracts although Government-financed
maintenance still remains insufficient. The recommended road maintenance funding
mechanisms have not been implemented, but the study only provided generic recommendations
which may not be feasible and the mission discussed possible alternative options to raise enough
revenues for road maintenance. The growing importance during implementation of the Project
Executing Unit of the road projects, the so-called RAD-PEU, in managing the Project --despite
its ultimate failure-- has prevented capacity-building to take place in the Road Administration
Division-RAD of MPWC (no qualified staff from the RAD-PEU has joined RAD, and few
professional staff have remained in the Ministry and have been trained). This largely prevented
the overall performance and efficiency of the management and operations of the transport sector
to significantly improve. However, reforms have taken place in the port and maritime transport
sectors.
9.    The third objective is difficult to assess as transport costs are not monitored properly, but
there is no evidence of lower transport costs. The establishment of a data bank in the MPWC's
Central Transport Planning Unit-CTPU is not operational, and this unit has not been strengthened
as expected (it has only one staff remaining). There is no evidence of Vehicle Operating Costs-
VOCs having been reduced, at least not to the level expected as a result of the Project, which has
had no significant impact on road conditions, and maintenance remains insufficient and is carried
out in an a reactive mode. It is very unlikely that the fourth objective has been met as it could
have only resulted from successfully meeting the above two.



- 32 -
Implementation
10.   After a good start during the first year of execution, when close Bank supervision seems
to have taken place, implementation has been slow and often failed. The later part of the
implementation period has been marred by inadequate management, accounting and financial
management irregularities, and delayed auditing. Reporting, planning and managing Project
activities have not reached expected levels, except during the first year or so of implementation.
11.   The mid-term review failed to recognize implementation issues and to propose measures
to improve project implementation. It focused on physical works, mostly through a detailed
account of past activities, and failed to recommend/take action with regard to procurement issues.
It simply deemed institutional activities to be satisfactory without questioning the
recommendations of studies --some of which in RAD are fairly general and/or dubious-- and
investigating their implementation status.
12.   The Project's physical components, particularly road works, have been very significantly
hampered by poor performance of the contractors, weak supervision, and repeated
implementation and contract management issues. The procurement of road and sea defense
works has been difficult, and failed on many occasions to complete negotiations or to
successfully contract out. In particular the main component, the rehabilitation of the Essequibo
Coast Road-ECR, has seen three subsequent contractors working at different periods of time and
the works were still not completed by the end of the Project. An independent performance
assessment of the last contract in February 1999 has shown that Credit proceeds were misused,
overall management of the contract was faulty, and supervision by the engineers was at best lax.
13.  Implementation has been particularly lacking effectiveness with regard to institutional
and organizational reforms despite the studies aimed at preparing institutional reforms and
setting new institutions which have been carried out. It seems that Government has not as yet
acted on a number of important recommendations, in particular with regard to adopting cost
recovery mechanisms for the management and financing of sea defenses, road maintenance
funding, and the elaboration of new road management procedures. One perennial issue
explaining the above seems to have been the difficulty to recruit and retain adequate staff in
MPWC. Capacity-building/staffing/training measures for the transport and road sectors will
need to be reviewed within the current overall context of civil service reform. Government will
also need to act forcefully to adequately fill staff key positions in MPWC, and maintain
appropriate staffing to monitor environmental matters.
14.   The lack of counterpart funds towards the end of the Project may have hampered
MPWC's ability to proceed in a timely manner with the project. The procurement process has in
general been slow and faulty, which has resulted in many re-bids, delayed works inception, and
numerous and significant delays in implementation of civil works. The RAD-PEU in general
underestimated the necessary time and efforts to design, plan and execute civil works. While the
HD-PEU generally provided better project and financial management, it has not been very
proactive at implementing the expected activities under its component. The capacity of the
Government to monitor the implementation of the project has been weak throughout, and delays



- 33 -
and the cancellation of a few component have kept occurring. Matters may have been
complicated by the inability of MPWC to internalize and implement policy reforms, mobilize its
own staff, and manage the Project on its own . Finally, the Project has suffered from ineffective
and often complacent Bank supervision during most of its implementation. Project performance
has not always been appropriately assessed by the Bank, particularly with regard to the lack of
progress on the policy reform front, and to the lack of compliance with basic obligations
regarding procurement, counterpart funding, and a number of legal covenants.
Performance
15.   Bank performance is considered satisfactory during identification, preparation and
appraisal, despite optimistic assumptions regarding human resource development,
implementation capacity and maintenance budgeting, and deficient during most of the Project
implementation, in particular because the Bank has not been proactive early enough in reacting to
the project management issues in the RAD-PEU. Supervision is considered particularly
unsatisfactory during most of the period following the MTR as it can be characterized as not
proactive enough, and by a lack superficial review of studies which were weak in a number of
cases, inadequate procurement reviews, and sometimes complacency. In particular there does not
seem to have been close monitoring of disbursements/implementation issues of most
components, in particular the ECR contract, and no focus on the counterpart funding issue during
the later years of project implementation. The Bank does not seem to have created the
opportunities to continue the policy dialogue. Ratings of the project have been inadequate,
especially with regard to the lack of compliance with covenants and failed project
implementation. The amendment to the credit agreement basically endorsed the non-compliance
with the sea defenses component requirements without a proper rationale.
16.   The Borrower's overall performance is also deemed satisfactory during identification,
preparation and appraisal, and generally deficient during Project implementation which has
suffered from delays, slow and unpredictable procurement, partial non-compliance with credit
covenants, limited institutional strengthening. Early progress has not been sustained with a strong
commitment to implement difficult policy decisions and reforms in the road maintenance and sea
defenses sectors. MPWC has, however, managed to: (i) implement a few policy reforms with
some degree of efficiency; (ii) carry out a few road maintenance contracts; (iii) acquire
equipment; (iv) avail themselves of training opportunities; and (v) hire consultants to perform
technical assistance and carry out a number of studies.
Assessment of Project components
Sea Defenses, implemented by the Hydraulics Division-HD PEU
17.   The procurement of the IDA-financed reconstruction and preventive maintenance of
approximately 4 km of sections of sea defenses between the Demerara and Mahaicony Rivers
failed, the tidal and morphological study has not been carried out, and little technical assistance
has been provided. Three attempts at tendering failed, including the so-called jumbo bid with the
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). CDB



- 34 -
funds have not been used either. A significant number of emergency sea defense reconstruction
works have, however, been successfully carried out by local contractors using IDB funds (two
contracts in Corentyne, and six on the Essequibo). A new package to be carried out by local
contractors is about to be awarded. The Mission could not fully clarify the underlying reasons
for having agreed that all sea defense resources under the credit would be reallocated to the road
component as it appears that only part of the US$ 6.5 million "earmarked" for sea defenses were
needed for roads, and that at least one section could have been carried out and/or tendered in the
same successful manner as IDB has done. The Mission was told that IDA procurement rules
would not allow for this to happen.
18.   Long delays in issuing the request for proposals (RFP) for the tidal and morphological
study and subsequent problems with the RFP format finally resulted in this study not to be
carried out. The June 1996 reallocation of the Sea Defenses unit to the Ministry of Transport and
Hydraulics has not been followed by the implementation of broader reforms. Although a cost
recovery study and strategy for the management and financing of sea defenses have been
prepared early during the Project, the necessary institutional and cost recovery reforms that are
key to sustainable maintenance of sea defenses, have not yet been adopted by Government, and
no time-bound plan of action to implement recommendations of the above study has been
elaborated. The Government position is that the key is to secure an adequate provision of funds
through statutory means and not individual taxes.
19.   Among the few activities carried out under this component are the financing of the HD
PEU Project Director for three years, and the procurement of some equipment to install the HD
PEU, and some training. Most of the TA has not been mobilized as it had been estimated
required at appraisal. This may illustrate a certain lack of proactive implementation, although
some of it has in fact been financed under other donors' programs. The real issue may then be
that the Project design was not appropriate for this component, and that donors coordination has
not been very effective at the time, which would be a key lesson for future involvement in any
sector.
20.  IDB indicated that its shore-zone management program had been postponed, and that the
likelihood of any further involvement in the sector was unlikely. The European Union (EU) has
indicated that its funding under the 8th EDF (European Development Fund) would be mainly
targeted to sea defenses through an ECU 20 million including a sea defenses program and a
seashore management program including activities not carried out under the IDB shore-zone
management program and the Project as indicated above. It appears that the EU will be the main
donor in this sector in the years ahead.
Road sector implemented by the Road Administration Division-RAD PEU
ECR Rehabilitation Component
21.   This component is assessed as unsatisfactory due to the pervasive problems with
procuring, carrying out, and supervising and monitoring the works. The completion of the
project in two lots was awarded in late 1996 to the second lowest bidder, Technodomi, after a



- 35 -
first contract was terminated for alleged non-performance, and another contract was passed to
maintain the completed portions. Those delays have not been made up for as the Contractor
consistently failed to perform as per its work program and meet the planned rate of progress,
primarily because of: (i) poor planning and scheduling of works; (ii) untimely procurement and
stockpiling on-site of base and paving materials; (iii) poor site management having resulted in an
erratic flow of sequential operations; (iv) failure to dedicate sufficient appropriate equipment;
and (v) improper financial management, particularly in allowing PEU to assume control over its
payments to creditors. The Contractor suspended operations in October 1998 (some work on
structures continued under subcontracts paid by PEU on Technodomi's behalf), and the
Government terminated the contract on January 19, 1999, and seized the equipment. The
Contractor has taken GOG to court (High Court) with a claim amounting to about GY$ 500
million. The equipment is now secured in a compound following a Court injunction to GOG not
to dispose of the equipment.
22.   A technical and financial review of the Essequibo road contract has been conducted by an
independent team of two experts - a highway engineer and a financial analyst/accountant. This
review, financed out of the proceeds of the project, concluded in its March 22, 1999, report
entitled "Financial and Technical Assessment of the Essequibo Coast Road Rehabilitation
Project" that mismanagement occurred in the use of the Project proceeds and poor management
by all parties involved resulted in failed implementation. Government requested two contractors
to make proposals to complete the surfacing of the works on an 8 miles section still to be
completed. These works are expected to be carried out within the next 6 months.
23.   The contract with the consulting firn of Chas. H. Sells, selected as of 1993 to supervise
the works, has proved tremendously costly as a percentage of construction cost (in excess of 30
% of the value of work paid, compared with a normal range of 5-10 percent) for a failed result
(road works still not completed after 5 years), and a rather weak performance marked in
particular by poor reporting of deficiencies, lack of follow up on recommended corrective actions
when any, and acceptance of PEU interfering in the Contractor's contract management, despite
an unusually large number of inspection personnel. The Mission was informed that the contract
had not been terminated at the time the contractor's contract was terminated --as would have
been expected with regard to the lack of activities and poor performance. Government assessed
that the Consultant services were still needed to complete the inventory of assets and hand-over,
and assist in the Court proceedings.
Soesdyke/Linden Highway
24.   The CDB-financed rehabilitation of the Soesdyke/Linden Highway (reconstruction of
approximately 4 km, resealing of approximately 65 km, and replacement of the wooden decks of
8 bridges with concrete superstructures and replacement of the abutments) can be assessed as the
only satisfactory physical works component despite its late start. The contract carried out by
Seereeram Brothers Ltd of Trinidad and Tobago is on tracks and scheduled for completion by
October 1999, at a cost of US$ 6.53 million. CDB has approved the Government request for the
use of remaining funds under their loan for an additional 8.9 kilometers.



- 36 -
Road Maintenance Operations
25.   This component can be deemed marginally satisfactory in that IDA-financed preventive
maintenance (bridge repairs, culverts and drainage facilities, and repairs to asphalt pavement) has
taken place on selected priority roads (Corentyne Highway, the West Bank Demerara Road, the
West Coast Demerara Road and the East Bank Essequibo Road), and road works were completed
within the deadline stated in the contract. These roads have been assessed to be now in good
condition despite problems encountered with a number of structures. No tender was, however,
issued for the previously agreed supplemental preventive maintenance contract for unclear
reasons (Bank comments made to the early proposal and tender documents were never replied
to). Only one year of preventive maintenance was financed by the IDA Project compared to a
three year program as planned as many delays occurred in preparing acceptable tender documents
to that effect. This component has had a limited impact on Government annual routine and
periodic maintenance operations as very little routine maintenance has been carried out, and no
mechanisms have been secured to ensure appropriate and sufficient financing (see below). The
latest 1996-1999 maintenance program, dated February 1994, has neither been
funded/implemented, nor been updated every two quarters as planned. Shortages in the financing
of road maintenance therefore increased the backlog of maintenance at the time of project
appraisal.
Studies
26.   This component is deemed marginally satisfactory. Most planned studies have been
carried out, but key institutional reforms with regard to transport planning and maintenance
management and funding have not been implemented as yet as a result of the two main studies
carried out under the Project: the 1995 Establishment of a Road Maintenance Fund report, and
the 1997 Institutional Strengthening of the CTPU. A fully successful part of this component
concerns the environmental impact assessment of the Lethem-Linden road completed in April
1995.
27.   Procedures have not been prepared to make operational the Road Maintenance Fund
created in 1996 (limited funds --GY$ 10 million in 1998-- have been transferred to the Fund
account, and still transit through the Treasury). A study carried out under the project was
supposed to provide the Government with recommendations to this end. However, the various
proposals regarding potential resources are already obsolete since the current political and
economic situation does not allow to increase the fiscal and para-fiscal pressure. Alternative
sources of funding should be considered. In addition, the 1993 incomplete Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Management study by Canada Engineering Services Inc, covered only 400
miles of road compared to the around 2,000 miles of the network due to its limited TORs. This
study did not adequately address the institutional and financial aspects of road maintenance as it
did not take into account the involvement of the Regional Democratic Councils and of the private
mining and large-scale farming sectors in financing and carrying out road maintenance. There is
still a need to carry out a comprehensive assessment of road maintenance requirements and
implementation capacity. Therefore, this study did not receive and does not deserve to receive



- 37 -
any application as yet in terms of reorganizing maintenance programming and operational
management.
28.   The Transport Data Bank was established but is not operational anymore. The qualified
technician left, and there is no other staff in the unit to update and operate it (data inputting was
never completed and there has been no updating since 1995), and the computers has since failed.
The mission is of the opinion that lack of sustainability was bound to happen as there seems to
have been only a transposition of existing systems (the manual on the use of the Data Bank is
referring to another country). Also the implementation of such a system is not perceived as a
priority as it largely is cumbersome and complex to manage/update given the size of the network,
the lack of readily available data, and the high cost of data collection to run such a system . Road
maintenance activities should be programmed in the future on the basis of data collected
manually until the financing of such a system is secured and sustainable and until CPTU capacity
has improved. Guidelines for Environmental Screening and Analysis have been prepared but do
not seem to be in use. The Planning Model Output and HDM Analysis Output have been a one-
shot endeavor.
Technical Assistance and Training
29.   While the technical assistance component of the project has been carried out
(mostly through PEU staffing), inadequate overall project management and accounting marred
the achievements. The main issues having prevented this component to be successful are
embedded in the more general issue of civil service salaries, conditions of employment, and lack
of career development perspectives which have resulted in most qualified staff having left for the
private sector, oftentimes abroad, hence leaving little capacity at all in the country. Sustainability
in terms of capacity-building is not likely to occur due to the limited transfer of know-how, the
limited training (as not enough staff --else than in PEUs-- were sufficiently qualified to benefit
from training in technical and managerial matters), and the lack of arrangements for the
sustainable transfer of PEUs staff to MPWC departments. It was expected at appraisal that a
proposed Public Administration Reform Project would provide the Government with an adequate
framework to attract competent staff, enabling to improve administration efficiency. This has not
been achieved and subsequently, the capacity building strategy implemented under the project
did not succeed. Capacity appears paradoxically less than at the beginning of the project due to
the continuous brain drain that took place as is highlighted by the alarming level of vacancies at
higher technical positions and engineers levels (e.g. no technician in the Materials section, one
professional staff only in CTPU, 2 engineers in RAD), and/or staff in acting positions without the
proper qualifications. On the contrary, frustration and demobilization of the civil servants have
increased. As no progressive downsizing of the PEU took place during project implementation,
there were neither incentives nor room left for RAD to take over road operations as expected. In
addition, the implementation of environmental mitigation measures may have been overlooked as
a result of GAHEF having been disbanded and the resignation of the Environmental Officer in
CTPU.



- 38 -
Transport studies
30.   This component is deemed to have been successful and satisfactory in that the planned
studies have been carried out, and institutional reforms have been adopted and their
implementation started. A new Maritime Administration is going into effect as of January 2000
with a regulatory role as a result of the study for the creation of a National Ports Authority which
was completed in 1995 by APEC Dev C.V., Cadoc Combert S.A. and SWK & Partners.
However, to complete the reform of the maritime administration, it should also cover the
management of the ferries which was not addressed in the study.
31    A technical, economic and financial study for the construction of a container facility has
been conducted. However, the study was limited to the off-dock facilities instead of off-port
facilities as per the terms of reference, and concluded that a container facility was neither
economically nor financially viable. The study was extended to a container facility which
included a wharf. As there is no need for an extension of the port capacity but only for an
extension of the container handling areas, and as the study did not provide for an adequate
answer, it fell short of expectations.
Equipment and Goods
32.   The project included the acquisition and utilization of office equipment and fire fighting
equipment. All equipment were procured in a timely manner and this component is satisfactory,
although the transport data system is not operational anymore due to computer failures. The
most significant technical equipment (fire fighting) is not related to any other Project component,
and appears to have been included for sheer convenience without bearing on the overall Project
objectives.
Project funding, accounts and audits
33.   The overall financial management for the project has been inadequate. Numerous
deficiencies have been found to exist throughout many aspects of the system operated by the
RAD-PEU. The sections below contain a more detailed discussion of the findings.
RAD-PEU
Account Maintenance
34.   The mission carried out a thorough review of the withdrawal applications. The files for
the contracts for works, consulting studies, design and supervision were found incomplete, with
some of the larger contracts missing. Moreover, the system of payment of the contracts was
found inadequate. The PEU had maintained two special accounts, one in Washington, DC at
Riggs National Bank, and the other at the Bank of Guyana. Through this dual account system,
the PEU was able to pay local contracts in Guyana dollars, however the PEU paid all the
contractors in US dollars, disregarding the language.of the contracts. The mission was not
submitted the final account reconciliation, and was not in a position as yet to determine whether



- 39 -
the final account balances accurately reflect expenditures that were paid for from the Special
Account and claimed for reimbursement through Withdrawal Applications.
Accounting System
35.   The system that was utilized to maintain the cash flows, expenses, and general accounting
of the project cannot be considered an adequate accounting system. Integrating individual files
for civil works or consultant contracts with the general reports is generally acceptable within an
overall accounting framework. This project lacked a framework that would have provided the
basis for adequate project financial management. The system was merely a series of spreadsheet
files that was copied to the financial statements and project reports. Specifically, the system
lacked a General Ledger, Chart of Accounts, accounting records and procedures, transaction
recording/expensing mechanism, and a provision for accounting journal/adjusting entries. The
reports generated from this system were difficult to follow, and did not allow for an adequate
analysis and evaluation of the project over the period covered by the reports.
36.   Furthermore, there was a severe lack of internal controls and segregation of duties within
the accounting system. The Project Financial Controller was the lone person with access to the
computer records. He was the lone person to create the payment orders, and to process the
payments. There was no assistant available to oversee the preparation of orders and remittances,
and the Controller failed to document the transactions of the project. The computerized records
were unable to provide a historical cost/expense sequence, i.e. audit trail, neither for the
representative from Bank or for the Auditors.
37.   There was a great deal of confusion regarding the requirements of the accounting system.
While the Bank had sent a copy of the Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
(FARAH), no Bank representative had visited the project to supervise the Financial Management
arrangements. There was no direct line of communication between the Bank and PEU regarding
fiduciary matters, and this aided to the less than adequate financial system.
HD-PEU
38.   The HD-PEU had an adequate accounting and financial management system in place
from the inception of the project. Although it did not carry out originally planned civil works of
the sea defenses, the HD-PEU did manage to properly record and account for the US$704,000
worth of expenditures in technical assistance and training, and has properly maintained all
supporting documentation. The HD-PEU submitted monthly reports to the PEU-RAD who did
not respond with monthly consolidated financial statements, nor with updated budget allocations
impacting project implementation.
39.   The financial system itself is well organized. The accounting is computerized with a cash
book, and there is also a ledger in which the data is manually entered. This system allows for an
adequate control system and the accountant is able to accurately verify the financial information
during the monthly reconciliation. Bank account records were properly maintained and



- 40 -
reconciled against project expenditures on a monthly basis. Furthermore, the HD-PEU has
adequate staff that ensures a proper segregation of duties.
Audit
40.   The Auditor General had the responsibility to perform the annual review and evaluation of
the financial statements. Consistently throughout the project, the final audit reports have been
submitted to the Bank past the deadline set and agreed upon in the Development Credit
Agreement. The reasons for this consistent occurrence may be with both the office of the Auditor
General due to a certain lack of capacity, and the RAD PEU which may have delayed the
submission of financial statements and/or the restatement of the reports thereby delaying the
issuance of the Audit report.
41.   The audit reports have been generally regarded as satisfactory. However, it was
discovered that the Bank's recommendations for improving the presentation of the financial
statements were not consistently applied. The Office of the Auditor General had indicated that
due to the lack of experienced staff, the audits carried out in the first three years of the project
were performed by junior staff less experienced in the performance of financial audits, and who
lacked the independence and objectivity that is required for Auditors.
42.   The mission was given an initial draft of the Audit report for the year ending 1998, and
assurances were given that the final report would be made available to the Bank before the end of
the month of September. Furthermore, the Office of the Auditor General did indicate that the
RAD-PEU has continued to neglect to make available its financial statements for the period of
activity from January 1999 to the cancellation of the project in May 1999. The FY 1999 audit
report should be prepared by April 2000 at the latest, i.e. no later than four months after the close
of the fiscal year as per the Development Credit Agreement.
For the Ministry of Transport and Hydraulics               For the World Bank
The Minister                                                The Team Leader
Anthony Xavier                                             Bernard A. Becq



ANNEX B
GUYANA INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITA TON PROJECT
CREDIT A GREEMENT NUMBER CR24 77-GUY
IMPLEMIENTA TION
COMPLETION REPOR T
GOVERNMENT OF GUYANA
COMMENTS
JANUARY, 2000



I



CONTENTS
Executive Summary                             .......................,.,.....   i - viii
Civil works                                                  ..I
Essequibo Coast Road ...............,.                                                                             I
Supenaam to Adventure and Devonshire Castle to Charity                                                             2
Adventure to Devonshire Castle .......................2
Deviations ...............         . . .                    .3 ,,.,..................3
Drainage ................,:,,.. ................                                                                   3
Shoulders                                                   ..3
Striping and Marking                                ....3
Structures ....4
Construct New Bridge .............4
Claims .........4.............,.........4
Present Status .......5
Financial .......,                                                    ..     . .       . .,,. .
Maintenance Contract ...,                                       ............... , , .,                      . 6
Permanent Works .............6
Selecting of New Contractor for Permanent Works                                                                    6
Observation .                     . . ,..                                                                          7
Road Maintenance Project                                                .8
Maintenance Schedule .......................,.,.,..                                                                9
Sea Defence ........................9
Status of Legal Covenants .................9. ,, ..,,,.,.,.........                                                9
Equipment ................                                                                                        10
Office and Vehicles ..........0.......... .....                                                      .........   io
Fire Fighting Equipment ...............                                                                            10
Consultancy Service ...............  10
Tidal and Morphological Studies .......................                   ,.,,.   10
Highway Finance Study...,. ..................,,, ..,.,,                                                        11
Off Port Container Terminal.,3 .................... ,.,                                       . ............,.    ' 3
Creation of a National Port Authority.                          .......................... ,.,,....                13
Gains of the Study thus Far ..................                                                                     13
Environmental Assessment .13
Institutional Strengthening CTPU .16
Institutional Strengthening- Hydraulics Division .17
Staff Training .............., , , .                                          .          .          ..........  17
Counterpart Funding .............                                                   ,,,                            17
Lesson Learnt IRP .                                                                                                17
Conclusion .18
Appendices .19- 29






Executive Summary
Guyana Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project:
Credit Agreement Number CR 2477 - GUY
Introduction
On the 23rd March, 1993, the Government of Guyana and the International Development
Association (IDA) entered into the Development Credit Agreement No. 2477 GUY for the
amount of 19,000,000 Special Drawing Rights (SDR) to assist in achieving the Project's
objectives as described in Schedule 2 of the Agreement. The Credit disbursenient plan covers
a period of five years and the project was expected to be completed by 30th June, 1999,
or such later date as the IDA may determine.
2.    Project Description
T1he objectives of the project were to:-
a     repair and construct deteriorated sections of the sea defence system.
a     improve the overall performance and efficiency of the management and operations of
the transport sector.
facilitate agricultural, agro-industrial and mining production with particular emphasis
on export through reduced transportation costs; and
*     reduce the need to replace vehicles, spares and fuel and imports.
The project consists of the following parts:-
Part A                   Civil Works
Part B                   Studies and Institutional Strengthening
Part C      :            Equipment
3.    Analysis of the Implementation Experience
a)    Reconstruction and preventative maintenance of four kilometres of sea
defences were identified under the project. However due to the inability of the
Guyana Sea Defences, PEU, to engage a Contractor, to construct the works the
Government with the approval of IDA/World Bank diverted the funds to the
(i)



Essequibo Coast Road Project. Inherent in that decision was that the Inter-
American Developnient Bank (IDB) would fund the works as the area identified
to be rehabilitated was the most vulnerable.
b)    (i)   The Essequibo Coast Road suffered tremendous delays and setbacks and
at the end of the project, work on the road had not been completed.
The first Contractor, Paranapanema from Brazil, commenced work in
January 1994 but because of poor performance the contact was
terminated in July, 1 995. Following the termination of that contract
the Government engaged a Contractor [Donzenac Company] from
Cayenne to carry out maintenance works until another contractor was
employed. The maintenance contract lasted from I/ 1 2/95 to August
1996.
(ii)   Two contracts to complete the road were signed with the Greek Firm
Technodomi on 1 7/ 12/1 996 with the start date being 2 1/4/1 997 and
conipletion date 20/4/1998. However, Technodomi requested an
extension to their contracts until 3 1 /5/99 for a number of reasons for
wlhichi the Consultant prepared a detailed analysis of the cause of delays
and rationale for granting the extension.  As a result a "no cost
anmendimient"' was signed for both lots between the GOG and
Technodomiii to extend the completion date to 31/5/99.   A
Memorandumii of Understanding was also signed between the GOG
and Technodomiii defining new approaches to ensure completion by
May, 1 999 or before. Notwithstanding this, however, the Contractor
did not deliver. Serious difficulties ensued and as a result the contracts
witli Technodomili were terminated on 1 5/2/99. The Contractor has
taken the Government to Court and the matter is still to be determined.
At the termination of the contracts the works completed were 40% and
75% for Lots I and 2, respectively.
(iii)  The Government of Guyana has decided to complete the road with its
own resources and has since commenced doing so.
c)    the work on the Linden/Soesdyke Highway relative to reconstruction, resealing
and replacement of bridges wooden decks have been in accordance with the
contract.
(ii)



d)    Road Maintenance Project - A  three year [1994 - 1996] maintenance
project in the suimi of $276,564,440(G) was signed with Seereeram Bros of
Trinidad and Tobago. This covered areas on: Corentyne, WCD, WBD and East
Bank Essequibo and was satisfactorily carried out. However, the second
Maintenance Programimle was prepared but did not get off the ground.
4)   Studies and Institutional Strengthening
(i)   The studies for the construction of an off-port container terminal and the
establishlimlent of a national port authority were conipleted by the Association
of Antwerp Port Engineering Consultants (APEC) Development C.V., its
memiibers CADIC - GOMBERT, S.A. and Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick. It was
ag,reed between GOG and IDA to complete the study for the National Port
Authority and to develop preliminary drawings, cost estimates etc. for a port
container- teriminal located at the T&HD site in Georgetown.
(ii)   The study suggested the need for a National Ports Authority which should not
be seen as a traditional public service agency but rather a fully autonomous
agency with an Executive Board overseeing its arrangements/operations. Three
options were posited in termis of a model for the effective operations of the
establishied port but no decision has been taken in this regard.
5)    The EIA of the Linden/Lethleni Road was successfully conducted by Environmental
Resources Managemient of the UK. The Final Report was submitted in April, 1995.
6)    Highway Finance Study
(i'   The study was carried out by Gordon P. Bodely to propose a plan for the
creation of a road maintenance fund in order that this be used exclusively for
a well prepared main roads maintenance programme.
(ii)   The stLudy has been completed but apart from the establishment of a Road
Maintenance Fund with limited allocation from the Public Treasury, no further
action was taken relative to the study.
(iii)  The Consultant, Gordon P. Bodely and Associates also assisted to:-
*     develop the capacity of the CTPU.
*     improve the policy formulation capability of the CTPU
(iii)



enhance the ability of the CTPU to review and make appropriate
recomimlendation on transport pricing.
(iv)   Towards this aiimi, the Consultant developed the following:-
*     Design and Maintenance of Transport Data Bank.
*     Manual on the use of the Transport Data Bank
*     Guidelines for environmental screening and analysis.
*     Planning model output and HDM Analysis output.
Training of two CTPU staff and one RAD staff was provided by Simons and
Associates from  Barbados as part of the contract for the institutional
strengthening of CTPU as well as by Environmental Resources Management in
conducting the EIA of the Linden/Lethemii Road.
(v)   Staff Training was provided to a number of staff who benefitted under the
project. However, the technical assistance provided by the Association of
Antwerp/Cadic-Gombert/Scott,  Wilson,  Kirkpatrick  relative  to  the
establishmiient of a national part authiority was not taken up.
7)    Part C - Equipment
(i)    The acquisition and utilisation of office equipment, including inter-alia, desktop
comiiputer-s hardware and software, printers, photocopy machines and vehicles
for CTPU, RAD and HD were accomiiplishied.
(ii)   The acquisition and utilisation of equipment for mud Bank movement research
was deleted from the project.
(iii)   The Government of Guyana - Kronenburg b v of the Netherlands acquired two
rescue and fire fighting vehicles, sets of protective clothing and respiratory
equipment and sets of quick rescue suits. Training of local mechanics and
firemen as well as maintenance of the equipment took place.
(iv)   The services of Societe Generale De Surveillance (SGS) of Switzerland was
utilised to conduct inspection services during fabrication prior to shipping.
(iv)



8)    Lessons Learnt: IRP
A)    Roads Administration Division
a)    Upon completion of the Project, the Engineers in the PEU should have been
incorporated into the RAD but the salaries paid by the Government were
unattractive and therefore the engineers did not apply to join the division.
b)    Procuremiienit of a bitumen plant by the State would have allowed local
contractors to bid for works and increase thie competitiveness of the bids and
build capacity in relation to road maintenance.
c)    The wide disparity in remiluneration paid to top level staff in the PEU as against
those in the RAD [traditional Public Service] has contributed in some measure
to the latter not showing sufficient interest and getting fully involved in the
project in order to provide the required checks and balances and thus the full
protectioni of the governimient's interests.
d)    The credit agreemiient should guide the financial operations of the project.
e)    The plrequlificationI of contractors could have prevented the unfortunate
situatioll wher-e three contractors have been used to construct the road.
f)    The availability and consequent acceptance of a quarry by the contractor could
hiave contr-ibuted to an adequate supply of quarry products for the road
reh3bilitation a3nd thus avoid delays in the project.
B)    Sea and River Defences
3)    The n1on1 involvement of local contractors in the bidding process resulted in the
submissioni of higih and unrealistic bids by international contractors.
b)    The lack of flexibility of the loan agreement, which excluded the budding local
contracting industry from bidding, resulted in the inability to conclude a
contract Linder the Project.
c)    The establishment of a local office would have reduced the delays and
improved the procurement process.
(v)



d)    The use of a firm  for technical assistance has proved to be counterproductive
when dealing withi comp3nies which could be viewed as their competitors.
Individual consultants would have been the preferred solution in this case.
9)    Conclusion
Overall the project development objectives have not been fully met. Both the Bank
(Lender) and Government (Borrower) should share some blame in the management
and imonitoring of this project. Even the Auditor General for four years 1 993 - 1996
has given satisfactory reports until a special investigation was conducted which
revealed a number of deficiencies.
A major contributory factor has been the lack of qualified and experienced staff within
the traditional public service due to inadequate remuneration. No doubt assistance
would continue to be required in developing the institutional structures for
comprelhensive sector management and monitoring.
A number of staff trained under the project has left the system for varying reasons.
Decisions need to be taken on a number of recommendations arising out of the
studies.
The functions and operations of PEUs would need to be  reviewed in light of
experiences under- the project.
Ministry of Ptublic Works & Co,nnunticationis
1Vight's Lane
Kingstoni
(vi)



GUYANA INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AGREEMENT NUMBER CR2477-GUY
Completion Report - Government of Guyana Comments
The Development Credit Agreement was entered into between the Government of Guyana,
(Borrower), and the International Development Association. (Lender). on April 8. 1993 and
became effective on July 9th. 1993 The Credit Agreement was in an amount of 19.000.000 SDR
or equivalent to US$28.590. 000.
The major components of the Agreement covered:
-     Civil Works
     Equipment Purchases
*     Consultancy Services
*     Studies
The credit agreement was closed on May 17th, 1999 at the request of the Government of Guyana
leaving an undisbursed balance of US$5.463M, of which the major areas of non expenditure were
in Civil Works in an amount of US$3.888 M and under Studies relating to the Hydraulics Division
US$.588 M.
The following are details of each component of the credit agreement and accomplishments.
(2)   CIVIL WORKS
(A)   Essequibo Coast Road
The Essequibo Coast Road Project entailed the restructuring of 39 miles of road from Supenaam
to Charity and was launched in March 1993 when nine tenders were received and evaluated. The
contract was awarded to the third lowest bidder, Paranapanema of Brazil.
After negotiations the contract was signed in October 1993 in an amount of G$1,203,593,200
equivalent to US$9,417,050.31, the start date being set for January 20th, 1994.
I



The project got off to a slow start because of several reasons amongst which were:
*     Logistics of importing equipment from Brazil
*     Difficulty in recruitment of personnel and sub-contractors.
*     The right of way was not cleared and they were asked to reprogram their works.
As a result materials had to be hauled over long distances of the road which was riddled with pot
holes and badly rutted. This added to the Contractor's expense and impeded progress, and it was
inevitable that the project would experience delays.
The contractor now behind schedule began to cut corners and as a result, substandard construction
was being rejected. such as the structure at Aurora and Holf-Van-Aurich which had to be demolished
and recasted. In addition 10 miles of constructed wearing course was also rejected.
By the end of 1994, realising that the project had gone into irretrievable delays, the contractor began
to cnticise the design, the specifications and the consultancy. and also gave notice of pending claims
based on increased quantities for clay blanket and site clearance, and for not making the right of way
available to them. The contract was eventually terminated on July 27th. 1995.
The contractor filed an action in the High Court that the termination was unlawful, ultra vires. null
and void and of no legal effect. Negotiations subsequently followed and it was agreed that
Paranapanema would pay US$8 10,000.00 and turn over to the Government of Guyana one pneumatic
roller, one asphalt distributor and one asphalt paver. In return the Government of Guyana agreed to
release Paranapanema from all liabilities and penalties, allow them to remove all their equipment and
possessions and renounce claims to the performance bond.
The project was broken as follows:
(a)   Supenaam to Adventure and Devonshire Castle to Charity
This consisted of construction of' 18 miles and included the widening of the existing
embankment in places, paving the 20' carriageway with 1.5" bitumen and surface dress or
sand seal 2' shoulders.
Prior to the termination of the contract Paranapanema completed most of the paving
between Supenaam and Pomona. leaving Aurora deviation and the Fairfield deviation
unpaved. Between Devonshire Castle to Charity, approximately 3.75 miles of sand bitumen
was placed of which 1/2 mile was rejected because it was too thin.
(b)   Adventure to Devonshire Castle
This area is about 16 miles and consisted of widening the embankment and scarifying 4"
and placing 6" of sand cement stabilised base and paving 21' carriageway with 2" of sand
bitumen and either surface dress or sand seal 2" shoulders and clay cap the side slopes.
The area between Devonshire Castle was left unpaved.
2



(c)   Deviations
Construction consists of approximately 4 miles and entailed grubbing the deviation and
compacting the sub grade and bringing to the levels using white sand and completed by
placing sub-base, base and sand bitumen to the desired type and thickness.
(d)   Drainage
Drainage works consisted of desilting existing roadside drains, removing land bridges and
digging new road side drains in deviations.
(e)   Shoulders
Shoulders were designed to be 4' wide in Suddie and Anna Regina. 2' wide in rural
areas and 3' wide in populated areas. There were negotiations to build shoulders using 1"
thick sand asphalt. However due to the termination of the contract no shoulders were built.
(f)    Striping and Marking
There were supposed to be solid striping using specified paint, either white or vellow
reflectorised. There was however no striping done by Paranapanema.
(g)   STRUCTURES
There were five types of structures and totaling 96 that needed attention. However
several structures that were earmarked to be done were omitted after it was found that
they were acceptable.
The five types of Structures namely:
*     Pipe Culverts
*     Concrete Box Culverts
*     Precast Concrete Arch Culverts
*     Timber/Concrete Bridges
*     Extension Repairs and Removals
SEE APPENDIX A FOR STATUS
3



(h) CONSTRUCT NEW BRIDGE
The bridge over Riverstown Creek was to be constructed, but the contractor imported 40
concrete piles which was too short
(1)    CLAIMS
SEE APPENDIX B
(j3    PRESENT STATUS
A contract has been awarded to Dipcon Engineering Services Ltd in an amount of
G$544,692,930 to complete the resurfacing of the roadway excluding Bridges. Works are
on going and it is anticipated that these will be completed in June 2000.
4



(k)   FINANCIAL
The contract value was G$1.203.593.200.12 and amount expended was G$655,889,837.
leaving an unspent balance of G$547.703.3 63. This represented 54.5% expenditure to
49.8% of completed works, and this indicates that there would have been a moderate over
run in costs. The retention money of G$60. 180.000 was retained by the Government
upon termination of the Contract.
(1)    MAINTENANCE CONTRACT
It became apparent that after the termination of the Paranapanema Contract that it would
take at least one year for a new contractor to become mobilised, so the Government of
Guyana opted to maintain the existing carriageway until such time that construction began.
In September 1995, 3 bids were received and Donzenac Company was awarded the contracts.
The project was divided in two halves. These contracts were signed in November for a
duration of six months, and the works consisted of building a few structures, grade shape and
prime areas between Devonshire Castle and Maria's Delight, to build Maria's Lodge
Deviation and an acrow panel bridge at Golden Fleece.
The main contract to continue where Paranapanema left off, went out to bid, and in
January 1996, three bids were received including one from Donzenac. Noting that Donzenac
was already mobilised and was the lowest bidder, the contracts were awarded to this
company. The company was unable to obtain the necessarv securities. and in June of the
same year, the project was re- advertised.
The maintenance programme was running behind schedule and the contract was extended
by three months to facilitate the re-tendering process, as there was still monev left in the
contract to spend. The contract price for Lot I was G$64.964.558 of which G$49.781.607
was expended and for Lot 2. the contract value was G$89.131.989 of which G$88.631,409
was expended. and the contract commenced on December Ist . 1995.
Donzenac got off to a slow stan. due to the logistics of importng equipment from
Cayenne which arrived in January 1996. This being done, there were problems with
registering the equipment, and this set the project back 4 weeks.
At the beginning of the contract there was a shortage of asphalt required for pothole
patching, and in February 1996 the contractor was not allowed to hire extra gangs to do
patching because of increased costs and subsequently, this aspect of the contract was
terminated in August 1996.
The works could be divided in two sections. namely:
5



(n) MAINTENANCE
This involved clearing and grubbing. leveling of unpaved shoulders. clav blanket repairs.
scarifving, reshaping and compacting existing base and pot hole patching. These works
were to be conducted on 17 miles of road. The grass cutting was concentrated at the
extreme ends of the projects and shoulders were leveled in areas where drainaize was
impeded by clay blanket constructed too high.
The Road from Anna Regina to Hampton Court was scarified, shaped and recompacted.
(n)  PERMANENT WORKS
These works include base course preparation, construction of Maria's Lodge deviation
and the construction of Golden Fleece bv pass Acrow Panel bridge.
Base course preparation was for approximately 5.87 miles which required scarifying,
placing base substitute ranging in depth from 2" to 6", compacting and priming.
Maria's lodge was approximately .25 miles. which involved site clearing to a width of 60'
grubbing and removing spoil to various depths, pace white sand to top 24' and bottom
width of 40'.
The contractor was never able to build any structures and by mutual consent , these
structures were deleted and the money utilised in scarification, reshaping and compacting
the existing carriageway between Anna Regina and Hampton Court.
At the time of completion 76.63% and 99.45% of the contract amount was expended
which yielded'78% and 100% completion of works on Lot I and Lot 2 respectively.
(o)  SELECTING OF NEW CONTRACTOR FOR PERMANENT WORKS
During August 1996, 5 bids were received to continue the construction on the roadway,
and C.A. Dayco Construcciones was awarded the bid. However, due to an audit
conducted by Deloitte and Touche . the award was canceled due to poor financial status.
Negotiations then began with Technodomi the next lowest responsive bidder and the
contracts were awarded. The award amount was for G$889.293,034 and G$699.669.827
for Lot I and 2, respectively. The contracts was for an initial period of one year, and was
extended for a further 13 months and 12 days.
Technodomi also got off to a slow start because of importation , and personnel problems.
Project engineers were changed twice and expatriate staff that were hired were either
replaced and in some instances not at all. The project slipped into delay due to inadequate
personnel, reluctance to hire sub-contractors, bad project management, and low cash flow due
to lack of work. By the end of the year only 19% and 38% of work was completed for Lot
I and 2 respectively. The Government of Guyana then extended the contract for a further 13
months and 12 days, and assisted by changing some of the designs to aid the contractor in
its cash flow problem. The amendment stipulated that all the structures will be sub-contracted
and at least six miles of base course will go to private contractors and it was hoped that the
project will be completed on time. In September 1997, Technodomi began to experience
severe cash flow problems compounded with the fact that advance payments had to be repaid
and also repayment to the Government for materials purchased on their behalf
6



In order to alleviate their problems an advance payment of G$120.000.000 was made
available to them guaranteed bv bonds issued bv CLICO Insurance Companv. Even this was
insufficient and they ceased payment to their creditors and emolovees
By October 1998 all work had virtuallv ceased and the client and contractor started
negotiations to continue works, but Technodomi wanted the Government to pay off its
creditors in an amount of GS324.000.000. a payment which would have increased their
indebtedness to Government. The contract was terminated on Februarv 19,1999 for
fundamental breach. Technodomi took the matter to court and on Februarv 22nd, 1999 their
lawyers issued a Writ of Summons, which was filed in the Supreme Court. for an Interim
Injunction and Preservation of the Equipment. and Bonds that were guaranteed bv the Bank
of Nova Scotia and CLICO. On February 24th Mr. Justice Burch-Smith made his decision
and issued an Order of the Couri to the above effect.
At the termnination of the contract the work-s completed was 40% and 75% for Lot I and 2
respectively.
(h)   OBSERVATION
The bulk of Technodomi's equipment arrived in may 1997 but their trucks, excavator,
paving equipment and components for the asphalt did not arrive until October 2nd. 1997.
Technodomi never mobilised a machine to pulverise and reseat cement stabilised base, which
was crucial to their ability to complete the works and also they badly underestimated the cost
of producing 4" sand asphalt which added to their demise.
Technodomi then encountered problems in purchasing stones in large quantities from
local quarries, and this led to the importation of 20.000 tons of sifting for paving. Two
shipments arrived with 16.000 tons but because of the logistics of transporting the stone
the balance was cancelled.
The following is details of works to be undertaken bv the Contractor:
Activity                 Quantity                  Accomplished
Overlay                  9.51 Miles                5.20
Wearing Course           10. 13 Miles              8.83
Leveling Course          6.89 Miles                6 89
4" Base                   17.33 Miles              4.09
2" Wearing                17.33 Miles              3.41
Crack Layer Relief       10.83 Miles               3 00
Technodomi contractual obligation was to construct or repair 60 structures of which the
following was done:
Pipe Culverts                   10
Concrete Box Culverts            6
Timber/Concrete Bridge           5
Extension and repair             4
At the termination of the Contract Technodomi had completed 33 .97% and 65.50% of their
contracts for Lot 1 and 2 their whilst the funds expended for Lot I and 2 were 34.13% and
67.30% respectively. These percentages does not take into consideration any advances,
materials or creditors paid on their behalf.
7



During the period of the contract several claims developed which are detailed below:
(1) Additional cost of purchase of natural materials. GS18.560Q594
(2) Road Maintenance. G$S 1,960,000
(3) Unit price revision to place and compact clay. Lot I G$3,562.44/cu.yd, Lot
G$1,668.13/cu.yd.
(4) Additional cost for placing 4" base course sand asphalt. G$164,058.000
(5) Placing Clay Blanket at Hampton Court. GS3.318.71 /cu.vci
(6) Concrete Works. G$30,288, 178
(7) Construction and alteration of bridge structure. G$87.179,097
(8) Unit price revision for site clearance. LotlG$810.1333.34/acre. Lot 2 G$1.032.267/
acre
The total overall cost of the project from its inception is detailed below:
*     Paranapanema                          655,889.837
*     Donzenac Lotl                          49.781.607
*     Donzenac Lot 2                         88.631.409
*     Technodomi Lot 1                      282,972,068
*     Technodomi Lot 2                      441.097.899
*     Relocation of Houses                  157,276,955
*     Relocation of electric lines           25,800,000
*     Relocation of pure water supply lines  37,500,000
*     Relocation of fences                  24,800,000
*     Crop Compensation                       1,129,761
*     Relocation of telephone lines           1,500,000
*     Subsurface investigation                 336.000
*    Alignment Refinement                    a4.600.000
*I    Road Maintenance                        4.900.000
*     Back Filling of structures              4,700,000
3     Weight Controlling monitoring            1.600,000
*     Installation of delineators               700.000
*     PEU Staffing assistance                 9.100.000
TOTAL                            1.792, 315,566
(3)   ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Invitation for bids to maintain the Corentyne Highway, West Coast Demerara and East Bank
Essequibo Roads was made on May 13th, 1993 and two bids were received, one from AMB
Aannemings of Suriname for G$825,199,663 and Seereeram Bros. of Trinidad for
G$876,111,160 and corrected to G$796,746,760. Negotiations then started with Seereeraam
Bros. and due to the vast difference in the budget as that compared to the bid, the scope of
work was drastically reduced to G$276,564,440 by implementing only preventative
maintenance works and excluding periodic maintenance such as overlay, resealing, removal
of existing pavement etc. The contract was signed for an initial period of two years and later
extended to three years to terminate on September 30th, 1996.
8



In addition to remedial works, two bridges were constructed at Utivlugt and Leonora. on
the West Coast.
This project came to a successful conclusion after having expended G$289.37 M
MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE
See APPENDIX C for Maintenance Work done for 1999 and projected for 2000.
(4)   SEA DEFENCE
Four (4) kilometers of sea defenses were identified for reconstruction under the Programme.
The areas considered were Turkeven. Mon Repos/Lusignan and Annandale on the East Coast
of Demerara.
Due to the inability of Guyana Sea Defenses. PEU. to engage a contractor to construct the
works i.e commit the funds, the Government with the approval of IDA/World Bank has
diverted the funds to the Essequibo Road Project. also financed under the Loan. Inherent
in this decision was that the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) would fund the
works at Mon Repos/Lusignan. as this section is the most vulnerable.
(a)    The following activities vere dlone:
Following a breach at Lusignan, East Coast Demerara. in November 1993. Design and
Tender Documents for 870 m of Sea Defenses were prepared in April 1994. Tendering was
initiated shortly after and the process was annulled as bids exceeded the budget. Only
selected contractors were invited to bid.
Design and Tender Documents were prepared for the main works in August 1994.
Selected Contractors were invited to bid. Again . the bidding process was annulled in
June 1995 due to high-priced bids
The main Works were again tendered under the Simultaneously Funded Project in 1996 (a
combination of IDA, IDB and CDB works). The bidding process was yet, again annulled
in 1998 due to high-priced bids.
(b)   STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Carry-out and furnish the results of a cost recovery study.
Cost recovery study was completed in November 1994
No plan for the implementation of the recommendations was prepared during the Loan
Period. The study has not been adopted by the Government of Guyana i.e the necessary
laws have not been passed in Parliament.
9



(5)   EQUIPMENT
OFFICE AND VEHICLES
See Appendix D
(a)   FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
On May 14th, 1994 tenders were invited from various companies, listed below. to procure
two airport rescue and fire fighting vehicles. spare parts and other related equipment.
Amongst those invited were Rosenbauer International from Austria. Waltek Trucks from
Canada. Saval-Kronenburg from the Netherlands. Emergency One from Florida. Simon
Gloster Saro Ltn from England, Mercedes Benz from Germany, Unipower from England,
Albert Ziegler from Germany. Oshkosh Truck Corp from the USA. Bid documents were
requested by Angus, Oshkosh, Kronenburg, Rosenbauer, Unipower, Simon and Waltek which
were dispatched on May 19th. 1994.
After evaluation of the bids Kronenburg was awarded the contract in an amount of US$ 1,
221,200.00 on February 8th, 1995. and payment was to be made by paying 10% advance and
the balance to be met from an irrevocable letter of credit. In addition to the vehicles. spare
parts for two years operation, training for firemen. training for mechanics. 40 sets of
protective clothing and respiratory equipment was also procured. In addition 3.000 liters of
foam and 25,000 kgs dry chemical powder was also procured at a cost of US$17,660.00.
The supervision services was contracted to Societe Generale De Surveillance S A, (SGS
Associates) in an amount of US$8,820.00. The vehicles and spare parts arrived in Guyana
on February 21 st. 1996 in good order except for a broken beacon light which was replaced
by the supplier.
(6)   CONSULTANCY SERVICE
(a)   Tidal and Morphological Studies
This study was not implemented during the loan period. The Terms of Reference for the
Consulting services were completed and a short list of Consultants was approved. However
the delay in finalising the Services Contract led to these studies not being done.
10



(b)   HIGHWAY FINANCE STUDY'
A contract was entered into in October 1994 with Gordon Phillip Bodelv to propose after
two months a plan for the creation of a Road Maintenance Fund. in order that this fund be
used exclusively for a well prepared Main Roads Maintenance Program. The Government
has indicated that monies will be allocated to such a fund and has subsequently opened a
separate bank account in which monies are being deposited on a yearly basis, in which
approximately G$ 70M has already been made available.
The value of the contract with the consultant was US$76.693.80 of which US$76,585.05
was expended.
In order to achieve the above objective the consultant concentrated on:
*     How much does road users pav in Guyana?
n     How much is spent on the road system and how efficiently?
     How much is needed to be spent on Road Maintenance ?
*     How should road administration and maintenance be financed?
The consultant also investigated the following sources of funding:
*     User Charges: fuel taxes, annual road licensing fees, taxes on freight and fares and
tolls.
-     Transfer from the treasurv of general duties and tax revenue on incomes, profits,
sales, services and import
     Loans, bonds, suppliers and commercial bank credits and external loans.
The study will also provide:
l    A implementation plan for the policy of financing road maintenance
-     A review of the different ways of administering the national road network
*     A theoretical analysis of the financial capacity of road users to pay cost of the
investment plan.
*     Recommendations for future GOG actions and proposal for implementing these
recommendations.
The implementation plan shall include:
*     Details on how fund should be administered to ensure maintenance but not new
construction
*     Details on how monies will be collected and transferred to the fund account.
*     Details on the proposed auditing of the fund accounts
I1



The rural road network of 1,610 miles. 308 miles are paved and 321 miles serving
agricultural production and the balance covers earth and gravel roads.
A survey done has shown that 233% of the unpaved roads are in verv poor condition and in
fact the interior roads are only accessible to by 4 wheel drive vehicles. The cost of these
roads to the economy is high. notiny significant vehicle maintenance has to be done which
uses up much needed foreign currency, which the countrv can hardly afford.
The study shows that monies collected from taxes such as duties. consumption taxes. petrol
taxes, etc, is more than required to maintain all the roads . but this money goes into the
Government Treasury with allocation on a yearly basis of about 3% of the total budget. whilst
other countries spends approximately 10%. The study also concluded that gas price and
licence fees for vehicles, tolls etc in Guvana is very low compared to other Latin American
countries and the Caribbean
The Project Executing Unit prepared a detailed 5 year road maintenance plan at estimated cost
G$ 639 M of which 40% is allocated to the Corentyne Road. This plan was never acted upon
and hence there is a serious deterioration on the Corentyne Highway. This plan was to be
updated on a yearly basis, based on works completed.
The report suggested that the road division become an autonomous body with the capacity
to attract competent staff and pay salaries that are competitive with the private industries, as
the salary structure of the Government is not enticing. Once this is accomplished the next
task is to retain them to ensure that they are aware that maintenance is of vital importance and
that it is technically attractive. Staff training should take place at all levels based on the
detailed assessment of needs.
Possible sources of financing of the maintenance project as follows:
(1)   Tolls collected at barriers on main roads
(2)   Quarterly tolls tickets to be displayed on windshields
(3)   Road maintenance surcharge on fuel prices
(4)   The selling or letting of existing equipment to private companies for maintenance
(5)   Contribution from agricultural. industrial and mining companies
(6)   External loans
(7)   Road maintenance surcharge on purchase of spare parts and tyres
(8)   An across the board increase in existing taxes, duties and charges on vehicles
(9)   Measures to combat evasion of charges and taxes
(10)  Higher purchase tax on cars
(I 1)  Compulsory loan to the Government by new vehicle owners
Although the above seems plausible 4. is not practical because the Government do not have
enough equipment to rent or sell and number 5 is also not feasible due to the scattered nature
of the agriculture sector and the Government's interest in bauxite and sugar estates. Number
6-external loans is not appropriate for maintenance works and a surcharge as in number 7 and
8 would lead to vehicles themselves being poorly maintained, due to less cash being available
to the vehicle owners. Number 9 and 10 if implemented would only lead to more money
going into the Government Treasury and not into the maintenance fund.
12



Initially it would seem that there is an extra burden on the road users. but if the roads are well
maintained. this will reduce fuel consumption, repairs to vehicles, less tyre wear and less time
consuming travel from distance A to B.
To date the Government has moved to set up the fund, but with limited success noting that
the bank account has been established with nothing more done. The taxes and duties on
motor vehicles and traffic offence fines have been upgraded. and also Custom and Excise
Department has revised the exchange rate to bring it into line with the current rate. Also the
fitness fees for vehicles have been increased in addition to licencing. However these extra
monies are not being used to finance the maintenance but is going into the Government
Treasury. Some maintenance works are being carried out, but due to lack of funds,
substandard works were carried out which in tum has to be redone in a relativelv short period
of time. There should be an advisorv committee comprising of individuals from the Ministry
of Finance, The Private Sector Comiunission, The Transport Industry. The Guvana Consumer
Agency, The Central Transport Planning Unit and The Trades Union Congress. with the Chief
Roads' Officer being the Secretary.
(c)   OFF PORT CONTAINER TERMINAL
The Design of an Off Port Container Terminal and the Creation of a National Port Authority
was awarded as one contract to APEC Development of Belgium. It was agreed between the
Government of Guyana and the IDA to complete the study for the National Port Authority
and to develop prelirminary drawings. cost estimate etc for an Off Port Container terrninai at
Transport and Harbours Department wharf in Kingston.
(d)   CREATION OF A NATIONAL PORT AUTHORITY
This study among other things pointed to the need for the establishment of a National Ports
Authority as a matter of urgency. However, it envisaged that this proposed entity would not
be seen as a traditional public service agency, but rather a fully autonomous one with an
Executive Board overseeing its arrangements/operations. A five (5) year implementation
strategy was proposed, ie. From July 1995 to December 2000 using a phased approach.
Three options were posited in tenns of a model for the effective operations of the established
port.
GAINS OF THE STUDY THUS FAR
Although the National Port Authority was not established in any of the forms purported or
otherwise that initiative led to greater awareness as it relates to its adoption and
implementation of Intemational Martime Standards. Therefore. as a means of improving the
general maritime standards, in 1997 some of the Major International Maritime Conventions
were acceded to. These included SOLAS 1994. the International Convention on Load Lines,
1966; the Convention on the Intemational Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea. 1992;
the Intemational Convention on Standard Training Certification and Watch-keeping Seafarers
1978, as amended and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from
ships, 1973/78.
13



In October 1998 the New Merchant Bill gained passage in the National Assembly thereby
becoming the New Shipping Act. This paved the way for setting up of a Maritime
Administration in Guyana. This agency which would become fuilly functional by March, 2000
has its umbrellas the Ports and Harbour Division which would deal primarily with the
regulatory aspects of the Ports. i.e. Navigational Aids. pilotage and dredging et cetera. while
port operations would be carried out by the private sector. The Maritime Safety Division
would be responsible for the registration of ships and seamen, and casualty Investigations.
The Ferry services are therefore separated from the Port functions as was recommended in
the study. Consequently, the Maritime Authoritv would operate as a statutory or corporate
body with frill autonomv. Essentialiv the revenue collected bv the Ports and Harbour Division
would be used exclusivelv for Ports development. There is private sector representation on
the Committee with responsibility for implementation of the Guyana Maritime Authority.
The areas which require critical attention for the effective administration of the Ports and
Harbour Division in particular in the Maritime Authority and in general may be grouped in
the following areas:
(1)    Human Resources Development and Institutional Strengthening.
There would be need for personnel to be trained. i.e ship Inspectors.
(II)   Infrastructure Development at key port facilities which could be then leased or rented
to the private sector.
(III)  Ridding the Harbour of wrecks which impede safe navigation and the acquisition of
critical equipment to foster port development, i.e. buov tender. tug boats and
dredging equipment.
(IV)  Incorporating the International Conventions into our National Laws and preparing
the requisite regulations f'or the effective implementation of the Maritime Authoritv.
(e)   ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
A contract was entered into on October 10th. 1994 with Environmental Resources
Management in association with David Klautky and Associates to study the Environmental
Impact on the proposed roadway from Linden to Lethem. The contract was in an amount of
US$161,595.00 of which on completion an amount of US$147,151.00 was expended.
The contract entailed to thefollowing elements:
*     Identify and prioritize concerns in relation to the project by the consulting with
Governmental and non Governmental organisations and with sections of the society
most likely to be affected.
*     Identify and assess the biophysical and social impacts of the project.
*     Describe all recommended mitigating activities to prevent, minimnize or compensate
for negative environmental and social impacts.
14



The other issues to be dealt wtith will be
*     Soil survey of road
*     Erosion Potential
*     Inventorise flora
*     Impact of Amerindian communities
*     Influx of people from other countries
*     Direct impacts such as erosion, waste disposal. hunting. blocking of drainage
*     Indirect impact such as deforestation, logging, mining, encroachment of land.
The Linden Lethem road measures about 448km, with surface conditions ranging from an
excellent laterite surface to tracts which only 4 wheel drive vehicles can access, with the use
of winches. If and when the road is completed, Brazil will have direct access to the Atlantic
Seaboard and this will assist them in their exports. cutting out 567km of distance. The road
is expected to bring substantial benefits to the Linden economy and the indigenous people.
The vegetation is forested with tropical moist. montane swamp and lowland forest. The road
passes through two main forest types, white sand forest and mixed lowland forest. At
Wowetta the road emerges into the northern Rupununi Savannah which is seasonally flooded.
The fauna includes 720 species of birds, 232 species of mammals and 42 species of reptiles.
The endangered species include the Harpy Eagle, The Jaguar, the Black Caiman, the River
Turtle, the Giant Otter and the Arapaima (the world's largest fresh water fish). The road
does not pass through any protected areas but bisects an area of forest set aside for the
lwokrama Rain Forest Programme. It also passes through areas used by several Amerindian
Tribes including the Akawato. Arawak. Macushi. Patamona and the Wapishiana. It passes
through cultural sites such as the Kurupukari and Rupununi which should be investigated for
archaeological artefacts before the road is constructed.
The study stated that direct impacts of the road development are likely to be less significant
than the further ranging impacts resulting from improved access to the interior and that the
direct impacts can be substantially reduced through good engineering and design. The direct
impacts includes:
*     Legal and social implications if bisecting the Amerindian land.
*     Direct health impacts of construction workers on local populations.
*     Risk of fire through construction.
*     Potential for road accidents.
The indirect impacts should include:
*     Improve national political cohesion including tighter border and customs control
*     Integration of Indigenous people into the political and social fabric
n     Improved access to local, regional and national markets for agricultural goods
     Greater potential for development of nature based tourism and indigenous craft
     Improved access to medical facilities
15



And on thte other hand
U     There will be increased fire hazards from forest clearance and accidents within the
area of the road.
*     Intensified hunting pressure
*     Intensified wildlife trappings
*     Increased pressure on Amnerindians lands including pressure for food supplies, land
take, acceleration of the acculturation process
*     Health impacts of workers
*     Accelerated development of forestry and mining operations
*     Increased pressure on Government decision making to develop appropriate control
for the economic development of the Interior
Whilst it is clear that a road is needed to Lethem. it is imperative that the Government be
prepared to monitor activities that occur as a direct consequence of the road, in that correct
management mechanisms for the control of the road and its environmental effects are put in
place before any development is initiated.
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING CTPU
On May 3 1st. 1996 a contract was entered into between the Government of Guyana and
Gordon Phillip Bodely of Brazil to analyise the capacity of the Central Transport Planning
Unit with a view to strengthening the unit. The contract was in an amount of US$ 192,584.00
and later amended to US$234,255.00 of which US$ 233,729.95 was expended.
Also on July 18th 1994. and Environmentalist. Ms. Althea Pompey was contracted to assist
the Chief Transport Planning Officer in the Environmental Impact Assessment -of the Linden-
Lethem Road and of the Off Port Container Terminal. She was required to develop an
Environmental Base in the monitoring of the environment. Her input was incorporated in the
Environmental Assessment Study which formed part of the final data base compiled by Mr.
Bodely
Mr. Bodely's contractual obligation was to Develop the CTPU capacity to plan and
coordinate the transport sector investment, to improve the CTPU policy formulation
capability and to enhance the CTPU ability to review and make appropriate recommendation
on transport pricing.
In addition a long tern programme was to be formulated, to design a transport data bank, to
collect all available information and analyse existing plans of all public transport entities, to
update the 1995 transport plan and to train 2 counterparts and put in place procedures and
mechanisms to institutionalise the systems developed.
All of the above was completed and the data bank was established, however the data bank
is not being maintained by the CTPU and staff recommendations were not fulfilled.
16



The staff that were to be emploved are as follows
(I)   Transport Plannin- Officer for economic evaluation and budget coordination
(2)   Transport Planning for traffic and highway engineering analysis
(3)   Planning assistant to manage the data bank
(4)   Three support level staff.
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING - HYDRAULICS DIVISION
TA to HD for Programme implementation and tidal measurement -96 man months. Thirty six
(36) man months were provided under the Programme i.e. the Post of Project Director for
the Project Execution Unit. The Project Director has responsibility for the implementation
of the CDB, IDB and the EEC (European Communities) Programmes.
Technical Assistance (TA)- 108 man months (3 experts from the firm Sir William Halcrows
and Partners for three years) was provided under the EEC Programme.
STAFF TRAINING
APPENDIX E
COUNTERPART FUNDING
APPENDIX F
(7)   LESSONS LEARNT: IRP
(A)   Roads Administration Division
*     Upon completion of the Project, the Engineers in the PEU should have been incorporated
into the RAD but the salaries paid bv the Government were unattractive and therefore the
engineers did not apply to join the division
*     Procurement of a bitumen plant bv the State would have allowed local contractors to bid
for works and increase the competitiveness of the bids and build capacity in relation to
road maintenance.
*     The wide disparity in remuneration paid to top level staff in the PEU as against those in the
RAD [Traditional Public Service] has contributed in some measure to the latter not showing
sufficient interest and getting fully involved in the project in order to provide the required
checks and balances and thus the full protection of the government's interest.
*     The credit agreement should guide the financial operations of the project.
*     The prequalification of contractors could have prevented the unfortunate situation where
three contractors have been used to construct the road.
*     The availability and consequent acceptance of quarry by the contractor could have
contributed to an adequate supply of quarry products for the road rehabilitation and thus
avoid delays in the project.
17



(B)   Sea and River Defences
*     The non involvement of local contractors in the bidding process resulted in the submission
of high and unrealistic bids by international contractors.
*     The lack of flexibility of the loan agreement, which excluded the budding local contracting
industry from bidding, resulted in the inability to conclude a contract under the project.
*     The establishment of a local office wvould have reduced the delays and improved the
procurement process.
*     The use of a firm for technical assistance has proved to be counterproductive when
dealing with companies which could be viewed as their competitors. Individual
consultants would have been the preferred solution in this case.
(8)   LIST OF PROPOSED PROJECTS FOR FUNDING
SEE APPENDIX G
(9)   CONCLUSION
Overall the project development objectives have not been fully met. Both the Bank
(Lender) and Government (Borrower) should share some blame in the management and
monitoring of this project. Even the Auditor General for four years 1993-1996 has given
satisfactory reports until a special investigation was conducted which revealed a number of
deficiencies.
A major contributory factor has been the lack of qualified and experienced staff within the
traditional public service due to inadequate remuneration. No doubt assistance would
continue to be required in developing the institutional structures for comprehensive sector
management and monitoring.
A number of staff trained under the project has left the system for varying reasons.
Decisions need to be taken on a number of recommendations arising out of the studies.
The functions and operations of the PEUs would need to be reviewed in light of experiences
under the project.
18



APPENDIX A
PIPE CULVERTS
Structure                  Type                 Status
IA                         36" dia              Revetment not constructed
iB                         36" dia              Completed
6B                         36" dia              Completed
7A                         36" dia              Completed
63A                        36" dia              Completed
69A                         18" dia             Head walls not constructed
81                         36" dia              Completed
83A                        36" dia              Head walls not constructed
CONCRETE BOX CULVERTS
Structure                  Type                 Status
3A                         4x4                  Wooden Revetment not completed
4                          4x4                  Completed
6                           14x8                Completed
-7                         14x8                 Completed
93                          8x8                 Backfilling and plastering incomplete
13A                        6x6                  Completed
16                         6x6                  Completed
17                         lOx8                 Completed
21                          1 0x8               Completed
22                         4x4                  Completed
26                          5x5                 Backfilling and plastering incomplete
27B                         5x5                 Completed
32D                        7x6                  Completed
42                          16xlO               Backfilling and plastering incomplete
47                          16xl0               Backfilling incomplete
55                         2xSxS                Completed
56                         2x4x4                Completed
61                          1Ox10               Only blinding cast
75                         5x5                  Completed
78A                        4x4                  Backfilling incomplete
79                         4x4                  Completed
87                         2x5x5                Completed
19



PRECAST CONCRETE ARCH
Structure                 Type                 Status
12A                       5x5                 Spancrete Arch
CONCRETE BRIDGES
Structure                 Type                 Status
65                        4 Spans              Deck Replacement
78                        4 Spans              Complete
80                        4 Spans              Complete
85                         13 Spans            Complete
EXTENSION REPAIRS AND REMOVAL
Structure                 Type                 Status
I                         Iron Type           Build head wall and timber revetment
I D                       4x4 box             Complete
2                         4-6x6-6              Box build timber revetment
3                         Timber box           Removed
8                          Iron Pipe           Extended both sides
II                        5x5 Box             Extended LHS
1 5                       Timber box          Removed
18A                       36" dia pipe        Extended
44                         Timber Bridge       Removed
20



APPENDIX B
CLAIMS
*     Additional payment because of unforeseen physical conditions delayed works on structure
42 at Taymouth Manor. The total claim was G$9.173.81 1.
*     Delay due to variation order for Tack Coat ApplicationValue of Claim was G$l3,132,585
*     Delays at Structure 32 B caused by the Engineer's representative. Value of claim was G$
7.041,933.06
*     Compensation for extra compaction at the Devonshire Castle Deviation. Value of claim
was G$16,688.781
*     Compensation for delav payment for Fairfield Deviation.Value claim was and
US$35,813.64
*     Failure to clear the right of way. Value of claim is G$412,108
X    Cost to varied works at structure 87. Value of claim is G$550,998
For additional works at structure 6, Aurora. Value of claim was G$361,910
*     Due to delay sat structure II at Hibernia. Value of claim was G$88.140.00
*     Seeking payment for works partially completed
*     zDelay in isssuing instructions at structure 8. Value of claim was G$575,556
*      )Delay in concrete pour due to additional work on structure 4 Good Intent. Value of claim
is G$244.240
     Delay due to design variation of structure 13 A. Value of claim was G$261.140. and 3.5
days extension to the contract.
*     Compensation for delays in providing instructions at Structure 3A Spring Garden/ Good
Hope. Value claim was G$375,900.
*     Claim due to unforseen obstruction at structure 1. Value of claim was G$244,240.
*     Additional works at structure 7A in Aurora. Value of claim was G$30,390
*     Cost to remove asphalt from road. Value of claim G$2.497,102
*     Extension of time due to non possession of site. Extension claimed was 15 months.
21



*     Time Extension due to the failure of the Engineer to release sites in phase 2.
*     Time extensions due to additional works in the construction of structures 1. I D and 2
which delayed to commencement of asphalt works. Time extension claimed was 17
weeks.
*     Claims for temporary diversion of drains/structure 47. Value of claim G$ 3.361, 546
*     Modifications of works at structure 9, Dryshore. Value of claim G$398,029
*     Modification of structure 26 at Onderneeming. Value of claim was G$1.333. 197
*     Claim for placing dowel bars in the existing concrete at structure I D
22



AIP'IVNUIA Li U
Government Funded Road Maintenance Programme
1999
________________         Area                            Cost GSM
West Coast Demerara and East Bank Essequibo                   6.00
'Canal #2 Polder                                               0.04
East Bank Demerara                                     I       5.001
Mahaica to Rosignol                               _           13.00
Georgetown                                             1      26.88_
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ ___       _ _ _ _ __       _ _ _2        . 8
Total           50.92
Projected Government Funded Road Maintenance Programme
2000
Area     ____              j   Cost G$M
West Bank Demerara                  _                          4.00
West Coast Demerara           _5.00
Leonara to Parika                                             23.00
Canal #1 Polder                                   _            1.00
Canal #2 Polder           _    ___               __1.Oo
Weight Control on East Bank     _      _                       2.00
EastBank - Craig                                               3.00
East Bank - Peters Hall to Ruirnveldt(Quarterly               15.00
General Maintenance                                           13.00
East Coast Demerara                                            8.00
Railway Line Embankment - Weight Control  ____    __ 2.00
Maintenance of verges and Acrow Panel Bridges - Railway Line   3.501
Mahaica to Rosignol                                           40.0
Soesdyke/Linden               _                    _          31.00:
Weight Control Programme- Essequibo                            8.00
Weight Control Programme- Soesdyke                             8.00
Total           167.50
23



APPENDIX D
EquiDment Purchased
Road Administration Division
Date             Vendor      I              Item                             Model                iAmontUSS  Amount G.
i Oct 15th, 93  Neal and Massey    I Nissan Path Finder f_____                           _       _          20,250.00
I Nov 13th, 93  Neal and Massey    1 Nissan Pickups (3)       ___9,25.001
Jan 13th, 94    Nealcomm           ATCTSwitch Board andExts.                                                 1  t,661.19,
j Jan 19th, 94    Ifraser           Battery                        I___-_-_--_I  11,900_        _
F Jon 18th, 94    j Sogie          I Fax Machine                    _                                   j   2,t03.00j
8Feb th, 94   | Fraser            i Battery                       I___._.____1   8,500.L
Feb 14th, 94        Fogarty       j Fans (2)                       _                                               j   6,000.c
Feb 28th, 94    1 Atlantic        I Computer and Printers                     |          __                17,500.00 !
Apr28th, 94    C Laparkan          Photocopier                     _     _     _ _            __            _       1 1 ,177,731.1
iMar 24, 94     Office Depot        OfficeFuriture      ______                   __        _     _       I   4,719.009
Miart4th, 94    Moonesar            Office Furniture    __           __      _      -_                                338,000.C
Apr 1Sth 94    Guvyna Stores       T Jypist Chairs             _  I               ._   _              _ j              76,500.C
iApr20th, 94  _                                                                                                         1GuyanaStores    Desks  _    __ _    _   .  .    .   _i  -_    .  17,000.C
Jul 11th, 94 -  j*Auto Supplies   1Air Conditioners   _    _-,____                                                    240,000.C
Ma 24 th,_94   New Vews            Accounting Software    = ___                                        i     395001
IAor 2?th. 94    i Otifice DeDot 1  Furniture              _      T      _____                               1,589.951
i Jun 2nd. 94 _ Guyana Stores       T pist Chairs       _         4                                            _        25,50CC
Jun hI 0. 94   Guyana Stores       Tyres                  .                                     _   __             I  33.750.C
Jun 7th, 94   _ Atlantic    -       Computer and Printer        _                                           2,770-00!
Jun 20th, 94   Atlantic           13 UPS                                                     _     _        2,625S00 F
Jun 15th, 94   Central Elec        2 Micro Tape Recorders                                                              17,178.c
Jun 20th, 94   Sogie               Deep Cycle Batteries    _3____=__                                        3,972.00
.Jun 16th, 94  Mohamrneds         12 Micro Tape Recorders    __17,560.(
Jul 18th, 94  _  Sogie            Inverters            __       ___. __                                     3,282.00 
Jul21 st, 94   Frasers             3Batteries                          __1  62,500.t
Aug 10th, 94   roucen             I Jack                           _12__               _                               1,883.i
Aug 12th, 94   Nealcomm            4 Telephones           ___   _                                                      67,194.c
Nov 17th, 94   Atlantic            3 Computers                                              __              4,185.00
Aug 24th, 94   Auto Supplies       4Airconditioners    ___                                                            353,000.e
Sep 27th, 94   Haenni              Scales _   _____                                                        35,610.00
Sep 22nd, 94    Auto Supplies      2 Airconditioners                                                                  164 000.i
Sep 27th, 94   Construction Link   Computer Programme                         ___  .       ___              2.356.40
Oct 26th, 94   Guyana Stores       Executive Chairs                                                                    42,000.i
May 25th, 94    American Comp.     Tripplite Stabiliser  _ _                     =  ___                                38,000. 
Nov 22nd, 94    Koac               Chair                                                                               33,000.i
Nov 24th, 94   Modern Office       Cabinet                                                              _ __           58,000.i
Feb 3rd, 1995    SOGIE            Inverter                         SW 4024 4000W                            2,980.00
Apr 11th, 1995   Chas H. Sells     Printing Machine                MEMO 15                                  4,125.93
Apr1 tth, 1995   Chas H. Sells     Core Drill and accessories      DR1305B4             _     __            7,866.00
Apr 11th, 1995   Chas H. Sells     Depth Reader                                __                             850.00
Apr 11th, 1995   Chas H. Sells     Moisture Density Gauge          3430       5_ 5,450.00
Apr 11th, 1995   Chas H. Sells     Nuclear Density Gauge           4640-B                                   8,640.00
Apr 26th, 1995   Kronenberg        Advance for Fire Equipment                                             112,120.00
May 5th, 1995    SOGIE             Toner Develop Cartridge         FO34ND                                    327.00
May 5th, 1995   SOGIE              12 Tapes, 4 Clean Pad, I Pen cleaner                     _                 75.25
May 5th, 1995    SOGIE             12 Minolta Toner                                                          367.25
May 5th, 1995   SOGIE              3 Electric Locks                     _    __      _                       510.00
May 15th, 1995  Stoner Comm.       Two Repeaters                                                           14,547.20
LJune 16th, 1995  SOGIE             3 Laser Toner Cartridge        |HP4L L                                    400.871
July 21st. 1995 _SOGIE            16 Toner Cartridges              NP 3050            _ -_                    572.00
July 12th, 19a95  Atlantic Computers    9 ACER CHIPS           4MB 70NS                                 1,735.00
Julv 21st, 1995   Chas H. Sells    Soils and Lab Equipment (POSTED T  ESSEOUIBO COASr ROA5)                 6,609.00
A   16th, 1995   SOGIE            12 Video Carneras                CCD TR 600                               2,534.45
24



vv~~~~~~~~~~tU4   tlAJiJ                                  Cy fUlCo<ySt CO .R  -
ISept28th, 1995  SOGIE             15HMPTape,5JVCCassette           P6120, PrOTl2O                 _             0.001
Oct 3rd, 1995   1Atlantic Computers    1 Tripplite Stabilizer      ILC2000 220VA                              286.00
Oct 3rd, 1995    Atlantic Computers    2 Toner Catridge      _     HP4L                                       230.201
Oct 3rd, 1995    Atlantic Computers    2 Internal Fax Modem         14.445oltrix                              180.00
I Oct 3rd, 1995    Atlantic Compvters  - 2 CPU                      486DX2/66 CPU                              540.00
Oct 3rd, 1995    Atlantic Computers   1 Printer                     HPLP0044                                  800.00
Oct 3rd, 1995    Atlantic Computers   1 17 Packs Sony Diskettes ( OPP)  1.44 MB 2HD                           222.70
Oct 3rd, 1995   |Atlantic Computers    2 Packs Sony Diskette (25PP)  1.44 MB 2HD                               65.52
Oct 3rd, 1995   1 Atlantic Computers      Freight                  I                                    2     424.00
[Oct 6th, 1995   i SOGIE            12 Triangular Flare Kits      -    _ _                                    51900
I Oct 16th, 1995  'Charles James    AcerPentiumComputer             |75MHZCPU    _   _          _          .   2,71400i
jNov 7th, 1995    SOGIE             36 Light Weight Vests           Lime Green                                 826.40
FNov22nd, 1995  SOGIE               Pavement markers and Epoxy      |                  .   -                 63,000.001
iJan 10th. 1996   SOGIE             Office Itemns                                                             479_ _1 9.20,
Jan 10th. 1996   SOGIE             Blue Line Paper                                                           I 4    .762
Jan 11th 1996   Haennie            10 Scales                       jWL 101                                  57,690.58           i
Mar 26th, 1996   Charles James     I Monitor, CPU                   Acer 7033 1428 Monitor. 4865X21OHDD      1,7t200
[Mar 26th, 1996   Charles James    [ Main Board Acer                I Model # 5322433k                -        420.00  _
1996   KroGnenbura __   Purchase of Fire Trucks __  _ _ |                                    , 1,099,080 00'
*Oct12th. 1996CSOGIE               Trace Inverter       _812SB    _                                            76000
Mar 12th, 1996   Chas H. Sells     Computer Work Station   _         Trig rnmms  odule                       2,075 00 
Iprst, 1996    SOGIE              Traffic Paint and Beads         15 Gallons                                4,752.00. 
Sep 27th, 1996   SOGIE             Brother Fax         __ =625                                                4 =83.34_1    -
Sep 11, 1996    SOGIE              ComputerAccessories_             8MBand24MB                          i      295 95S
Sep 1i, 1996    SOGIE    _  _ -Hard Drive                           WDIG 1.2GB                         7       46988
Sep II, 1996    SOGIE              Self Seal Envelopes              #28      -                          L      458.20,
S11. 1996    SOGIE                 Floppy Drive      __t44 - 311/2Disk                                     _16259
Sep t11, 1996    SOGIE             I Computer Table                     __ _              __      _           882.00
IJul 9th, 1996  SOGIE              1500Folderand30Diskettes                                                    313.22
Jan 9th, 1996    SOGIE             I 0 American Power Conversion                  -      __       _    [   2,150.00
Jan 9th, 1996    SOGIE             110 Surge Supressor              Woods 6 Ouiets        ___          _ _  359.90
Jan 9th. 1996    SOGIE             14 Canon Model                  I MP21 DII/ SKU                     7       331.80       .
iJan 17th. 1996   SOGIE             S 5 yres                         Wrangler                            i   1,350.00            !
Se 17th, 1996   SOGIE              Drum Unit                        NP3050 Cn                                  602.00
Nov 21st, 1996   SOGIE             Scothlite White Yellow and Red   Series 980                               1 1.750.00  _
Nov21st, 1996   SOGIE              5 Tyres                          Wrangler                                 t,350.00 _
Nov 21st, 1996   SOGIE             3 Printer                        _L                                       2,344.00            I
Nov 21 st, 1996   SOGIE            2 Intel Pentium                  100 PCI                                  1,059.96
Nov 21st, 1996   SOGIE              I Intel Pentium                 133 PCI                                    829.98
Nov 2sts, 1996   SOGIE             4 SIMM 72 PIN                    8MB                                        459 00
Nov 21st, 1996   SOGIE             2 SIMM 72 PIN                    16 MB     _.                                     _449_00I
Nov 21S. 1996 SOGIE     ~      Hard Driv~eKit                   2.1 GB                                     679.98  ____
Nov2lst. 1996   SOGIE              2 Hard DriveKit                  1.2 GB                                     827.90
I Nov21st, 1996   SOGIE            12 Trinitron Flat Screen         Sony 15SX _                              1,378.98
Nov 23rd 1995   Haennie           120 SCales          _11                                                         1 WLtO1  ____   113.17 
| Jan 2nd, 1997   SOGIE             Toshiba Tecra      _    _        Pentium 730 MHz                          7,809.00           ;
Feb 10th, 1997   SOGIE             Ink Jet Printhead   __Calcomp IJH _-_                                     1,397.34
Feb 10th, 1997   SOGIE             3Mid tower Case (Partof P   262    Intel Pentfum                            599.98
Jul 8th, 1997  SOGIE               3 Hard Drive                     WD1G                                     3,625.00
Jul 8th, 1997  SOGIE      -0_8HardDrive                             Western Dicital     -       -8 8
Jul3 31st. 1998    SOGIE           CD Writer Plus 7200 1            HP                                       1,275.00
Jul 3 1St, 1998    SOGIE           ParellelPort t                   ZIP                                        230.00
LJu13tst 1998    SOGIE               Zip Disks 7Pack 2               Maxell                                    260.00    _ ,
Jul 3 1 st, 1998    SOGIE          Shipping                              __ _                                  125.00
'Jul 3rd, 1998  SOGIE               Interface formatter I            HP                                         780.00
i Jul 24th, 1998    SOGIE           Batteries 12VX85A   5            DEKA              __                1     894.75
IJul2st, 1998    SOGIE             Pocket Rack 1                   1BOY         __                 __j         175.00
Jun 15th, 1998   SOGIE             32XIDECDROMDrive 3                                                -_   1    450.00       . _
25



ZIP Parallel Port 2                                 -4-6~~~~~~~~~~10. 00;
Jun 15th, 1998  I SOGIE           13.5k Foppy Drive 2              Digital                                   18.0
Jun 15th, 1.998   SOGIE            F7oppy DriveI I1B ________                           __                    05. Do
Ju&n 15th, 1998  [SOGIE            Shipping and Han!dlihM    I__                                             15001
Mar 26th, 1998  LSOGIE             Safety Vest 60                  _______                                  1200
Mar 26th, 1998  LSOGIE             Hard Hot 48                     _____                        ___         1460
Mar 26th, 1998  i SOGIE           IShipping    .-..                i_____-                                   200.00 
!Apr 14th, 1998  i SOGIE           I Black Bush Computer Cart 2    _____________~                            379.901
Apr 14th, 1998   SOGIE            IGeometric Design I             1 1990AA St-TO       ___-___               1650
Mar 30th, 1998   SOGIE            (Overdrive Processor 1I          PentAim                                   399
Mar 30th, 1998 ~SOGIE              Memory 1I_____   Toshiba______                                            16.3
Mar 30th, 1.998   SOGIE            I nterntal Modem 1              US Robotics          -F                   334
Feb 12th, 1998   SOGIE             Portable_Time Clock         _  mano                                       8.50'
Sea Defences
Date        Ven~~~~dor                Item    __                         oe   .Amount US$  Amour
Ar29th, 1994  iTrans,portato Ser-icesNisan4 X4 0/Cab Picku~p    jEnne#220-880952 
26th. 1994   Ato Supplies Suzuki Vitara 4 door 4X4 __  Egn#118513                                        23
jApr 26th, 1994   Auto Supplies    ISuzuki Samurai 2 door 4X4     iEngine #013 BA675102                                1.315
994  !Auto Supplies       Suzuki Samurai 2 door 4X4       En_qme #G138BA61524.5     -                         1, t
Apr 2nd. 1994 Auto Spplies      uzk  aridor4X            __Ene#16B 615997 2  ......,2
Oct 10th, I9947Computer Traders   Imicro Computers                Desktop7,965.001
Oct 10th, 1994   Computer Traders    Toshiba Note Book C~o_mputer                      .     ___2,8~00. ooF1
IOct loth. 199    Computer Traders    Printerso1                                                             75.0___
Oct I10th, 1994  -Computer Traders   L2 Printers            ___Canon Bubble Jet           ____-              600.!&___
Oct 10oth, 1994  -Computer Traders   IColour Printer         ___HP Paint Jet       -~______  28000___
Oct 31st, 1994   Courts            11 Air Conditioner Units -- - 8 Peakes and 3Kenmore _______   __                I    8
Ap r27th, 1995   Au~to Supplies   t2Air Coniditioner Units  ___    ______---______                                   __
{May 5th, 1995   Computer Traders    6 four drawerfiling cabinets -   __________                              __        2
Apr 26th, 1994   Computer Traders   [8 Surge Protector             ______           -     ___120.00
Apr 26th, 1994   Comp-uter Traders   12 Legal Tray and Envelope Feeder   ______           _____              390.00
Apr 26th, 1994   Coinputer Traders    5 APC Smart 600 UPS                                -2,475.00 __
Apr 26th, 1994   Computer Traders    2 He wielt Pa ckard Printer   Laser Jet______I    4,100.00  __
Ap  6h,19    Computer Traders    2 APC Line conditioner    ___  R 1250                 _______               500.001 __
Apr 26th, 1994   Computer Traders    3 Automatic Switch Boxes_______                     _____               525.001
Feb 2nd, 1996   British Steel      Reward               ____  Computer PrE,arrn                            2,440.00
Mar 12th, 1996   Delft Electronics  Breakwater_____ Computer Programme                                     6,255.00
Mar 23rd. 19,96   Computer Traders    Colout Monitor  _____  S VGA                                         3,030.00
Mfar 23rd, 1996   Computer Traders    Computer                    Toshiba T2130_______                     2,450.00
mar 2.3rd, 1996   Computer Traders    UPS              ____  Smart 1000                   _____              625.00
Mar 23rd, 1996   Coinputer Traders    3 UPS___ Smart 650                                 _____              1,380.00
Mar 23rd, 1.996   Computer Traders    2ULne Conditioner     ___  APC 1250o-                                  480.00
Mar 23rd, 1996   Computer Traders    Surge Protector       ___  Strips 250_____                              240.00
Mar 23rd, 1996   Computer Traders    Auto Cad Work Sain____                                                4,375.00
Mar 23rd, 1996   Computer Traders    3 Laser Printers  _____   ______                    __    __         3,585.0
Mar 23rd, 1996   Computer Traders    Colour Plotter___ Design Jet___-                                      7,725.600
Mar 25th, 1996   Computer Traders    Auto Cad                     Prgam                  ______4500
Jul 2nd. 1997    Crown Agents      12 Filing Caiets     ___        _________                              31,890.09 __
Dec 19th, 1997  ACME General Store  Video Camcorder___ RCA                             ____                   __    155,1
(Dec 19th, 1997  ACME General Store  Single Reflex Lens Cmera____ Canon_____                                           95,i
IDec 19th. 1997  ACME General Store  Overhead Projector  _         Scotch      ______7,
IDec 19th, 1997  ACME General Store  Clide Projector____  Kodak                         ____________
1Dec 19th. 1997  ACME General Store  Lens for Slide projector      Kodak-_ __    ___
1 F~eb -25th, 1998   Computer Traders    3 Printers                HP 6P Laser Jet      ____                 1,797.00___
Feb 25th, 1998   Computer Traders    Upgrade computers            Pentium 166              __   __          ,0.0
________________ Telephone  System_ _ _ _ ___ _                                            _ _     1,4
____________   ________________   Fa   M achine                                       To aI1_                _
___Lotal   92,792.0-9    1 1,3
26



APPENDIX E
Staff Training
Name         }7Course                         ______-nount G$S   Anmount U
SeIAn Magn             Autocad Training__                 ___
Prataap Persaud     Procurement and Accountin     _ID_ __     __ IOA Paid
LLoyd Ganesh          Procurement and Accounting _--___                              IDA Paid
AMamta Chandarpaul    1Procurement and Accounting __                ___              IDA Paid
Frank Bassier         Contract maintenance                  _ __                                3.80C
Donald Walcott   _    Asset management                                                          3,6C
Donald Walcott        Contract maintenance                  _5,20C
Edgar Kendag        __ Mobilising financial resources for Local Government                     4,16C
I Keedmat Budhu       IContract Maintenance                                                 :   3,3C
_        _   _  _d _t Deodat....  _    _ _    __ __ ._ _ _   ._ .   .    _  __ _    _ ___ __ ...............g.............. . .  .n o po ae  i_ B_e~   contr_._          _..   . __      _
_gdat Deodat          Paradox Training, Technical Assistance, Data Base Trainin   _Iincorporated in Bodeley contr,
Barbara Cole          Paradox Training, Technical Assistance, Data Base Trarn ng_- Incorporated in Bodeley contr.
Selwy   a nPraorann,-ehiclAsitn-  Da-a--ase Training   Incorporated in _o_y
Selwyn MaGughn        Paradox Training, Technical Assistance, Data Base Training    Incorporated in Bodeley contr,
Leon Goring            Paradox Training, Technical Assistance, Data Base Training -   Incorporated in Bodejy contr,
LLoyd Ganesh          computer courses in DOS and Lotus 123   ___                     5,000
Maharani Sukhnandan   Computer courses in DOS_and Lotus 123  _                        5,000 _
Oslyn Reddock_-    |Computer courses in DOS and Lotus 123      -                   _  5,000O
Marlene Bollers     - Computer courses in DOS and Lotus 123                           5,000     _
Pamela McAdam         Computer courses in DOS and Lotus 123    -                      5,0001
Netri Ramchal         Computer courses in DOS and Lotus 123     _                     .5,000
Karen Stoby         _ Computer courses in DOS and Lotus 123  5_  _         ___   -5000 
Karen Scott            Computer courses in DOS and Lotus 123   _5,000 
ChanmattieBridgelall   j Compute courses in DOS and Lotus 123   __ _                  5,0001     _
Elizabeth Jarvis _    Corputer courses in DOS and Lotus 123  __                       5,000
Dwarka Nauth          Coastalstructure breakwater in  ______ --                   t -4 f         45
_Sheik Yusuff         Integrated coastal zone management                              ___    5,24
i A. Dalrymple         Des   cartography   ____                                                 8,50
|R. Bhookmohan         Desktop cartogEpy __           _  _                                      8,50
0. Persaud            Coastal and marine enviromentpollution prevention                         3,50
Strenghtening and maintenance of Civil Engineering
George Howard        LStructures                                                               36,34
L 7



APPENDIX F
Counterpart Funding
Foreign     Counterpart
1997            Funds        Funding
G$M           G$M
Essequibo Coast Road                 300.00       84.00
Technical Assistance - CTPU           14.00       0.00
Administration and Supervision        28.30       18.90
Total               342.30      102.90
Equivalent US$                        2.445       0.735
1998
Essequibo Coast Road                 550.00       65.00
Road Maintainance Project             70.00        6.20
Technical Assistance - CTPU            3.00       0.00
Administration and Supervision        32.00       31.00
Total               655.00      102.20
Equivalent US$                         4.68        0.73
1999
Essequibo Coast Road                 245.00      100.00
Road Maintainance Project             20.00        5.00
Administration and Supervision        15.00        8.50
Total               280.00      113.50
Equivalent US$                         1.75        0.71
28



APPENDIX G
LIST OF PROPOSED PROJECTS FOR FUNDING
*     Removal of wrecks from the ships channel and other areas in Guyana's water.
*     Rehabilitation of wharves in the Berbice River.
*     Rehabilitation/ Construction of the road from Parika to Makouria.
a     Rehabiltation/Construction of road from Cradbwood Creek to Orealla.
u     Rehabilitation/ Construction of road from Anna Regina to Mainstay.
v     Rehabilation of stellings in the Essequibo River and the construction of a stelling at
Supenaam on the Essequibo Coast.
a     Rehabiliatation! Construction of road New Amstedam to Mara.
*     Rehabilitation Construction of fifteen (15) briges and Culverts on the Essequibo Coast.
*     Rehabilittation/Constructioni of road from Patentia to Kamuni. W.B.D.
*     Rehabilitation of road from Capoey to Mashabo Esseauibo Coast.
Ministry of Public Works & Communications
Wights' Lane
Kingston. Georgetown
Guyana
29






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24266R
t    _%,                                 ~~~~GUYANA
t _< AlX N~~NFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT'
4    /   \ ;/ 5          9                   ~~~~CIVIL WORKS
s    {~~~  -XOR7Af  ~~~~Ku..6o
t  \   1n_   1                        JS                          ~~~~~~~~~~~ATIICTP
4   {STOWAKAIMA                 /        ~~~~~~~   ~    ~~~~~P2sag  PtbtEGRI
kso\ <( SPNAM                                       GEOJiTOWN
\                                    Mi,ne S,    |~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  VSETEEI N    OESDYK  rJnC i
-   \  /                        -         S[1 / a         _EBIN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IfW
REHABILITATION COM UPUNNS |yo                                                                 himURPS  >A 
REAILT RODREAIMPATONE      C        0/        
SEA DEFENSES                               
FINANCED BY CDBJ A/ 
MO    ROADS                                                                         0 =  1j ( 9O l   201  3o  4,0  so  4'
FINANCED BY IDB                                                                       0J'<V lt\   20   40   60   80
ROADS                   /82 u          b                         X        \KILOM&ETERS
PRIMARY ROADS          LETHEE                           K         ;-              ;5
-SECONDARY ROADS           (                  
-TRACKS                     {9         ys
-RAILROADS                 }         (J3t 
NATIONAL CAPITAL           WlHAbAI S                           
O  TOWNS                            /\                     
*  INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT     Rr_                SHALTO/~< 
li PORTS                               f     AIHLO)                                     4 
=2PIVEPS                                                             L       C    
-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  0        5LMDA                           f    
7,Jss__            4 Ti~~~~~A N r,                               ) 
g  s  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...1 ..                                 ~s  f Th. Wderd r,d6 ofnc.k
>< B R A Z I L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B  R  A    Z    I L  RA  IL-ot 5dTeWol onk Gou
g 11 P E R U ) bO>i>>   (   l l                                            su~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ch boundor-s
MARCH 1993



