Docum-eotof
The World Bank
fOR OMCU  USE ONuy
ReportNo. 11164
PROJRCT COW"TEION REPORT
BOTSWANA
FOURTJ EDUCATI[ON pROJtCT
(LOAI 2644-B4)
SEPmTjEg' 18, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:11164 BT    Type: (PCR)
Title:  FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT (LN 2.
Author: CHAI, H-C
Ext. :31727 Room:T9011 Dept.:OEDDI
anceBumA~Resources D1vis8f0r
,~~~~~~~~~
It cotet AfmyoOt Dewareprut
Afri~~~~~~ Regiois6edWihot 0li fsicae.



HCAL Y1EAR
April I through March 31
5CYmi EQUB%Av
At time of Appraisa (1985) = US$1 = Pula 1.95
At time of Completion (1992) = US$1 = Pula 1.95
I LQABX
AfDB         African Development Bank
BEPU         Boipelego Education Project Implementation Unit
CJSS         Community Junior Secondary Schools
FrE          Full-Time Equivalent
irc          Industrial Trade Testing and Training Center *
MFDP         Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
MLGLH        Ministry of Local GovernMent, Lands and Housing
MOE          Ministry of Education
NDP          National Development Plan
OED          Operations Evaluation Department
PCR          Project Completion Report
SIDA         Swedish International Development Agency
VTCs         Vocational Training Centers
(* flfC is now known as Madirelo Training and Testing Center (MTITC))



FOR OJMCJUL Use ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of OlrootorGsmral
Op.veons Evalaton
September 18, 1992
ERANDIDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Botswana Fourth Education
Project (Loan 2644-BT)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Botswana Fourth Education Project (Loan 2644-BT)" prepared
by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
Ths documen ha a resticed dtbutdon and may be used by reciiens only In the pefomanes of
#te offHh  duis.  s cotes may not therws be diclsed wthou Woud Btank suthoadon.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PRO-T  COtgJ]NRLEPO
Y
TAML OF£NEt
Prefe ........................................                                        i
Evaluation Summary ........................................ iii
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTI               ....................... 1
P r        o     je         c                        n      ity ...................................   1
Project Background ...................................  1
Project Content and Descrption ................................... 2
Project Drign and Organization ................................... 2
Project Impeeion              a...................................  3
Major Results of the Project ....................................    4
Project Sustainabity. .................................... 
Bank Performance ....................................  5
Borrower Peformance ..................................... 7
Project Relationship ...................................  7
Consltdng Sevices ...............                                              7
II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE.                                      8
m.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ..........                  ................  10
RelatedBankLoans    ..........................  10
ProjectTimetable ..........................   11
oan D.bu.e.en...........................  11
Project Implementation ...........................   12
Projec Costs & Fnancing ......      ..........................  13
Project Results ..........................   14
Compliane with Loan Covenants ..........           ................  19
Use of Bank Resources ......... ....   ......................  20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their ofcial duties Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Annex 1-    Names ofOfficials Met DuringMission .       ......................... 22
Amnu2-    SummaryofCivilWork    ComplebonbyYeaes ....................... 23
Annex 3 -    Expnditures on Education from the Nationl Budget - 19186 thru
1990191 in PULA'00 .....................................,24
Annex 4-    Record of ProsressReports Submitted ........................... 25



- i .
BOTSWANA
EURTH EDUCAS[ON FROMMC
ams  2644"B
ITis is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Educafion Project in
Botwana, for which Loan 2644-BT in the amount of US$ 26.00 million equivalent was
approved on June 30, 1985. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1991 as originally planmed.
The last disbsement was on November 7, 1991. US$ 23.69 million equivalent of the Loan
was disbursed; the balance, amounting to about US$ 2.31 million was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Operations Division
of the Southern Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and I), and the
Borrower (part UW.
The PCR is based, j=  a. on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan Agreement;
supervision repars; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; Progress Reports by
the Borrower; and interviews with Bank staff and Botswana Government officials who were
closely associated with the project.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLON
FOURTH ESlCAl1ONPO
am 264-l
£YALUAfION SIaRx
,vc Qedes and Content
1)           Tbe project's long-term objectives wee to meet Botswana's priority needs for
eading access to nine years of basic education and to expand employment-oriented
tecmical and vocational education. Specifically, the project aimed at: a) expanding primary
education through the construction and fumishing of about 500 classrooms and related
faclities in nine districts, b) increaing access to junior secondary schools by establishing or
expanding 32 junior secondary schools, c) expanding technical and vocational education,
inclun apprenticeship training by establishing two new Vocational Tra     Centers (VTCs)
and an Industri Trade Taidng and Training Center (FITC), and d) improving educational
quality through the provision of instructional materials.
emenadon Exerience
U)           Overall, project performance was satisfactory. lbe project was implemented
eentily as planned with no changes in project composition, a small (1.2%) cost overrun,
and within the origina Closing Date. Over 91% of the loan was disbursed, the remaining
balance, amounting to about $2.3 million equivalent, was canceled (Part m, Table 3). lhb
canllation occurred in large part becase the Government substitu  its own funds for the
Bank loan and did not bother to submit mbursement applications. The project design was
reladvely simple and uncomplicated. It was implemented by the Boipelego Education Project
Implementation Unit (BEPU), a unit established under the Ministy of Education for the
implementtion of three previous education projects. BEPU liaised with the Ministry of Local
GovernmeM, Lands and Housing (MLOLH), which has responsibility for primay education.
Standard designs developed by BEPU (for the junior secondary schools and the VICs) and
MLOLH (for the primary schools) were used throughout. On the whole the buildings are
simple, functional and in the case of the primary school classrooms, affordable for
communities to replicate. With the completion of this project, the Ministry's target of
achieving universal basic education is virtually attained, and the Government is taking
measure to integrate BEPU more closely with the rest of MOE.
Ruuts
ill)         The project reinforced and complemented the Bank's assistance under three
precding education projects. In stricdy quantiatve terms, the project has achieved (at times,



- iv -
even exceeded) its appraisal targes In regard to the three principal components of the project:
a) primary school classrooms (construction, equipping and furnishing of over 500 classrooms
and related facilities); b) construction, equipping and firnishing of 32 junior secondary
schools; and c) construction of two VTCs and a trade testing and training institute. hese
facilities have provided direct benefit for about 60,000 additional primary school places, close
to 11,000 student-places in junior secondary schools and over 750 student-places in VTCs.
Similarly, according to the Ministry of Labor under which the institution operates, the r1C
is operting at full capacity: in 1991 alone over 3,000 apprentices and trainees attended
workshops and courses of various durations at rfTC (Para. 13).
iv)          While the project has thus achieved its quantitative targets, it had only a
margina impact on in respect to improving educational quality or strengthening sector
Institutions. Only less than 5% of project funds were allocated for textbooks or other
instructional materials for enhancing educational quality. In retrospect the project was rather
deficient in this respect, notwithstanding the Government's response that educational
"software" was deliberately left out of the project design as the authorities felt at the time that
these could be obtained through bilateral sources, often on a grant basis (Para. 14). While
some of the anticipated bilateral assistance did materialize (e.g. USAID), most of the others
concentrated on the provision of technical assistance and fellowships and not so much on
school inputs.
v)            The three stdies successfully completed under the project constitute another
Important benefit of the project (Section il, Table 9). Those studies covered a broad-ranging
area including the cost-effectiveness of technical and vocational training, Post-secondary
manpower require    , and relationships between frmal and "nonformal" education. The
results and recommendation of those studies, according to government officials were used
widely as in-puts in the development of NDP VII.
Onabpjq
vi)          The project institutions are likely to be sustained for the foreseeable .: ture as
integral parts of the country's educational system. Most of the factors identified by OED as
important preconditions for sustainability are present, including: sound project design, a
relatively problem-free project implementation record, adequate funding for recurt costs
and clear policy and institutional commitment from Governmentl/ The Go-'ernment's
commitment is evidenced by the relatively high share of public recurrent and development
budget allocated for the sector in the past and for the coming Plan Period (NDP VII).
Finally, the Government has already begun to mo1ce budgetary allocation for   of
educational institutions in the country (including those established under this project) (Para.
15).
F7indi= nd Lm=son Learned
vii)         On the whole, all project components were fully implemented, with no major
Implementation difficulties. All project Insttions arc likewise fully operational. The main
JL/ The Sustinability of Inbstment Projects in Education. OED, December 28, 1990, p. vii.



- v -
deficiency of the project is that it did not address adequstely qualitative and institutional
Issues. It was unduly skewed toward expansion of physical facilities for the reasons discussed
in Para. 13, and Para. iv of the Summary, with virtually no provision for training or staff
development, and only limited provision for instructiez. materials or other school In-puts.
viii)         Lessons derived from implementation of the project include the following:
(a) There should be an appropriate balance between support for expansion of physical
facllitieL and qualitative improvement of the system. The project underscores the ..ed for a
holistic approach to project design, where needs for physical expansion, quality improvement
and strengthening strategic institutions in the sector are properly balanced (Para. 17).
(b) The project confirms the need for a careful and systematic consideration during
project generation of the location of project institutions, especially technical and vocational
instittons (ra. 17). Because of Its location in a remote part of the country where the
commercial and industrial infrastructure is still weak, the Maun VTC has found it difficult to
insute an effective program of industrial attachment. It is now seeking to re-orient its
programs to tourist and fishing-related industries for which Maun apparently has a
comparative advwtage because of its location in the Okavango Delta. It is too early to
determine to wbat extent its new orientation will succeed.
(c) ithe project underscores the need to carefully review and assess the resources -
human and material - available to regional, district or local jurisdictions which are expected
to implenient major components of the project (such as construction of primary schools), or to
even collect the necessary documentation for preparing withdrawal applications (Para 17).



PRO.IEC  COMIL1EMO  ' R
BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDULCATION PROJECr
PART 1: PROJCBE= FROM B'S EWSPE
A.           Idmiit
Name:               Fourth Educatiun Project
Loan Number:        2644-BT
RVP Unit:           Africa Region
County:             Botswana
Sector:             Population and Human
Subsector:          Education
B.  Pm ed B3aoui
1.    Sector DMment Obiectives: At the time the project was identified, the Government's
Fifth National Development Plan (NDP V) was coming to an end. The objectives of that Plan had
been to speed up economic diversification, to generate employment and income opportunities,
especily in the  ral areas, as well as accelerating manpower development. The goals of ND.P V
had bee retarded by a series of setbacks such as foot and mouth dLsease in 1981-8Z, decline in the
price of metals, and more significantly by decline in the price of diamonds, by far Botswana's main
source of revenue. By the time the project was appraised, the economy had   ntilly recovered,
with the budget In sUrplus and current deficits at manageable levels. The Government had a sizeable
foreign exchange reserve and a good credit standing.
2.    Poicy CoQt. In 1985, the Government of Botswana approved its Sixth Development Plan
1985-91 (NDP VI) in which the lack of skilled manpower was identified as a major constraint to
economic and social development. Given the rate of population growth and the lack of employment
opportunities in the traditional (rural) sector, the number of unemployed and underemployed had
incresed significany. At the same time, there were critical shortages of high- and middle-level
manpower which was essential for the country's social and economic development. The educational
objectives of NDP VI sought to achieve a balance between equitable access by aU groups to geal
(basic) education, while expanding employment-orieted technical/vocational training.
3.    Project Ubjectives. Consistent with the policy framework discussed above, the project's
specific objectives were as follows:
a.    expanding primary education beyond the 83% participation rate prevalent at the time;
b.    increasing access to lower secondary schools;



o.    expanding techncal/vocational education, including appreticeship training; and
d.    improving the quality of educadon at all levels.
4.                     Project. Seor NW  M    Policy Objectives. The project was largely
successful i linking project, sector and macro policy objectives. As Indicated above, the country at
the time of appraisal cetd qevere shortages of skilled manpower, whle at the same time, there was
unemrloyment among primary school leavers who were unable to find places In post-primary
nsittions. The project sought to address these twin problems by (a) expanding vocational education
through the establishment of Vocational Training Centers, awd (b) expanding access to nine years of
basic education, by establishing new Junior secondary schools.
C.    &jeCt nQ         and Description
S.    Project Components. As appraised the project included the following components:
a.    Ed=  Education. (i) Construction of 500 primary school classrooms and related
facilities, including teachers' houses, sanitary facilities, office/storage and kitchen
facilities; and (ii) production and distribution of the first edition of new textbooks and
teachers' Guides developed for the raised curriculum;
b.    Iqnir Seodar. (i) Construction and upgrading of 32 junior secondary schools, with
a total capacity of 11,000 student places; (ii) provision of reference books and
resource materials for teachers and students in 69 Junior Secondary Schools;
C.    lghWcal and Vo oatip  Training. (V) Construction, furnishing and equipping of an
1ndustrial Training and Trade Testing Center I'ITC) in Gaborone for coordiating all
industrial and training programs as well as for training, testing and certification of
skil training; and (ii) Construction, furnishing and equipping of two Vocational
Training Centers (VTCs), located in Palapye (310 training places), and Maun (290
training places).
d.    Stuies Specialist services and operating cost to conduct four studies to address
issues pertaining to: O) cost-effectiveness of vocational and skill taining in Bot_aaa,
(ii) The relation between fbrmal an non-formal education and training and
employment expectations and opportunities, (iii) investment options in post-secondary
education, focusing on manpower requirements and cost-recovery, and (iv) altradve
construction techniques to enhance low-cost school construction; and
e.              A. (i) nine (9) man-years of L,piaflst services in accounting for
the Ministry of Local Government and Lands and Housing (MLGLH), (i) sixteen (16)
man-years of services of clerk of works, (Mii) two and half (2.5) man-years of
specialist services for the studies referred to above, (iv) two (2) staff-years of
specialist services for architectural and engineering services and for pre-investment
studies, and (v) one man-year (1) of services for a project director.
D.    Pro Aigrn and irgatigon
6.    Nothwitanding the shorcomings discussed in Para. 14 below, the central thrust of the
project as well as its design and organizaion were appropriate. In fact, the project's principal



-3.
obJectives of improving access to primary eduction and expansion of lower secondary sclhools, were a
contion of previous ank ssistance to the secr. The project thus complemeted and enforced
the Govenumeet's previous efforts to expand secondary educat}on (under the First Education Project,
Ln. 1274-BI) and to Improve access to primary education (under the Third Education Project (Ll.
2057-BI). Primary education being under the Ministry of Local Govenment, Lands and Housing,
the project was pardy under that Ministry. The remaining pordons (unior secondary and
technical/vocadonal education) were under the Ministry of Education and the rfTC was under the
Miistry of Labor. In retrospect, the project design was somewhat deficient in not having devised a
coordinating mechanism between these Ministries which were responsible for the implementation of
the two major components of the project. Inadequate coordination between BEPU and MLGLH
hampered to some extent processing of withdrawal applications and preparation and submission mf
audit reports. The rVIC component was also implemented under the overall supervision of MOE's
Boipelego Education Project Unit (BEPU).
E.    ProjectIWpementation
Critical Variances in Project Implementationl
7.    The project was implemented essentially as planned with little (1.2%) cost overrun and within
the original Closing Date. Over 91% of the Loan was disbursed, the remaining balance, amounting
about US$ 2.3 million equivalent was canceled.
8.    The project was prepared and processed quite rapidly. It took only 13 months between the
time the project first identified and the time it was approved by the Board of Executive Directors.
And it became effective only a month after Board approval (Section m, Table 2). The project was
mplemented by BEPU which also implemened other Bank and ADB projects. BEPU liaised with the
MLGLH for implementing the prim-ry school components.
9.    Contracts for the primary schools was awarded on the basis of LCB, as the contract- were not
atractive for international bidders on account of their small size and scatted sites. Standard designs
developed by the Government was used throughout. All specifications and instructions were given
directly on the drawing for simplicity. Supervision of construction was handled by District
Authorities, with overall coordination of the MLGLH. On the whole the design and constuction of
the building was carried out satisfactorily. The buildings are simple, cost effective and have already
been widely replicated by communities in some parts of the counay. In retrospect, closer attention
should have been made on site planning to maximize proper use of the laM. Some contractors,
especially in remote areas , defaulted mainly because they were unable ;o handle the size of their
contracts. On the basis of experience learned from implemenation of this project, to avoid awarding
conOtr  to those who do not have the resources and technical capability to carry out the terms of the
contract, the MLGLH has now registered contractors according to their capability and resources.
10.   Contcs for the JSSCs and the VTCs/WC were awarded on the basis of ICB, in accordance
with Bank guidelines and procedures. A common design was used for all the instiutions, with only
minor variations for the VTCs. The designs were improved in the course of implementation,
particularly in regard to cooking facilities, toilet areas, and outdoor teaching areas. On the whole, the
buildings are simple, funtional, and as far as the Completion Mission could determine, affordable
and replicable.
11.   Contracts for the procurement of primary school classrm fiurniture was included with the
contacts for construction of the classrooms. While tis had the advantage of synchronizing the



- 4 -
completion of civil works with the supply of furniture, it nonetheless resulted in uneven quaWity both
in respect to the marials used as well as the workmanship of the furniture. Future projects should
review the advatages and appropriateness of combining the two contracts. This situation did not
arise in the case of classroom furniture for the CJSSs and VTCs as the contracts for furniture were
awarded separate'v from the civil works contracts.
F. 1yior Results of the Project
12.   As discussed in Para 4, the project had three major objectives: (a) In accordance with the
recommendations of the National Commission on Eduction, to expand access to nine years of basic
eduction, (b) to expand access to lowei secondary education (community junior secondary schools)
and (iii) to expand vocational/technical skill taining.
13.   In respect to its first objective, the project has accomplished fully its quantitative objectives as
follows: (3  .M=n rySchools: As shown in Secton HI, Table 8, the project met at least in
qunitative terms, its appraisal target of constructing, furnishing and equipping about 500 classrooms
and related facilities in nine districts, essentially as originally planned, thereby increasing primary
school enrollment by almost 60,000. (ii) Commniq  Junior Secondar Scho. Again, the project
met its quantitative targets of constructing, equipping and furnishing 32 new CJSSs throughout ihe
country, thereby providing the benefit of a nine-year basic education to 10,800 additional students.
The Goverment has not yet implemented the 6-3-3 structure as originally recommended by the
National Education Commission (the structure of the education system is one of the topics to be
discussed by the receady established Eduction Commission). Nonetheless, in terms of total number
of years, the basic education cycle presently under implementation remains 9 years (7-2), as
envisag'.d when the project was designed. (iii) Skill Training. The project has also met fully its
objectivus of establishing two new Vocational Training Centers and an Industrial Training and Trade
Testing Center (rrTC). Enrollment at one of the two Project VTCs (Maun) is somewhat below the
appraisal target - 245 compared to a planned target of 290), in large part because the institution was
located in a rather remote part of the country with limited industrial or commercial activities for
indusial atachment. On the other hand, the enrollment target for the other VTC (Palapye) has
already been exceeded (current enrollment is 486 compared to an appraisal target cf 310). Because of
the rather unique nature of the courses it offers and the clientele that it caters to (courses of various
duration ranging from a few days to a few weeks; the course participants vary trom workers intending
to upgrade their skill to those who attend courses in preparation to their being tested to determine
their skill level in a particular trade), it is difficult to estimate the full-time equivalent (FME) number
of students attending the MTFC. In 1991, about 3,000 apprentices and trainees attended workshops
and courses of various duration. The Ministry of Labor, under which the institution operates,
indicated to the Completion Mission that the institution is operating at full capacity and expressed its
satisfaction with the services offered by the institution.
14.   While the project has achieved (or sometimes even exceeded) its quantitative targets, it had
only a limited impact in respect to qualitative improvement and instition building. While some
library books, and a limited amount of pupils' textbooks were provided, in retrospect the project was
rather deficient in this respect. In hindsight, more project funds should have been utilized for
providing various quality-enhancing in-puts, such as instructional materials, teacher/staff upgrading
corses (ocal or overseas), training head teachers, school supervisors and other key educational
personnel. Less than 5% of the Loan was earmarked for this purpose. In discussions with
Government authorities at MFDP as well as at MOE, the Completion Mission was told that
Government had deliberately given priority for hardware (I.e. construction of new insttions), as the
Government believed that it could find other sources, especially grants from bilateral sources) to



-5
flnce raining and even for procurement of instructional materials. The USAID assistance, which
was on-going at the time of appraisal (and was still on-going at the time the projec compledon
mission was in the field), in currlculum development and preparation of istructional matials was
cited by the authorities to support their position. An intnsive dialogue with the Borrower should be
undertken to ensure aSholistic approach to project design where the project would give adequate
provision to expansion, quality improvement and strengthening of institutions in the sector.
.                                                                                 ,~~G
G. PoectM Sustnabilin
15.  ITe project istitutions are likely to be sustained for the foreseeable future as integral parts of
Botswana's educational system. Ihe project contains most of the principal factors identified by OED
as necessary conditions for sustainability for eduction projects. Ihese include: sound project design
and relatively problem-free implementation; adequate funding for recurrent costs and clear policy
support from the Government.l/ The Government places major ;mpbasis In manpower
development. This commitment is demonstated by the consistendy high proportion of the
Government's recurrent budget that is allocated for education In the past (Annex 3). This
comnmitment is even stronger for the years ahead, judging from the planned allocations for education
during the coming Plan Period (NDP VII). For instance, for the Fiscal Year 1992-93, the
Government has allocated the highest share of its recurrent budget to education. The same applies for
the Development budget, where the share of education (8%) is the second highest share for all
sectors. With regard to the VTCs, continued demand for skilled manpower and industrial support for
the apprenticeship programs at the IllC contribute to the sustaibility of those institutions. Finally,
the Goverment has already began to include budgetary provision, albeit at a modest level, for
maintenance of buildings and facilities in the sector. The Completion Mission was assured by the
authorities ihat these provisions would increase in the coming years.
H.    Bank Eubnow
16.   Mair Sng and Wealmness. As noted in the Government's contribution to this report
(Pa I, Pamr 21), Bank staff contributed to the successful completion of the project through close
ad supportive working relationship and professional advice. Eight supervision missions were fielded
during the five-year implementation period (1986-1991). While the frequency of the missions may be
somewhat less than the average for education projects, the missions proved to be adequate and quite
effective, in large part because of the problem-free nature of the project, and pardy because of the
strong leadership provided by the expatriate project director. A case may be cited to illustrate the
professional and collaborative relationship that Bank staff maintained with the borrower. As noted by
the Borrower (Part II, "aras. 18-20), early during the implementation phase when the Goverment
decided to Implement nlre years of basic education, it became clear that less expensive school desis
and construction materials than those used in previous projects would have to be utilized if the policy
is to be Implemened nation-wide. Using "savings* from a previous Bank project, the Bank accepted
the Government's proposal and cottaborated actively in financing two "pilot schools" to develop more
cost-effctive construction designs and building materials. The designs developed in these "pilot
schools" were eventually used both by the Bank and AfDB for the new Junior Secondary Schools
financed under the project and an Af)B project that was financed concurrenidy. While these are
some of the positive feaures of the Bank's performance, its record is quite weak in respect to helping
the Borrower develop local capability for project implemeion. After four successive projects thut
date back to 1976 (Part m, Table 1), BEPU is still dependent on the expariate director for vrtuly
11    lbe SusLinabilt of Investment Priects in Education, OED, December 28, 1990, p. vii.



^6-
ail aspects of project implementation (eg. proJect accounts, technical/architcural srvices, etc.).
While inadequate local capacity is a generic issue in Botswana that has to be addressed broadly, and
even at a national level, the situation is particularly acute at BEPU. It is further exacerbated by the
limited and inadequate provisions in the Project for staff training and capacity building for BEPU and
the sector as a whole (Para. 31).
17.   LagM La              For fture projects the following lessons learned from implementation of
this project may be of value:
(a) Ihe project confirms that the Bank's assistance for education and training should contain
an appropriate balance between support for expansion of physical infrastructure and qualitative
improvements of the system. In this case the project focussed almost entirely on expansion of
physical facilities with very little provisions for qualitative improvement of the system (ess
than 5% of the loan). There was no proAsion for training of counterparts to take over from
expatia  funded by the project (Para. 15). While the project's strong emphasis on civil
works was rather typical of education projects of the period, and perhaps appropriate in view
of the Government's plan to universalize nine years of basic education, in retrospect a more
balanced support for quality upgrading and institutional strengthening would have been
appropriate as wealmesses in these areas were recognized in project preparation documents.
For instance, as already noted, in spite of over 15 years association with BEPU, the Unit is
still heavily dependent on expatriate staff.
(b) The project confirms the need for careful attention to 'ocation of the project insdtutions.
This is partic-tlarly true of the vocational training centers (VTCs) which is extremely
dependent for its success on its ability to obtain appropriate industrial atachment for the
stdents in the apprendceship phase of the program. The difficulties experienced by Maun in
fuily utilizing its fAcilities is mainly as a result of lack of suitable opportunities for industrial
atachment in the Maun area (Para. 13). The authorities are attempting to have Maun VTC
concentrate on skldl training related to the tourist and fishing industries for which Maun
appears to have a comparative advantage over the other VTCs on account of its location in the
Okavango Delta.
(c) The project underscores the need to carefully review and assess the resources available -
human and material - in jurisdictions outside the central Government (eg. district, regional,
etc.) where such jurisdictions are expected to be responsible for implementing major project
components. In this case (as in many others) primary education is a district responsibility,
and as such the District Councils, under the overall umbrella of the Ministry of Loca
Government, Lands and Housing were responsible for implementing the primary school
component. Shortage of qualified contractors with the requisite resources led to many
contractors to default on their construction contracts and to abandon their sites. In the end
MLHLH was forced to use some of its headquarters staff (augmented with temporary workers
hired on force accounts) to complete the classrooms, thereby avoiding a potentially disruptive
situation. In retrospect, the capabilities of the districts to implement such a large construction
program should have been assessed more carefully and systematically. Also, as indicated in
the Government's portion of this report (Part II, Parm. 30) on the basis of the experience
gained in the implementation of the primary school component, MLGLH introduced this year
a requirement that all contractors should be registered in one of nine categories on the basis of
their capability and resources. MLGLH's expectation is that henceforth only qualified
contractors with the requisite resources will be able to tender and win government/districts
contract, and that this will reduce if not elimte contractors from defaulting. The project



-7 -
also underscores the need to strengthen the capability of local goverments in regard to other
aspects of project implementation (e.g. collecting the necessary documentation for withdrawal
applications).
I.   }o
18.   All major project covenants were complied with (Part m, Table 10), although delays were
encountered in fulfilling some of them (eg. submission of audit reports). In retrospect, better
coordination and more frequen joint meeings between BEPU and MLGLH could have expedited the
collection and processing of withdrawal applications for reimbursement of expenditures incurred in
the districts, as the preparation of properly documented withdrawal applications, particularly from the
districts, was perhaps the single most frequent weakness encountered in an otherwise very satisfactory
project performance.
J.    Project Relationship
19.   Bank staff and officials of the Borrower involved in project implementation enjoyed a sound
professional and working relationship. lbis contributed to the successful completion of the project,
without any major issue or delays.
K.    Consltn Serices.
20.   Architctr  and engineeing services for the "pilot schools" (Para. 15) were developed by a
private architectural consulting firm in collaboration with BEPU. The performance of these
consultants was good, and as already indicated the designs developed during this phase was used with
some modification for all JSSCs in the project. No other major consultants were used.



-8-
PART]II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIE
A. Mbd= of MC3dun (Boipeeig-o Pr-oiet ImpemenW Unit
(For the Junior Secondary School, VTCs and nTC)
21.   Bank's Perfomace and Lessons Learned. Bank staff on supervision visits were professional
and und ng. The missions were scheduled regularly and up to very late in the implementation
phase of the project were carried out by persomnel with a vast local experience, locally, a definite
advantage. The lesson learned is that continuity in personnel is very important for successful
implementation.
22.   Likewise, the appraisal mission was effective and the documents were well prepared and
useful. A special subject of concern was furniture for primay schools. Previous experience wihi the
Third Education Project (Lu. 2057-BT) made the Bank suggest that these constiuted an itegral part
of the building contracts, a suggestion reluctandy accepted by MLGLH, but which later proven very
successful. For the vocational Training Cents, the contribution of the Bank was very significant in
relation to design and plaruing.
23.   Borrower's Evaluation of Own's Perfrmance. The overall performance of BEPU has been
reasonable. The task has been very big and without the dedication of the Bank, consultants, other
Government bodies such as the Planning Unit (MOE), the Miistry of Finance and Development
Planning, Electrical Department and the Project Unit's own clerk of works, this would not have been
possible.
24.   An important lesson learned on the Borrower's side from previous project was the necessity
of a change in concept of Junior secondary School. It has been found necessay to expla in detail
the changes in the paragraphs below regarding the (1) design and (2) implementation.
Design of the Community Junior Secondary Schools (CYSS)
25.   The early part of the Second Education Project made use of sturdy durable but unfortuately
complicated and expensive design. When the Government decied on a nine-year basic education for
all children of the relevant age-group, it was agreed to simplify the design in order to reduce
consucdon costs. Using fiuds saved from the Second Education project, the Bank agreed to finmace
the construction of two schools on a pilot basis to test the new design. The new brief was reduced
both in scope and specification as was the number of faciities.
26. It was decided to use a rotational system and build lockers In lieu of a 'Home Classroom".
The buildings were suited to the changed curriculum and provision of a mlitipurpose hall to cater for
the various practical subjects introduced into the curriculum. Consderation was also given to the
proposed new educational structure of 6-3-3 instead of the existing stucure of 7-2-3.
27.   Taking all these proposals into consideration, a new design was developed by Arc
Plaming Studios in collaboration with BEPU. The pilot projects in Maun and Hukusi were
tendered in June 1985 and following this both the African Development Bank (ADB) and the World
Bank embarked on projects in cooperation with the Governmen The ADB decided on a project
covering 16 new schools and replacements for three existing schools. The World Bank did the same
thing but on a larger scale with 8 existig schools and 24 new schools. Both projects made use of the
design used for the Pilot Projects, but inorporating suggested changes made by the users.



-9 -
28.   IW plp. The previous projects were implemented one at a time, over a number of
years. The necesity of spreading Junior Secondary Schools rapidly to the whole country meant an
increased number of schools to be built every year, hence the need for combined contrac. The
Bank's performance was excellent during this transitional period, with its suggestions for
modiflcations as needed and its willingness to do retoactive flnmcing.
S. Ministry of Local Government. Lands and Housing
(For the Primary School Component)
29.   CM  Agdk. Defaulting contractors posed a serious problem during the implemeion
period. As a result of the experience gained in the implementation of this project, it was decided that
with effect from Ist January, 1992, all contracoors wishing to work for Local Authorities should be
required to register with the Ministry of Local Government, Lands and Housing. On the basis of
information provided by contractors on an application form for registration, the contractor's capability
is evaluated by the Ministry and then contrctors are registered in an appropriate category. There are
nine categories with the vaiaes ranging from Pula 75,000 (lowest) to Pula 3,000,000 (highest). lt is
expected that this newly introduced registration of potental contractors will help ensure that only
competent contractors will be able to take up contracts with the Loca Authorities.
30.   Also as a resut of implementing this project, the Architectural and Building Unit of MLGLH
Is being strengthened with the help of SIDA. ITe Unit is expected to develop standard school designs
appropriate for the various districts, and also to bring about some uniformity in consution unit costs
among the local authorities.
31.   Lesn Lamd. Among the many lessons acquired as a result of implementing this project
(some of which were referred to above), there are at least two that were particularly critical for the
longterm sustainability of the project.
a.    In reatspect, the project should have addressed more directly the Government's
responsibility for mair of the facilites. Perhaps some mechaim should have been
put in place as part of the project to ensure that the Local Authorities provide adequate funds
in their recurrent expenditure budget for mainenance; and
b.    Also in retrospect, the project should have included staff =ainWg  (eg. accountants,
architecuWal technicians, etc.), as well as office equipment and vehicles for the MLGLH. In
short, the needs of this Minstry which was responsible for implementig a major component
of the project (primary school) was not taken into account adequaty at the time the project
was designed.



- 10-
PART m. STA3=AL INI:OR MA
A. RELATED BANK LOANS
Table 1: IBRD LOANS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
LQan Npmber         P~~ums of Prjet       Sau          Comments
Proect Tidte _APZovl___                                      _ 
La. 12744BT     1976       Secondary school     Completed    Project objectives
expansion, teacher    3/82        achieved satisfac-
training; adult &                 torily
rural education
LA. 1828-BT     1980       Community Junior    Completed    Except for the
secondary schools;    6/87        Brigades which
Brigades/rural                    were delayed by
vocational centers                2 years pending
status of Govt.
decision on the
Brigades
program, project
was completed
a ____________  ,__________                                   satisfactorily
La. 2057-BT     1982       Primary Education,   Completed    Project completed
Education m                primary teacher      3/87          satisfactorily
trainMg
Ln. 2644-BT     1985       Vocational training;   Completed    Successfully
Educadon IV                primary schools,     6/91          completed
clSS



- 11 -
B.    Project Timetabe
Table 2; PLANNED, REVISED AND; ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECr TIMETABLE
IThM                                                       AZfPLANNED  ACTUAL
DATE                           __E
Reconnaissance         6-7184            6-7J84                6-7/84
Identification         11/84              11/84                 11/84
Appraisal              5/85              5/85                  5/85
Negotaons              10/85              10/85                 10/85
Board Approval         12/85              12/86                 12/85
Credit Effectveness    1/86               3/86                  3/86
Project Completion     12/90              12/90                 12/90
Closing Date            6/91              6/91                  12/90
32.   Comm n   l-le. The project was implemented over a five year period. There was
no extension of the Closing Date. Final disbursement from the Loan took place on November
7,1991, and the remaining balance of about US$2.3 million was canceled.
C.    Loan Disburse nnt.
able 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
_(US$ Mulion
Bank FY       '86    '87    '88    '89    '90    '91    '92
Appraisal      1.5    7.8    15.3   21.3   24.7   26.0    -
Estimate
Actual         -      -       6.80    18.3   20.5   22.4   23.7
Actual as % of   0     -0     26.0   70.3   78.8   86.1   91.1
the Loan
Date of final disbursement: November 7, 1991
33.   Comments on Loan Disbursement. Disbursement started very slowly. There was virtally no
disbument during the first two years of project implementation, even though Bank supervision
reported of award of contracts during that period, and contractors were being paid out of Government
funds. Reimbursement applications were received by the Bank only during the third year of
implementation. The intervening time was used to gather the neceary documentation supporting the
withdrawal applications. This was especially the case with the primary school component which was



- 12 -
being implemeted by the various district authorides, on whom MOE and MFDP depended for
colectng the documeon needed, in accordance with the Bankc's guidelines axd procedur. As
indicated earlier (Para. 32), about $2.3 million equivalent of the loan was not disbursed and was
subsequenly canceled. The cancellation occurred in large part becae the Government substiued its
own fuds for the Bank loan and did not bother to submit reimbuent applications.
D.  EM=k1Md
Table 4: PLANNED AND ACrUAL COMLEON DATES OF COMPONENTS*
PS,OJECOROET    MANNED    ArUL                               MD=IH O
CQNk X  CQOMdLETION DELAX
1. Pdm schools
(500 classrooms &
related faclities)                12/90            12/90               0
2. Junior Secodoar
(32 Schools and
related facilities)               12/88            12/88               0
3,VocaotW TraiEzning
a. rT:                              4/88             4/88                0
b. Maun VTC                         3186             6/89               1S
c. Palapye                          4/88             5/88                1
F-URNlUF] &k E OIDPME3r
a. Primary Schools                 12/90            12/90                0
b. Jr. Secondary                   12/88            12/88                0
c. Vocationa1 Training and
Trade Testin                     4/88             4/88                0
etas for thre vwious project componeas are Ahow                          _
34.   Cmotents on  j12  Inqplementaon. Delays occurred for individl contruss (as in the
case of Man) but overal yearly targets were met from 1987 onwards. The delivery of furnire to
the Mann WTC was delayed to coincide with the completion of the facilities. Overall, the project was
implemend as planned, within the original Closing Date, and wifth viuly no cost overrun (only
1.2%). All project components were completed, an undisbursed funds totaling about US$ 2.31
mfllion was canceled.



- 13 -
E.    Project Cost aud Financu
Table S PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Million)
I. aiSiS WQri
a) Primary Schools      5.4       3.6      9.0   8.1        5.4     13.4
b) CJSS                 9.2       5.6      14.8   9.3       4.6     13.9
c) Voc/Technical        5.6       2.8      8.4   4.9        2.4      7.3
EI. Furniture, equipment,
vehicles, textbooks  3.6       1.5     5.1    4.2        1.7     5.9
m. Consultants&           0.7      0.4      1.1.   2.5       0.9      3.1
Tech. Ass.
IV. Unallocated           4.3      0-5      4.8    0         0       0
Less Taxes        ____    -  !47                 L                -
TOTAL NET TAXES    29.7         13.7    43.4   28.9        15.0   43.9
35.   Comments on Prolect Costs. Total project costs (net of taxes) were about 1.2% above
appraised esmates. There was a cost overrun of about 49% on the civil works component of the
primary schools, but this was offset by cost underrun on the civil works component of the JSSCs an
the VTCs/rTIC.
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)  _
ELANNED                    ACrUAL
IBRD                              26.0                       23.7
GOVERNMENT                         18.0                      20.2
TOTAL                             44.0                       43.9
36.   Coment on Prject Financing. There were no co-financiers. The Government was able to
make initial payments to contractors and suppliers and claim the appropriate reimbursement from the
Bank. However, not all eligible expenditures made by Government, particularly for the primary
sdhool component appear to have been claimed. As a result the Government's portion of the Loan
was about 12% higher than the appraisal estimate. About 91% of the Loan was disbursed, the
remaining (amounting to about US$ 2.3 million) was canceled.



. 14-
Table 7: ALLOCATION OF LOAN OF PROCEECDS
(US$ Million)
C4AM=)X            5g3iL ALLQ Anl                    AML
DISBUNRSEMtENT
ia. Priary                            6,500,000                 7,312,945.83
lb. CJSS                              8,700,000                 8,300,479.17
Ic. Voc.irech                         3,000,000                 3,766,230.68
U.Furniur,
eupment, books, and
vehicles                            3,500,000                 3,425,387.27
M.Architect. Serv.                      400,000                    74,435.41
IV. Consultant Serv.                   1,200,000                  809,331.79
Unallocated/Canceled                  2,700,000                 2,311,189.85
TOTAL                        26,000,000                26,000,000.00
37.   Cgommnts on Allocation of Loan Proceeds. Disbursement of the loan got off to a slow start.
There was virtually no disbursement for almost two years after the loan was declared effective. This
was largely because of Government had sufficient resources cf its own to pay suppliers and
contractors. It usually took the Implementing minstries a long time to gather the necessary
documentation to support withdrawal applications. The situation improved markedly toward the latter
part of project implementation. At the time of project completion about 91% of the loan was
disbursed. US $2.31 of the Loan was canceled.
F.    Pjecit Result
(See Tables 8a, 8b and 8c, pp. 15-17)



- 15 -
Tabea± DIRECT BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
A. Junior Secondarv chools (Enrollment)
APPAISALCURN
__NIOR _        _400 _ _               TAhGET           J2LLML
NEW SCHOOLS
1. Letlhanke                               240              240 1480)*
2. Middlepits                              240              240
3. Kane I                                  360              360 1480)
4. Mabutsane                               240              240
5. Gaborne                                 480              720
6. Mochodi                                 360              480
7. Molepolele                              360              360 (720)
8. Lentsweletau                            360              480
9. Serowe                                  480              480
10. Bobonwona                               360             380
11. Selibe Philkve                          360             360 (480)
12. Pafa!ye                                 480             480
13. Shakawe                                 240             240
14. Masunga                                 240             240
15S. Maftngwan                              360             360 (720)
16. Nswazwi                                 240             240
17. Tutume                                  240             240
18. Francistown                             480             480
19. Nate                                    240             240
20. Orepa Govemment                         120             120
21. Maitengwe                               240             240
22. Jwaneng                                 480             480 (720)
23. Gabane                                  360             360 1720)
24. Sehitwa                                 360             240 (3601
25. Makolojane                              480             480
26. Mepong                                  480             480
27. Molopo River                            480             480
28. Kuamanyane                              240             240
29. Mauntila                                240             240
30. Thamapa                                 480             480
31. Mathiba                                 360             360
32. Thamapa                                 480
TOTAL                                    11,160           11520
Figures in parenthsis refer to actuai enrollmen including expansion achieved with Governrnt
resources and other donors.



- 16-
B. Number of Mrinee Places in YTC9 and ITTC
|   ME OF NINITUIN         TRAINgE PLACfj:         CURRENT NUMBER OF
l                        ~~~~~~~~APPRAISAL, JAR=f  STUDENT PLACE
1. Industrial Trade
Testing Training                       240
Center (ITC),
Gaborone
2. Palapye VTC                           310                    486
3. Maun VTC                              290                    245
***lTIC runs a number of short and long term training for apprentices and trainees both at the nlTC
facilities In Gaborone as well as various VTCs and Brigade Centers. Ihe courses run between 3
weeks and 6 weeks for trainees and between 3 days and 6 days for test groups, i.e. those attin
some Trefreher* courses before they sit for skill certification tes. In 1991 about 3,000 apprtices
and trainees attended various workshops and courses. Because of the nature of the courses, it is
difficult to esdmate the Full-time equivalent of these trainig programs.
C. NUBER OF PRWARY SHQOL LLACES                       us= nEPROJECT
(By District)
NAMr OF DIMT=                 MAR S!CHOO                                     l
ENROLLMENT Al               E1NROLLMENT
1 . North East                           7,076                     12,147
2. Central                               55,294                   101,623
3. Kgatleng                               9,070                    12,642
4. Kweneng                               33,320                    45,210
5. Southern                              45,733                    25,724
6. South East                             5,088                     8,014
7. Kgaagadi                               5,139                     7,624
S. Ghanzi                                 2,669                     4,619
9. North West                            16,722                    20,940
TOTAL                           180,111                    238,543
38.   Comments on the Direct Benefits of th Proect. In strictly qualitative terms, the project has
achieved ts maJor objectives. As shown in the Tables above, enrollment targets for pimary schools
have been exceeded in all nine districts. The same applies for the number of classrooms and related
facilties provided for the primary schools in the nine districts referred to above. 'Me project has also



- 17-
met ully Its target of etablisWi  two new VTCs and a Trade Tsting ad TraIning Center.
Altough the ollmentarget ha not be  reached for one of the two VTCs (Maum), the target has
bee eceeded in the cae of the second one (Palapye). Because of the signiflcant expansion under
the project of the Community Junor Secondary Schools, the Government's strategy of providing a
nineWoa cycle of basic education is becoming a virtual cerinty. ITe project has also benefitted the
sector in respect to the three important studies completed under the project (rable 9). Tbe technical
assistne provion, although limited generally to the project unk (architets, engieedng services
and accountants), has also been fMlly utilized. Perhaps the most significant benefit of the project was
it contribuon in developing standard school designs for both primary and junior secondary schools.
The desgns used In these project schools (particularly the primary schools) can now be seen
replicated by various communities in many parts of the country. Even the junior seconday school
designs are being used by the Government and other agencies (eg. ADB) for new schools. On the
other hand, the project had only a limited impact on educational quality and instition-building. The
Government's emphasis on constuction of new facilities, with little consideration for quality-
enhaing inW-put was appardy deliberate (Pars. 11). But, it appears, in retrospect, that the Bank
and the Govern t should have given more conside,tion to addressing qualitative issues, in the
ntrest of enhancing the benefit derived from this p ject.



- 18-
Table2: PROJECT STUDIES
Purpose as DeAU4                      Imua&LOfmdx
at Aogisal
a) Cost-           To es8mate cost per  Completed    The major
effectiveness of   graduate for various             recommendations of the
VocationDal and Skll levels of vocational          study were incorporated in
Traiing in         and technical skill              the Master Plan for
Botswana           training programs                Technical/vocational
3ducation and would be
implenmted under the
NDP VII Plan period
l________________                (1991-95).
b) The correlation   To estimate the   Completed    Recommendations of the
between Formal and  supply and demand               study are under
Non-formal         of trained technical             implementation.
education and      and vocational
training and       manpower in
employment         various skill
aspirations/opportun  categories
ities            .__ _
c) Post-scondary    To study and       Completed    Recommendations on the
Education:         recommend policies               expansion of technical
manpower           and priorities for               education at the Polytechnic
requirements and d)  high-level                     and the University have
Construction       manpower training                been accepted;
Technology and     at the University                recommendadon on
cost recovery                                       expansion of secondary
education is still under
consideration.
d) Construction    Pilot study for     Not          Although the study as
Technology     developing          completed    originally conceived was
appropriate                      not undertaken, some of the
technology and low               underlying ideas are being
cost building                   tested in ongoing school
materual                         construction programs
39.   Comments on Studies. Three of the four studies were completed and served as important in-
puts to developing educational plans and targets. While the fourth study, on "Constuction
Technology" was not formally conducted, many facets of the issues that were intended to be studied
were in fact pursued informally.



.19-
G.    Status of Credit Covenans
Tabl§ 1JQ COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Have accouns audited, and submit a     In full compUlance,
ertified copy of audit for each fiscal year,  although audit reports were
4.01          within 6 months of the end of the Govt's   often submitted lawe.
.__________    fiscal  year.                           ._      . _._l
Schedule V    Submit bi-anmual report on progress of  Substtially complied with
Para. 2       implementation
Submit annual development plan and     Substantially complied
budget for the construction of primary  with; as local costs were
Schedule V    school and an annual report for previous    not a problem in Botswana,
Par 3         year's work                            covenant was not
particularly critical
Schedule V    Provide a satisfactory program for training  Fully complied with. Plan
Para. 3       teacher/librarians and ensure their   submitted and training
placement                              completed.
Schedule 5    Furnish satisfactory evidence ihat key  Complied with fully
Pam. 8        positions at the VTCs have been
established 
Schedule 5    Appoint appropriate agencies to coordinate  Stntally met All
Pars 10       and conduct the studies.              studies (except one) have
been completed.



-20-
H. UseoftkRMrces
Table 11: STAFF IN-PUIS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
(In Staff-Weeks)
Sb=  of Proect          P1ame                  RevisedIAa
g o..  Aca                                HQ__  A,    HQ ' _d
Through          21.1       10            21.1        10       21.1     10
Apprisa 
Apprsalto        37         8             37           8       37.0      8
Board     ,, 
Board approval
to Effectiveness    2.4     -              2.4         '        2.4
Supervision      35.2       22.6          35.2       22.6      35.2    22.6
40.   Comments on Staff n    . Staff in-put especiafly during the early stages of project
processing was sgnificanty lower than the average for the period: only 21.1 s/w were utilized for
project preparation (through appraisal). This was pardy because the project was a repeaer project
a  also becas Govermnent had made a reasonably thorough preparation prior to appraisal by the
Bank. Similarly staff in-put for appraisal was quite low, only 37 staff-weeks, confirminkg the rapid
pace with which the project was processed - it took only 13 months between the time the project was
identfied and the time it was approved by the Board, as shown in Table 2 (Section III).



-21 -
Tae12.Z MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
MIS      MSO NNQ,QF
HE=    PERONS I/    WEEKS
Rcoonss.    6/84    2 (AGE)           2             Pormance Status2/
Ideatf.       11/84   4(A,E,GE,VE)   1.5
Appraisal    5/85     4(A,E,GE,VE)   2
TotalNo. of S/W IntheField:    7.5                G      P      M       F
Spn. I        1/86    2(A,GE          1.5        1      NR    1        1
Spn. II       11/86   2(A,GE)         2          1      NR    1        1
spn. m       7/87     1(GE)           2          1      NR    1        1
Spn. IV      2/88    2(GEA)           2          1      NR    1        1
Spn. V        10/88    1(A)           1.2        2      NR    2        1
Spn. VI       11/89    1(A)           1          NA     NA    NA       NA
SpaVI        5/90     1(A)            1.5        1       1     1       1
Spn. vm       11/90   2(A,GE)         1          1       1     1       1
1/ A= Architect; GE= General; E= Economist; VE= Technical/Vocadonal Educator.
2/ G=General Status; P=Procurement; M=Management; F=Financial; NR=Not Rated;
NA-Not Avalable



- 22 -
A. Migist of ria         . an 2 mn VOW   fMFDPI:
1.      Mr. Lk     Moh                   Seretay for EScomic Aftd
2.      Mr. M. Ngldl                     Dirctor, Development Poram
3.      Mr. J.S. Data                    Ptinoipal Fnanso Officer
4.      Mr. Erio Odoti                   Senior Eoonomist (Sooil Socors)
S.      Mo. Beatlioc Mea.                Plannig Officer
6.      Mr. S. K. Siakwmava              Sr. Ptinoipal Acuntat
2. Mnistrv of Educeation (MOMI):
1.      Mr. P. V. Sephuma                Deputy Permanent sewtay
2.      Mr. Fabick M. Mawela             Chief EducaUon Officer (Secondazy)
3.      Dr. Wlli Karow                   Chief Educaton Offica (Tecuhcal)
4       Mr. P. S. Matis                  Atng Senior Padnng Officer
S.      Mr. J. Moepi                     Senior Educaton Officer (Techical
7.      Mr. Niol Lindhardt               Diector, Boipelego Education
1mpenzntao  Uni
3. AQMisr of Local oermn.L&and and Housinuz (MLGLH)
1.      Mr. L L. Mukokomni               Ag. Permanet Seretauy
2.      Mr. S. B. Nmang                  SeniorArchitect
3.      Ma. Ciuderel Minea               Fiance Officr
4.      Mrs. A. M. Somolekae             Prima Educaton Prouremet
Offiocr
S.      Mrs. Bonny Molisiwa              Senior P   g Offcer
6.      Mr. Per Sovang                   Planning Officer
4. MWitr of Labor and Home Affairs
1.      Mr. Mr. Thenbo Lebango           Commissioner of Labor
2.      Mr. B. R. PaW                    Deputy Commisioner of Labor
3.      Ms. G. Muzila                    Ag. Sr. Pbnning Officer'
4.      Mr. S. Kebakdle                  Panning Offer
S. Prolec lnatltlon
1.      Mt. Heinrich King                Prncipal, Maun VTC
2.      Mr. Stee (Steve)                 H _edmater, Shawe CISS
3.      Mr. Jurem Muler                  Principal, Palapy VTC
4.      Mr. Fsher Muler                  Ass. Pincipa, Play VTC
S.      Mr. Hans Banspach                Director, Madirlo Tlhiing and
Testing Centor
6.      Mr. Mpaph Thbon                  Deputy Director, Madirelo TIC
7.      Mr. 0.G. Paballwg                Hadmaster, CISS, Pncsown
S.      Mr. J. Kabapetse                 Headm,aster Chambona CISS
9.      Mr. A. N. Mudziag                Hadmar, Metusha, CJSS
10.     Ms. M.K. Moatawag                Dputy Headmaster, Marang CISS



23 -
SUNK=R OF 0ClVq,S COMPLLISON BY YEAR
Total Comtoltion in A    acmuated Peroentae bo Year           flgefm
'pmnennnnq ________R.E~JDD.~A.&!A91U9JI                          ______n
19_88        9_87J     1190
---e- -- -- e -
A ~jg~g~              -   25    25    SO    50   75    75   100    100    4SI Cls" rooms oonVlete
S2o10el                                                                      In Deo 1990. Planned
About 500                                                                    sohodule was followed
lessroome
d relaed
facm_                                                                        __ __
a Jiunb         20    8   40    40    s0    100   80             100            ANl 32 schoolsonmpbet in
R .I                                                                         Oeo.1988 (following tarWt
1ohools                                                                      sot after appraIsl).
About 31
schools of
fa_ _es                         .
C Vooationai
-VTC Maun              a30    40    100   86            100                  Complete In June 188.,
with a 15 months delay
^VTC
Plpy         25    0   70    75    100   100    .    .         .             Complete In May I PaS,
with 1 months de"a
ITTC         26    0   70   76    100   100             .      .             ComphtI in Api 1988, on
m    -  m m  -       m      -      -      -~~~~~~~~~~~tm 



-24-
Annex 3
plTUREMM N EDCT0IFO TE
NATIONAL NUDGET - 19851816 TRU 1990191
PULA 'Q
.                             1_             1   .   -----                   1' loan
_ _ _               E 96  _xp_  EXP                               AV.-IL   ^ 9
1. Headquarters       1,124 I1.11    1,816 (1.1)    1.97201.1)     2,484 40.9)     3,920 (1.03     3.667 (0.6
2. T*chNo. Ed        4.826 (4.6S   16.084 (8.9)    13.847 (7.41    it.693 (.63    20,368 (6.0)    28,271 (6.41
3. numws             10.087 49.61   11,858 17.01    a418 47.21    16,S25 (5.81    17,707 (4.43    21,523 44.9)
4. Non4_ou            2.237 42.13    4.240 12.6)    2.965 (1.61    3.768 41.33     4,467 (1.13     4,698 41.1)
5. COE                1.373 11.3)    2898 (1.7)     3.390 (1.8     3.296 11.21     3,712 40.93     S.776 41.33
6. UTS              46,725 (43.01   57.026 (33.73   72.16 (39.0    906.433 (34.3)   117.665 (29.21    159.474 (36.43
7. P_$wy Ed           7,187 46.71    8.100 (4.8    10.860 46.8)    18.919 46.7)    37.346 49.3)   26.202 (60)
a SocondaryEd       19,276 168.13   46.037 (26.7)   4S.066 (24.7)    85,031 (30.6)   133.535 (33.21    117,843126.91
9. iaoer Ed           4,026  I3.8)    6.531 (3.9)   6.908 3.2)    10.397 (3.7)    17.249 (4.31    14.019 (3.2)
10. Udverdy Ed       10,660 (9.9)   18.448 t9.71    15.246 421    25.962 19.2)    4.8   t11.6S   66.993 413.0)
Totd EducatIon    106.402 (100.03    169.035       166.156        201,517         402.904         48.66
Total NWLl Budget   624,828        927.416       1.160,830      1.599,196       1.882440        2,422.212
1% of hat Budget          (17.0)         (18.2)         (16.61         (17.6)           421.4)          (18.13
FOOWTNOTE
1. U1S - Unfd TeachIn SepAo
2. CDE * Cunlhdu m  evlopm  nd Evalwuton
3. Expenue fgur am acbal. except 1990/91
4. V118 en         kWdnuadet   eaese for d mrwy, Sendat   nd Teae EducaIon
6. Natnl Budget fiuw   cude Debt S   n Pebnso  ad _Orttl  _rd  _     _celeous whIbh b about 101 of totl Budget



~~~~i~<
Ia            I 
,i  lliifi     Eiiii    XI
~ i
I~~    @  @i   jijiZj  ii| 
111 I X      I 't  I I X   '  



