Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
ReF72 tN. P-4158-BT
.7-
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$26.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
November 20, 1985
Thb disaeumt bm a reiuletd dhrb&udsa mud my be =We by redpiefts only in thme peifeasmmesof
ther ladWi dude  3 cga= my nO sihewie be dlsd  widtm  Wel Bak auhoihmu.



CU REC IM       TS
US$1.00       =   Pula 1.95
Pula 1.00     =   US$0.51
ABBREVIATIOES
ALDEP - Arable Lands Development Program
EEC    - European Economic Community
CJSS   - Community Junior Secondary Schools
NDB    - National Development Bank
NDP    - National Development Plan
ITTC   -  Industrial Training and Trades Testing Center
TGLP   - Tribal Grazing Lands Policy
VTC    - Vocational Training Center
Covernment Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
:'  ,    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UILIC OF BOMAR&
FOUR   EDUCAO ON PROCT
L" AMD PROJCT S W
Borrower:                  Republic of Botswana.
Amount:                    US$26.0 million.
Terms:                     Payable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace,
with standard variable interest rate.
Purpose:                   The project would support the Government's
educational reform program and its prime goals
of improving access to primary and secondary
education and making the system more responsive
to the needs of Botswana's economy. The project
would provide 500 primary school classrooms and
31 new, replacement or upgraded junior secondary
schools, especially in rural areas where school
facilities are often inadequate and
overcrowded, besides textbooks and library
books. Through the financing of two new
vocational training centers and an industrial
trade testing center, the project would provide
timely support for the establishment of a
national program of apprenticeship training and
trades testing with which most of the major
agencies and private enterprises wilil
progressively be involved.
Benefits:                  The project would provide 20,000 primary school
places, 11,100 junior secondary school places,
and about 900 places in the new vocational
training centers and trade testing center. The
introduction of new curricula, and ongoing
donor-assisted programs for quality
improvements, would be enhanced by the project's
upgrading, replacement and expas ion of
facilities, particularly for the teaching of
science and practical subjects.  Through its
focus on relatively neglected rural areas, the
project would support the Government's plans to
improve equity in the access to education and
equalize a fees burden at present borne
disproportionately by parents in rural areas.
The project's support for vocational training
and trades testing will be pivotal to the
creation of a national apprenticeship program
that is expected eventually to meet about 80
percent of the country's skills needs.
I This document bas a restrited dstribution and may be used by recipients only in the p-rformance of |
their ofFacial duties. Its oontest may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- li -
Risks:                     The usefulness of one of the project's
vocational training centers will depend on the
successful development of the remote north-west
region in which it is located. Although the
region's economic potential has yet to be
realized, it has been given priority by the
Government, and a number of important
investments have already been made or are under
preparation.
Estimated Cost
US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
1. Primary Education                               2.8       5.6        8.4
2. Junior Secondary Education                      4.0      10.8       14.8
3. Vocational and Technical Training               1.5       3.9        5.4
4.  Studies                                        0.1       0.3       0.4
5.  Project Administration                         0.1       0.1       0.2
Base Cost                                    8.5      20.7       29.2
Physical Contingencies                       0.8        1.8       2.6
Price Contingencies                          5.0       7.2       12.2
Total Project Cost                          14.3      29.7       44.0
Taxes and Duties                            (0.7)       -        (0.7)
- ~ US$ Million
Financing Plan                                   Local   Foreign    Total
IBRD                         0.0      26.0      26.0
Government                  14.3       3.7      18.0
Total                       14.3      29.7      44.0
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
IBRD Fiscal Year     1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Annual              1.51/ 6.3   7.5   6.0   3.4   1.3
Cumulative          1.5   7.8  15.3  21.3  24.7  26.0
1/ USS1.5 million retroactive financing.



- ili -
Economic Rate of Return:    Not appllcable.
Appraisal Report:            No. 5748-BT.
Map:                         IBRD No. 19108.



lINTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Botswana for the equivalent of US$26.0 million to
help finance a Fourth Education Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with a variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic memorandum on Botswana (Report No. 5238-BT) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in November 1985. This description
is based on that memorandum and information obtained on subsequent
missions.
3.        Botswana is a landlocked country in Southern Africa, bordered by
the Republic of South Africa, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. With an area
of 570,000 sq km and an estimated population of just over one million
(aid-1985), it is for the most part sparsely populated. Over 80 percent of
the population is concentrated along the relatively fertile eastern third
of the country, as two thirds of the country is covered by the Xalahari
Desert. Rainfall is erratic and drought frequent.
4.        The 1970s was a decade of rapid economic growth and budgetary and
balance of payments stability. The mining of diamonds and nickel/copper,
which started in the early 1970s, led to real increases in GDP of over 10
percent a year during the decade. Exports of meat also contributed to
economic growth. Per capita GNPl/ rose from US$110 in 1970 to about
US$910 by 1984. Increased receipts from the Customs Union2/, direct taxes
and mineral royalties caused recurrent revenue to rise nearly 33 percent a
year, which was substantially in excess of the growth in recurrent
expenditure. Recurrent budgetary surpluses, together with grants, covered
nearly half of the steadily growing capital expenditures, and since
external borrowing exceeded requirements, the Government became a net
creditor of the banking system. The economy also showed overall surpluses
in the balance of payments due primarily to the rapid rise in exports and
to large private capital inflows associated with mining investments.
1/ Calculated by the Bank Atlas method.
2/ The Southern Africa Customs Union, comprising Botswana, Lesotho,
Swaziland and South Africa, is administered by South Africa. Import
duties and excise taxes are levied and collected by South Africa,
deposited into a common pool and then distributed to the members based
on each country's share in production and trade.



5.        During 1931, the slump in world demand for diamonds and falling
metal prices had major repercussions on Botswana's mineral-led,
export-dependent economy. Real growth in GDP declined in 1981/82, and
exports and foreign exchange reserves fell sharply as the diamond mines
began stockpiling part of their production. An outbreak of foot-and-mouth
disease in 1981 led to a drop in meat axports to the European Economic
Community, which exacerbated the situation. As a result of sharply lower
export receipts, Botswana recorded an overall balance of payments deficit
for the first time in over a decade. Foreign reserves fell to 3.4 months
of imports by the end of 1981 from 4.7 months two years previous.
6.        The Botswana Government introduced a number of measures designed
to cope with the economic strains of reduced mineral exports and revenues.
The Government sought to control the growth of aggregate demand by raising
interest rates, restraining domestic credit expansion, imposing a general
wage freeze, devaluing the pula, and cutting the Government's development
budget. By mid-1982 the prospects fer Botswana's economy started to
improve again following the opening of a third diamond mine. Although
Botswana still stockpiles part of its total diamond production, the opening
of the new mine at Jwaneng led to higher export quotas and earnings. By
the end of 1982, a surplus in the overall balance of payments was restored-
and foreign reserves covered almost 4+ months of imports.
7.        The increased revenue from diamonds led to improvements in the
Government's budget picture and substantial overall surpluses in 1983/84
and 1984/85. While the Government originally projected a small overall
budget deficit for 1985J86, recently revised estimates show that actual
mineral revenues will once again exceed earlier estimates, and the budget
will show a substantial surplus. Balance of payments data show a
continuous improvement in the current account since 1981, the peak year of
the deficit, and in 1984 Botswana recorded a current account surplus for
the first time since 1979. Since the overall balance of payments has been
in surplus for the past three years, Botswana had, by end August 1985,
accumulated foreign reserves to cover over seven months of imports. Both
the strengthened international diamond market and the weakness of the pula
against the US dollar (resulting from the recent fall of the South African
rand, to which the puld is closely tied) contributed to the recent
budgetary and current account surpluses. Since diamonds are priced in US
dollars, pula revenues increase when the value of the pula declines against
the dollar. However, as persistent strengthening of the pula vis-a-vis the
rand made the Botswana economy acutely vulnerable to South Africa
competition, the Government in January 1985 officially devalued the pula by
15 percent against the currency basket to which it is pegged. With only
minor adjustments since that time, the pula has continued to fall with the
South African rand against the US dollar and other currencies. This will
further increase Government revenues flowing from this sector.
8.        Over the past four years long-term development issues have been
considerably overshadowed by the prolonged drought. The Government has
alleviated the adverse effects of the drought through a relief program
which includes the provision of supplementary food supplies to 376,000
recipients (or 37 percent of the population). This is over and above the
more than 200,000 primary school children who receive food rations. The



- 3 -
drought relief programs include labor projects which offer short-term jobs
for 15,000, provision of fodder for cattle and 20 kg of free seed to all
farming households. Farmers also receive grants for de-stumping and draft
power for ploughing. There was relief from the drought in scattered areas
of the country in 1985, but the drought was severe enough for the
Government's relief programs to continue during this year.
9.        Botswana's economy is still at an early stage of development.
The mineral-led development has not encouraged the building up of linkages
within the economy and only modestly increased the number of employment
opportunities for Botswana's labor force. Historically, Botswanxa's economy
has been centered on livestock and, until today, traditional agriculture
and cattle raising have remained the main economic activity for about 80
percent of the population. However, an increasing concentration of cattle
ownership, partly resulting from the drought which affected mainly owners
of emall herds, has reduced the options for about 50 percent of the
population to make a reasonable living from agriculture alone.
10.       The major challenge for the Government in the present decade is
to provide the infrastructure and services required by the more labor-
intensive productive sectors, to foster linkages and to create lasting
employment opportunities for Botswana's labor force, which is growing at
over 3 percent a year and is vulnerable to reductions in employment oppor-
tunities in South Africa.
11.       One of the most serious constraints on growth of the productive
sectors is the severe shortage of skilled technical, managerial and profes-
sional manpower, which greatly impairs the country's absorptive capacity,
encourages the use of capital intensive technology, raises production
costs, and stifles investment. A high proportion of skilled and profes-
sional positions are filled by expatriates and many posts in Government
(particularly in local government) and the private sector are inadequately
staffed. The manufacturing sector is further constrained by the small
domestic market, the country's limited raw materials base and landlocked
position, and competition from South Africa and Zimbabwe.
12.       The agricultural sector, particularly arable farming, is looked
upon as an important source of fu t xe employment. Crop farming, however,
is circumscribed by the limited availability of surface water, sparse and
erratic rainfall, and frequent drought. The sector's ability to support
additional labor may therefore always remain limited. Ecological
conditions render most parts of the country more favorable to livestock
than crop production. However, the system of communal' grazing and
associated traditional values have contributed to overstocking and
progressive land degradation.
13.       The Government is moving ahead with programs to deal with these
constraints. Botswana's Sixth National Development Plan (1985-1991)
accords high priority to education as a means of alleviating the country's
manpower constraint. During the previous plan heavy emphasis was placed on
the development of primary education. The Sixth Plan maintains the support
to basic education by placing greater emphasis on upgrading junior
secondary schooling and increases attention to manpower development through



-4-
provision of technical and vocational training. Industry is being
supported through promotional activities by the Botswana Development
Corporation and the National Development Bank, through preferences given to
local industry in bidding for Government contracts, and by the Financial
Assistance Policy (FAP) which includes the provision of tax holidays,
favorable interest rates, seed-capital for investors, and payroll and
training grants. The Tribal Grazing Lands Policy (TGLP) was introduced in
1975 as a step to control overstocking and range degradation while
increasing incomes from cattle-raising by improving land quality, enhancing
range management and boosting operation efficiency. The Arable Lands
Development Program (ALDEP), a multi-faceted operation designed to raise
productivity in crop farming, was introduced in 1979. This program's full
effect is yet to be felt since the drought has kept agricultural production
at such low levels. Both ALDEP and TGLP are expected to permit more
labor-intensive use of the land. A new program, Accelerated Rainfed Arable
Program (ARAP), was announced in September 1985 and is designed to provide
incentives for medium-sized farmers for plowing, row planting, weeding and
applying fertilizer. Agricultural production on a larger scale is
dependent upon the availability and utilization of water for irrigation
purposes. Under the auspices of the Bank, irrigation potential studies are
being carried out to identify the best areas for irrigation development,
while a proposed water use master plan will identify investment priorities
in the sector.
Population Status
14.       Botswana's population has been growing at an estimated 3.4
percent a year. This growth rate may increase toward 3.8 percent as the
crude death rate declines from a level that is already among the lowest in
Sub-Saharan Africa. Total fertility3/, which is close to a rate of 6.2,
has resulted in almost half of the population being under the age of 15.
Even if fertility declines, natural increase will remain high as these
children reach reproductive age. Projections show that Botswana's 1985
population of just over one million could in the next 30 years reach levels
ranging from 3.5 million (if fertility remains constant) to 2.0 million (if
there is a significant decline in fertility). To this end, an ongoing
Bank-financed Family Health Project is helping to establish a comprehensive
family planning program. Botswana's urban population more than tripled
during the 1970s and now represents over 20 percent of the total
population. Over the current Plan period, the urban population will almost
double, with the urbanization percentage exceeding 32 percent.
Development Assistance
15.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have extended substantial
assistance to Botswana on highly coucessional terms. The Bank Group has
been the main multilateral source, but the EEC, the CDC, the African
Development Bank and OPEC sources have also been active. Bilateral
31 The total fertility rate represents the number of children that would
be born per woman if she were to live to the end of her childbearing
years and bear children at each age according to prevailing
age-specific fertility rates.



- 5 -
assistance has come from numerous sources. In 1978 almost two-thirds of
Botswana's outstanding bilateral debt was converted into grants. At the
end of 1984, total external debt outstanding (disbursed only) was estimated
at US$276 million, debt service payments were US$28 million and the debt
service ratio 4.4 percent. Botswana's future external capital requirements
wlll depend on the state of the world mineral market and the outlook for
diamonds in particular. While Botswana is expected to continue to receive
substantial assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources on grant or
concessional terms, these may have to be supplemented by loans from
commercial sources should current account deficits rise. However, diamond
exports should remain strong and Botswana should remain creditworthy for
the required borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOTSIANA
16.       The Bank Group began operations in what was then Bechuanaland in
1964, and has approved 18 loans (US$214.4 million, less cancellations) and
six credits (US$15.9 million) for a total of US$230.3 million (less
cancellations). These loans and credits have financed five roads projects,
three education projects, three livestock (including land tenure) projects,
two urban projects, three water supply projects, two development finance
projects, one thermal power project, a health and population project and
three operations to help provide infrastructure for mining development.
IFC has had one investment in Botswana: an equity participation of
US$370,000 in the Botswana Development Corporation, approved in March 1979,
was increased by US$481,000 in 1983. Summary statements of Bank Group
Operations in Botswana are provided in Annex II.
17.       The Bank Group's share of Botswana's external debt (disbursed and
outstanding) at the end of calendar year 1984 was about 42.6 percent (IBRD
- 37.1 percent, IDA - 5.5 percent), and its share in debt service was about
38.4 percent. The Bank's exposure in Botswana increased sharply following
the conversion of external debt into grants in 1979. Since then, it has
fallen and is likely to contirue to decline, as the Government's borrowings
from both official and commercial sources have been increasing sharply
during the past three years.
18.       Botswana's project planning and execution have been good. and
Bank-assisted projects have encountered relatively few complications.
Botswana's overall disbursement performance has been quite good, its annual
rate of disbursement averaging 24.5 percent during 1981-84.
19.       A problematical operation with which the Bank has been associated
is the Shase copper/nickel mining complex based at Selebi-Phikwe, the
infrastructure for which was financed with the help of Bank loans totaling
US$37.5 million (loans 776-BT and 776-2-BT). Although the infrastructure
works were completed on schedule in 1976, the mining operation itself has
experienced a prolonged financial crisis, caused mainly by depressed metal
prices. This has resulted in four financial restructurings of the mining
company, BCL Limited, which is owned by the Anglo-American Corporation of
South Africa Limited and AMAX Incorporated of the United States. with a 15



- 6 -
percent equity holding by the Botswana Government. The latest
restructuring was approved by the Bank's Executive Directors in July 1985
(Memorandum R85-238).
20.       Bank Strategy.  The Bank's strategy for its lending program and
economic and sector work in Botswana aims to support the Government's
increased -umphasis on generating greater and more equitable economic oppor-
tunity outside the capital-intensive mining enclaves. This will require
project support for greater diversification of the economy, especially into
industrial enterprises linked to livestock and arable agriculture, and
assistance for helping arable agriculture overcome considerable climatic
and marketing constraints. A Bank-generated study is due to begin on
Botswana's potential for irrigated agriculture. In the livestock
subsector, ongoing Bank assistance is seeking to increase productivity and
extend ranching opportunities to a wider range of farmer, while supporting
Government reforms to reverse degradation of the country's grazing lands
and strengthen the whole apparatus for land-use planning and land
management. Because population pressures on the fragile land resources and
small modern-sector industrial base threaten in the long run to overwbelm
economic progress, the Bank proposes to continue to support the
comprehensive and enlightened family planning program introduced recently
by the Government with the help of a Bank-financed project.
21.       The Ba.- and the Government are also in agreement on the need to
accelerate manpower development and *mprove the range and quality of
employment-oriented training so that Botswana's high dependence on
expatriates can be reduced. We expect lending for infrastructure to be
reduced considerably from previous high levels, which were justified in
view of the scant nrovision of infrastructure in Botswana before
Independence.  Future infrastructure lending and sector studies will
emphasire least-cost solutions (as in energy and road transportation),
defining long-term strategies (as in water supply) and institution-
building. The Bank is currently preparing a study of Botswana's public
sector investment program.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
The Skills Gap
22.       Botswana's progress in meeting employment and manpower
development needs has been uneven. An impressive degree of localization of
senior civil service positions has not been matched by localization of
senior specialist, scientific and technical posts, especially in the
parastatals, with the result that some 4,700 expatriates are employed in
the public and private sectors. Although the expatriates are skillfully
deployed and managed, the Government accepts the need to replace them as
soon as is prudently possible within the framework of its ongoing
Localization Program. As regards the labor force, the Sixth National



Development Plan (NDP VI) estimates that formal employment will grow by
11,500 each year, thereby doubling formal sector employment in 10 years,
while the increase in the labor force each year will be 21,000. Thus a
significant surplus of sc'.ooi leavers who will remain dependent on the
informal and traditional agri:ultural sectors and on specific employment-
creating programs under the Financial Assistance Policy and ALDEP (para.
13). This surplus coincides with an unmet demand for primary and 4unior
secondary graduates with additional training; a recent Government study
indicates that about 82,000 such school-leavers will need to be trained by
1991 to close the skills gap. These perceived manpower imbalances are
considered to be a crucial problem by the Government, which plans a major
reorientation in the education system to make it more responsive to
manpower needs (paras. 25 to 32).  Under Government plans now being
implemented, institutions and programs will increase full-time training
from about 9,000 trainees a year in 1985/86 to 14,000 in 1990/91, thus
meeting about 80 percent of the need. While these advances will
significantly ease manpower shortages at the skill and semi-skill levels,
the Government is faced with the longer-term problem of developing manpower
in specific, higher-level skills. The proposed project will carry out
studies to help identify investment options for training at such levels
(para. 49), complementing an ongoing Bank-financed study to identify
assistance needs for management training in Botswana.
Expansion of Education
23.       The consistently high priority accorded to education by the
Botswana Government since Independence in 1966 is demonstrated by the
remarkable expansion of enrollments, especially at primary and secondary
levels. By 1984 primary school enrollments had almost tripled, from some
72,000 to 210,000, representing a participation rate of 83 percent of the
relevant school age population. During the same period, secondary level
enrollments increased more than seventeen-fold, from 1,565 to 27,325
students, 86 percent of these places being in the junior secondary cycle.
More recently, during the period of the Fifth National Development Plan
(1979-84), important advances were made in the quality of education. New
curricula were formulated for primary and junior secondary schools; new
learning and teaching materials were developed and distributed; and the
proportion of trained teachers was increased from 63 percent to 69 percent
of total staff in primary schools and 72 percent to 81 percent at the
secondary level. Rates of progression from primary to junior secondary
levels increased during the Plan period from 27 percent to 40 percent, and
from junior secondary to senior secondary from 38 percent to 41 percent.
There were also Impressive improvements in the pass rates of students
graduating from secondary schools, notably at the higher levels.
Enrollments at the University of Botswana went up from 990 to 1,405, with
new programs included in primary teacher education, librarianship, science
and educational administration and supervision.  Students entering
vocational and technical training increased almost four-fold, while the
self-help youth labor Brigades maintained about 700 trainees in addition to
1,000 workers ew)loyed by the movement. At present there are 19 Government



- 8 -
secondary schools covering junior and senior levels, four Government-aided
mission schools at the same level, one independent secondary school, 19
community junior secondary schools financed by the community with
Government assistance, 518 Government primary schools and nine independent
primary schools. A fourth Primary Teacher Training College and an advance
College of Education were opened in 1985, and the annual output of trained
primary teachers increased from 330 to 580.
Remaining Deficiencies
24.       Despite these substantial achievements, the education system is
deficient in a number of important aspects. An acute shortage of
classrooms hampers the quality of primary education, specifically the
introduction of the revised primary school curriculum, while many classes
are taught in makeshift quarters or in the open. The proportion of
untrained teachers (para. 33) needs to be reduced further, with more
equitable distribution of qualified teachers; and teaching and learning
materials are still in short supply in many areas. Apart from the general
shortage of secondary school places, there is a wide disparity in physical
and educational standards between the better-off Government-run schools and
Government-assisted mission secondary schools, on the one hand, and the
large number of small community junior secondary schools maintained to a
greater extent through tuition fees and voluntary labor. In particular,
the curriculum has inadequately prepared secondary graduates for skilled
employment or additional technical training, while vocational and technical
education has been seriously lacking.
Educational Reform Program
25.       The educational objectives set out in the Sixth National
Development Plan (1985-91) amount to a series of long-range reforms to
achieve a balance between equitable access by all groups to general
education while making the educational system more responsive to the
manpower needs of the economy.  Improved coordination among the various
educational activities is emphasized, as well as between the education
system and the community. To support this policy, the following priorities
have been set: (a) substantial improvement in primary school facilities
and gradual achievement of universal primary education (compared with the
present participation rate of about 83 percent); (b) increased access to
secondary and technical/vocational training, and growth of university
enrollments mainly oriented to manpower needs; (c) quality improvement of
education with particular reference to mathematics, practical subjects and
science; and (d) expansion of complementary non-formal education, including
implementation of an industrial apprentice training system.
26.       Primary Education. The main focus of improved universal primary
education will be on the rural areas, where some 85 percent of all primary
students attend school in often overcrowded and inadequate conditions.
Although universal primary education is the ultimate goal, the Government's
present plans seek to provide about 2,400 additional classrooms, or 60
percent of the assessed need, thus enabling enrollment of 165,000 in 1991.



Many of the schools would have one of two classrooms and use multi-grade
teaching. Improvement in the quality of primary education will be enhanced
through the proposed extension of the USAID-supported Primary Education
Improvement Program, which has helped develop new curricula and provided
supplementary In-service training for teachers, principals and
administrators.
27.       Secondary Education.  Access of primary graduates to junior
secondary education will be increased from 40 to 70 percent, thus doubling
the number of studente entering junior secondary schools from almost 11,
000 at present to 23,000 in 1991. The schools will be small, low-cost
utilitarian establishments (three-quarters will have enrollments below 240)
and most will be located in rural areas. They have been designed for
Intensive use, yet will afford facilities for science, practical subjects
and libraries. Assisted by an ongoing USAID-sponsored Junior Secondary
Education Improvement Project, the Government proposes to introduce in the
near future a new junior secondary curriculum and associated learning
materials more relevant to manpower needs.
28.       At the same time, it is proposed to expand senior secondary
education sufficient to maintain progression from junior to senior
secondary at the current level of about 40 percent. A restructuring of the
secondary system is proposed, so that senior secondary education will be
extended from two to three years, requiring a reduction of primary
schooling from seven to six years. The rationale is to increase
substantially the number of secondary graduates available for further
training and provide greater depth and a better structure in courses at
this level. Although the proportion of students progressing to the senior
level will remain the same, the expansion of junior secondary enrollments
and the extension of senior secondary education to three years will result
in a significant increase in senior level enrollments from 3,700 to about
17,000 in 1991. Under the restructuring, the 23 Government-aided schools,
which at present combine all five grades of secondary education; will in
due course be converted to three-year senior secondary establishments.
Arrangements for a phased introduction of the system are being considered.
29.       Equity Considerations.  Equity will be served by the Government's
intention to: (a) abolish the costly boarding facilities in the
Government-run and Government-assisted junior secondary schools, a system
which reserved school places for those able to pay boarding fees, and
instead put enrollments on a catchment-area basis; (b) introduce a common
fee structure for all junior secondary schools (para. 36); (c) award
bursaries and education grants for junior secondary students through a
means test, while standardizing grants for textbooks and learning
materials; and (d) equalize the distribution of qualified and specialist
teachers to remove a bias in favor of the Government-aided schools compared
with community schools. The boarding facilities will be phased out
progressively for junior secondary students commensurate with the pace of
expansion of day schools in the rural areas. Eventually, boarding
facilities will be reserved only for senior secondary students, as they
often need to attend schools some distance 'rom home.



- 10 -
30.       Technical and Vocational Training.  The technical and vocational
traini.ng system in Botswana trains about 9,000 students a year in formal,
out-of-school and on-the-job programs, most of which are at the 500-student
BoLswana Polytechnic, the Automotive Trades Training School, the
Agricultural College, the Institute of Administration and Commerce, the
National Health Institute and the Institute of Development Management.
These are supported by the training activities of the labor Brigades,
individual ministries, and by the private sector and parastatals, notably
the mining industry, commercial banks and other financial institutions, and
utility companies. The present system has failed to produce sufficient
trained manpower to meet Botswana's rapidly developing economy because of a
lack of facilities and of specialist teachers and trainers of such
teachers; poor organization and coordination among the 70 or so public
agencies and private enterprises concerned; inadequate testing facilities
and personnel; overcentralization; and, importantly, lack of recognized
training and testing standards.
31.       The recently-enacted Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Act
will achieve radical changes in the training of artisans and craftsmen. It
will replace the existing institution-managed system, based on the London
City of Guilds curricula and examination standards, with a nationally-
integrated, industry-based apprenticeship training system and three-step
testing, to be reinforced by a greater variety of courses for trainees at
various levels.  The system will be supported by advisory committees
representing different trades. These structural changes will help the
Government introduce a system based on competency rather than
qualification, capable of responding to actual manpower needs in industry,
business and Government; regionalize vocational training and direct new
activities to centers with adequate industrial backing; and progressively
increase the involvement and financial contribution of employers to
training, especially through a tiatning levy required under terms of the
apprenticeship legislation, and which the Goverment intends to negotiate
with employers when the national training system is fully commissioned.
32.       To support these objectives, the Government proposes to create an
Industrial Training and Trades Testing Center, to be financed by the
proposed project,and four vocational training centers. The vocational
centers will be located in regions designated by the Government as existing
or potential growth poles.  The centers would provide basic training                     =
courses and skills upgrading for apprentices employed in local trades or
industries, the programs to be flexible and responsive to manpower needs.
With the expansion of such facilities, supported by the Bank and other
agencies, it is estimated that 14,000 trainees will attend courses each
year 1990/9L, thus closing about 80 percent of the skills gap (para. 22).
33.       Provision of Teachers and Managers.  The provision of teachers
will be increased in Botswana with the recent establishment of a fourth
primary teacher training college and a higher-level College of Education,
and planned expansion of teacher training at the University of Botswana and
the Luyengo (Swaziland) Teacher College. This expansion will more than
compensate for the expansion of enrollments, so that the percentage of
officially qualified primary teachers will be increased from 69 percent of



- 11 -
the total to 77 percent by 1991, while the percentage of qualified Batiwana
teaching in secondary schools, as opposed to expatriates, will increase
from 52 percent to 66 percent. Although the Botswana Polytechnic's
training wing will increase the numbers of local teachers being trained in
technical subjects, the Government's proposed rapid expansion of tecknical
and vocational training will depend heavily in the foreseeable future on
expatriates who are likely to be funded by the several donor agencies
already active in providing teachers and technical assistance to the
education sector in Botswana. An acceptable staffing plan for these
centers would be a condition of disbursement in regard to this component
(para. 52). Management capacity in the sector will be strengthened by
degree courses and other training being offered in school administration
and supervision for existing and aspiring principals and educational
managers, thus complementing assistance by USAID. Under its Junior
Secondary Education Improvement Project, USAID is providing 50 staff-years
of fellowships for Ministry of Education personnel in addition to
in-country seminars aad administration training.
Organization and Administration
34.       Overall responsibility for education is vested in the Ministry of
Education, which oversees education planning, curriculum development,
teacher training and school administration and supervision of public
schools, and ensures the application of Government regulations in the small
number of private schools. Local elected councils have statutory
respons-.bility delegated to them by the Ministry of Local Government and
Lands for. primary education facilities, including school construction
maintenance. Agricultural and health education are administered by the
Ministries of Agriculture and Health respectively.  The Rural Extension
Coordinating Committee, an interministerial body within the Ministry of
Finance and Development Planning, coordinates non-formal education with the
various ministries and departments. The Department of Labor of the
Ministry of Home Affairs is the executing agency for industrial training
programs and testing.  Overall direction of the new apprenticeship and
industrial training program is the responsibility of an inter-ministerial
National Council, the executive agency of which is the Directorate of
Industrial Training within the Ministry of Home Affairs.  A national
advisory board and advisory committees for key trades will advice the
directorate and sponsor curriculum development.
Women in the Education System
35.       Women have long occupied a prominent role in education in
Botswana. Female enrollments at primary and junior secondary levels have
consistently exceeded those of males. At the senior secondary and
vocational/technical levels women account for between 33 percent and 40
percent respectively of enrollments. Similarly women teachers predominate
in primary schools (76 percent of Botswana staff) while they represent 40
nercent of Batswana secondary school staff. Salary scales do not
distinguish between sexes.  The prcgressive increase of womenus involvemeut
in secondary education is expected to continue, and will be supported by
the aims of the proposed project.



- 12 -
Education Financing
36.       Primary education in Botswana is free.  Government-aided
secondary schools receive between 86 percent and 90 percent of their
financial support from the Government, while the community junior secondary
schools cover all but 38 percent of their costs from tuition and other
fees. This system is in the process of being dismantled for a more
equitable one, in which all secondary schools will receive the same level
of Government assistance, although there will be no net increase in the
average per capita subsidy. This will reduce the present disproportionate
burden on the usually poorer parents of children attending the community
schools, most of which are located in rural areas. In addition, a student
bursary scheme currently limited to Government-assisted schools is being
expanded to embrace community junior secondary schools.
37.       To finance the planned education expansion, the Government has
agreed to increase total education expenditures from US$63 million to about
US$100 million (in constant 1985/86 values) by 1991, thus increasing the
Ministry's share of total budget resources from 17 to 22 percent. The
Ministry's recurrent budget over the period will grow from 22 percent of
the Government's total recurrent budget, which is comparable to average
expenditure levels in other African countries, to 28 percent, wbich is
relatively high. In the Bank's view, such an increase is justified because
of the existing deficiencies and inequities in the educational system,
Botswana's commitment to a reform program in the sector and the heavy
financial burden that will be imposed initially in establishing a new
system of technical and vocational training. The absolute level of planned
educational expenditures is sustainable in view of the country's economic
and budgetary prospects.
Bank Sector Operations and Strategy
38.       Previous Lending in Sector.  The Bank has helped finance three
previous education projects in Botswana, with loans totaling US$40.5
million approved in 1976, 1980 and 1982. The projects have provided
wide-ranging assistance in the sector, mainly for primary and junior
secondary education, teacher training, development of the labor-intensive
training Brigades, and various informal training programs in the public
sector.  They have also achieved a high level of localization of project
administration staff. Implementation has been good in all three projects
except for some now-resolved problems with the role of the Brigades. A
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 4876 of December 1983) has been
issued for the first project, while the other two projects are ongoing.
The Bank has progressively incorporated lessons learnt in regard to
continuity in the staffing of project management, auditing, low-cost school
construction and cost-effectiveness of vocational and skills training. In
addition to the above education projects, the last five projects financed
by the Bank in Botswana (in the health and population, power, land
management and livestock, water supply and DFC sectors) have included
sector-based training components, most of which will eventually benefit
from the Government's proposals for coordinating vocational training.



- 13 -
39.       Bank Strategy.  Botswana's economic growth has far outstripped
the country's ability to provide the educated and trained manpower for
continued expansion of the economy. The Bank, through its lending and
economic and sector programs, supports the Government's increased emphasis
on technical and vocational training and on realigning the secondary school
structure and curricula to enable school-leavers to be better prepared for
additional employment-oriented training. In particular, the Bank views the
planned national apprenticeship program and the complementary improvement
in coordination among the various training institutions and private sector
industries as a well-conceived and timely initiative, deserving of Bank and
other donor support. In the sphere of management training, the Bank is
currently carrying out a study of Botswana's needs in the context of
sub-regional training coordination. The Bank endorses the Government's
policies for a more equitable distribution of education and training
opportunities through the rural areas; and for equalizing the fees burden
so that a bias in favor of urban residents is removed. The Bank sees merit
in the Government's interim proposal to upgrade, convert or replace
seriously sub-standard schools as a prerequisite to the ongoing quality
improvements. The Bank envisages a continued presence in the sector, with
possible future assistance for higher education, advanced technical
training and management and accountancy training.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
40.       The project has evolved from the Bank's long-standing presence in
the education sector in Botswana, and responds to some of the main needs of
the Government's current educational reform program. Although there is no
direct cofinancing, the project's objectives are consistent with the
extensive assistance for education in Botswana p-ovided by other donors,
notably: USAID (projects for quality improvements); the African
Development Bank (which has signed a loan to help finance two vocational
training centers apart from substantial assistance for junior secondary
education); the German Agency for Technical Assistance Cooperation
(apprenticeship and industrial training programs); and well-established
assistance programs by SIDA, ODA and DANIDA. The project was appraised in
May 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington, DC between October 28 and
31, 1985. The Botswana delegation was led by Mr. Kenneth Matambo, Director
of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance ane Development Planning. Annex
III contains Supplementary Project Data.
Project Objectives
41.       The project would give direct support to the Government's
noteworthy educational reform program, which seeks to combine greater
equality of educational opportunity with major initiatives to make the
system more responsive to the manpower needs of the economy. The project
would especially support the Government's goals of: (a) replacing
inadequate or makeshift primary school accommodation; (b) improving and
expanding junior secondary education in the rural areas with a series of



- 14 -
small, low-cost schools; (c) achieving extensive quality improvements,
particularly in the teaching of science, mathematics and practical
subjects; (d) enlhancing equity in the payment of fees and access to
schooling and bursaries; and (e) establishing a national program of
apprenticeship training and trades testing backed up by an expansion of
vocational training activities.
Project Description
42.       The project would provide for:
(a)  500 primary school classrooms and primary school
teaching/learning materials;
(b) 31 new, replacement or upgraded junior secondary schools,
and improved library services at this level;
(c) an Iadustrial Training and Trades Testing Center and two
vocational training centers;
(d)  studies related to manpower development, future investments
in higher education and cost-savings; and
'e) technical assistance for project management.
Detailed Features
43.       Primary Education.  The project would construct and equip 500
classrooms and related facilities (e.g. offices, stores and housing),
providing places for some 20,000 students. It would give immediate relief
to the present situation, in which there is a shortfall of some 1,700
classrooms, apart from the teaching of about 1,600 classes in makeshift
circumstances, e.g. in village halls and under trees.  Also, the project
would provide the primary school system with new textbooks and teachers'
guides developed for the revised curriculum.
44.       Secondary Education.  The project would construct and equip 13
new junior secondary schools, similarly replace 10 schools in temporary or
inadequate quarters, and upgrade 8 other schools, mainly with the addition
of a multi-purpose block offering science, practical subjects and library
facilities. These schools would be small, low-cost establishments with
enrollments initially of between 160 or 240, and would be part of an
expanding network of such facilities in rural areas. Local communities
will be responsible for some teacher housing and some administrative
expenditures. The project would provide new or improved junior secondary
facilities for about 11,100 students, and library reference books and
resource materials for some 68 junior secondary schools where these are
lacking. The Government has agreed to establish by December 31, 1986, a
program for the training and placement of teacherllibrarians in all
project-supported junior secondary schools. This training will be carried
out by the Department of Curriculum Development and Evaluation in the
Ministry of Education.



- 15 -
45.       Vocational and Technical Training.  To support the Government's
major initiatives to expand antd improve vocational and technical
training,the project would establish an Industrial Training and Trades
Testing Center and two vocational training centers. The proposed testing
center will be pivotal to implementation of the new legislation creating a
national program for apprenticeship training. It would be responsible for
developing national standards for industrial training, testing and
certification, and achieving an institutional capacity for research into
manpower-related fields and for evaluation of training activities. The
center, located in the capital of Gaborone, will serve as the headquarters
of the Directorate of Industrial Training (para. 34), which will coordinate
all industrial training carried out by some public and private sector
agencies. The center will also provide facilities for 240 trainees
undertaking courses in skill upgrading and instructor training.
46.       The project's vocational training centers would be established at
Palapye in the north-east quarter of Botswana and at Naun in the far
north-west. Palapye is characteristic of one of Botswana's large,
semi-urban villages, and serves as a focus for a population of close to
100,000 in an area that includes the substantial settlement of Serowe.
Economic activity in the area has expanded with the growth of the nearby
Morupule Colliery and the current construction of a power station, which
will serve as the center of a national power grid. Services and various
commercial enterprises are being established or expanded to serve the coal
mining-electric power complex. The other Bank-financed vocational training
center would be at Haun, which is a marketing center in the remote
northwest, serving a regional population of about 40,000. Kaun has become
important to the cattle industry with the recent opening of an abattoir in
the town, and is located in an area in which the Government has given
priority to irrigated agriculture, tourism and fisheries in the Okavango
Delta and nearby riverine areas.
47.       The project's vocational traini-ig centers would provide 312
trainee plans at Palapye and 290 at Maun, and promote flexible
apprenticeship training programs and short courses in skill-training and
skill-upgrading in a wide range of trades (e.g. construction and
carpentry, electrical fitting, plumbing, machinery and welding, bookkeeping
and other commercial subjects, hotel employment and fisheries). Similar
training centers are being supported by the African Development Bank in the
copper/nickel-mining town of Selebi-Phikwe and the diamond mining center of
Jwaneng. All the new vocatioual training centers will depend heavily on
existing industrial and other enterprises (e.g. coal, copper/nickel and
diamond mining, abattoir production, electric power generation and railway
maintenance) for providing apprenticeship-linked employment in various
skills that could be marketed by the trained personnel elsewhere in
Botswana.
48.       Studies.  To support the Government's adjustments to the
education system in favor of employment-related education and training,
the project will finance a study to identify specific investment options
for higher and higher technical education, including a review of financing
needs and cost-recovery for higher education. The role of the private
sector in financing industrial training would also be examined. Other



- 16 -
studies to be financed by the project would: (a) recommend ways of
improving the cost-effectiveness of vocational training; (b) assess the
correlation between education/training and employment; and (c) investigate
alternative construction techniques (e.g. compacted soil for brickmaking)
to enhance low-cost schools construction. Outlines describing the
objectives of the studies have been reviewed by the Bank, and are
satisfactory. Detailed terms of reference are currently being cleared by
the various Government agencies concerned.
49.       Technical Assistance would also be provided for Project Execution
(para. 51).
Cost and Financing
50.       The project's total costs, including contingencies and excluding
taxes of US$700,000, are estimated at US$44.0 million, of which US$29.7
million are foreign. Costs of construction, equipment and materials
account for 92 percent of base costs; and are based on an analysis by local
chartered surveys of contracts awarded for similar items. Professional
services, technical assistance and studies account for remainder of costs.
Physical contingencies have been estimated at 9 percent of base cost.
Price contingencies, reflecting local, South African and international
inflation rates, are estimated at 10 percent for FY86, 9 percent for FY87
and 7.8 percent for FYs88-89, and 4.8 percent for 1991. The Bank loan of
US$26.0 million would finance 88 percent of foreign exchange costs (or 60
percent of total project costs net of taxes), while the Government's
contribution of US$18.0 million would finance the remainder of foreign
costs and all local costs. For primary schools, the average construction
unit cost per square meter of US$160 compares with similar costq in 1984 of
$110 in Ethiopia and $174 in Lesotho. The average square meter cost of
US$197 for junior secondary schools also compares well with regional
averages. When fully implemented, the project is expected to generate
recurrent expenditures equivalent to about six percent of the Ministry of
Education's recurrent expenditures prevailing at the time.
Project Execution and Monitoring
51.       Overall coordination of the project would be carried out by the
Project Implementation Unit maintained in the Ministry of Education for the
three previous Bank-assisted education projects. The unit consists of a
director, procurement manager, accountant and support staff. All positions
except that of the project director were localized during the previous
Bank-assisted projects. Any change in the above key personnel would be
subject to the Bank being satisfied with qualifications and terms of
reference of appointees. As the aid-financed contract of the unit's
director will expire in February 1990, the project provides for continued
financing of the position for one year until completion of the project. To
reduce costs, the supervision of the construction of the junior secondary
schools will be performed by the Project Implementation Unit instead of
consultants. Therefore, the project provides the unit with 16 staffyears
of clerk of works services, as well as vehicles. There is also provision
for 9 staffyears of accounting in the Ministry of Local Government and
Lands to assist primary school expansion; and 2 staffyears of specialists



- 17 -
for architectural services and prainvestment studies. The Ministry of
Local Government and Lands would, as is customary, be responsible for
construction and administration of primary school facilities, delegating
detailed implementation to the district councils.
52.       The Ministry of Local Government and Lands would provide the
Project Implementation Unit and the Bank before each fiscal year: (a) an
annual development plan and budget, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
construction of the primary school facilities; and (b) annual reports on
completed work as compared with the plan. Contracts for primary schools
would be awarded by the district councils and work supervised by them
through the works departments of the district councils. Although the
Project Implementation Unit will be responsible for construction and
establishment of the trades testing center, the system will be administered
by the Labor Department of the Ministry of Rome Affairs, working in
conjunction with the recently-established National Council on Technical
Education and Vocational Training, and national and industry-based advisory
councils. The Project Implementation Unit would also supervise
implementation of the project's studies by the appropriate agencies. As a
condition of disbursement for the civil works for the vocatina"l training
and trades testing centers, the Government will submit a satisfactory
staffing plan for the institutions, including technical assistance expected
from the various donors who intend to support the program. The Government
has also given assurances that it will formally establish all key positions
at the institutions by April 30, 1987, i.e. about six months before the
estimated completion of construction. The positions of principals of the
vocational training centers have already been established.
53.       Status of Preparation.  Designs and bid documents for all primary
and secondary schools are completed and have been reviewed and found
satisfactory by the Bank. The construction of eight junior secondary
schools, to replace seriously inadequate quarters, has begun and is subject
to retroactive financing not exceeding US$1.5 million for expenditures
incurred after June 1, 1985, and prior to loan signing. Designs for the
testing center and the project-financed vocational training centers are in
an advanced stage and are expected to be ready for tender by February
1986. Sites for the primary classrooms would be selected by District
Councils following agreed Government guidelines; and satisfactory sites
exist for the project's junior secondary schools. The sites for the
testing and vocational training centers have already been transferred to
the Ministries concerned . The project would provide for local consultants
to perform the pre-contract architectural work 'or the project.
Procurement
54.       Procurement and appointment of consultants and specialists would
be according to Bank guidelines. Contracts for civil works, furniture,
equipment, vehicles and textbooks would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding except as follows: (a) due to the small
size and the remote and scattered locations of the primary school
facilities to be provided by the project, the contracts for civil works and
furniture would be awarded by competitive bidding advertised locally and in



- 18 -
accordance with standardized local procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
As there will be about 200 small Lontracts for this component, the Ministry
of Local Government and Lands would use agreed Statement of Expenditure
procedures for reimbursement. (b) As about half of the junior secondary
schools wili be scattered in remote areas and constructed over a period of
a few years, individual contracts for civil works estimated to cost less
than US$600,000 may be procured (up to an aggregate of US$7.0 million)
through local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. (c) Textbooks for primary education are being
developed in close cooperation between the government and selected
publishers and would be procured on a negotiated basis satisfactory to the
Bank. (d) Library books for the junior secondary schools would be procured
on a negotiated basis, satisfactory to the Bonk, either directly from the
various publishers or through specialized book procurement agencies. (e)
Furniture, and equipment costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each would
be awarded by competitive bidding, advertised lacally and in accordance
with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The total value of items
procured by this method would not exceed US$500,000. International
Competitive Bidding would cover 51 percent of the loan amount.
Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists for
coustruction, furniture, equipment, vehicles and textbooks, indicating
proposed grouping and estimates of costs, would be reviewed by the Bank.
Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive
bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation
documents, prior to award, would be required only for contracts above
US$250,000 equivalent for civLl work3 and US$50,000 equivalent for
furniture, equipment, textbooks and vehiclese
Disbursements
55.       Disbursement would be made on the basis of:  60 percent of
expenditures for civil works; 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100
percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 60 percent of local
expenditures for items procured locally in respect of furniture, equipment,
vehicles and textbooks; and 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 60
percent of local expenditures for professional services and studies. All
disbursements would be fully documented except those for primary classroom
construction and contracts valued below US$20,000 equivalent. These would
be made against statements of expenditures, docutentation for which would
be subject to an annual audit by auditors acceptable to the Bank. The
Borrower would not submit applications for reimbursement valued below
US$20,000 equivalent. Based upon experience in previous Bank projects, and
because the project provides for accountants (para. 56) to monitor the
accounts of the primary school components, the Ministry of Local Government
and Lands and the Project Implementation Unit would have satisfactory
institutional capacity to use statements of expenditure. Disbursement for
civil works of the vocational training component is subject to satisfactory
staffing arrangements (para. 52).
Reporting and Evaluation
56.       Following procedures established under the Bank-assisted Second
and Third Education Projects, semi-annual reports on implementation
progress wotld be submitted each year during project implementation to the



- 19 -
Bank not later than May 31 and November 30 respectively. Not later than
five months after the project Closing Date, the Project Implementation Unit
would provide to the Bank a report evaluating the execution, initial
operations, costs and benefits of the proposed project and the performance
of the Government and the Bank including lessons learned during project
implementation.
Auditing
57.      Auditing would be required on an annual basis for all
expenditures, including statements of expenditure financed. The accounts
pertaining to primary school expansion under the Ministry of Local
Government and Lands and the districts would be prepared with the
assistance of three accountancy specialists currently employed and
whose continuation would be financed by the project. Accounts pertaining
to the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Education would be
prepared by the Project Implementation Unit. All audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within nine months following the end of the
Borrower's fiscal year, synchronized with the Government's audit cycle.
Auditing would be performed by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
and applying satisfactory auditing procedures.
Maintenance
58.       Primary school maintenance is the responsibility of the District
Councils; maintenance of the other facilities included in the project would
be the responsibility of the management boards of the institutions
concerned. Local communities provide free labor for school and housing
maintenance programs in their areas. Adequate budgets for maintenance are
provided both at district and central government levels. School
maintenance is usually satisfactory, although SIDA is financing a study to
examine ways to improve the system.
Benefits
59.       The project's direct quantifiable benefits include the provision
of 20,000 primary school places, 11,100 junior secondary school places, and
about 900 places in the new training and testing institutions. The main
impact of schools expansion and upgrading will be felt mainly in the rurral
areas, where some 80 percent of the population lives and vhere primary and
junior secondary schools are lacking or housed in unsatisfactory quarters.
Parallel action by the Government to equalize secondary school fees
throughout the system will remove an advantage enjoyed by urban dwellers
over their rural counterparts. The project's assistance for vocational
training and testing would be pivotal to the Government's creation of a
national system for apprenticeship training and standardized testing and
certification. The program, complemented by ongoing measures to improve
overall quality of education, will make the entire education system in
Botswana more balanced and responsive to the manpower needs of the
expanding economy. The project vould ensure the Bank's continued presence
in the sector at a time of important reorientation and restructuring. The
Bank's involvement in the project is serving as a catalyst for extensive
donor assistance likely to be integrated with the project's objectives.



- 20 -
Risks
60.       While three of the four vocational training centers being
financed by the World Bank and the African Development Bank are located in
economically highly active areas, the center at Maun would be in an area
where promising growth potential is yet to be realized. However, the
Government has given priority to the provision of resources for such
development, with the recent commissioning of an abattoir, a proposed
surface road to serve the region, expanded tourist facilities and a number
of ongoing or proposed programs for irrigated agriculture and fisheries.
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
November 20, 1985



- 21 -                                                   ANINEX 7
T^";I' 2A                                                    Page i of 6
ZTWIUI~~~~SOIA -           "rm m  c117^T           ta=-A""l-
MSTT                      (HOT 1sawr ISTTIATH) II
iumotk  19 70th.   oT          A,:LA I"NCU            *    DDL  I1NMW
I 1dh       sia     a-ruTg         AFC S. or SA"            .  ^AIRcA G tn s"
ANA cm11mamD go. m)
rurAL                              xol000.      *00.6       e.4.
A:RIONLTOJRAL                      424.7        639.7       433..
s CAPITA (                               ..          .. (lu.V                    1062.                     11s.9
SbUsv lh8SflIflU 131 CT
't Lik&A-1 OF OIL EquIVALENT)       157.0       251.0       337.0              34.5                      * I.9
nMu101  AM VITS.L nmmTw
POPUAnTflNJUM- AR (THODMSDn)    445.0           577.0       9911.0
Uass POPUiATIUN (S OF TOTAL)          1.7         9.5        22.6               32.0                      49.0
POP WATOGN 1tOAlClCTONS
POPULATIO IN WAR 2000 (ItLL)                                1.3
STATIOIABV POPULATION (MILL)                                5.6
POCULATION WHI mS                                           1.9
POPULATIN OSNEIT
na sQ. in.                          0.7         1.0         1.7               65.1                      3' a
P  SQ. IN. MAQ. LIMO                1.0         1.3         2.1              124.3                     470.1
POPULATION ACE 5TCTURB C2)
0-14 URS                          65.8        46.7        47.6               45.6                      43.5
1544  3rs                         51.4        "A          67.9               51.5                       3e.0
6S An1AIM                           2.4         2.6         4.4                2.7                       3.3
POPtLATION CRUMI RATE (t)
TOTAL                               2.1         2.6         6.2                2.9                       La
URA                                16.1        19.3        11.1                5.1                       4.4
CRUM NIATH  bn  (PEIIR TU0S)         51.7        52.2        4.2                47.0                      40.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE CMPER iNOs)         12.7        10.6         9.6               35.0                      11.3
03S0 REPROUETON  RAIT                 3.1         3.2         3.2                3.2                      2LS
FALM  PAWaW
ZCC51PO5. ANNUIL (THOUS)            ..          ..         11.3 iC.
Qs5     or 1A1Leb wom  )            ..         ..          ..                  6.4                      21.
mm AMNiTna
%XEM or l!OO nou OR CxctA
C1969-.1-lW;)                        91.0        96.0        70.0               82.9                      95.1
MR CAnt SUPLT or
CALOIuES a OF RIQUIRIUS)           g9.0       100.0        9.0                93.5                     118.2
lRDIUS (CAM  PER DAY)             30.0         0.0        69.0               55.4                      nJ.
Of INICH AIAL AND PULSE           40.0        37.0        34.0 /c            16.5                      17.8
an tAGS 1-4) OaLT uRnT               22.6        16.7        13.3               16.6                      12.8
LIEr musa- AT Kinl CTEaS)           534.         57.9        61.0               52.0                      57.8
DWNT alRT. ATZ (PE  ImNsM)          114.6      1I0.1         74.Z              106.6                      96.3
aCCSS TO SAFE WATER (POP)
TOTAL                               ..         29.0         ..                42.4                      67.2
URBAN                               ..         71.0       100.0 /a            67.5                      93.6
RURAL                                          260          ..                35.3                      45.3
ACCESS TO maru DISPOSA
CZ OF POPUlATnoN)
TOrAL                               ..          ..          ..                2.9                       45.9
ORBAN                               ..          ..          ..                57.7                      03.0
RU                                  .           ..                            20.7                      21.6
POPLATIMON Pet PUSCN             22250.0    14070.0           ..             11791.7                   4*31.u
POP. PE 1sue1 1 PERSON            479O.0 la   1140.0          ..              2459.6                    1345.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL MM
TorAL                             4o.o        350.0       340.0 ff           931.1                     *21.8
Ba                                  ..          ..         60.0              361.8                     545.0
RURAL                               ,.          ..       4230.0 [f          4371.9                    2511.3
ADKISSIONS PE2 hOSPrIAL RED           ..         15.3         ..                27.2                      25.7
aumm
AVERSE SJZE OF NOUSENOLD
TOTAL                               .            .50f
5.0 ,
RURAL                               ..          ..          seZ                 ..
AVERaZ N. OF MRSONS/R00%
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URA                                             ..
RuRL                                ..          ..          .                   ..
PCTAE or WILSuws SaC!.
nre                                 ..          ..          .                   ..
u                                   ,... .                ..                 ..



-22 -                                            ANNEX I
TAILK 34                                        Page 2 of 6
RSWANA                - SOCIA  TNINICATORS DATA SWEET
YnTsWANA                            REFERENCE GUPS c(Inia   AVEACS) /a
inST                     (mnST RECEIT zsT5AT2 ) Ab
RECENT           dIDDLE 14CO1           nUDDrn   IIOE
19601/b    1970/bL ESTrIA,.r/b    AFRICA S. OF SAIiaA   M. AFRCA 6 tED EAST
ADJUSTED ENROLIJ4ENT 3ATLos
PRIHARY:  TOTAL                  12.0        69.0      102.0               95.7                     b9.U
MALE                   l5.0      6S.0        94.0              OU.O                    103.7
FDIALE                 48.0       73.0       110.0              83.2                     75.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  1.0        7.0        23.u               17.3                    42.9
MALE                    1.0        8.0       21.0               25.0                     5U.9
FEMALE                  1.0        7.0       25.0               14.8                     34.6
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SEODARY)           4.2        19.4        7.8               5.9                     10.0
PUPL-tEAQ3ER RATIO
PRDIA                            31.0        36.0       32.0              41.1                      79.7
SECNDARY                         12.0        15.0       16.0              25.5                     18.8
camsurn
PASSENGER CARWTHOUSAND POP          2.9        3.1         8.7 /d           20.8                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERIS/ITHOUSAND PO       4.7       34.7       103.5             107.8                    175.9
TV RECEIVERS/TIHOUSAND POP          ..          ..         ..               20.8                     51.2
NEWSPAPER ("AILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            ..         22.5       19.7              18.4                      37.2
CUIERA ANNUAL LTUDACEI'CAPITA       ..         0.2         ..                0.4                      2.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TmOOS)         227.0       270.0      435.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 49.8       52.6        50.1              36.2                     11.0
SRIaJLTURE (ERCRNT)              92.0        87.0       78.3 /d           54.5                      42.4
INDUSTSR (PERCENT)                3.0        4.0         7.7 7d           18.3                     27.9
PAIIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            50.9        46.7       43.6               3m.8                     26.2
MALE                             53.2       47.7        46.6              47.1                     f6.2
FEMALE                           48.9       45.9        41.8              27.2                      5.8
ECONOM  DEENDENCY RATIO             1.0        1.1         1.2               1.3                      1.8
-lc D}S=DIISlBll
PERCENT OF PRIVAE INCIU
RECEIVED Br
RICEEST SOF I3OUSEI3LDS          -         28.1 /.
w.amiab  ZI OF H0USESlLDS         ..        60.3 7W      ..
TALEST 20S Of USEl0ioLDS          ..          1.6 l.
LOUEST 40S OF  OUSELDS            ..         7.6 W       ..
ESTIAMAE ABSOLUTE POVERlY INCOME
LEEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..       284.0 Id          590.7                    226.3
RAL                               ..         ..        154.0 7;d         275.3                    134.0
EST1A    RELATlVE lOEI 1100
LEVEL (05$ PER CAPIA)
URBAN                             ,,          ,,       303.0 Id          545.6                    431.5
RURAL                             ..          ..       303.0 7;          201.1                    326.0
ESTIeATED POP. ELW ABSOtLTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                             ..          ..        40.0 /d
RURAL                             ..         ..         55.0 /d            ..                      29.0
Not AVAIILAE
NOr APPLICABLE
NOT E S
/.  The grap aeraege for each indicator are pOPulatLon-welt$ed arithmetic m*.  Wrerage of coetrim
song the indicatore dependa on avaflablity of data and La not uniform.
/b   Unleas othendie noted, "Data for 1960' refer to auy year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwee
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Most Recet Estimate betneen 1981 nd 1983.
/c  1977: /d 1980; ie 1962; /f 1976; J  1978;  h Economica1y active population.
JUNE, 1905



- 23 -                                        ANNEX I
Page  3 or 6
DEFlNITIONS OF WOCIAL INDICATORS
I  Noe; Although thedata ae drawn from smurc gmllyjud  the mot autortatveand  bl It should also bhnotad that they may unentllom lly
! wnfpurb bluow of the lack nr standadIsd dfllniomns and wnapsu ud by diffaet counuil In collecting the dua. no data ar  nhelcs., useul to
dscrh orihn of manilude Inolcaue raids, and chatrcne cntzain maJor dalfrimna betwen countries
The r-ence groups ar (lI the me cwntry group of the subjet country and (2) * country group with mnehat higher avee Income than tde country
group of theaubject country (mapt or'ig Income Oil Expon" group whem Middle Income North Afrca and MUddle Eat" it chosen baun  sronger
snom-cultural mftleal. In the rfen   grup dau th avarpa am population welgihted arithmetic meas for ck Indkicor and thoun only when majority
or the counui  In aL group haa data for that Iodicator Since thecourge of cosuntlries mnmi the Inator depends on shebavailabIliy of data and  not  llrm.
caudon must be crcldsd In relatIng averap of one Indicator to nothr Thee aea   are only usfl In comparng the vWlue of one Inicator al a time among
Ike comiry and reerenc pFoups.
AREA (thotisand iq.km.)                                         Crd*eD    Re R (pe r/heuavd-Numberorlive birtbs in the year
Teed-Totial surracc area comprising lnd area and inind watrs;  per thouand or mid-yar populatdon: 1960. 1970. and 1933 data.
1960. 1970 and 1913 data                                        Crnde Dea RAW (pr trhmsnad)---Nuumber or deaths in the year
Aplaeuiral--Etimate of agricultural ae  used temporrily or     per thousand ormid-year population: 1960. 1970, and 1933 data.
permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gro Reprodw    Reth-Avergc number ordaughters a woman
lic fallow. 196I. 1970 and 1932 data.                           wiU bear in her normal rcproductive period if she expericnces
present age-speclic fertility rates; usually five-year aveage ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita esimates at cunrent         in 1960. 1970, and 1933.
maiket prices. cakulated by same conversion method as Wrlid     F&Aa     Pmwig-Awpnen, Awma (rtrsusdaj- Annual nun-
Bank .Aghz,u11981-33 basis): 1933 data.                         ber of cceptors ofbirth-control devices under auspices ornational
ENERGY CONSUMPrION PER CAPITA--Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.    Fkdy PAmntsq-Llern (piervetaofmaie mnw,ear-The peren-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothrmal dee-  tage of maried women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. I 970. and  whose husbands are practicing an> form cf contraception. Women
19112 data                                                     of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although ror
some countries contraceptive usage is measurd for other age
POPUn ATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
T4otalPepuhzui.ea,Md-Yesr (      Jhousansds-As ofJuly 1;1960.1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1913 data.
:ads ofFeed Prdwi  Per Capita (1969-71 - IOOJ-Index of per
Urban Popultion (perceno r roel-Ratio of urban to total        capita annual production of all food commodities Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affcct compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data      include primary commodities (eg. sugarcane instead or sugar)
Popuation A_jecious                                             which are edible and contain nutrient (e.g. coffee and tea are
Pbpulation ir year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,   xcluded) they comprie creals. root crops, pulses. oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetabes, fruits. nuts, sugucane and supr beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rate mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1930. these parameters  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             Per  pita Suply ofC&aeies (pernt nireqiemnet-Comput-
Stationary populaion -Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
taliy rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacment level  tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
sace reproduction rate- 1). In such a population. the birth ate is  exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used ma
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is aLso  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estinatcd on the basis of the projccted characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weightt
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent ft.
rate to repLacement lcvde                                       waste at household level 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum ---ls the tendency for population growth to  Per Capita Supply of Proein (gron per duf)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertibity has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of rnd is definL"i
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as abovc. Requirements for all countries established by USDA1
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year z. given the assumption that fertlity remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
mcnt level from year I onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of aninmal protein as an
Popuatio Denity                                                 average for the worid. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 bec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tar-n) ot toLtal area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Cyaita A-rabs SWpply from Aubsd nd Puke- --Protein supply
Per sq.Arn:. rgnaltural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulss in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
PoplatiEs Age Structure (percent)-Children (0- 14 years). work-  CAh (aqes 1-4) Death Rte frr thousand)- -Number of deaths or
ingage(15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countrie data derived
Popuian Grw tA Rare (pericentr--tro -Annual growth rates of     from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-yeai population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Population Growth Rare (percenti--raan-Annual growth rates      Life E&pectawy at Sil  ()years-Number of years a newborn
of urban population ror 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 24 -                                                  ANNEX  I
Page 4 01 @
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its lire:  Pupll-earher Ratio - primarr and serondwr-Total students en-
IS60, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
loit Matalit Rate (pgr tilhszed)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before raching one year of age per thousand live births in a giveri
year 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                  CONSUMMFION
Aerms to Safe WRe  (pecao 4    IUAm.)-mUIEL  rbth, adi    Pasweger Cars (per thauand popeldadee---iPassenger cars com-
ravel-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight pemons excludes ambui-
access to safe water supply (indudes treated surface waters or  anc, hearses and military vehicles
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Riio Receirs  (per r_ls pepl -AII types of recoivers
boreholes. springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
tive populations. In an urbn area a public fountain or standpost  exdudes un-licensed recovers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  mgistration Or radio scts was in effet data for reent years way
as being within reasonablc access of that house. In rural arcas  not be comparabdi since most countries aboished liyeasing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part or the day  TVReceirs (per rhomsud pep& etore- -TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water neds.                           to enaeral public per thosand population: exdudes unftcensed TV
Acces a. xcret Disosal percnt ofpepaetiba-tetl. ~receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV set weas
Ae    toEereta Didpsa (pfe    of pepumr-tJ       id aeelrban   i efct.
ea rural-Number of people (total. urban, and rural) served by   m  ect.
exemrta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  uper Civeelan  (per shausnaldpopautae)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may indcude the collection and disposaL with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper. ddeinod a, a
without treatment. of human exereta and waste-water by water-   periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
PopulerMr  Poyidaw-Flpulation divided by number of prac-        Cme  A_ml AWndIe per Capita      Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a nedical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the vear. induding admissions to
fieu per Narsig Persow-F1pulation divided by number of         drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.   LABOR FORCE
prmctical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.
Posadl  per failoispe Red-tota, urba, and rwal-fopulation       Trae/ Labor force (trhaiseedr-Economically active persom. in
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives
hospial bds aviLiWin pulic nd prvate gewa andstudents. etc.. covering population of all ages Definitions in
hospital beds avaibleinpublicand private genealandbspcalized   various countries are not comparabic 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
h ospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals arce stablislnents
pemanently sercd by at kast one physician. Estabislnts prcv-    Fex    (percsf)-Female labor force as pecente of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,  force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agiriabne (perentr-Labor force in farming. forstry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, urse, midwifc. ctc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         inAwry (percet)-Labor forec in mining, constructonL  manu-
Ad.siias per Heps! Bed-Total number of admissions to or         facturing and elctricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharpes from hospitals divided by the number of beds         force 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
AWmridpate RPe (perear,J--eer4ak.sdaium pale-r pation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as totaL mal and female labor force
Aere SirE 4r Househbod (pers  per hosbkf)-eorad. whew.          as percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
anarsa--A household consists of a pgoup of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOas
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structur of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Aerawge Nubr of Ps   pe Rooneratol ub. ar         d nwa'-       Ecewemie Dependesuy Rdrta-Ratio of population under IS. and
Average number of persnns per room in .dl urban. and rural      65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-4).
occupied conventional dwe0lings. rspecivdy. Dwellings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUBtON
Percrage ef DelSirs wit Elerrieiy-t-roal. whea, - rural-         ercetage of Totel Disahle laca/  (baJth   cas and hind)--
Conventional dwellings with eklctricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked bv total house-
tae of total. urban, and rural dwellings respectively,          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A gusrA Ed ueler Ratis                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Afinwry srhool - rotal. mank and fenro-Cmross total, male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female cnrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Esimaed AbsolAte Poverty luconwevel d(TSS per capirta )-u an
mspective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rest-Absolute poverty income level is that incnme levd
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plis cssential
differences in countty pracices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Eimated Relative Poverty  Jom  Level (USi per capka)-arhe
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some   a   nerw-Rural relative povcrty income level is one-thiard of
pupils are beow or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age-                                                            derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondar school - total, mae andfemai-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pn-  nir ated  bppaiess Beow Absohlte lonver  lme Lert! (per-
mary instructon provides geeral. vocationaL or teacher training  cent-urban and rare-- Percent of population turban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor.-
cne courses are generally excluded.
Vocatioei Enrolmeni (percenr of secondan.j-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industrial, or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Departmcnt
independently or as departnents of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



- 25 -
ANME I
Page 5 of 6
BCM    nD ESfA
GM  NATIAL FROM= IN 19B2/83                             ARL RAE OF  M    (% contant prices)
US$ fn.                                   1982/83
GNP at Market Prices            818.0                                     +18.0
gross lhfestic Investment       282.9
Oross NaticEil Saving           124.7
Oirrent Accmunt Balance          +1.9
Exports Ef Goods, NFS           748.3                                      +26.3
liports of Goods, NS            802.5                                      40.1
Irr, IAB(R FtC AND            Value Aded            IaIlr Forcea          V.A. Per WOer
llWCIlVflY IN 1982/83      US$ Ifln.    %            MLO.    %             US$   Z of Ave.
Agriculture                   67       7.4           0.300   62.4            223    11.8
Iadustry                     402     44.2           0.034    7.1          11,824   625.6
Services                     440      484           0.147   30.5           2,993   158.4
Total/Aerage               909    100.0           0.481  100.0          1,890   100.0
-3X4   FnWNX                                          Gentral Gueuimnet
(P. Mn.)             2 ofE GP
1983/84    1983/84    1980181 - 1982/83
Qarrent Receipts                          514.8       51.6            40.1
Chrrent Ejxenditures                      272.6       27.3            26.5
Oirrent Surplus                           242.2       24.3            13.6
Captal Expenditures                       136.3       1317            16.5
External Assistance (net)                  34.3        3.4             3.9
MEY, CREDIr and P S                         1980      1981     1982     1983    1984b
(Milla  P Oustadig Ekd Period)
My  and Qasi Mlrey                         236.9    226.5    245.8    321.1   366.1
Bark Credit to Pablic Sector (net)C        -92.1    -67.4   -105.9   -185.0  -353.2
Bar Crndit to Private Sectr                 97.3    144.4    148.4    177.1   239.3
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
-4e  and 7Qsi*xmey as Z E GOP               33.9      29.4     31.8     43.0    29.1
General Price  Iex (Agust 1980= 100)       100.0    116.0    130.2    142.5   1537
Anl peentage cbhages in:
Baok Credit to Pablic Sector               -17.3    +26.8   -57.1    -74.7   -90.9
Bik Credit to Private Sector                12.7     48.4       2.8     19.3    35.1
a LaTe force is defined as persons of 14 years ard over engaged either in farLily agriculture or iD
cash employment. Nigrant workers in Scxth Africa are erluded.
b As of end November.
C Exdies parastatals.
.. Not available.                                                                   EASA
Not applicalie.                                                                 April 1985



- 26 -
AdWR I
i6Tof 6
TUDE PAMW AID CAPL FnA
BAN  CF PAMM                                                                     (AVE  1982-84)
1981    1982    1983    1984                                JS$t MI.  I
3WIiiionaiii)0
Eaports of xds8                  403.1   464.2   640.7  681.5       Nht and met products    64.9   11.1
iwzorwo of ljob                   690.0   584.2   615.6  575.5       Dimoid.                  376.6   64.4
Bale of Trde (deficitu -)        -26.9  -1ZLO   -25.1  1C6.05          pper/uLdel              5.7   10.0
AU other dmditie         84.7   14.5
Km-factor Sevices (nec)          -79.3   -8.8   -79.3 -158.          Tot1                   585.0  100.0
Factor Services (net)              21.1    11.6   -69.1
Net Transfers                     139.6   12D.0   125.2  102.0
Balance m Owrent Acacmt          -205.5   -5.2    +1.9   49.9                  T    M, DEC. 31, 1984
U;SSMEn.
Direct Foret4w Ivsment            112.6    52.8    4L6    ..
Bat 14  Borwing                    22.6    52.9    24.5    ..         tibiic Debt, iml. ausrarea     276.1
Disbaramas                       24.6    56.6    35.7    ..IN.!e  Prtivate Debt
hwrtizatian                       2.0     3.7    11.1    ..        Total Ozatding & Dshised        2761.
Capital Grants                      ..      ..
Other Capital (net)                9.2    4.9      45.1    ..              I T SMIVIC  RATD FRR 19g4e
ncrease to Reserves(-)             61.1   -43.5  -120.1    ..                                          Z
Piblic Deit, iwai. partee       4.4
Gross Raserves (end year)         271.1   304.9   419.2  553.9                  e  Private Dbt.
Toa Qiamdi & Dishlse            4.4
Euel and Belated baterlals
rgq,ortsd                       101.0    96.9    93.0   75.8
of hdich: Petrolen             92.8    88.3    8D.8   68.2          MD/MI  UR=E (Felruay  28, 1985)
Export d                               -       -           -
of uich: Petroleun                       -           -                                   (MMIc  US$)
RATEOF 0                                                             Otstmdirg & Dishrsed   112.6   15.0
1979  1980  1981  1982  1983   1984             lkishzre                  62.2
O-tsta1n5 incl.
US$1.00 = P        0.815  0.777 0.833  1.022 1.096  1.284               ldishlrsed            174.8  15.0
P 1.O  = USS        1.228  1.287 1.200 0.979 0.912  0.779
a Recorded asrs stises adiusted for tLn1g and coera.
b Recoded cars statistics adjusted for valuatton (exclusive of duties, inswance aid freight) and coverage.
C Includes factor services (net).
d TkadJusted trade fi2ures.
e Ratio of debc service to e s Of Mods and serfices.
f Ammal averages.
Not available                                                                               FAISA
Not applicable.                                                                        November 1985



- 27 -
a 21
Pap 1 of 2
SIAIt (F BMX GaP CATERZ6 IN BO3YIA
A. SYAIW OF BI ILMI AND IDA CJflSa
*(as at S-teii  30, 1985)
hAamt
(Le  CBUladmus)
Bi.k    OL~ Umliaxbemd
NWe    Year    Baoe               aps
Tbe loans and six credlts fully disbirsed                96.4.2 15.91
1584     1978    Botswaa    Sew  Urbe Project             8.00           1.53
I82      198)    BA:swana.   Sm=  Eduaticrj Pcoject   10.00              6.53
2)57     198      Botsina    7bired FAxtim               11.50           3.80
22)9     Be8      B,tsmina    Power Pmject               32.50          21.58
2333     198      Btuuna    Thtcd WJater Sipp1y          22.00           5.54
2384     1984    BDtuAma    secxxxir tfC1230                             12.27
2413     1984    Botmina      Fainlly Balh              11.00           10.96
Total.                                             2M3.72 15.91    62.21
of utdhid bas bemn repaid                         29.00  1.00
Total xuv outstaedig                              174.72 14.91
Amounrts sold                            8.82
of u*dic bas been repaid               8.LM 
M3tal. no beld by B.*Jk/T a                      174.72  14.91
of ubich Is undisbhirsd                                 0.00    62.21
a Pd.or to ewdbange ajsios
(Imun af tS$10.7 uWlion for National ta   Mxeei      and Livestock Project approved
but not yet effective).



- 28 -
ANNEU II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(as at September 30, 1985)
US$ Million Equivalent
Year     Borrower             Type of Business       Loau   Equity    Total
1979)    Botswana            Development Finance       -      0.61       0.61
1984)    Development           Company                -         -        -
Corporation
Total Gross Investments                       -      0.61       0.61
leBS Cancellations, terminations,
repaymeut and sales                                 -          -
Total now held by IFC                         -      0.61       0.61
September 1985



- 29 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  6 months.
(b)  First Presentation to Bank   : August 1984.
(c)  Appraisal Mission            : May 1985.
(d)  Negotiations                 : October 1985.
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  February 1, 1986.
II.  Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
III.. Special Conditions
(a) Special Conditions of Effectiveness
None.
(b) Other Special Conditions
(i) Program introduced for supply of teacher/librarians (para.
44).
(ii) Annual development plans and status reports for primary
schools construction (para. 51).
(iii)  Key teaching staff available for vocational training centers
and trades testing center (para. 52).



ISRD lO
A NG0 O LA       * -                       IqJZ A M 5
A _;__-;5 F OURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IT un US
| '      K   A   Il   A   H   A    R I        \  
E- R~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N.U~
a4-X >e                                                              WAIU
I   \    s    8|AL,.1    | I X I XAI |    ,/       \    /
K 'W                      T            \\>                                            XGt        J
3'iL2
lb                  _ANG!_AFIA
as.  U                Sr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AII






