Dowumet of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Repst No. 5748-BT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
November 15, 1985
Education and Manpower Development Division
Eastern and Southern African Regional Office
This document ha a resricted dEatilniom and may be aned by recipiens onily In The peufoznmun  of
dhir offiEc  de. Is contet my my  othcrwise be dicsed without Word Dank adornizaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =         Pula (P)
Pula 1                        US$0.51
US$ 1.00                      Pula 1.95 (October 1985) 1/
SDR 1                         Pula
Pula 1              =         SDR
US$1                          SDR
SDR 1                         US$
1/ An average exchange rate of US$1.00 = Pula 1.70 has been used for implementation period.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
January to November
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ATTS           Automotive Trades Training School
BAC            Botswana Agricultural College
BIAC           Botswana Institute of Administration and Commerce
BP         :   Botswana Polytechnic
CJSS           Community Junior Secondary School
COE            College of Education
COSC           Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
DCD/E          Department of Curriculum Development and Evaluation
G/A            Government/Aided
GS             Government Schools
IDM            Institute of Development Management
ITTC           Industrial Training and Trades Testing Center
JCE            Junior Certificate Examination
JS         :  Junior Secondary
3SS            Junior Secondary School
JSEIP          Junior Secondary Education Improvement Project
MFDP           Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
MLGL           Ministry of Local Government and Lands
MOE            Ministry of Education
MOHA           Ministry of Home Affairs
MOWC           Ministry of Works and Communications
NDP        : Tational Development Plan
NFE            Non Formal Education
PEIP           Primary Education Improvement Projects
PGCE           Post Graduate Certificate of Education
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PTTC           Primary Teacher Training College
REC            Regional Education Center
RSA            Republic of South Africa
SS             Senior Secondary
UB             University of Botswana
UTS            Unified Teaching Service
VTC            Vocational Training Centre



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMHARY                                                 (i)
BASIC DATA                                                             (iii)
I.    SOCIO ECON'JMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Geographic and Socia-Economic Setting   ...............      . *    1
Population .......... ................. .0......*.......... .........  1
Employment ............................... ..... .. ....... .....   2
II.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overview ...........*... ...     ...................* *..*. ***.... .  3
Organization and Administration ............................        4
Structure of the Formal Education System ...................       4
Principal Isoues in Education ..............................        5
Government Objectives ........0......s*... ... ....  *.......       6
Government Strategy .........5t.-.-..55...... ***** *****...        6
Female Participation in the Education System ...............    10
Population Policy  ...................    10
Education Finance ........... ... .. ..........  ................    10
Experience wlth Past Bank Group Lending ....................    13
Bank Sectoral Lending Objectives ... .......................    14
External Assistance to Education .. .........................    14
III.  THE PROJECT
Objectives ...........................*.*...*.*.*.*.*.**.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.**.*.......    15
Primary Education ... ................. * ......  ................    15
Junior Secondary Education .. ........ .......................    16
Vocational/Technical Training .... .........................    17
Studies ..................................... ................. v...    18
Technical Assistance ........                                      19
IV . PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost ......................................................    19
Financial Plan ................ ............... *... ..........    21
Thl report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Botowana in May 1985. The mission consisted of Messrs. J. C. Laederach
(Architect, Mission Leader), L. Swahn (Chief, EDTPT), N. Fisher (General
Educator, Consultant), and Mrs. R. Brandenourg (Economist).
This document has a estricted ditrutdon and may be used by recpients only in the performno  of
Itheir oftici duties. Its Cootents may not otherw  be disclosed without Word lank autborizaom.



Page No.
V.   IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDITING
Implementation     ...............................................  22
Procurement .................................... ...............  25
iDisbursements . ..............................................  26
Reporting and Evaluation . .............. ....................   27
Auditing ................................ .................. 0......  27
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits . ........................ .......... ...............   28
Risks ...................................... ...o.............. o......  28
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ........ o ...........   28
ANNEX I -   TABLES AND CHARTS
Table 1.   Comparative Education Indicators
Table 2.   Aggregated Manpower Requirements, Labor Force Available, and
Manpower Imbalance
Table 3.   Primary Education: Enrollments, Teacher Supply, and Demand
Table 4.   Secondary Education: Enrollments, and Teacher Supply and Demand
of Additional Teachers
Table 5.   Actual and Projected Government Expenditures on Education
Table 6.   VTC - Course Programs, Student Places, and Output
Table 7.   Training Needs for Selected Specific Skills, 1985-1991
Chart 1.   Education Enrollment Pyramid - 1983
Chart 2.   Administrative Structure of the Ministry of Education
Chart 3.   Structure of the Educational System and Planned Restructure
Chart 4.   Proposed System of Industrial and Institutional Training in
Botswana
Chart 5.   Organizational Structure of Industrial Training
Chart 6.   Organizational Structures of the Trade Testing Unit and the
Industrial Training Unit
ANNEX II   Government Guidelines for Primary School Development
ANNEX III  Project Cost and Schedules
Table 1.   List of Junior Secondary Schools and Cost Estimate per School
Table 2.   Project Cost (Local/Foreign/Total)
Table 3.   Summary Account by Project Component
Table 4.   Implementation Schedule
Table 5.   Disbursement, Schedule and Profile
Table 6.   Project Implementation Indicators
ANNEX IV   Summary of Specialist Services and Studies
ANNEX V    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP        IBRD No. 19108



(i)
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       The Republic of Botswana
Amount:         US$26.0 million equivalent
Beneficiaries:  Ministry of Education
Ministry of Local Government and Lands
Ministry of Home Affairs
Terms:          17 years including four years grace at standard variable
rates.
Project Description:
ObJectives:    The project would assist the Government in its plan to
improve the quality, effectiveness and equity of the
education and training systems, and to alleviate serious
shortages of trained manpower which inhibit economic
expansion and localization goals. It would therefore expand
access to primary and junior secondary schools and to
vocational training centers, improve the quality of primary
and secondary education through support of the Government's
curriculum development and training programs, and strengthen
the planning, organization and coordination of vocational
training.
Components:    (a) Primary Education - Provision of about 500 classrooms
and related facilities and provision for the production and
distribution of the first edition of new textbooks and
teachers' guides developed for the revised curriculum.
(b) Secondary Education - Provision of about 31 new,
replacement, or upgraded Junior Secondary Schools and
provision of library reference books and resource material
for teachers and students in about 68 Junior Secondary
Schools.
(c) Vocational/Technical Training - Establishment of an
Industrial Trade Testing Center (240 trainee-places) and two
Vocational Training Centers (312 and 360 trainee-places
each).
Benefits:      The provision of about 500 primary school classrooms and 31
Junior Secondary Schools would complement the qualitative
improvements covered by ongoing USAID programs. The
provision of textbooks and library books would improve the
quality of educational inputs. The Industrial Trade Testing
Center (ITTC) and the two Vocational Training Centers



(ii)
Benefits: (Cont'd)
(VTC's) would enable the Government to (a) organize and
coordinate aU skill training; (b) establish national
standards for skill training, testing and certification; (c)
upgrade instructor training; (d) expand and decentralize
skill training; (e) serve the manpower needs in industrially
developed regions; and (f) offer incentives for economic
expansion and rural development.
Risks:         No major risks are foreseen.  The usefulness of one of the
project's vocational training centers will depend on the
successful development of the remote north-west region in
which it is located. Although the region's economic
potential has yet to be realized, it has been given priority
by the Government, and a number of important investments
have already been made or are under preparation.
Estimated Costs:                                -   US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
(a) Primary Education                         2.8        5.6       8.4
(b) Junior Secondary Education                4.0       10.8      14.8
Cc) Vocational/Technical Training             1.5        3.9       5.4
(d) Studies                                   0.1        0.3       0.4
(e) Project Administration                    0.1        0.1       0.2
Total Base Cost                           8.5       20.7      29.2
Physical Contingencies                    0.8        1.8       2.6
Price Contingencies                       5.0        7.2      12.2
Total Project Cost                       14.3       29.7      44.0
Taxes and duties                         (0.7)       -         (0.7)
Financing Plan:                                -   US$ Million -
Local    Foreign    Total
IBRD                                      0         26.0      26.0
Government                               14.3        3.7      18.0
Total                                    14.3       M.-T      Tr. 5
Estimated Disbursements:
- ~           US$ Million --
IBRD Fiscal Year              1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Annual:                   1.5 1/  6.3    7.5    6.0    3.4    1.3
Cumulative:               1.5      7.8   15.3   21.3   24.7   26.0
_/ US$1.5 million retroactive financing.
Rate of Return: Not applicable



REPUBLIC OF BOTb1ANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA, 1983/1984
GENERAL
Area                                              580,000 k-2
Population:  Total (1983)                         998,000
Rural                                764,000 (76.6Z)
Growth Rate                                       3.32
Labor Force Available                             495,000
of which Modern Sector                        110,000
Adult Literacy Rate                               402
GNP Per Capita (1983)                             US$920
EDUCATION I/
Enrollment in Primary Schools                     198,331
(Standards 1-7)
As Z of 7-13 age group                            99.72 (gross)
83.5% (net)
Enrollment in Secondary Schools                   22,252
As 2 of 14-18 age group                           20.1[
Enrollment in University                          1,455
As X of 19-22 age group                           1.8t
EDUCATION FINANCE (1984/1985)
Recurrent Expenditures as % of
Government Recurrent Expenditures
- Ministry of Education                          222
- MLGL                                            22
Capital Expenditures as X of
Government Capital Expenditures
- Ministry of Education                          112
- MlGL                                          1.7X
Total Government Expenditures an
Education and Training as 2 of GDP                 6Z
- Ministry of Education
- MlGL                                             1Z
I/ Annex I Table 1 - Comparative Education Indicators.



I. SOCIO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESCURCES
Geographic and Socio Economic Setting
1.01      Botswana, with about the same area as France, is a landlocked and
semi-arid tableland, covering about 580,000 square kilometers, approximately
80% of which consists of the Kalahari Desert. The 1985 population is
estimated at about one million, 80% of whom reside in the fertile strip of
land along the eastern border. Water scarcity is a major development
constraint; rainfall is sparse, unevenly distributed and erratic, and droughts
occur frequently. These factors have had an impact on the country's
development strategy and on its prospects for future growth.
1.02     More than 80Z of the population derives its livelihood from
traditional agriculture or cattle, whose present number is estimated at
around 3 million, giving Botswana one of the highest cattle/human ratios in
the world. However, since the early 1970's, the production of minerals,
and diamonds in particular, has gained considerably in importance as an
alternative source of income. Botswana' s economy is closely linked with
that of the Republic of South Africa (RSA), which supplies about 85% of
imports and provides about 15Z of the wage employment for Botswana's Labor
force. Also, along with RSA, Lesotho and Swaziland, Botswana is a member
of the Southern African Customs Union from which the Government obtains
approximately one quarter of its budgetary revenues.
1.03      Since the mid 1970's, Botswana bas achieved rapid economic
growth, generated mainly by accelerated mineral production and to a much
lesser extent expansion in the livestock sector coupled! with prudent
macro-economic management, with wise use of public revenues and with policies
supporting private initiative. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita in
real terms increased at about 7% per year over the last decade reaching about
US$920 by 1983.  The economy however, is highly dualistic with a small modern
sector dominated by the export of diamonds and beef, and a large rural sector
accounting for 80-85Z of the total population, which Is largely engaged in
traditional agriculture and cattle raising.
Population
1.04     As in other developing countries, high fertility has resulted in
a young age structure in Botswana. Botswana's current rate of population
growth is about 3.3% p.a., meaning that annual economic growth must exceed
this figure if any increase in per capita GDP is to be registered. The
Government's policy is now to provide advice on all aspects of family
planning as an integral part of basic health services. More recently,
Government has proposed a number of new initiatives such as, improving
accessibility to services, and increasing demand for family planning
services. These activities, along with strengthening existing maternal and
child health/family planning services, provide an excellent framework within
which to develop effective family planning activities in Botswana (para.
2.23).



-2-
Employment
1.05      Employment in the formal sector grew from about 31,500 in 1971 to
110,000 in 1984, an increase of about 0OZ p.a. In the informal sector it has
reached about 57,000, and in traditional agriculture about 144,000.
'Localization- of the economy is progressing; the percentage of non-citizens
in the formal sector declined from 5.8Z in 1978 to 4.3Z in 1984. However,
expatriates still dominate both the professional and technician skills areas,
with salaries far above the locals. The absolute number af non-citizens
employed stood at 4,700 in 1984. Thus, while citizen employment rose at an
average annual rate of 8X p.a. from 1978 to 1984, non-citizen employment grew
at an average annual rate of less than one percent per annum.
1.06      About 44,000 Batswana work outside the country mainly in South
Africa where they are employed in the mines, in agriculture and in domestic
service. The number of miners however has declined from a high of 25,500 in
1970 to 19,600 in early 1985. This trend is likely to continue as the RSA
prefers to recruit internationally, only those who have previous mine
experience. Marginal mines are closing, mechanization has increased, and
there has been a growing demand for jobs on the part of South African black
workers due to improved wages, and a change in the RSA Government's relocation
policy. The total number of unemployed and underemployed in Botswana has been
increasing because of the limited employment creating capacity of the
tradit'onal rural sector, and the rate of population growth. While the
aggregate manpower situation shows substantial surplus of labor available as
compared to the manpower required (Annex I, Table 2), there are notable
shortages of the more highly educated and skilled manpower on which the
nation's development depends. For example, in 1984 it was estimated that
there was a shortfall of 1500 in the degree or higher level category.
Furthermore, among the professional, technical, managerial and administrative
occupations and in key trades there is an aggregate shortage of over 16,000.
1.07      It is estimated in the Sixth National Development Plan, 1985-1991
(NDP VI) that employment, excluding traditional agriculture, will grow at an
annual rate of 5.7% p.a. Although employment opportunities in the formal
sector will increase by an average of 11,500 per year, they will be
insufficient to absorb the projected annual 21,000 primary and secondary
school graduates and other entrants to the work force. Consequently, a
significant number of school leavers will remain dependent on the informal and
traditional agricultural sectors. These manpower imbalances are considered by
the Government to be a crucial problem and are reflected in the labor force
profile where the abundance of unskilled manpower contrasts with a large
undersupply of trained manpower. A recent Government study indicates that
about 82,000 school-leavers will need to be trained to close this skills gap.
The Government, aware of the past mismatch between education/training programs
and employment opportunities, is actively addressing this problem through
ongoing and proposed training programs. Attempts to identify and quantify the
full extent of technical and vocational training in Botswana are invariably
incomplete, as training for human resource development can take a variety of
forms. Consequently, studies are to be included in the proposed project to
assist in the clarification of this situation (para.3.16). Under present
Government plans institutions and prograus will address the "skills gap' in



terms of (full-time equivalency) training for about 9,000 trainees p.a. in
1985/86 increasing to 14,000 p.a. in 1990/91 in programs such as: Polytechnic
(350 p.a.), Automotive Trades Training School (155 p.a.), Brigades (400 p.a.),
Vocational Training Centers (1,200 p.a.), Botswana Institute of Administration
and Commerce (1,030 p.a.), National Health Institute (1,000 p.a.) and
Commercial Schools (2,000 p.a.). Over the period 1984/85, to 1990/91, the
specific training programs identified above along with other Government
programs and private sector efforts should provide for 80% of the "skills
gap." Expatriates will continue to fill posts requiring specific skills (not
yet available locally) up to the mid 1990s. The Government projections
indicate that Botswana is on the threshhold of eliminating manpower shortages
at the skilled and semi-skilled levels. It will however, need to ensure that
at the more specific higher manpower level, it develops the kind of manpower
it needs. Consequently, in order to clarify future policies an assessment of
market demands of the type and level of training required to meet ascertained
needs and of appropriate delivery modes will be explored through a study
supported under the proposed project. Manpower imbalances are considered by
the Government to be its most crucial manpower problem.
1.08          The Government's policy for technical and vocational training
is not only to cater for the needs of the formal sector and more urbanized
workforce, but to provide for the development of the skilled manpower needed
in the rural areas. Consequently, Government support and assistance to the
Brigades would also be expanded. These are locally organized training
programs which provide school leavers with skills for employment in practical
occupations.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overview
2.01      The ambitious goals for education development set by the
Government in the NDP V (1979-1984) have not been totally achieved.
Nonetheless, the stability and unswerving commitment of the Government have
yielded highly encouraging and sometimes spectacular results (Annex 1, Chart
1). Specifically, in enrollment terms, NDP V has witnessed increases of 22%
at primary, 66% at junior secondary, and 52% at senior secondary levels (Annex
1, Tables 3-4). As regards physical facilities, an additional 1420 primary
classrooms and 15 new Junior Secondary Schools (CJSSs) were constructed. New
curricula completed for primary schools, and reached final development stages
for CJSSs.  Learning/teaching materials for all primary school grades were
developed and substantial teaching materials distributed to the schools. The
share of trained teachers increased at primary level from 64% to 69% of total
staff, and at secondary level from 72% to 81%. Progression rates improved
between primary to junior secondary, from 27% to 40%, and between junior to
senior secondary, from 39% to 41%. Finally, pass rates on both the Junior
Certificate Examination (JCE) and the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
(COSC) Examination improved from 66% to 73% and from 55% to 85%,
respectively. In the JCE, the improved performance of CJSS candidates was
especially significant, gaining 13 percentage points (from 31% to 44%), and



- 4 -
reflecting Government policy on priority distribution of trained teachers to
these schools. While overall progress in vocational/technical education and
training was adversely affected by a freeze on expatriate recruitment, which
resulted from the drought conditions and lack of housing, enrollments in the
principal institution for this level of education and training, the Botswana
Polytechnic (BP), increased sharply from 170 in 1979 to 500 by 1984. The
Automotive Trades Training School (ATTS) was inaugurated in 1982 and by 1984
had an enrollment of 120, while the Brigades restructured and more generously
funded by the Government, maintained their enrollment levels at around 700
traineesl/. During NDP V, Overall enrollments in vocational/technical
education increased by 360%, a fourth Primary Teacher Training College (PTTC)
and a second level College of Education (COE) opened in January and March 1985
respectively, output of the PTTCs increased from 330 to 580 and enrollments at
the University of Botswana (UB) climbed from 990 to 1405.
Organization and Administration
2.02      Overall responsibility for primary, secondary, formal
vocational/technical, non-formal, and higher education is vested in the
Ministry of Education (MOE) (Annex I, Chart 2) which accounts for about 95%
of total enrollments and over 80% of operating costs in education and
training institutions. MOE has oversight of education planning, curriculum
development, teacher training and school administration and supervision of
public schools, and ensures the application of Government regulations in
the small number of private schools. Administratively, Botswana is divided
into nine Districts and five townships, each having an education officer
responsible for school inspection and for advising local councils on
educational matters. Local councils are elected authorities with statutory
responsibilities for primary education including school construction,
maintenance, equipment and certain administrative costs. Agricultural and
health education are the responsibility of the Ministries of Agriculture and
Health respectively. The Rural Extension Coordinating Committee, an
interministerial body chaired by the Ministry of Finance and Development
Planning (MFDP) coordinates the non-formal education program among the various
miniscries and departments. Recent developments include legislation on
apprenticeship and industrial training, and the establishment of an
Interministerial National Council on Technical Education and Vocational
Training. Under this Council, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA) Department
of Labor will become the executing agency for a new industrial training system
with direct responsibility for trades testing and for the proposed Industrial
Trades Testing Center (ITTC).
Structure of the Formal Education System
2.03      The present structure of the education system (Annex 1, Chart 3)
comprises seven years of primary education, leading to the Primary School
Leaving Certificate. This is followed by five years of secondary education in
two cycles: three years junior secondary, leading to the JCE; and two years
senior secondary leading to the COSC or the General Certificate of Education.
1/ Additionally, 1,000 workers were employed by the Brigades.



-5-
Teacher education consists of two year courses at the PTTCs, or of a three
year Diploma Course, operating both at the COE and at the UB. The UB program
will be phased out over the next three years. Vocational/Technical education,
mainly post-secondary courses of varying duration, are provided principally by
the BE, the ATTS, the Botswana Agricultural College, the Botswana Institute of
Administration and Commerce, the National Health Institute and the Institute
of Development Management (IDM). The autonomous Brigades combine craft/
artisan training and production activities, essentially for primary school
leavers. Higher education is provided at the autonomous UB in 4 to 5 year
courses mainly in Education, Social Sciences, Humanities and Science.
Non-formal education covers literacy programs, rural extension services and
distance courses leading to primary and junior secondary school
qualifications.
2.04      Future plans include:  (a) as an interim measure, the
restructuring of the present 7-3-2 formal system into a 7-2-3 structure,
starting from 1986, and in the long-term, (late 1990's) into a 6-3-3 system
as recommended by the National Commission on Education in 1977; (b) the
decentralization of the Junior Secondary Schools (JSS) sub-system; and (c)
the development of national trades tests to replace the City and Guilds of
of London Institutes examinations.
Principal Issues in Education
2.05      The substantial achievements realized during NDP V should not
obscure the real and severe educational issues which the country faces. At
primary level, the NDP V goal of achieving universal primary education has not
been attained, due mainly to the dispersed nature of the population. An acute
shortage of classrooms, estimated in March 1984 at 1,720, hampers the quality
cf education and specifically the introduction of the revised primary school
curriculum. Untrained teachers account for 31% of the teaching force, and
these remain unevenly distributed across the country. Teaching/learning
materials are still in short supply in many areas. Repetition of grades in
Standards IV and VII, cause diseconomies for the Government and disincentives
for students, reflecting in part the mounting pressure for scarce junior
secondary places. At secondary level the issues relate to: (a) limited
availability of JSS places; {b) the wide disparity of educational provision
relatively better endowed between the Government Schools (GS), the Government
Aided Mission Schools (G/A), and the CJSS in respect of physical facilities,
trained teacher supply, textbook provision, fees structure and bursaries (para
2.25); and (c) the inadequacy of the curriculum to prepare students for
employment-related training, despite the notable improvements which occured
during NDP V. As regards vocational/technical education and training, the
existing system suffers from the following constraints: (a) training
institutions are insufficient to meet acute manpower shortages (para. 1.06),
and are overly concentrated along the line of rail betweem Lobatse and
Francistown; (b) overall lack of a coordinating, planning, research and
development capability; and (c) a shortfall of trained instructors. Needed
improvements in the Management and planning capacity of the MOE are being
provided through support by the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID). The Junior Secondary Education Improvement Project
(JSEIP) program includes about 50 man-years of fellowships for the MOE in



- 6 -
addition to about US$1.2 million for in-country seminars and training. These
seminars are intended to develop and implement: (a) in-service and
pre-service teacher training programs; and (b) training workshops for
inspectors, education officers and headmasters.
Government Objectives
2.06      NDP VT (1985-1991) is predicated as a response to the above
issues. In general, the following objectives will be pursued: (a) prepare
Batswana for useful and productive lives with emphasis on training to meet
manpower needs, with special attention to rural development and employment
generation; (b) increase educational opportunities and reduce inequalities of
educational opportunities within the limits of available resources; (c)
promote coordination among subsectors of the education sector with the
objective of providing continuous access from primary to post-primary
education; and (d) strengthen cooperation between school and community by
decentralizing the education sector management and by encouraging increased
community participation.
2.07      Specifically, NDP VI sets the following sector goals: (a) Basic
Education: (i) articulate primary and JSS programs so as to achieve a
continuum of nine years basic education; and (ii) decentralize the subsystem;
(b) Primary Cycle: (i) make progress towards universal primary education
(present participation rate is about 83.5% of the relevant net school-age
population); (ii) ensure equality of access; (iii) improve quality of primary
education; and (iv) expand and improve school administration and supervision;
ec) Junior Secondary: (i) increase the progression rate from primary to Junior
Secondary (JS) from 40% to 70%, but in a reduced 2 year program; (ii)
standardize educational opportunities and school provision for all JS
students; and (iii) improve the quality and relevance of JS education; (d)
Senior Secondary (SS): (i) maintain the present progression rate from JS to SS
levels; (ii) lengthen the course from 2 to 3 years; and (iii) improve the
quality, relevance and product of SS education; (e) Vocational/Technical
Education and Training: (i) expand and decentralize opportunities for
vocational/technical education and training; (ii) introduce new training
courses and flexible delivery modes; (iii) standardize trades testing
practices; and (iv) institutionalize a research, development and evaluation
capability; (f) Non Formal Education (NFE): (i) expand literacy programs to
include work-oriented skills training; (ii) improve the content of and
opportunities for second level correspondence courses; (iii) maintain the
National Literacy Program; and (iv) establish programs for children outside
the formal school system; and (g) University Education: (i) restrict
expansion to needs for rural development and job creation; (ii) localize to
the extent possible graduate-level education; and (iii) gear bursary policies
towards manpower priorities.
Government Strategy
2.08      The Government strategy to achieve the sector goals stated above are
described in the following paragraphs. Only those objectives addressed by the
proposed project are further discussed here.



- 7 -
2.09      Basic Education.  In order to develop the concept of a nine year
basic education cycle the Department of Curriculum Development and Evaluation
(DCD/E) of the MOE is now coordinating the work of the Primary and JS
curriculum development groups to ensure articulation of teaching programs and
a smooth transition from the generalist primary school teaching approach to
the specialist JS methodology. In this regard, the restruzturing of the
present 7-3-2 structure to 7-2-3 in January 1986, and eventually to a 6-3-3
structure has been taken into account in the curriculum development process.
Bank Group staff have had a continuing dialogue with the Government in
developing its education policy and are in basic agreement with its strategy.
The proposed project is designed to complement this strategy.
2.10      Primary Cycle.  To make progress towards universal primary
education, one classroom/teacher schools employing multigrade teaching
technique will be established in areas of dispersed population where student
numbers are small. NFE programs (para 2.07-f) will also be developed for
school age children. In special cases limited boarding facilities may be
provided at primary schools. Teachers will be trained in multigrade teaching
techniques. The population involved represents about 16.5% of primary school
age children (Annex I - Table 3).
2.11      To improve the quality and internal efficiency of primary
education, the Government proposes: (a) to provide classrooms facilities
for 80% of primary classes, involving about 2,400 additional classrooms; (b)
to expand pre-service and intensify in-service teacher education programs2/;
and (c) to introduce at PTTCs and Regional Education Centres (REC) courses in
remedial and multigrade teaching; (d) to improve school administration and
supervision by offering full-time Masters of Education Degree courses at UB,
and part-time courses at RECs for school principals, education officers and
inspectors; (e) to complete production and distribute to schools of all
outstanding teaching/learning materials required for the new curriculum; and
(f) to increase the annual per capita allowance to schools (for the purchase
of standard textbooks, stationery and supplies) from P20 to P30 per student.
2.12      To ensure equal educational opportunity, the Government proposes
to adopt a program which would provide school facilities on the basis of each
District's assessed needs, as identified from the recently completed school
mapping exercise, and to distribute equitably the supply of trained teachers.
2.13      Junior Secondary.  To increase the progression rate from primary to
JS education from 40% to 70%, equivalent to an expansion from 10,800 to 23,000
Form 1 (Grade 8) entrants, the Government intends to construct about 135 new,
and upgrade about 39 existing JSSs. Together with the 16 JSSs built under the
Bank Assisted Second Education Project (Loan 1828-BT) (para. 2.32) this
program would accommodate the increased enrollment. The Government also
intends to introduce an interim reduction of the JS course length from three
years to two years and to increase that of SS from two to three. The
21 Output from the four PTTC's will increase from 460 to 690 under the
USAID-sponsored PEIP I and II. The number of RECs, the main focus of
in-service training, will be increased from 5 to 14, one for each
administrative district.



rationale for this change is to give effect to the policy of nine years basic
education, while controlling capital expenditures, without impairing the
quality of JS education (terminal, even by 1990/91, for some 60% of JSS
students). This ambitious program has so far been subscribed only 36% by the
Bank and other lending agencies, including the proposed project (para 3.06).
2.14      To improve the quality of JS education, the Government proposes,
with assistance from the JSEIP program: (a) to introduce a new, more relevant
curriculum, presently at an advanced stage of development; (b) to produce and
distribute to schorils new teaching/learning materials based on that
curriculum; (c) to maintain the annual per capita allowance for materials;and
(d) to increase the supply of trained teachers by expanding the annual intake
into the second-level COE from 160 to 200 and the output from UB of graduate
teachers from 60 to 90 and by expanding courses at BP to 20 teachers of
practical subjects annually, and at Luyengo (Swaziland) Teacher College to 25
teachers of agriculture and home economics.  These measures would reduce, but
not eliminate, the need to employ expatriate teachers, who in 1990 would be
about 571, or 26.4% of the staffing establishment. For such specialized
subjects as Setswana, about 164 underqualified Batswana or 7.6% of total staff
would remain. The corresponding percentages in 1985 were 34.7%, and 13.1%
respectively.
2.15      To achieve equality of educational opportunity, NDP VI calls for the
standardization of all junior secondary education by: (a) the conversion of
the existing GS and G/A secondary schools from five year (JS/SS) to three year
Senior Secondary (SS) institutions (the elimination of the JS cycle from these
hitherto prestigious, boarding establishments would enable the Government to
develop a catchment area approach to JS schooling and to increase enrollments
at SS level with limited capital expenditures); (b) a common policy for staff
recruitment and appointment (hitherto, CJSS were staffed and maintained in
part at community expense); (c) standardizing student fee structure (CJSS
students in the past have paid more, both GS and G/A students less; and (d)
equal rights to a (means-tested) bursary (to date, only GS and G/A students
could apply for grants to defray education costs). During negotiations the
Government gave assurances that the fee schedule for JSSs had been made equal
to that for GS and G/A schools (P170 p.a.) and the existing bursary had been
extended to all JSS students on a non-discriminating basis.
2.16      Finally, to improve the efficiency of secondary schools,
administrative and support services will gradually be decentralized to
District level. Regional offices will be established at RECs, andr in-service
training courses at UB and the RECs will provide upgrading for principals and
for regional or school-based accounting staff.
2.17      Senior Secondary.  Access from JSS to SS will be maintained at, or
marginally reduced from the current 40 percent progression rate. The overall
effect of increased JS enrollments and the extra year of SS education (para.
2.13) will result in a sharp rise in SS enrollments from 3,773 in 1984 to
17,141 in 1991 (Annex I, Table 4). This increased demand for school places
will be met from vacancies created at GS and G/A schools as they become solely
SS institutions (para. 2.15). Capital investment will be limited to their
upgrading to accomodate the SS level only. A detailed schedule for the
gradual elimination of JS courses at GS and G/A schools has been worked out.



- 9 -
2.18      The quality of SS education will be improved by: (a) addition of a
foundation year of studies, preparatory to the formal 2 year COSC course; and
(b) expansion of teacher education programs sufficient to cater for the
increased intake. The efficiency of the system will be improved through
training courses designed to enhance school administration (principals and
accounting officers) and support services (education officers, inspectors).
2.19      Vocational/Technical Education and Training.  The technical and
vocational training system of Botswana enrolled about 4,900 trainees in 1983,
in formal, out-of-school and on-the-job programs. The formal training of
craftsmen and technicians is administered by the MOE and presently takes place
in two institutions in Gaborone, the BP and the ATTS. Standards and
certification procedures are those of the City and Guilds of London Institute
(GLCI). In addition, a trade testing system under the Department of Labor,
MOHA, has been in operation since 1962. Out-of-school training is provided
principally through the Brigades program (para. 1.08). Facilities for
apprenticeship and on-the-job training exist under the Government,
parastatals, industrial firms and other private businesses. On-the-job
training is much used in Botswana because formal training programs cover only
a very limited number of occupations. Such training has provided most of
Botswana's semi-skilled and skilled workers, and will continue to do so for
some years to come. After review of the overall training situation, the
Government passed an Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Act in 1983.
Steps to implement the Act were approved at the end of 1984. These include
the transformation of existing trades training facilities into a new
comprehensive system. Four new vocational training centers (VTC) and an
Industrial Trades Testing Center are to be added to the existing facilities.
A new competency based trade testing system will replace the CGLI examination
system. A new organizational structure will be introduced. At the top of
this structure is the National Council on Technical Education and Vocational
Training. The MOHA has also established a National Advisory Board for
Apprenticeship and Industrial Training, which in turn has set up Trades
Advisory Committees in all major apprenticeable trades (Annex I - Charts 4
through 6). Needed curriculum development will be carried out under their
sponsorships.
2.20      To decentralize and expand opportunities for vocational/technical
training, the four new VTCs would service both the developed regions, where
technical manpower shortages are acute, and also upgrade training
opportunities in designated development poles, where lack of industry is
exacerbated by non-existent industrial training opportunities. The Centers,
which will be designed on strictly functional lines, will incorporate
innovative training approaches and a flexibility of use, enabling them to
provide a variety of courses in accordance with changing industrial needs.
They will offer both apprenticeship training, in line with the Government's
Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Act of 1983, and skill/craft training
of varying type and duration both as dictated by national and regional labor
requirements and to assist rural development.
2.21      To ensure a sufficiency of technical teachers for the VTCs and
for planned enrollment growth at the ATTS (from 155 in 1985/6 to 245 in
1990/91) and the BP (from 820 to 1500 over the same period), localization



- 10 -
and in-service training, specifically at the BP technical teacher training
wing, will feature prominently during the Plan period. Nonetheless, the
Government recognizes that for the i  ediate future, this level of training
will continue to lean heavily on the services of expatriate technical
teachers. Among bilateral agencies providing expatriate staff in support of
vocational/technical education in Botswana are those of Germany (GTZ), the
United Kingdom (ODA), Denmark (DANIDA) and the Netherlands.
Female Participation in the Education System
2.22      Females have for long occupied a prominent role in education in
Botswana.  Female enrollments at primary and junior secondary levels have
consistently exceeded those of males (Annex I, Chart 1). At the senior
secondary level and in vocational/technical education, women accounted for
between one-third and two-fifths respectively of enrollments. Similarly,
women teachers predominate in primary schools (76%) and PTTCs (70%). They
also represent 40Z of secondary school staff. As regards salary levels, the
Unified Teachers Service (UTS) establishes salary scales without distinction
of sex. Women are, as yet, underrepresented in senior posts in primzry (35%)
and secondary schools (accounting for 35% and 9Z of professional employment
there, respectively), and in the administrative services. The proposed
project would contribute to the extension of education and training
opportunities for women, with corresponding improvements in social benefits
and productivity.
Population Policy
2.23     While the Government until very recently had no formulated policy
on population planning, awareness of the constraints of unregulated
population growth on economic development has been a recurrent theme of policy
statements (para. 1.04). NDP III (1973-1978) stated the need for -a
conscientous and planned effort to stabilize the growth of the population".
MDP IV (1976-81) alludes to the need to make family planning advice and
materials available to all potential parents as 'an important aim of health
policy". More recently, the Government bas taken specific steps to give effect
to these objectives. Primary and secondary school and teacher training
college curricula include this topic in the integrated science or human and
social biology syllabuses. More importantly, a comprehensive Family Health
Project is presently under implementation, assisted by a Bank loan of US$11
million (Loan Agreement 2413-BT, dated August 27, 1984) and by other donor
agencies. The Project is designed to strengthen family planning activities
within the Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning Program, and to
foster such activities in women' s programs, and in workplace programs directed
towards men. The proposed project would provide expanded educational
opportunities to women, which over the long term is expected to assist in the
reduction of population growth, given the apparent link between female
education and reduced fertility.
Education Finance
2.24     The financing of education and training is largely the
responsibility of the Central Government. With the introduction of the UTS
in 1976/1977, the salary payments of all primary school teachers were



- 11 -
transferred from the district councils to the Ministry of Education.
Supporting services are provided by the district councils and township
authorities, which are administratively under the Ministry of Local Government
and Lands (MLGL). As of 1980, education is free at the primary level. In
addition to the 518 Goverament primary schools, there are nine independent
schools in vhich, tuition fees are set by the institution (up to P2,000 p.a.).
2.25     Secondary level education differs from primary in many respects,
and in particular, its wide diversity in management. There are 19 GS schools,
four G/A mission secondary schools, 19 CJSS and one independent secondary
school (para. 2.05). Local Government does not share in the financing of
these schools, and regardless of type, tuition is charged. Higher Education
is generously supported by the Government. On a grant basis, students receive
tuition and fees, room and board, and supplies, as well as an allowance for
personal expenses (P8,000 per student total).
2.26      Unit costs for the different levels of education are set out
below. The growing recurrent budget allocated to the WOE will allow a major
expansion of enrollments and programs in all departments as long as there are
no major increases in unit costs during the Plan period. Unit costs are, to a
large extent, dependent upon teacher salaries. The Governmentts education
plans for NDP VI assume no rise in the real pay of teachers and instructors,
and so may require modification if pay increases take place.
Unit Costs of Education 1984/1985
Government
Recurrent                       Cost per
Expenditure                      Student
Level               (Pula)        Enrollment       (Pula)
Technical             2,053,820            650           3,160
Brigades                 750,000           750           1,000
NFE                      907,000        36,000              25
Primary              33,323,000        208,400             160
Secondary            20,030,000         27,326             733
Teacher Education      1,456,400         1,000           1,455
University             9,760,000         1,208           8,079
Source: NDP VI
2.27      Efforts to localize skilled manpower have been supported by the
bursaries system, which has been used to train Batswana, in both local and
foreign institutions. Bursaries are also awarded locally at Government
secondary and tertiary levels of training. Bursary awards at the secondary
level, which represent only 4% of MOE bursaries, have been extended to include
needy students in CJSSs, hitherto not covered (para. 2.15). Between 1979/1980
and 1984/1985, bursaries increased from P1.5 million to P7.2 million and now
represent about 10% of MOE recurrent budget. At the tertiary level the award
of bursaries will be directed towards areas of identified critical manpower
shortages. As far as possible, overseas training will be restricted to those
courses for which no training programs are available within the region. By



- 12 -
way of example, the annual cost of training a student in the U.K. or Canada
ranges between P15,000 and P23,000, compared to a range of P4,000 to P7,000 in
Zimbabwe, Zambia, or Kenya.
2.28      During NMP VI, the program of expansion planned in the education
sector will require a considerable increase in resource allocacion. The
MOE, in concurrence with the MFDP, has geared its policies towards an
average growth in recurrent expenditures of about 11% p.a., which would
raise the share of MOE recurrent expenditures as a percentage of Government
expenditures from 22% in 1984/85 to 28Z in 1990/1991. Development expenditure
of the MOE is expected to average about P33 million annually which would
maintain approximately the same average percentage-llX of Government
development expenditures between 1984/1985 and 1990/1991 (Annex 1, Table 5).
Considerable variation among growth rates of sub-sectors is expected, due to
differences in planned enrollment expansions. The variations in growth rates
will, as the figures below indicate, have some impact on corresponding shares
of recurrent spending. The share of most departments will increase during the
Plan period. Primary education is the main department which will, despite
increasing its level of recurrent spending, reduce its share of the overall
budget. As universal access to primary education comes closer to achievement,
an increased share of resources can be given to secondary, technical and
further education.
Recurrent Expenditure Shares in 1984/85 and 1990/91
1984/1985           1990/1991
Subsectors             (Percentages)       (Percentages)
Headquarters                2.4                   2.7
Primary                    40.4                  30.1
Secondary                  34.2                  39.0
University                 18.9                  22.8
Technical                   3.1                   4.2
Non Formal                  1.0                   1.2
Total                100.0                 100.0
2.29      During NDP VI, the Government has agreed to an average annual
growth in the MOE's recurrent budget of about 11% in real terms up to 1991
(para. 2.28) with the result that total MOE education expenditures will
increase from P107.7 million in 1984/1985 to P172.0 million (in constant
1985/1986 values) and represent 22% rather than the 16% to 19% of Government
budget that has prevailed in recent years (Annex 1, Table 5). The MOE's
recurrent budget takes into account the effect of new investments in
education. However, the MOE's capital budget assumes a significant infusion
of donor funds to cover the physical infrastructure requirements. Although
the MOE's share of the Government's budget will increase to 22% in 1990/1991,
this will be accomplished without significant increase in the Government's
share of GDP. Thus, the expansion in secondary education and vocational
training will be financed through offsetting reductions in the rates of growth
of other segments of the GOB's budget.



- 13 -
2.30      The above increases are consistent with:  (a) the recommendations
contained in the Bank Group's most recent Economic Memorandum for Botswana,
concerning the need to direct increasing amounts of Governmental expenditure
and effort toward industry, education, and manpower development; and (b)
Government's emphasis in the NDP VI on manpower development through education
and training.
Experience with Past Bank Group Lending
2.31      The Bank, a major source of external financing for education in
Botswana, has assisted the Government in three previous education
projects. The First Education Project (Loans 1274-BT/1275-T-BT, for
US$10.5 million equivalent, dated May 10, 1976) supported the first phase of
the Government's education program designed to meet manpower requirements
through the expansion of secondary education and teacher training, adult
education programs for out-of-school youth and adults, and a multi-purpose
rural education center to serve the Western Kalahari region. The project was
completed on schedule (closing date March 31, 1982) and the loan was fully
disbursed. During implementation of the First Education Project, the need was
identified for establishment of the PM as a permanent branch of the MOE, and
for speedy localization of its staff. The first objective has been
accomplished. As to localization, all staff positions except the PID director
and the clerks of works are now held by Batswana (para 5.01). The Project
Performance Audit Report (No. 4876 of December 1983) indicates that project
objectives were substantially achieved.
2.32      The Second Education Project (Loan 1828-BT approved in April 1980
in the sum of USS1O million equivalent) supported the NDP V by providing
assistance for CJSSs, the Brigades rural vocational training programs, and
training for civil servants and public sector personnel. Implementation of
all project components except the Brigades were completed as scheduled. The
Government was slow in determining the status of the Brigades, and as a
consequence, the Closing Date was postponed by two years (to June 1987).
Implementation progress is satisfactory.
2.33      The Third Education Project (Loan 2057-BT, approved in January
1982 in the amount of US$20 million equivalent) assists the Government's
priority program for improving primary education through the provision of 500
primary classrooms and a PTTC. This project has made excellent progress and
is well ahead of the implementation schedule, with virtually all construction
components completed. Earlier problems in furniture procurement hLve now been
resolved, and the project is likely to be completed well within the original
closing dace (March 31, 1987). 'Due to foreign exchange fluctuations, it was
estimated that about US$8.5 million of loan proceeds would remain undisbursed,
and at Government request, the loan was reduced accordingly.
2.34      Lessons Learned.  Several important lessons were learned from the
implementation of the First Education Project. Initial delays in both
physical implementation and disbursements were encountered due to changes in
key staff of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The Ministry of Works and
Communications (MOWC) was unable to timely provide the architectural/
engineering services as planned, due to unanticipated workload and staff
constraints. On the educational side, a review of the brigades program



- 14 -
indicated a need to strengthen the evaluation mechanism. These lessons were
applied to the design of the Second Education Project. The Third Education
Project incorporated all these lessons in its design. It included technical
assistance funds to ensure continuous service of a project director and
support to strengthen the auditing capability of the MLGL and District
Councils. Consequently, the proposed Fourth Education Project also
incorporates these lessons in its design.
Bank Sectoral Lending Objectives
2.35      Bank Strategy.  Botswana's economic growth has far outstripped the
country's ability to provide the educated and trained manpower for continued
expansion of the economy. The paradox of very substantial unemployment among
untrained primary and junior secondary school graduates and a crushing
shortage of middle and higher level personnel is characterized by the
country's heavy dependence on expatriates. Consequently, the Bank is prepared
through its lending programs to support the Government's increased emphasis on
technical and vocational training and on realigning the secondary school
structure and curricula to enable school-leavers to be better prepared for
additional employment-oriented training. In the sphere of management
training, the Bank is currently carrying out a study of Botswana's need in the
context of sub-regional training coordination. The Bank endorses the
Government's policies for a more equitable distribution of education and
training opportunities through the rural areas, where about 82 percent of the
population lives, and for equalizing the school fees burden so that a bias in
favor of urban residents is removed. The Bank sees merit in the Government's
interim proposal to upgrade, convert or replace seriously sub-standard schools
as a prerequisite to the ongoing quality improvements. The Bank's sector
strategy is consistent with its overall strategy for Botswana, particularly in
regard to our priorities for: (a) creation of employment outside the
capital-intensive mining enclaves; (b) helping to provide skilled manpower for
medium- and small-scale industrial and agro-industrial enterprises in the
public and private sectors; and (c) assisting the Government's program for
family planning and improved health care, for which schools and training
centers will be an important medium.
External Assistance to Education
2.36      The World Bank remains among the major sources of external
assistance to the education and training sector in Botswana. Other principal
donor agencies, and their areas of support are: African Development Bank
(AfDB) - JSSs and VTC construction; the Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA) - primary school infrastructure, the Teaching Aids Production
Unit, Schools Broadcasting Unit and literacy programs; the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) - staffing for secondary and higher
education and IDM; GTZ - the ATTS, ITTC and literacy programs; ODA - BP and
secondary teachers; DANIDA - construction of a secondary school technical
wing; and USAID, the PEIP, and JSEIP projects, focusing on teacher education,
teaching aids production, curriculum development, and education planning,
management and supervision; and the Botswana Workforce and Skills Training
program. The proposed Fourth Education Project has been developed in close
collaboration with donor agencies to prevent duplication, and to ensure that
its proposed components complement other ongoing and proposed assistance.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      The proposed project is motivated by the need to resolve manpower
constraints over the long term as a means to achieve sustained economic
growth. It recognizes that existing shortcomings in the quality and
availability of formal education, beginning at the earliest school grades,
adversely affect that resolution. Continued expansion of primary and junior
secondary education are thus called for. The project also addresses the
quantitative expansion, qualitative improvement and broadening of the range of
vocational and technical training capacity to meet acute industrial manpower
shorfalls (para. 1.06). Consequently, the project would: (a) give support to
the National Commission on Education's recommendation for a nine-year basic
education cycle by increasing the quality and expanding the capacity of this
level of education; and (b) stimulate technical and vocational training
opportunities in developed regions and designated growth poles. These
objectives support the Government's comprehensive program to achieve equitable
and effective development of education (paras. 2.08-2.21), which involves a
far-reaching series of reforms to restructure and expand the education system
so that it will be more responsive co the economic and manpower needs of the
country. Certain qualitative aspects of this program are catered for by the
USAID-sponsored PEIP and JSEIP programs (paras. 2.11 and 2.14). The Bank is
in agreement with the Government's goals for education, and the proposed
project is designed to complement them, in harmony with the activities of
other donors.
Primary Education
3.02      Facilities.  The Government primary school facilities program has
had difficulty keeping pa-.e with both enrollment growth and the replacement of
inadequate facilities.  rtiring the NDP V, primary enrollments increased by
about 52,000, a rate of i.bout 6% per annum. By 1983 the shortfall amounted to
about 1,700 classrooms, in addition about 1,600 classes are being taught in
less than desirable circumstances in village or church halls, in difficult
double-shift conditions requiring classes being taught under trees. Faced
with the magnitude of this task, the Government has set a target of 2,400 new
primary school classrooms over NDP VI, which represent only 60% of the
accessed needs to achieve the 1991 enrollment target of 275,000.
3.03      This component gives partial support to the above target by
provision of about 500 classrooms and related facilities (teacher's houses,
ablution areas, and office/store/kitchen facilities), mainly to replace
seriously inadequate facilities in rural areas. Location criteria (Annex II),
construction standards, bidding procedures and site supervision would follow
the guidelines agreed with the Bank for the Third Education Project (para.
2.33).
3.04      Teaching/Learning Materials.  Textbooks, teacher guides and other
school supplies are provided by the Government to all primary schools as part
of its policy of free primary education, enacted in 1980. Textbooks are made



- 16 -
available by means of: (a) an annual per capita grant; and (b) the free issue
to all schools of the first edition of new and approved texts (para. 2.11).
3.05      Teaching/learning materials are of two kinds: those produced by
commercial publishers in collaboration with MOE's DCD/E, and those developed
by DCD/E, mainly in connection with the recently revised and completed primary
school curriculum. The Third Education Project included the sum of US$500,000
for teaching/learning aids, and these funds have been largely expended as
planned. The Government estimates that when all the new textbooks, teacher
guides and resource materials have been produced, primary schools will each
require between 10 and 15 sets, over and above the standard textbooks to be
requisitioned from per capita funds. In view of the importance of these
software materials to the quality of education, the proposed project includes
funds for the production and distribution of the first edition of new
textbooks and teachers' guides developed for the revised curriculum.
Distribution of new teaching/learning materials would be by MLGL using
established channels through the District Councils, which are satisfactory.
Junior Secondary Education
3.06      Facilities.  The proposed project component of 31 new, replacement,
or upgraded schools represents about 18% (Annex III, Table 1) of needs. AfDB
will finance an additional 16 (9%). IBRD and AfDB will provide new or
enhanced facilities initially for about 11,000 and 5,700 students respectively
or about 56% of the targeted increase enrollments for 1991. This provides a
beginning to the expansion of JS education which can be continued or modified
in the light of experience.
3.07      The planned improvement and expansion of secondary education to
meet critical manpower shortages (para. 1.06) and the equalization of
second-level educational opportunities, are addressed by Government
development strategies (paras. 2.13-2.18). The new generation of small, low
cost JSSs will provide a network of schools particularly in rural areas now
deprived of such facilities. They have been designed as day schools, suitable
in design to the districts they would serve, yet affording essential
facilities (science, manual arts and library areas) required by the new
curriculum. Local communities will be responsible for some teacher housing
and certain administrative expenditures. With regard to teacher availability,
the change in 1988 to a two year program will release about 170 JS teachers.
Additional net teacher requirements to service expanded enrollments over the
Plan period are estimated at about 700, and with some expatriate staff they
can be provided from existing and planned pre-service and in-service training
programs (para. 2.14). Though underqualified and expatriate teachers will
continue to be needed throughout the expansion of the JS system, their numbers
will be gradually reduced (Annex I, Table 4). From 1986, a new curriculum,
developed by DCD/E with assistance from the USAID-sponsored JSEIP program
(para. 2.11), will be introduced into JSSs. It will emphasize science,
mathematics, communication skills and manual dexterity in a practical,
work-oriented approach.
3.08      Library Books.  The new JSS curriculum aims to foster self-education
and sound study habits. Thus, all existing schools wich lack these
facilities, and all new JSSs, will be provided with a small modest library, to



- 17 -
double as a teaching area. Included in this component would bc reference
books and resource material for teachers and students in 68 JSSs (five
existing schools with libraries but no books, the 16 schools constructed under
the Second Education Project, the 31 JSSs to be constructed or upgraded under
the proposed project and the 16 JSSs financed under an AfDB project). The
cost per student of about US$25.00 would represent about four books per
student.
3.09      To manage the school libraries, teacher/librarians will be trained
at UB. The Government is considering additional training courses at COE, and
through the National Library Commission. During Negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that by not later than December 31, 1986 a program
satisfactory to the Bank for the training of teacher/librarians for all
beneficiary schools would be established (para. 7.01-a).
Vocational/Technical Training
3.10      The Government has taken major organizational and legislative
measures to correct deficiencies in technical/vocational education (paras.
2.19-2.21). Legislation in 1983 gave effect to an Apprenticeship and
Industrial Training Act, designed to transform and improve both formal and
non-formal industrial training. An interministerial National Council on
Technical Education and Vocational Training has been established, with
responsibilities to determine and coordinate policy. As its executing
agency, a Directorate of Industrial Training, and a National Advisory Board
for Apprenticeship and Industrial Training, both dependencies of the
MOHA, have been created.  Trades Advisory committees in all major
apprenticeable trades have also been established.
3.11      To support the objectives of this new structure, to expand and
improve the supply of trained manpower (para. 1.07), and to regionalize
training opportunities, the Government proposes the creation of an ITTC and
of four VTCs. The AfDB has undertaken to finance two VTCs (at Jwaneng and
Selebi-Phikwe). The proposed project includes the ITTC in Gaborone and the
remaining two VTCs at Palapye and Maun.
3.12      Industrial Trade Testing Center.  The ITTC is seen as the
directing force of all vocational/technical training. Strategically sited
close to the BP and ATTS, it will avail itself of the facilities of these
institutions for trade testing, hostel and catering arrangements, thus
minimizing capital costs. It will be the Headquarters of t'e Directorate
of Industrial Training, the executive arm of the National Council (para.
2.19). Its responsibilities will be: (a) to establish training, testing and
certification standards for all skill training; (b) to carry out trade
testing; and (c) to coordinate all industrial training programs, so as to
avoid variable standards and unnecessary duplication. Finally, in order to set
standards, the ITTC facilities will be used during about 60% of the time for
short courses in skill upgradiug and instructor training. As such, the ITTC
would have a capacity for about 240 trainee places.
3.;3      Vocational Training Centers.  The four VTCs, located in Palapye
(310 trainee places), Maun (290 trainee places), Jwaneng and Selibe-Phikwe
(each 360 trainee places), will service industry's manpowmer needs in



- 18 -
industrially developed regions, and act as a spur to industrial development in
areas designated by the Government as growth poles. They will provide
flexible sandwich-type apprenticeship training programs and short skill
training and upgrading courses of varying type and duration, as dictated by
regional manpower needs and/or rural development requirements. Detail of
courses, training needs for selected skills, enrollments, and the yearly
output of VTCs are shown in Annex I, Tables 6 and 7.  Palapye is a rapidly
growing industrial township close to the country's first coal mine.  Nearby, a
90 MW power station is under construction.  These enterprises have brought and
will further bring into existence a service industry to these major
industries.  The Palapye VTC will also serve the need for the not too
distantly located Serowe.
3.14      The Maun VTC, with a capacity of about 290 trainee places, requires
separate justification, it not being in a location of established economic
activity in the formal sector. Pending the establishment of sufficient
industry, it would provide pre-service training in a variety of skill
occupations to JS graduates not yet in employment, and hence not sponsored by
employers. The rationale for this program is: (a) that the existence of
trained personnel should help attract new industry to the area, or encourage
newly trained craftsmen to set up small businesses; and (b) that the output of
trained personnel will help to alleviate at the national level the acute
shortage of skilled manpower. Moreover, Maun has been designated by the
Government as a growth pole, for which role it has many promising features.
The completion of the road from Nata to Maun will provide a paved highway
direct to Francistown, and serve as an inducement to industry to establish new
enterprises in Maun.  The 'f4ole Okavango Delta, one of the last surv -ring
natural game areas, is annually attracting more tourists, and service
industries (hotel and catering trades, game park staff and transportation)
should benefit from this influx. The Maun VTC will emphasize, especially in
its initial years, a wide variety of short courses intended to service such
industrial growth, as well as to assist rural development by promoting more
efficient skills in fishing, boat construction and repair, weaving and similar
cottage industries. The Maun VTC would, in brief, form a part of the
industrial growth planned by the Government for this region.
3.15      Staffing requirements are shown in Annex I, Chart 6. UNDP/ILO, GTZ,
ODA, CIDA and USAID are among donors who have expressed interest in providing
technical assistance for the ITTC and the VTC. Recruitment and training
programs are already underway. As a condition of disbursement for the
construction, furnishing and equipping of the ITTC and the two VTCs, the
Government would furnish a detailed staffing plan including technical
assistance program satisfactory to the Bank (para. 7.02).
Studies
3.16      The proposed studies (para. 1.07) are designed to address issues
related to: (a) the cost-effectiveness of vocational and skill training in
Botswana (9 man-months of manpower specialist services); (b) the correlation
between formal and non-formal education and training, and employment
aspirations and opportunities (9 man-months of manpower specialist services);
(c) development of investment options in post-secondary education, emphasizing



- 19 -
manpower requirements and cost recovery (9 man-months of manpower specialist);
and (d) construction technology (3 man-months of specialist services,
equipment and materials). These studies would include pre-investment studies
and the preparation of documents for a possible future education project (24
man-months of specialist services including professional services such as
architectural and engineering services). It is expected that they would be
performed by relevant local institutions and would thereby contribute to
strengthening the Government-s research, planning, and evaluation capabilities
and the Bank's information base on Botswana (Annex IV). During negotiations,
outlines of the above studies were agreed with the Government. The final
terms of reference, which are subject to Government's internal clearance
process, would be submitted to the Bank for approval by May 1, 1986 (para.
7.03).
Technical Assistance
3.17      The project includes financing for (Annex IV): (a) 9 man-years of
specialists in accounting for the MLGL (para. 5.03); (b) 16 man-years of
services of clerk of works (para. 5.01); (c) 2.5 man-years of specialist
services for studies (parac. 1.07 and 3.16); (d) 2 man-years of specialist
services for pre-investment studies and architectural engineering services
(para. 3.16); and (e) one man-year of specialist services of a project
director (para. 5.01); Technical assistance specialists financed under the
project would be selected in accordance with guidelines for the use of
consultants by World Bank Borrowers.  Qualifications, experience and terms of
employment would be satisfactory to the Bank. All specialists, as a part of
their terms of reference, would be expected to train a local counterpart.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
4.01        The total cost of the project is estimated at US$44.0 million
equivalent, including custom duties and taxes estimated at about US$0.7
million.  The estimated costs and foreign exchange components are given in
Annex III, Table 2-3, and are summarized as follows:



- 20 -
Z of
Pula Million         US$ Million      Base
Project Component          Local  Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Cost
1. Construction, Furriture,
Equipment, vehilces
and Textbooks
a)  Primary Education         4.7    11.2   15.9   2.4    5.7   8.1   28
b)  Junior Secondary          8.2    19.6   27.8   4.2   10.0  14.2   49
c)  Voc./Tech. Training       3.1     7.5   10.6   1.6    3.9   5.5   18
Sub-Total (1)                16.0    38.3   54.3   8.2   19.6  27.8   95
2. Professional Services (A/E)  0.2      0.7    0.9   0.1    0.4   0.5    2
3. Technical Assistance          0.2     0.9    1.1   0.1    0.5   0.6    2
4. Studies                       0.1     0.6    0.7   0.1    0.2   0.3    1
Tot=altase Cost (1-4)        T=75    3R.-S  3T5Ri  T.35  =2.7  29.2  100
(January, 1986)
5. Contingncies
an  Physical (9Z)             1.6     3.5    5..   0.8    1.8   2.6
b)  Price (41%)               6.2     6.5   12.7   5.0    7.2  12.2
Sub-Total (5)                 7.8    10.0   17.8   5.8    9.0  14.8
Total Project Costs (1-5)   24.3    50.5   74.8  14.3   29.7  44.0
4.02        Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and
textbooks have been derived from an analysis by local chartered quantity
surveyors of contracts awarded for similar items. The unit cost of
construction varies from about US$110 equivalent per square meter for
primary schools along the "line of rail' to about US$220 per square meter
for primary schools in the most rural areas. These costs compare with the
average cost per square meter for primary school in other eastern and
southern African countries as follows: Ethiopia (1984) US$110; Lesotho
(1984) US$174. The proposed schedules of accommodation are functional,
austere and appropriate for the proposed project objectives.
4.03      Custom duties and taxes. All items specifically imported for the
proposed project would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes, in line
with the practice of the Government to grant customs duties and tax exemption
for imports for educational purposes. Some of the materials to be used in the
construction of the proposed institutions would be acquired on the open market
and would be subject to taxes as, similarly, some professional services would
be. Of the estimated costs for civil works and professional services, about
US$0.7 million equivalent would represent taxes.



- 21 -
4.04      Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, an average of
9% has been added to the base cost. Price contingencies have been calculated
by applying, to the base cost plus physical contingencies, the following
percentage rates of price escalation in accordance with the implementation
schedule (Annex III, Table 4).
Calendar Year               1986    1987    1988    1989    1990       1991
Local (%)                   11.0    10.0     8.0     8.0      8.0       5.0
RSA (X)                     13.0    10.0     8.0     8.0      8.0       5.0
International (Z)           7.0      7.0     7.5     7.7     7.6        4.5
Because of Botswana's strong economic ties with the RSA, RSA inflation
rates have been applied to most bulky imported construction materials and
international rates to equipment, textbooks, furniture, technical
assistance, and studies.
4.05        Foreign exchange component.  The foreign exchange component has
been calculated as follows: (a) civil works for primary schools, 60Z; (b)
civil works for secondary schools, VTC's, and the ITTC, 67Z; (c) furniture,
80%; (d) professional services, technical assistance and studies, 80%; and (e)
equipment and textbooks, 95X. Including contingencies, the foreign
exchange component is estimated at US $29.7 million equivalent or about 69%
of the total project cost net of taxes.
Financial Plan
4.06      The total project cost of US$44.0 million equivalent would be
fi-nanced by a loan of US$26.0 million equivalent as follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Category                   Government      Bank          Total
1.  Civil Works                     13.8        18.4            32.2
2.  Furniture                        0.6         1.6             2.2
3.  Equipment/Vehicles               0.7         1.1             1.8
4.  Textbooks                        0.2         0.8             1.0
5.  Professional Services (A/E)      0.3         0.4             0.7
6.  Technical Assistance             0.1         0.7             0.8
7.  Studies                          0.2         0.3             0.5
8. Unallocated                       2.1         2.7             4.8
Total (1-8)                     18.0        26.0            44.0
(of which taxes)                (0.7)        -              (0.7)
4.07        The proposed loan would finance 60% of the total project cost net-
of-taxes which represents about 88% of the estimated foreign exchange
component. The Government would provide US$17.3 million equivalent (40% of
the total net-of-tax cost of the project) in addition to covering the cost of
all taxes (para. 4.03).



- 22 -
4.08        The effect of the proposed project on the Government recurrent
budget has been estimated on the assumption that recurrent expenditures will
increase about 6.8% p.a. in real terms over the Plan period. The recurrent
expenditures generated by the project, when in full operation (1990-1991),
would represent about 6% of the MOE recurrent expenditure at that time. A
levy system to support vocational training has been enacted by the
Government. After a start-up phase funded by the Government, the recurrent
cost of the VTCs would receive support from that source, as well as through
private sponsorship of trainees.
V. IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Implementation
5.01      Project Administration. The Project Implementation Unit
established in the MOE, for implementation of the three previous
Bank-assisted Education Projects, would be responsible for the
administrative and financial control of the proposed project, including
liaison with the Bank. This unit would be responsible for the
implementation of the project components of both the MOE (including the
studies) and the MOHA. This unit would also be responsible for coordination
with the various Ministries and Departments involved in the project including
the MLGL. Any appointments to the positions of project director and
procurement manager would be in consultation with the Bank. DANIDA is
presently providing the services of the project director. However, DANIDA's
obligation to provide this specialist is expected to terminate about February
1990, therefore about one man-year of services of a project director is
included in the project for the continuation of the specialist's services. To
reduce costs, the supervision of the construction of the JS schools will be
performed by the PIU instead of by private consultants. For this purpose, the
project includes the services of about 16 man-years of clerks of works,
vehicles and related traveling expenses. Because of the extreme shortage of
Batswana qualified in the a-chitecture and building professions, both the
project director an.& clerk of works posts must continue to be filled by
contracted expatriates. The other positions at the PIDU have now been filled
by nationals. Over the long term, training will be needed to provide
qualified staff for all posts.  Funds for such training are available to the
Government from numerous sources.   The project also includes some funds for
equipment and materials for the PMU. The PIU will also administer the MOE
development programs including the secondary school component and the two VTCs
financed by the AfDB. To permit the PIU to adequately review and monitor the
implementation of the primary classroom fatilities component, the MLGL would
closely liaise and coordinate activities with the PIU.
5.02      Following procedures adopted for the Third Education Project, the
Ministry of Local Government and Lands would have overall responsibility for
the administration of the construction of primary school facilities. The MLGL
would however, delegate the responsibility for detailed implementation to the
country's District Councils. Administrative arrangements and procedures to
carry out this work are well established and have been in use for the



- 23 -
implementation of similar Bank and SIDA programs since about 1974. Based upon
an agreed procedure, each Council submits to the MLGL an annual development
plan for primary schools within its District. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that the MGL would provide to the Bank via the
PDU: (a) before the beginning of each of the Borrower's Fiscal Years, an
annual development plan and budget satisfactory to the Bank, for the
construction of the primary school facilities (including the nature of
facilities to be constructed); and (b) submit each year thereafter, an annual
report indicating actual work completed as compared with the plan (para.
7.01-b). The plan specifies the schools to be constructed, expanded or
improved, together with site locations and cost estimates. After review and
approval by the MIGL, financial allocations are made to the Districts. The
Districts then invite bids for construction work following strict Government
procurement procedures3/. Contracts are awarded by the Districts who are
also responsible for tWe supervision of construction work through the District
Councils Works Department, and if necessary, with assistance from the MLGL ar-d
the MOWC. To avoid problems encountered in the procurement and distribution
of furniture to the primary schools under the Third Education Project
furniture will be procured by the District Councils. In addition and as an
attempt to further simplify the distribution of furniture, and to insure that
the classrooms will be furnished, civil works contracts will include, on a
trial basis, the supply of furniture by the contractor. Budgetary allocations
for primary school construction are channeled from the Ministry of Finance and
Development to the MIGL and hence to the District Councils. The Councils are
accountable to the MIGL, which has an audit department fully responsible for
controlling the use of funds.
5.03      To strengthen the District Councils and the MLGL in cost control,
accountancy and associated book-keeping for the project, nine aan/years of
technical assistance for three specialists in accounting were included in
the Third Education Project. This strategy worked well, and the three
local counterparts appointed by the Government made progress sufficient to
qualify them for enrollment in and completion of full-time professional
courses. Since the availability of qualified accountants remains very short,
the proposed project includes provision for a further nine man-years of
technical assistance in this field which would include a continuation of the
training of local counterparts.
5.04      Status of Preparation.  Designs and bid documents for all primary
and secondary schools are completed and have been reviewed and found
satisfactory by the Bank Group staff. The construction of eight replacement
JSSs would start in October 1985 and would be subject to retroactive financing
(para. 5.14). Designs for the ITTC and the VTCs are in an advanced stage and
bid documents are expected to be completed by February 1986. Furniture and
equipment lists have been prepared.  The PIU has recruited the required clerk
of works and a project Director financed by DANIDA is in post. Accountants
3/ Standardized tender documents and procurement procedures developed by the
MLGL are used. These documents and procedures have been reviewed by the
Bank and found satisfactory. Invitations to bid are advertised and a
minimum of three quotations are required.



- 24 -
for the primary school components are also in post and presently financed
under the ongoing Third Education Project. Outline terms-of-reference for the
studies have been reviewed and agreed with the Government during negotiations
(paras. 3.16 and 7.03).
5.05      Site Selection.  Sites for the primary classrooms would be
selected by District Councils following agreed guidelines (Annex II).
Satisfactory sites exist for the JSSs, the VTCs and the lTTC. The
locations of the JSSs (Annex III, Table 1) have been selected after a
school mapping exercise carried out by UNESCO in March 1985.
5.06      Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a period of
about five and one half years (Annex III, Table 4).  The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1990, with a proposed Closing Date
of June 30, 1991 (para. 5.13).  The implementation schedule is realistic and
takes into account the experience derived from the three previous
Bank-assisted Education Projects in Botswana in particular the Third Education
Project (para. 2.33).
5.07      Professional Services (Architectural, Quantity Surveyors and
Engineering. Standard designs for the primary schools and for the JSS& are
satisfactory, and will be used under this project. Professional services
will be required for site surveys, layouts, and cost control of the JSSs
component. Comprehensive architectural services will be required for the
two VTCs and the ITTC. Standard workshop layout designs are satisfactory
and will be used for all four VTCs and the ITTC. The MOWC is overloaded
with work and the required services will be provided by locally established
consultants who have undertaken similar assignments. These consultants
have been selected and will be commissioned on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for
use of consultants and would be under the technical direction of the PIM.
5.08      Maintenance. Primary school maintenance is the responsibility of
the District Councils; maintenance of the other facilities included in the
Project is the responsibility of the management boards of the institutions
concerned. Local communities provide free labor for school and housing
maintenance program in their areas. Adequate budgets for maintenance are
provided both at district and central government levels. SIDA is financing a
study to examine ways to improve school maintenance administration and
execution. Both the Brigades and the VTCs will train handymen specialized in
routine maintenance activities.



- 25 -
Procurement
5.09      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
US$ Million (incl. contingencies)
Total
Project Element            ICB          LCB        Other        Cost
Civil Works                      17.7       18.4          -          36.1
(10.6)     (10.0)                   (20.6)
Furniture                         0.9        1.9                      2.8
(0.8)      (0.9)                    (1.7)
Equipment/Vehicles                2.0                                 2.0
(1.9)                               (1.9)
Textbooks                                                 1.1         1.1
(0.6)       (0.6)
Professional Services (A/E)                               0.7         0.7
(0.4)       (0.4)
Technical Assistance                                      0.8         0.8
(0.5)       (0.5)
Studies                                                  0.5          0.5
(0.3)       (0.3)
Total                            20.6       20.3          3.1        44.0
(13.3)     (10.9)       (1.8)       (26.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the Bank.
5.10      Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles and
textbooks would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICE) (51Z of the loan amount) in accordance with the Bank Group~s
Guidelines for procurement except as follows:
(a) Due to the small size and the remote and scattered locations of
the primary school facilities to be provided under the project,
the contracts for civil works and furniture would be awarded by
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
standardized local procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para.
5.02). Due to the large number of small contracts (e.g., about
200) the MLGL would use agreed SOE procedures for reimbursement
(para. 5.13);



- 26 -
(b) As about half of the junior secondary schools will be scattered
in remote areas and constructed over a period of a few years,
individual contracts for civil works estimated to cost less
than US$600,000 would be awarded (up to an aggregate of US$7.0
million) on the basis of competitive bidding advertized locally
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) Textbooks for the primary education (which are being
developed in cJose cooperation between the Government and
selected Publisners) would be procured on a negotiated basis
satisfactory to the Bank. Bank staff have reviewed the
pricing structure of the textbooks and found it basically
acceptable;
(d) Library books for the JSS would be procured on a negotiated
basis, satisfactory to the Bank, either directly from the
various publishers or through specialized book procurement
agencies; and
Ce) Furniture and equipment contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent each, would be awarded by competitive
bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with local
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The aggregate value of
items procured by this method would not exceed US$500,000.
5.11      Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists for construction, furniture, equipment, vehicles and textbooks
indicating proposed grouping and estimates of costs would be reviewed by
the Bank. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage
competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender
evaluation documents, prior to award, would be required only for contracts
above US$250,000 equivalent for civil works and US$50,000 equivalent for
furniture, equipment, textbooks and vehicles.
5.12      When ICB is used, domestic manufacturers of furniture and
equipment would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the existing
applicable rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price
of competing foreign suppliers.
Disbursements
5.13    Disbursement would be made on the basis of:
(a)    60% of expenditures for civil works;
(b)    1002 of foreign expenditures, 100l of local expenditures for
goods manufactured in Botswana (ex factory price) and 60% of
local expenditures for furniture, equipment, vehicles and
textbooks; and
(c)    100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures for
professional services, technical assistance and studies.



- 27-
All disbursements would be fully documented except those for primary classroom
construction (para. 5.10-a), administrative costs of the project
implementation unit and contracts valued below US$20,000 equivalent. These
would be supported by statements of expenditures (SOEs), signed by the MLGL
and MOE respectively. Documentation for expenditures covered by SOEs would be
retained by the MLGL and MOE respectively and would be subject to an annual
audit by auditors acceptable to the Bank. In addition, the documentation
would be readily available for review by Bank representatives during the
course of project supervision.  The Borrower would not submit applications for
reimbursement valued below US$20,000 equivalent. Based upon experience in
previous Bank projects, and because the project provides for three acountants
to monitor the accounts of the primary school components, the MLGL and the fIU
would have satisfactory institutional capacity to use SOE's. The Loan is
expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1991. The typical disbursement
profile for education projects for the Eastern and Southern African Region is
about eight years. Because of the experience developed in the past projects
in particular in the Third Education Project (para. 2.33) and the advanced
status of preparation of this project (para. 5.04), a five and one-half year
disbursement profile is considered adequate (Annex III, table 5).
5.14      Retroactive financing not exceeding US$1.5 million equivalent for
approved expenditures incurred after June 1, 1985 and prior to Loan signing
is recommended for architectural services for the JSSs, the VTCs and the
ITTC, and for civil works for the JSSs (para. 7.04).
Reporting and Evaluation
5.15      Following procedures established under the Bank Assisted Second
and Third Education Projects, semi-annual reports on implementation
progress would be submitted to the Bank for review not later than May 31
and November 30 respectively. The MLGL, MOHA, and MOE would sulbmit their
reports to the Bank through the PIU. Not later than six months after the
Project Closing Date, the PIU, with assistance from MOE, MOHA, and MLGL, would
provide to the Bank a report evaluating the execution, initial operations,
costs and benefits of the proposed project and the performance of the
Government and the Bank including lessons learned during project
implementation.
Auditing
5.16      Auditing would be required on an annual basis for all
expenditures, including in particular SOE's (pars. 5.13), financed under
the project. The accounts pertaining to primary school expansion under the
MLGL and the districts would be prepared with the assistance of the three
specialists in accounting provided for under the proposed project (para.
5.03). Accounts pertaining to the Ministry of Home Affairs and the
Ministry of Education would be prepared by the PIU. All audit reports
would be submitted to the Bank within nine months following the end of the
Borrower's fiscal year. Auditing would be performed by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and applying satisfactory auditing procedures.



- 28 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The project would support the expansion and quality improvement of
primary and secondary education and the expansion of vocational/technical
education and training to meet identified manpower needs.
6.02      The provision of about 20,000 primary school places and about
11,000 places in 31 JSSs would specifically complement the qualitative
improvements covered by the USAID PEIP I and II and the JSEIP programs
(paras. 2.11 and 2.14). To enhance the quality of educational inputs at the
JS level, the project would also provide library books to about 68 JSSs.
6.03      To improve and expand industrial training opportunities, as
foreshadowed in the recent Xpprenticeship and Irdustrial Training Act, the
project provides for an ITTC and two VTCs. The ITTC with 240 trainee
places, and the two VTCs with a capacity of about 290 and 310 trainee places,
would enable to the Government to: (a) organize and coordinate all skill
training; (b) establish national standards for skill training, testing and
certification; and (c) provide skill upgrading and instructor training; (d)
expand and decentralize skill training; (e) serve the manpower needs in
industrially developed regions; and (f) offer incentives for economic
expansion and rural development.
Risks
6.04      No major risks are foreseen.  Financially, the Government is
expected to be able to provide, on schedule, the necessary budgetary
allocations for meeting the capital and recurrent costs generated by the
development project. If Maun does not develop as a growth pole according to
plan, and despite the high priority given by the Government for this region,
the VTC there may be forced to change its orientation, and prepare its
students for employment elsewhere in the country. To ensure satisfactory
accounting and auditing of project funds, technical assistance has been
provided (para. 5.03).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that:
(a) by not later than December 31, 1986, for the junior secondary
school library books component, a program satisfactory to the
Bank for the training and placement of teacher/librarians in all
beneficiary schools would be established (para. 3.09); and
(b) the MLGL would provide to the Bank via the PIU: (i) before
the beginning of each of the Borrower-s Fiscal Years, an annual
development plan and budget satisfactory to the Bank, for the



- 29 -
construction of the primary school facilities (including the
nature of facilities to be constructed); and (ii) submit each
year thereafter, an annual report indicating actual work
completed as compared with the plan (para. 5.02).
7.02      Asa condition of disbursement for the construction, furnishing and
equipping of the ITTC and the two VTCs, the Government would furnish a
detailed staffing plan, including the technical assistance program,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.15).
7.03      During negotiations, outlines of the project's various proposed
studies were agreed with the Government. The final terms-of-reference which
are subject to Government's internal clearance process would be submitted to
the Bank for approval by May 1, 1986 (para. 3.16).
7.04      Retroactive financing not exceeding US$1.5 million equivalent,
incurred after June 1, 1985, is recommended for architectural services for the
JSSs, the VTCs and the ITTC, and for civil works for the JSSs (para. 5.14).
7.05      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$26.0 million equivalent to the Republic
of Botswana on standard IBRD terms.



-30 -
ANNE I
Table 3
WDNPARCiIVE 633g4T1031l INDICACOES                                                Pals. I of 2
October 21. 1915
1CDIERAL1
E1?ChfIURE   EDUCAr118                          COBRLnI'16            06RMWIRDT-
BASE  POP.  GUETrA  PERCENT CIIP TOAL CWNRAL AUOCCEZD TO: BCt               3WNLL. SCMOL       MTIlEITS ROJCArMN  PRIMARY TO   MKIJLL.   St t8(15  r-INILL..
YEAR MILLS. CUSS)   DEOTED TO  WDVEISMII         PuIt1SEC  HI    (2)    80f10   CYCLE          PER       AS PIECE  SEWNIDAKv   MAlits    PER           RATIO
C1979   (197)   EDATIONEXPENIrPR  (1)  1976) CZ)         2)     rc--irRGM rCNGAN-A'    CZ)            IT)      rtACI1ER    (P)
DEVELOPED CINY SIRS
AUSTRALIAL         a      14.6b  .8670      6.3'        36.6        -    -    ---    -          03'      [at)        21       -             99           ?3       31       qI*90
CANADA             at      3.* 7b96A        7.70        38.1'?      30'? 34M' 23'?  qg1b       BOA'      300         21       39.94?       10o          92'       *n       22.60'
GERMANY F.R.       79    11.1  12,200       4.6          9.9u       -    --   -        "b3      agg      100'        --       --           floop        94C       --       12.30'
UMETURMADS          79    14 (I 10.490      1.9           3.,!      20   33   23      99137     96        93        3lb        13.3         9982                  13       32.40
NEW ZP.AL4ND       so      3.2b  6*osb       S. 3- 3.4              3'   31   28      99b      100       300         24b       33..         inn         82        15       73.60".
SWUeDS             79      8.3  12.230      9.0          38.2       3!   3 10 to      g9b       99'.    3S3          la133'   39too 190 19'                        30'!        M750
EASTEWI AFRICA
3TSNARA           83      1*0lb    920     6.0          17.0       41   34   22      410      300        77         32        10.0         -'           20       23        3.60
MaCNID             83I    4.2      235      2.86'       19.0        43   23   27      25        29'       35        37        20.2          32           3'       37        3.00
CDMODS        84      0.4b    3435    3.8"         289.0       49   29   22      49        76        40         39       -             45          16i       29        04.,.
02100111           84      0.4     480      3.0         33.9        73   26   ...    10         42        66,       40        67.0          40           i0       to        116f
EKIMtIOPA          81    12.36    z'60b    2.QP         11.1        45   25   20      53       '.2        Ion       63        39.3          93'         14        46       0.4%
KOTA               82    I7.Ab    420b    5.81b         20.1I.      65   36   1 I     48b      333        so        36        14.4          35           36       26
Lesr'I0            82      L.4b    43313    S. 5        16.9        38   33   26      52b      316's     41         48         9.4          46          23        21        1.10
MADAGASCAR         77      3.5     330    '..(P.        24.0        13  26   19        30       gO'x    33           39b       6.0          In           14       23        3.*31t'
nALAn              SI      6.3b    230k    I.           23.4        IN   14   23      ziSb      62        22         63        5IA          12           &        23        r.4.3
MwaIRItIDS         83      I.o   1. 1706    4.3         14.01       46   36    7      gob       93        72        73        3iA          ihi1.0 30     9         2        a.CMd
RWANDA             ml      s.ob    27Ob    3.6          21.4        13   36   13      3713      65        30        40        36.0           9           5        3b       0.40
SEYCIELLES         79      0.6   1.770      5.9         22.".       36' 33'1D         --        --                  23        --             -          .-        -.       -
SOKALtA            RI      4.5     280      1.5         10.3        50b  &&3b  60    50h        zzb       gab       29b        q.ob         aob          121,     22        *o116
SUDANK             s0    19.2b    386b    3.0           -           64   39   ...    32         53"x    68          34          3.4         44           6        34
SWAZILANiD         83      o.i"b   9406    3.5pb3       20.4        31   34   15      69'       93        50         33       31.0          98          29        In        3.-Lu
TANZANIA           an    16.5       260      5.9         17..'      47   30   16       79h'     933       57         43        31.0            b          3       708      ~1
UIGAPIDA           sI'   12.6b    300        -             _:*      23b  376  2ob    48         34.       63l        14       ---           37            5       211      Ol.'.I
ZAIRE              at   2n.eb    ziOn    7.7            26.4        -    --   to      !&13      76        23        30        21.0          40          1in       28        3.39'
ZAMBIA             80      S.71 .bIbb       4.5         L13.3       48   23   22      44b       95        so        48        32.9          II9         36        32        3.i1
ZIMB4RIJR          RI      7.76b   7008    5.1          39.3        62   32    6      4413      90        53         39       20.0          as           35       21       .1.50o
WESrEWq AFRICAt
SW nN              T9      3.4b    321*    S. 9         3S5.0       43   23    3    jjb         42        30        46        1'..0         30          Il        43        3S!1V.
SSIBINA            83     6.5      230b    2.3"         23.7       43  219   28I    9           16       23          3/       24.1          14           3        24       o.-Il
GARYUON            76      3.2      59 0    2.97        36.0'      2332  43' 20'   -            761       45'        50?       33.6'        20'          34.6     16       I*.1.1?
C.A.R.             79      2.2     280      3.5'?       210.4'?     -     --- --    - -         --        --         6 5'?    --            .-            - ----            1t70'3
cm I'D             76     4.4      170      7*41b.7     21.7b        .-     ---      33         23?                  77   ~ --.                            q.~   11         *7J
ojew               78      1.5     670      9.0"''      77.78?      --.-             -6. -.                          nL?      -             "a..                  4313?     4.cc"r
CAN3N              77      0.6   3.420      3.7b?        6.4?          -     -        .           -       -         4fi3Y    .-.            -                     39~,    3.60'?
CASE?'.            77    .3.6      220      1. 3"'       6.4        46   252   6'   Jill,       a0by      9O&        27k?     44.7C         40           321*?    3!
ClARIA             76    33.3      400      4.0?        15.9.-    -   ---                       7j1bay    -          2767     -             -           ;0'.    21
GUINEA             79      5.3     2909    4.6'P        --          29S  26'  t64   20          34        36         38       20.0'p        65           3'6      ZIP       7.IAp
IVOR WfCAS!        at     4.2   i.Uos1    10.0          45.0        13   46   13    30b         b0       as         43        26.0          4/          19?x    2..         1.90!
LIBERIA            art     I9      520      4.6         39.6        411  23   24    30          52       '12        35        20.0          7- 2                  20        .1
KALE               83[     7*b   190        4.2'        21.7'       38   21   it    10          20       641        44        335.7         66           3        33        0.9O'Y
KAI7ffRIY3IA       79      1.6b    320k    3. 5         36.9        33   63   23    3713        32        60        46         52.0         30           9        25        01.37
NIGER              79      5.2     300      &.3'?       16.6'?      52' 43'   1'   6            17        56'a       43'      361.1'        40           2        341b      0.20?
N IGEtIA           83    93.6b    760b    7.4?,         36.0        --  -    12.6  36           93        70         36        39.5         46.         22.3      30        '
SfiWGAL            77      5.3       65f    5.0         23.0        46   34   20    L0          3413Kv    -         43137     -             20          t0        23        2.20b?
SIERRA LUSlIE      77      3.4     2 'A     4.nlb       1.o13       --  -    ---   I '          37'.      -         35        Z3.0b         84          1 y       22       0.6oby
rom                74      2.4     400      s.. W       26.53       30'  28' 21'   IN           74        to         3Sf?     36.            52         i2b'?   4313        3,4913
LIS I NLkICIA AND THE CARIBBEAN
AIr CrITXNA        78    21.3   2,230       2.7         30.9        43'  31'  36.   933         89        52         17       --            61          3t         P.      21.01.f
BAMANAS            79     0.2   2.110       3.7         39.3        36   36   13   )331         99       97         24        --            '97         75        to
aAuBAS             76     0.2   2.6d0       5*3'w7      72.3'       ;11'  11" 6'   9913        200?      99'        27?,      39.9'.        999         78'       7121
UOLMVA             80      5.4     55'      4.1' 3l 0. so           -  -. -63                   14?      -          20?       ---           -.          13?                32.60?
BRAZIL             79   136.5   1.770       1.8          6.2        31         1 4    76        rim?y               22'?       &.9          st.          %        1"        2.1i2b
MILK1              76    1g.q   3*u90       3.1b?       M3altb       -.  .          .         139-liqky?            366?      --            ...5b13'7    2013?    33.906?
CWWMPRIA           80    2e.,.7b *3  1.14b  33          21.0        35   20   20    331         733       1         32         6.6                      4 7       20       3a.n2'?
C;STa nIrA         9to    ;a2b  3I13Gb    8.4           31.3        60   27   33    9n          91    1             33         15.5         774C                  27 .     1-i.s.
CUBA               131    9.3      ---      6.0         31.0        -.    -  -       '6        1126"      96         %lb.     -             96q          736b..    j5      jgo2h
DONINIGAN Bt.P.    90      1.3  3Jfl10      2.9         33.0        33)  f1   22    541b        n0        33        394         3.2         94          30        II       16-.00
wMAI       aa      lIz      .O   3.I10      6.019       36.7        45   31   lb    83         1n5        -         I4        12 .6         836         17        14       29.00
E'L SAI.94DO35     17     4.4      6.40     3.48?       23.3"'      64    8   21    62          332b'.    32        39        -             4*          2Aib'?   7713?      7.a0bv
GICEMA1.NA         78      6.8   3.O30      t.7'?       12.6b       .-   --   -.    -           461377    .-         3 P.     -             69           I 5"'     jeb?     S. Vu
CIUYAMA            1t,    0.3      430      8.3b 1? 3.617           - -9------ ---'    --                            32"?     -              .-533".?    --                 3.008?
lAITI              60R    31fl13    730     3.4"          7.9'?     65    9          21"        50        A0l4                 39.0         6?'           4       27        fl.I.I
HaINOOAS           1n      3.6      520     3.31b1      14.3b7      42'   39'  39'   60        *o13'.    30'        43113      12.6'        68'         23"       a.        3.00
JAMAICA            s0      2.3    11310     6.3         33.7        17   41   20    90          98       96         40         2.3          95          Pi        22        6.0'.
qu Ion            80    6 5. 5   1 a80     4.7         3 7.13'     46   39   i5    92          98        53        44         9.5          86           56       It       i0.30
'JICARSGUA         78      2.63   ;,nb      1J.0b.      14.0b       -  -- -   -      gob'      a89'       24        3*        --.                       z6k'      job       -
7*3(331            is      I.Ob  1., 353313    5.5y     21.68?      4)'A  I1'  13   J2323       99by      -.-       2 *b      13.6          81'         j.mb'       376'    2D.40b1
PPRASUAT           79     3.0   I*M1'       14.4        36.2        42   II   20    64L         63        312        k         3,Ir         76          22        22        0.10
PERIU              50    16.6f   3.00       3.6         11.3        53   t5   19    60          83        56         n9        9.6          B9          39        22       34..0?y
TRINIIID  & TOB.   77      1.1   3.91*0     4.537        a.Sby    641   12   20    93           96        91         30        10.3?        49           62       2.       -
UNUCUAY            78     2.9   2.30n       2.5          9.4b       -        . --    9         ib9'x    ..-         761       -.            ---6s                 --       I  9.P
VP2IEZUEt.A        76    Vi.4   3,440       5.11        IR.9)b      -..  --         892        3066'      -         28        ---           .-           .6'       7       2MM23



- 31 -
Foas 2 of 2
WNPACTVX WI    C 0  ,mozcffao
Camewr 21. 1915
mwoinrpm
aUm mnum   socii                               CONULCTO a           bIhhumhr
onmwcczou   masmw           AMUt              tat pan             ownr c3an  PeCansla
CIP mI              AS PIECERf    OtP  DYUS  LITERACY PRIMY PRDIALT            P51TM  PRIMAR         Rift P00   SECONDARY SIDUNT HIK aCR
SC  PO. .APur  PtlIES? GNP TaTAL CorEs.L ALUTIO   TO  UTC    mCILL,  aCNOL                   frUODTS IDUTCSlh   PRIMAL? vo  CYODLL.  urmunrs  Eb IDUL.
TMt KILLS. (5552   SENRW   y e  c uToo          PR: 5Cc  ml    CZ)    Ulaw   Ciag            s       AS Pucar SmDAn           U toW    PR          mAT 10
igI7g) tlY79)    CCTDDn  ctrmon                 () I      g I7t)   CZ)        (Sl    TEA>Et GN rAtsrn4          tS )       tS I   ru4snR     :11
(_ )    (2)       (3)           (4)           ()          (63       (7) n         CR)              la)         (I3) _      121       (13)    (1.1
M611 LISA AND THD PAC6A3C
OBIRA              33 3073.0b    330b    3.1           7.1        38   60   22      776      71       t2         23         8.0          3          1        l7        4.50
uDWCSrA           SI   Isa.s6    520      2.3          9.3        70   14    6     32b       9a       6          37        3.0         74         21        26        1.70
eRIA               82    39.3b  I33b    7.W           20.         3    34   31      96       99       9          43        39.0         98         84        3a      21.40
NLAYTIA           C4    5.2b  33,73b    6.1          16.7        3"  43-  15"    70b        gin      97         26        3L.5'        89          72       22        1.JW1
PAOA SN.C           3     2.08    120      .4        19.0        40   17   U      -         60       73         31        2 5.0        153         33U      271       l.4O
FRIT*Pnsw C        70     0.11b   &gob    2           36.0        64   36    _      7*b       4       65         31         .3I         89          55       36      11.00
SINCAHOI          so      2.4  4*.420     2.7          6.1        39   40   16    S6         92       82         31          .8         9,          55       22        o.00
101000 &SL.        u2     0.26    640     6.6WP       39.h,      41   34   20    I3          7C       SO         27       10.5          40         20        1s        2.50
THAIlJtD           62    49.ob    reb    3.4          20.3        s    la   la      ub      Jul       68         21        9y.)         44          46        is       400
S0m0 ASLA
njGeU              "     92.3b      0      l.P        10.327      H    17   20     223       637      -          33         3.h         --         34        21        3.41
mInreA            80      3.2      6o     3.6         L3.O        -    -    --      10       12       -          --       -             -           --                 -
INDIA             77   .5'..      210     2.0r         9."        -      -         36        79       -          41          _          -          285       -         9.36W?
ar,,              t2    35.0      36b    I  3b 1.4   -             -_fl _I                            -          38       -             -          21        21        1.700
rstSrm      U      2    S7ab    330b    2.0            7.0        3d   za   24     22   5e            41         30    7     .9         36         2        15        1.0I
ButKINDLE P.45T AI 1011117 @51CL
est                I1   153      -        1.7         3.7        47   19   t5      12       31br    69          3*b       -            62          8        2zb7      lnor
AsLRLl             79   13.3   3.710       3.8        32.3        24a  29"  2a    35         837      4V         37         7.0         533         29V      26        1.710
alIP               32    4i.3-    SNw     4.6w         7.9        338  35   76"    44        79       8-         3S-        R5          alp         438       9"      37.00
SCE                7bL    9.3   4.140      2.6'       l0.6b       37   26   21      -        9Jb      -          29b        6.2?        -           796b     27b*     I J.xfb
lUmI               79    36.9     -        3.7.7      14. 1 a    -    --  --        S3      3013      -          32a      -             --          4-48     248       1.
IRAV               79    12.S   2.710     4.3-r        6.9'       -    -    -      -        3lM       -          2D       --                       a_ Pt     :_A      4.t0
rfMAo             SI      L4b  4.480      6.387       [:.8-7     -     -     -     45        92       94         24       -              8s        al        34      13.0O
Joao              Sa      :.Zb  1,420h    4.9        .0.2         9   4      s     7*b    lo0s        83         32        7.2          91         82'       25      31.no
ELUME              19     2.3     -       -           18.68      -    -    .-    --          99"      -          39       -             --         36-        -      27.807y
rS0           l an    39.3    740     0.30        17.5'       36   U    70     28        *81      35         39       19.7          40         25t       23       4.50
GOPL               52     0.9b  5.920b    2.3W        2.7- '                 -     30b7     7'      63         25        -            36          it      13 .4       .
eOraO.L            79     9,b  2 06D      3.b         22.2       3n  2D   33        78       97       20         39       122.          J8         4 5'      172       8.10'
WOLuA              -5    22.1   2.010     3.9kb        6.27       -    --   --       6       i'       - _        ab       -             95         84'b      22'     *0.601b
SPAIN              7b    37.0   4.920     2.17        16.81       ---  --   _                93b7       -         9b      -             --        6e -b      2_.U0by
.f1uA             J8      3.6   1.110     4.4P        10.3        39   25  z2      18        a7l      so         35b      -                        4s 3b     2Jb      12.60
TUiSIA            79     6.4   3.130      7.OP       19.0        42   39   1o      62b     3oo       Pe         396b      12.8         3D         313       3i        *JJ*'
TIME               63     47.5  1 230      3.3        16.2        70  22   24       73b     10        77        31         b.0 5O      S6                    33       N.03n
5r4 A.R.          sO      6.J     420    50W         12.3        96    7    7    216        37       128        Jay      67.0          85          1        20        1.10
-30 P.DB..        82      2.ab   4620     7.6          9.?        03   148-  8-    53        6l       34         25       2:0-          44         17       233        2.10
SUWAIM FOR ngEv I'nPC CaQNTlE'-
M _r .      e rOWLu8r1e                                 93       70  69   67       I        'l       68         93       63            75          u        s98     53
Realm:                                  (3.4-          (1.7-  (21-  (5-  13-    (o-      (1L       (12-       (17-      (6.-         (tOl        (3-      (8-.     ( ai3.
l0.0)         34.3)  94)   46)  33)    99)       119)      9          77)       7.0)         3003      8a;        a8;     Z9.03
Qeartllrs: Dppr:                          3.6          21.7      H   36   22    a1          9n       so         43        20           r?         47        26       11.0
m1di.:                        4.0            6.1     43  28   19       3        83        Li        35        13           &I          25       72        3.2
Lam-                          3.0           31.0     38   21   1i    23         40        35        25s        9           4*          3        39s       2.0
QertlI1 D5.ruLa1 :                         .3                   6.5  ;.S 4.3   20.0       19.0     22.5        7.3       3.6         23.5       30.5       3.3        5.0
'e:                                      4.4           17.0      46  2     18      33       7b       Y1        iD        16            b2        3I         23       6.9
3atdard DeviatIo:                         1.9           8.7      12   o    7     29        27       24         13        13           27          I3        7        1..
Medtan:                                   4.0          16.0      43   23  19       33       83       61         35        13           65          76       12        3.7
SlIIIS:                                                               P0r0DTW
-    DArWER  EAILALE                                                    A - D00  PRIcE TO 3sC TEW                  s * KDOWEYn or PCP-IOP (ME) ONLY
U=171W IOL Olt MDCLICIL1                        *                    - DOAW SORlE RECCVI T1AP 5ASF YER       T - POE MD SrArC GOVEIONBO3  LY
7    0ADDM IJEIO6L                                                     3 - en"" rICEs                              U - rJILle EXFlIDITUE ONLY
*    DINCL S PArr-ss3  STWICJTS                                         P - CP                                     X - 00I.CL      nVEPIAEC SrUDES!?T
T - MR50    soaWEs
SOQ=S:          Col-n. I *Pd 2: Whrid Real, ALIa  or  eCctlIoo Sector I lad wS@.1l.
3claa 3 to 1;: IPPrld Lak  EduCtioan eato,  nrleDxaic     Covrnmsr amies ndlor the VA,. Stati cteal Yerbok.
CGOPMI 1- Zdm.caloa Data are urfl te the ewaa-iln  ft *arle. evdevtla qstaa  and ansLyal   of ralatlve  tcae. ofe d-atanal developeth bht_eov  carl-.
eaocrie. Io_e-or.  -  the ba- of the pmoat data. cro eatla   ert.     obld be aPPro&Chid   Ch Ereat c utt_.  D.t- Pre-ntLd In te aboewe table h> or
been collected Larsely by  Rank almalons from govenrnnt awrcr; the remaldi  - art Kttf ealmatem or data t ro  tenoc. Utoa hMae been  ade to aLtrndrdlt.
deflltlm,e ed. wthin 13.1. to Clack tbr aCarOCy of Che dat. Nvertbhl-aa. ach  ata ar *.till Ieperfct  n severral reaeeta and 'he fank it  -ref 0  to
1Pa.m.. heepr Pr.groatly on tbe  COatlan of rts nperetIonal wor.  In the .n of tha.  data. thW follodnX qatlfleatlon  boulIJ be kept n *Isn:
(33     det.eto   an de toed In the table includea a1 ed tcat_n ad traininLg  boeh forwel ad nor-tomal.
(2)   -Priary  educarlton refer  to ectitn At the firs level and -_cd-gy  ed.atia refers to a11 .dscatia at the e darj 1                        r1   dle, of type
(e.9. generl. tOeb 1eal. agrtcaltuall.
(3)   1.4teracy rateC  (Col. 4) are Often cOtalos I'na coanlry uene.aa.  In   oy Cuartrtea they  re Only appraIilOnAsod It 1. d:obtful that any uln-rr
deilt.iter of  ll3terat     0 he b    follo.d conoaatenti..
(4)   -fPbLic euendltwrie 1a  d-cttao  (cala.   -nd 3) retre to all c* pltl aod rerret eVendltre  deotd to education by wbile a   e-publ
(5)                        (Cnrollnnt ratla  (eoa.  7. 1'        14) refer t o  choel year Aed ar  the careentale of eligible children enrollod full-clu, tn the appm.I ol.
701bit-e ipat- e by evel.  They are often abjecr te  si de  argln d error In the dew-lepig cantroe. nIet  to   r                    .  the accuracy of  ban.I
data Ct .. * a      dlftle  op tlatton And enrol  ental.  barollet ftirea franently ra bhiglr Lbn the n_b-r Of Cednt. actl - In shoul
Oenr-aged  tcdene c     be I eledad In thia  rwru   and cw n IsfrlaLe the ratSi-.



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Table 2
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
AGGREGATED MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS,
LABOR FORCE AVAILABLE, AND MANPOWER IMBALA'ICES 1981-2001
Manpower RequirementL    1981      1984      1985    1990      1991     1996      2001
Primary or Less          192668   209306   220311  271031   280994   346131   430054
Secondary                 36647    41953    45742   61073    64116    82272   106022
Degree or Higher           2151      2517     2768    3524      3681     4658      5913
Total                    231465   253776   268821  335627   348791   433061   541988
Labor Force Available
Aged 15-64                1981     1984      1985    1990      1991     1996      2001
Never at School          218219   221856   219203  186868   179508   142796   105767
Primary or Less          205121   229462   242583  31674    331542   41427   501382
Secondary                 25130    39869    42781   76702    85748   142903   223712
Degree or Higher            662      1015     1159    2025      2286     4612      8605
Labor Available          449133   492202   505727  582340   599084   704609   839466
Labor Force Growth
over Previous Year                11223    13525   15636    16744    23471    29451
Manpower Imbalances       1981      1984     1985    1990      1991     1996      2001
Primary or Less          230673   242012   241476  232582   230057   210962   177095
Secondary                -11516    -2084    -2961   15629    21632    60632   117691
Degree or Higher          -1489    -1502    -1610   -1498    -1396        -46      2692
Total                    217668   238426   236905  246713   250293   271547   297478
Imbalance as a Percent
of the Labor Force
Available                1981     1984      1985    1990      1991     1996      2001
Primary or Less           54.49    53.62    52.29   46.18    45.02    37.87    29.17
Secondary                -45.83    -5.23    -6.92   20.38    25.23    42.43    52.61
Degree or Higher        -224.88  -147.99  -138.90  -73.99   -61.07    -1.00    31.29
Total                     48.46    48.44    46.84   42.37    41.78    38.54    35.44
Source:  Employment Policy Unit, Ministry of Finance and Planning
(Based on MEMBOT, 1984)



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Table 3
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION: ENROLLMENT, TEACHER SUPPLY, AND DENAND (1984-1991)
1/         2/     Available Qualified        Unqualified Percentage
Year Enrollments   Teachers           Less TTC Output          Teachers   Unqualified
Required   Stock Wastage _/ TTCS  Total  Required       Teachers
1984  209,345          6753     -       -         -    4636      2117        31.3
1985  218,102          7040    4636    232       450   4854      2186        31.1
1986  226,685          7310    4854    243       460   5071      2239        30.6
1987  234,258          7560    5071    254       610   5427      2133        28.1
1988  241,094          7780    5427    271       610   5766      2014        25.9
1989  252,410          8140    5766    288       610   6088      2052        25.2
1990  264,595          8540    6088    304       690   6474      2066        24.2
1991  275,193          8880    6474    324       690   6840      2040        23.0
1.  1984 figures actual: 1985-1991 Government projections
2.  Based on student:teacher ratio of 31:1 excluding non-teaching professional staff
3. Wastage calculated at 5% per annum (includes retirements, resignations,
dismissals, and nonridentified reasons for leaving teaching service)
Source: MOE projections and mission estimates.



- 34 -
ANNEX I
Table 4
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURLTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SECONDARY EDUCATION: ENROLLMENTS, AND SUPPLY
AND DEMAND OF ADDIIONAL TEACHERS (1985-1991)
1. Enrollments       1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991
a)Junior Secondary:
Form 1           10265   10540   12460   15360   19000   21000   23000
Form 2           10169    9649    9908   11712   14438   17860   19740
Form 3 1/         6234    8949    8491
Total                26668   29138   30859   27072   33438   38860   42740
b)Senior Secondary
Form 3 1/                                   4639    5257    5876    6494
Form 4            2250    2400    3300    3900    4500    5100    5700
Form 5            2130    2183    2328    3201    3783    4365    4947
Total                 4380    4583    5628   11740   13540   15341   17141
Grand Total      31048   33721   36487   38812   46978   54201   59881
2.  Secondary Teacher Supply and Demand
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Enrollments             31048   33721   36487   38812   46978   54201
Teach.Requirements       1252    1525    1655    1765    1800    1941
Qualif. Batswana
Stock                    -        654     713      804     978    1112
Output                    -       142     184      285     259     233
Wastage                           -83     -93    -111    -125    -139
Total                     654     713     804      978    1112    1206
Unqualif. Batawana        164     164     164      164     164     164
Espatriates               434     648     687      623     524     571
Total                    1252    1605    1735    1845    1880    2160
Z Qualif. Batawana         52      47.     48       55      62      63
Z U/Q  Batswana            13      11      10       10       9       8
Z Expatriates              33      42      42       35      29      29
1/ The structure of tle secondary system changes in 1988 from. 3/2 to 2/3.
Class size 21:1 1986/88, 25:1 thereafter
Source: MOE Planning Unit and mission estimates (May 1985 figures).



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Table 5
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
(Pula Million - 1985/86 Prices)
1983/84 1/
(Estiuates)    1984/85 2/   1990/91 2/
Total Government Recurrent Expenditures         333.3         338.8         504.2
Of iehich:
(a) Ministry of Education                       67.0           74.7         139.0
(b) Ministry of Local Government
and Lands -(MLGL)                           5.9           6.1           9.0
(a)  as Z of (1)                                 20Z           22%           28%
(a)+(b) as Z of (1)                              22%           24%           29Z
Total Government Capital Expenditures           229.0         287.4         271.1
Of which:
(a) Ministry of Education                        15.6          33.0          29.0
(b) Ministry of Local Government
and Lands (MLGL)                            6.1           5.0           5.0
(a) as % of (2)                                   7%           1lZ           11%
(a)+(b) as Z of (2)                               9X           13X           13Z
Total MOE Expenditures
as % of Government Expenditures                 152           17%           22Z
GDP                                           1,537.0       1,713.0       2,328.0
Total MOE Expenditures
as Z of GDP                                     5%            6X            7X
Total Expenditures of MOE and MLGL
as % of GDP                                     6X            7%            8Z
Estimates of Expenditure from tne Consolidated and Development Funds, and
Bank staff estimates.
Draft Chapter of NDP VI.



REPUBLIC Of BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
VTC - COURSE PROGRAKS STUDENT PLACES AND OUTPUT
Course Proacams                                                                  b) Palapye
Group 1. Brickwork or plastering or
The structure of met apprenticeships to trade teat B                             concrete or tiler                        32          48
level will be:                                                                         2. Carpentry                                 32         48
3. Faintera.                                16         24
Year   Institute TraLning   Industrial Training                                4. Electricians ot viremen or
electrical fitting                       32         48
1        5 moaths                6 sonths                                    5. Plumbring/welding/fabrication            32          48
2        3 months                8 months                                    6. Fitting or machining                     32          48
3        3 months                8 month.                                    7. Dressmaking or tailoring or
4        3 months                8 months                                       repairs or knitting or crochet
14 months  l.e.,          30 months                                      Short courses                            160         16
1.4 academic  ears                                                    S. Shorthand/typing or commecce
II_                                                  or business (2-year course)               8          16
a)       Those who want to continue to trade test 'A" level will                       9. Bookkeeping                               16          16
be few and will be trained during low-load periods in the 'TC's.                       10. Brigades upgrading. Plant
The various options at VTCe                                                                operators during term I and 4            32           -
Yearly    Student                        Naximum enrollment:  312
a) Selebi-Pbikwe and Jwaneng                     Output    Places                          Yearly output:  Apprentices 176, Short courees 216
Group 1. Brickwork or plasteriLg or                                           c) Kaun                                                                      a
concrete tiler.                        32          48               Group I. Chef and/or cooks, wmiters,
2. Carpentry.                             32          48                         bar-tenders, housemaid., atc.            24          16
3. Painters.                              16          24                      2. Wooden boats or fiberglass
4. Electricians or wiremen or                                                    boats or repair                          32          16
electrical fitting.                    32          48                      3. Fisheruen or extension officers
5. Auto or diesel or borehole                                                    or netmaking (2-3 months course)         64          16
or agricultural mehanice.              32          48                      4. Electricians or radio repair
6. Plumbing or welding                    32          48                         or electrical fitting 1/                  32         48
7. Dreesmaking or tailoring or                                                5. Welding/fabrication/plu2bing 1/          32          48
repairs or knitting or crochet                                             6. Auto or diesel or uarine or
Various course lengths                160          16                         borehole or agricultural mechanic 1/   32            48
8. Bookkeeping or accounts or                                                 7. Fitting or machining 1/                   32         48
clerks. Upgrading of typists,                                              8. Shorthand/typing or commercial           24          32
etc.                                   16          16                      9. Dressmaking or tailoring or repair or
9. Fitting or machining              -                                           knitting or crochet (3-6 weeks
j   32           48                         course)                                   160         16
10. Boileruaking (Selebi-Phikve                                               10. Brigade upgradLng, plant
only                                                                          operators (during term I and 4)           32           -
11. Shorthand/typing or comaerce or
businese(two-year course).              8          16                                                  Total           464         288       G Z
12. Brigades upgrading and plant                                                                                           ..          ...
operators durlng term I and 4          32          -                          Maximus enroll-ent: 288                                        a..
Yearly output:  Apprentices 128, Short Courses 336
Total            424        360
Maximum enrollment: 360
I- ApprentLceship courses.



37 -                                        ANIE  r
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
TRAINING NEEDS FOR SELECTED SPECIFIC SXILLS - 1985-1991
PRE-SERVICE TRAINING   IN-SERVICE TRAINING    TOTAL TRAIN-
REQUIREMENTS I/            REQUIREMENTS         ING NEEDS
ISCO          DESCRIPTION                                                                             PER YEAR
EXPATRIATES                                IN TRAINIG TDEARS PRE-SERVICE/
(1984)      TOTAL    PER YEAR2/  TOTAL       EQUIVALENT      IN-SERVICE
METAL
834    Kachine Tool Operators               4       930          186        91            4             190
841    Bench Work Fitting Sheet/           64       401           80        197           9              89
Metal Workers
841    Air Conditioning                    64       401           80       221            9              89
871    Plumbing                             7       597          119        124           5             124
872    Welders and Flame Cutters            2       562          112       439           18             130
873    Boiler Making                       75       533          107       217            7             114
969    Plan Operators                       4      1140          228        305          12             240
AUTO
843    Auto Mechanic                       44      1298          260       548           22             282
849    Diesel Mechanics                    55      1584          317       109            4             321
Machinery Assemblers
ELECTRICAL
851    Electrical Fitters                  64       442           U8        93            4              92
855    Electrical wiremen                  79       593          119       146            6             1Z5
CONSTRUCTION
931    Painters                                    1400          280       284           11             291
951    Brick/Block Tile                            2157          431      1161           46             477
954    Carpenters                          23      1679          336       681           27             363
955    Plasterers                                   706          141        53            2             143
COMMERCIAL
110    Accountants                        243      1192          238       282           11             249
321    Shorthand/Typing                    66      1730          346       885           35             381
331    Bookkeeping                         38      1784          357      2212           88             445
393    Clerks                              31      3036          607       492           20             627
FISHERIES
641   Fishermen                          -         678          -         -             _              136
954   Wooden Boats (Flber Class/          23      1000          200       681           27             227
Repair Maintenance)
HOTEL AND CATERING
531   Chefs/Cooks                         27      1184          237       194            8             245
532   Waiters                                      877          175       136            5             180
,                     .~~~1
Source:  Employment Surveys, Manpower Unit, Ministry of Finence and Development Planning
Survey of Training Needs and Conditions of Work, February 1984 Central Statistics
Unit, Mlalstry of Finance and Development Planning, February 1985. Bank Staff and
Technical Education Divislon MOE, estimates.
1/ Based on manpower estlmates - December 1983 and 1984, Employment Unlt, Ministry of
Flnance and Development Plannlng
2/ Equivalency In training needs (divided by 5 to reach) equivalent year. of training and
adjusted from 1983/84 to 1984/85.



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION PYRAMID-1 983
AS j ^                                  6L3 as3                                   -148
I so  1ao                                 -278
2Z7  170                                  -407
I"  UNVNS  wi
85   273                                  -828
MALE                        FEMALE
Sol_ 727                                    -1708
24114    _     _200o                            6423
730           83417                             -6147   X
8095             43- ~-   10*r                  -7417
11475                                               153662     -27337
970                                       1  191            -21717
" 72 1 1                 Je | -                          -       _ - 189  11840-  24542
15049_                                                        17857    -33308
14139                                                      Inas___________o_  2965S
1 43 2              O       -:               ..        1 ;007       29387
15772       -  -        -012                                            32384
,.    I  -  ,  _   _     1.  ,
0  .,o            0     ,0      0 00o 00    0   0                 00
ENROLLMENTS          v0    o                        i 
ea,  



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
MINISTER
PERMANENT SECRETARY
DEPUTY PERMANENT SECRETARY
UNDER SECRETARY ADHINISTRATIVE/FINANCE
Brigades
C.E.O                    C.T.E.O.                       C.EEOI                               PRINCIPAL
Primary                  Technical                     Curriculum                             PLANNING
Teacher Training             Vocational                    Development                             OFFICER
Evaluation                          Planning Unit
Primary Schools             Polytechnic
Inspection                  Auto Trades T.S.              Curriculum Development                  Planning
In-Service                  Vocational Trg.               Research & Testing
Teacher Training            Centres                       ExaminatLons
Schools Broadcasting
Teaching Aids Prod Unit
Magazine Unit
C.E..                          C.E.O.                                                   [SECRETARY
Secondary                      Non-Formal                          ._Burares UnitL
Government S.S.               National Literacy                      Director               Secondary
liaison with                  Prog.                               Unified Teaching          University            "
Aided S.S and                 Correspondence                          Service               Overseas              W z
Community S.S.                Courses                                                       Bursaries
Subject Education             Home Economics                      Primary and
Officers                      Radio Programs                      Secondary
Teachers



- 40 -
ANNEX I
Chart 3
REPUBUC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Shucture d the Educationl SVstem  (1983) and Plbnned Restructue
1     2      3      4      5     6       7     a      9     10    11    12    13   1i    15    16    17  Grades
7     a      9      10    II    12     13    14     15    10    17    18    19    20          21    22    23  Ag
Crf rng    r s f%:miIoin
e  *wr.Ma12c1   14{
-    Jwuo ScondayCeEtcWe                                                         Accioukicy/
3    Can   )sOvemeas SCnoal Calicoto                       1iIi Tl     Ch conw  IW l
PGC.  Pot C.axte Cenodeoi Educalbon                           1
~IQo~Os             16h  or ng rw1w l            krkwig
7                                         1{2           3
,.jrj               Sonic          UnwarmivgrJe
PiranorlS:oFds)                             SIcony (Forms)         &K so    (Faiys(         cwms  s CuCF
A&Oicuilura                              i r.irwl,
Cu , t:  LovsItinng                      Diclar. .wd lonig
ktj*I 1*5 tIfun1g                       SlQuasni tN&urs Troming
1 2
M-zx  Tmw.gg
PLANNED RESTRUCIUA OF PRMYiSMR  O1MF SYSTEM                                                  Errofmnl
A. om 19&                                                                                 I
WER-                               I
L Flom 1W                                            CCLE 
-            ~~~Bcsc Eoucotboaflx
CYCL               SWd a,2
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CL raMRfc  *V -zWF 



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Proposed System of Industfal and Instltutional Tralning In Botvwana
.                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Entr Elorn
GRADE A
Ar'. 6~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~GIr 
ADWS 1                    I              GRADE- -
, t-     1IO Of tI f.
144Lco AI  APS _^                                                                                4 E                              CERTIMIE
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P :3  E                                             g^2
}    V:   |   |   ilPi   |   [~~~~~~~~~^n^>l   i    A     0     5'[            !~~         !AD QC
E3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) LW 
|k~N Offt4   |1On Job Z
507 iiW
o          lrustut
A      "':fUutK. KY .                                                                           IfVfIKV4
*      ItaxWaOfeL'=~GI.uussKI 8,h!4 M '
MAINNG IN                                                                                                            TRAIJ1N& IN
INDIUSIRY                                      FMNG ININS IITIONS                                                    iINU1Y
Itnd H  -2.'& !



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF INDUSTRIAL TRAINING
gNational Council on Technical Education and Vocational Training
Members                                    Hembers
Ministry of             Ministry of          Ministry of           Industry-             Industry -
Finance and              Education           Home Affairs          Employers           Trade Unions
Dev. Planning
Nat.Advisory Board                            Hinistry of
for Apprenticeship                            Rome Affairs
and Industrial
Training
Labour
Department
Directorate of
Industrial
Training
Trade Advisory              Industrlal           Trade      |Trainingj
Committees                Training Unit       Testing Unlt            Levy
Administration



FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
A.                                          ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE TRADE TESTING UNIT
|  Principal Trade        |---| 
Testing Offlcer                ILO Advisor |
Senior Trade    senior Trade    SenLor Trade    Senior Trade    Senior Trade   Senior Trade    Senior Trade    Senior Tradel
Testing Off.    Testing Off.    Testing Off.    Testing Off.    Testing Off.   Testing Off.    Testing Off.    Testing Off.
Bricklaying       Carp./Joln        Electrical        Automechanic          Driving       Fitt/Machin.    Weld./Fabr.         Paint/Decor.
Trade              Trade            Trade              Trade              Trade             Trade             Trade            Trade
Testing Off.    Testing Off.    Testing Off.    Testing Off.    Tasting Off.    Testing Osf.    Testing Off.    Testing Off
Bricklaying       Carp./Join        Electrical        Automechanic          Driving        Fitt/Hac!hin.    Weld./Fabr.        Paint/Decor
Workshop          Workshop          Workshop          Workshop                             Workshop          Workshop          Workshop
Assistatit        Assistant         Assistant         Assistant                            Assistant         Assistant         Assistant
B.                                    ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE INDUSTRIAL TRAINING UNIT
|Principal Industrial 
|Training OffiAcer (ll/PRI)|
Senior Industrial          GTZ-Expert          Senior Industrial            GTZ-Expert          Senior Industr ia       | lZ-Expert
Training Officer  --   Hetal  Trades           Training Officer  --  Building Trades            Training Officer  --   Electrical
Metal                                        Building                                        Electrical               Tra
Industrial                                     Industrial                                        Industrial
Training O"tLcer                               Training Officer                                 Trsining Officer
Metal                                        Building                                        Electrical
*  *  Post filled by April 1984
-  Post established but not yet filled in April 1984.



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
COVERNKENT GUIDELINES FOR PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT
1.      Guidelines for Adding Vaclitties to Existing Schoolst                              (b)  A total population (all ages) of about 1,000 or more within walking
distance of the proposed site would justify a primary school with an
Where a Council decides that its development program should                             annual intake into Standard I.  A total population of about 500 to
concentrate mainly on adding facilities to existing schools, the Government                      1,000 would Justify a school vith an intake into Standard I every
sets the following guidelines                                                                   other year.  Almost without exception primary schools In Dotswana
accept an annual intake into Standard I, but the Government urges
(a)  The first priority should be given to providing classrooms for                    Councils to consider alternatives in order to make provision for
classes presently taught in the open air,  this should take                       small comunities.
precedence over, for example, the elimination of double shifts.
(c) For the location of new primary schools, the Government also suggests
(b)  Classronos should be built to accotodate forty five pupils, and                    that Councils should take full account of any information relevant to
classef with more than forty five pupils should be split, If                      the future development of the area, much as land use plans, plans to
necessary by teaching two Rroups under a shift system.                            provide water and other facilities needed by schools, and road
developments.
(c) Where enrollments are low and classes are samall, classes should
be combined for teaching, purposes.  The following are guidelines            td)  The Government urges Councils to keep a close watch on the
which cannot always be applied exactly:  (i) any class with                       establishment of new unaided primry schools.  The siting of unaided
twenty or more pupils should be taught separately; (ii) two                       schools has often in the past been haphazard, and this has led to
classes with a combined enrollment of thtrty five or fewer                        problems for Counctla when requests have been made for them to be
pupils should be combined Into one group for teaching purposes                    taken over.  In particular, Councils are urged to discourage sponsors
(examplei A school has the following enrollments by Standards: I                  (including missions) from siting schools too close together.  Through  f
- 25; I  - 20; III - 18; IV - 15; V - 13; VI - 12; VII - 21.                     the requirement that all unaided schools must be registered, the
Standards III and IV should be combined for teaching purposes,                    Covernment has the mans to regulate their locatton, so Councils may
and so should Standards V and VI. A total of five classrooms                      wish to advise the Government when they consider proposed sites to be
should be provided),  However, these guidelinies shojld be                        inappropriate.
flexibly interpreted. If the Council foresees a rapid increase
of enrollments at a school which has small classes at present,               3.  Guidelines for Talting Over Unaided Primary Schools
it might be economic to build seven classrooss in anticipation
of future needs.                                                                 Where a Council decides that its development program should include the
take-over of some unaided primary schools, the Government sets the following
(d)  As enrollments at existing primary school increase, it is                    guidelines:
suggested that Councils should consider carefully the
alternatives of: Ci) adding to existing facilities, or (iL)                  (a)  Those schools which have buildings, furniture and equipment might be
opening new schools.  The Government takes the view that once a                   given high priority on the grounds that they have already
school has reached two or three streams (600 to 1,000 pupils)                     demonstrated a need for primary education for their children.
it is often preferable to allow for further expanston by building
a new school.                                                                (b)  Priority eight also he Riven to unaided schools serving areas with
substantial populations (see 2(b) above) where there are no Council
2.  Guideltnes for Location of New Primary Schools:                                              primary schools.
Where a District Council decides that its development program should              (c)  Priority might also be given to unaided schools employing qualified
inelude the establishment of new primary schools, the Government sets the                        teachers.
following guidelines:
(d)  Councils should note that mission-sponsored schools often prefer to
(a)  It is reasonable to expect young children to walk up to five kms.                  be aided rather than to be fully taken over.                                     i
to school; older children may perhaps be expected to walk further
than this.                                                                  4.  Equity
The HLCL would continuously monitor the distrtbution of funds to
ensure that each district would receive its share on an equity basis to
maintain a national average of primary classroom facilities.



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
LIST OF JUNIOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS AND COST ESTIMATE PER SCHOOL I/
Order 3/                 No. of             Class Science Craft          Admin Toilet   Toilet   Toilet    Staff  Cost 2/
No. Core Name of School Streams District  Rooms Rooms   Rooms Library Block Block"4" Block"8" Block'16" Houses (P.OO)
1  N   Masunga             2    N. East      4     1        1     1        1       1      1                    3      549
2   R   Francistown 1      4    F/town       8     2        1     1        1       1                1           2     664
3   R   Mahalapye I        4    Central      a     2        1     1        1       1                1           6     736
4   N   Palapye 1          4    Central      a     2        1     1        1       1                1           6     736
5   N   Maltengwe          2    Ceotral      4     1        1     1        1       1       1                    3     568
6   N   Nawazwi            2    Central      4     1        1     1        1       1       1                    3     529
7   R   Serowe I           4    Central      8     2        1     1        1       1                1           6     766
8   R   Bobonong I         3    Central      6      1       1     1        1       1                1           5     682
9   R   Tutume I           2    Central      4      1       1     1        1       1       1                    3     510
10   N   Mathangwane        2    Central      4      1       1     1        1       1       1                    3     568
11   N   Drapa              3    Central      6      1       1     1        1       1                1           5     706
12   N   Nata               2    Central      4      1       1     1        1       1       1                    3     549
13   R   S-Phikwe I         3    S-Phlkwe    6      1        1     1        1       1                1           2     530
14   R   Kochudil           3    Kgataleng   6       1       1     1        1       1                1           5     536
15   R   Kolepolole I       4    Kweneng      8     2        1     1        1       1                1           6     674
16   N   Gabane             3    Kweneng      6     1        1     1        1       1                1           5     536
17   R   Kanye I            3    Southern    6      1        1     1        1       1                1           5     560
18   N   Kabutsane          2    Southern    4       1       1     1        1       1       1                    3     588
19   N   Jwaneng            3    Jwaneng      6      1       1     1        1       1                1           2     575
20   R   Gaborone II        4    Gaborone    8       2       1     1        1       1                1           2     553
21   N   Bogogobo           2    Kgalagadi   4       1       1     1        1       1       1                    3     784
22   N   Sehitwa            2    N. West      4      1       1     1        1       1       1                    3     706
23   N   Shakwe             2    N. West      4      1       1     1        1       1       1                    3     784
24   U   Meepong            2    Central      8     2        1     1        1       1                1           2     664
25   U   Marang             6    Gaborone    0       2       1     1        1       1       1                    2     332
26   U   Makolojane         4    Central      8      2       1     1        1       1                1           3     710
27   U   Maunatlala         3    Central      2      1       1     1        1       1                1           3     442
28   U   Molopo River       2    Southern    4       1       1     1        1       1       1                    2     440
29   U   Thamaga            4    Kweneng      0      2       1     1        1       1       1                    4     390
30   U   Mathiba            3    Southern    0       1       1     1        1       1       1                    3     331
31   U   Kgamanyane         3    Kgathleng   0       1       1     1        1       1       1                    3     317
(Mochuli)                                                                                                                   m x
_   ~  _  _  _ _ _ _   _ _  _  ._   _  _          __   _        _   _ __                             _  _ __            _ _,.       H 
Total Student places: 11,040   TOTAL       130      29     23    23       23      23      10        13         87   18,014            -
1/ Code numbers correspond to codes on map.
2/ Base cost, May 1985, excluding site works and contingencies.
'/ N - New
R  *  Replacement
U  *  Upgrading



- 46 -                                     ANNEX III
TabIle 2
Sl  ACCOUIITS COST SUIM
(PtILA '000)                              (USs '000)
z rTotl                                   Z TsLa I
2 Foremin base                            Z Foreign  Bw
Local Foreign Total  E,dchmf   Crsts   Local Fhreiin Total  E[chan.*   Costs
=0_= = ===_ G==:= ==---
1. INJES1NENT COSTS
A. CIVIL IWS
kadeic I Coumma          11,247 21,9M   33,218         66      5B   59768  11267  174035         66      58
Do8ritorios                  41      Be     12        68       0       21      45      66        68       0
Housing                   3,062  5736  P,978          65      15  1 *70  2Y942  4,512           65     is
Site Ilorks              t1O35   2,722   1,258         48       i      'i31  1.140   1,471        68       6
Su-Total CIVIL KMIS         15,386  30,017  45,403        66      80    7,90  I5.39MI  237284        66      B0
B. FUIMUZTIE                    =8   3697  4WB5           91       7      199   1.996   2,095       91       7
C. EUIPIIEIT                   144  2,902  3,046          95       5       74   1,418   1,562        95       5
D. TEDOOIKS                     81   1631   19712         95       3       42    836    878          95       3
E. FES                         181    766    946          "1       2       93    393    485          e1       2
F. EVERTS
Studies                     130    551    681          81       1       67    283      349        81       1
Project Admirnistration     215    911   1,126         81       2       1o    467    S78          81      2
Sub-Total EXVERTS              345   1,463   I.9M8        R1       3      177    750      927       81       3
Total BASELINE COSTS           l16524  40,475  5,999          71    100   Rs474 20,756  29i230          71     100
Phasical Continueifs          15996  3,525   5,120         69       9      818   1,807  2,626        69       Y
Price Contndi cies            6,132  6,519  12.651         52      22   49974  715t3 1P126            59     41
Total PROM8CT COSTS             24.252 50,518 749770          68    131   14,266 799717 439912          68    150
=                _ == _= -- 2e ==_
PROJECT  ST SiMIARy
(PtLA '000                                (US$ '000)
Z Total                                   : Total
2 Foreisn Base                            * Foreign lB.m
Local Foreign Total  Exclint e  Costs   Local Foreign .ata.  r hartma  Costs
== = ==- ==:=  =  _ ___ ___
A. PRINIRY SCHOOLS                  5.632 10,806  16.438         66      2!   2,898   %,542  8430         66      29
B. J.NIDR SECONDARY                 7,988  204920 28,808         73      51    4,P05  l1,728  149774       73      51
C. VOCATIINW. TRAINING
ITTC SABOROIE                      517   1,272   J,M          71       3      265    652    917         71       3
VTC   PILAPTE                    1.075   3,008  4.083         74       7      S51   19543  2.094         74      7
VTC    HAUl                      19252   3,404   4.6S6        73       8      642   1 746  2,388         73      8
Sub-Total UVOCTIONAL TRAINING       29844   79684  10528         73      18    1459   39940   5.399        73      18
0. STIIDIES                           112    666      77         86       1       57    341    .99         86       X
E. PRUECT AINISTRATIUN                 48    39       449        8e       1       25    205    229         99       1
Total DASELIIE COSTS                 16,524  40,475  56.99         71    100   8,474  70,756 ?9.230          71     100
Pisical Cantinenies                1,596   3,525   59120        69       9      818  12807   29626         69      9
Prine Centinenies                  6,132   6,519  12,651        52      22    49974   7,153  12.126        59     41
Totl PRMJECT COSTS                   24,252  50,51W  74.770        68    131   14.2C6  29.172  43,982        68    150



D O T S 1 A N A
FOURIH EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary Account bw ProJect ComnParent
(PIlIA '000)
VOCATIONAL TRAINING                                          Ph,asical
Contingencies
PRIMIARY   JUNIOR     ITTC     VTC                          PROJECT               -------------
SCHOOLS SECONDARY  GABORONE PAI.APYF vrc HAUN  STUDIES  A['NINISTRATION  Total      t    Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL IURKS
Acadesic i Communal       109032     179511      19349   1,.99    2,428        -                -   :43,218  I0.O   3,322
Dormitories                                -         -       -      129        -                -      129   10.0      13
Housing                    34865      3,331          -     79A      806        -                -    8,798   10.0    880
Site llorks                    -      2,373        156     416      312        -                -    3S258   10.0    326
_- - -  -- -- --  -- - -- . _ -- - - -- --  .. .. ...  -- - - -- - -  -- - -  ----    -------
Sub-Total CIVIL WORKS        13497      23P215      1,505   3,111    3,675         -               -   45,403   100   4,540                     1
B, FIRNITIIRE                 t,362       2,075       158     279       211        -                    4,085    5.0    204                     p
C. EQUIPHENT                     26       1s421         -     504      581      254              259    34046    5.0      152
D. TEXTBOOKS                    634       1.078         -       -        -        -                -    1,712    5.0      86
E. FEES                            -        443       126     189      I89         -               -      946    5.0      47
F. EXPERTS
Studies                        -        157          -       -        -      524                -      68I   5.0       34
ProJect Administration       519        419          -       -        -        -              189    1,i126    5.0     56
Sub-Total EXPERTS               519         576         -       -        -      524              189    i,808    5.0      90
Total INVESTlIENT COSTS         16.438     28,808      1789   4,083    49656       778              448   56,999    9.0   5,120
Total BASELINE COSTS             i6,438     28,808      1,789   4,083    4656       778              448   56,999    9.0   5,120
Physical Continfencies         1.517      2,601        165     360      417       39               22    5,i20    0,0       0
Price Contingencies            49432       6,460       237     514      896        76              37   12.651    8.7   .iOO0
.. . ..  ... .. ..  .... ....   ... . . . .. . .  .. -- - - - - - - - - -m-- -  - -  - - -
Total PROJECT COSTS              22.386     37.869      2,190   4,957    5.968      892              507   74,770    8.3  6.220        
==Z:::Z _=::_:::: :2:2:::2 :_::2:: ::=:z:wx  ::-=:=X  z=v=9zzz        _  ::::::x =:i::= ==Z=z=_==|H
Taxes                            387        629         37      77       97         -               -    1,229    9.1      112
Foreign Egchange              13i920      26.264     19491   3,501    4,171       732             439   50,518    8.1   4,084
-- - - -- - - -- - - -_ - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - -  - - -_ -- -   -- . . -- - -    - - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
FISALU fAR (July  -m 30)           1986        1987        1988        1989        1990         1991        1 l992
1985        1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991 |
Effectives 4.1.86                        Closir Date 6.30.91
PRflm4Y DMUNri
Otnjetial 8r fid8hw                         X X XX XK XC XK XX  XK MM  ME MUM ME lDI         ME z B
of dclassrtXKu
botui                           /O /O            2X E       E  XX X XX XK X
aRtwm                            -sx z]C                 X  X) CKE  XEE 0CKx
Rb?aryeqok                        00  00a ff  - __   _               Kx xcC
WOODa4p- id domnt                    ff         Bddowe
ThchUdercealuasltion,                                 X2=-Od(,evltf,awr
amkxtructlon                     /0/OD      M0ufa-  E      deiveXaryac
q,,,/ Appoint df lxutus                 ////// Apoitat  df oouuta
OWO0  Bzief1 slte sici                  000000 lAts
-   lnchr, evalwatioa, a.ard                 Thntir, evalLuti     d ,   r
000C  ututn                    000CI~wat liwry 
H



REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT                                                     DISBURSEMENT PROFILES
FISCAL YEAR  QUARTER DISBURSEMENT ACCUMULATED UNDISBURSED                                                           DISB.
YEAR  ED. 1   ED. TT ED. III  ED. IV  PROFILE
1986        4 1/      1.5            1.5         24.5                        1274-BT 1828-BT 2057-BT PROPOSED EAPED
1987        1         1.3            2.8         23.2                    1      4       0        1         4       5
2        1.4            4.2         21.8
3        1.8            6.0         20.0                    2     18        1      38        29      10
4        1.8            7.8         18,2
3     37       13      62        57      28
1988        1         2.0            9.8         16.2
2        2.0           11.8         14.2                    4     59       32      81        78      43
3        1.9           13.7         12.3                                          100
4        1.6           15.3         10.7                    5     82       50                94      59
100                       100
1989        1         1.5           16.8          9.2                   6              75                         73    f
2        1.5           18.3          7.7                                                                   D
3        1.5           19.8          6.2                    7             100                        84
4        1.5           21.3          4.7
8                                       100
1990        1         1.0           22.3          3.7
2        1.0           23.3          2.7                 Total 5* yrs. 7 yrs.  4* yrs.  5* yrs.  8 yrs.
3        0.8           24.1          1.9-                                 _ _  _  _ _   _ _ _ _ _      -
4        0.6           24.7          1.3        Notes:
1, The Second Education Project was slow in disbursement
1991         1        0.4           25.1          0.9           because (i) the preparation of the project was not
2        0.4           25.S5         0.5           sufficiently advanced at effectiveness; and (ii) the
3        0.3           25.8          0.2           Government was slow in determining the status of the
4        0.2           26.0           -            Brigades.
2. The implementation of the Proposed Fourth Education
Project has already star,"d (retroactive financing)
thus allowing for an effective disbursement period
of six years.
I-I
11,-H
1-H



- 50 -                                 ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF B3T8(WA1                                    Table 6
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEDM ATION INDICATORS
COMPONENT                OBJECTIVE                     TARGETS                     INDICATORS
1.  Primary Education     Improve the quality       A. Build 500 primry            Number of classrooms
*nd support the              classroom  and              bullt, furntshed,
introduction of the          related facilitles          equlpped, and In use.
new curriculum.
Assure equity of         B. Supply and distribution    Proportion of inst-
acces to schoolLng,          of new textbooks,           ructional materials
teacher guides and          procured and distri-
resource mterials           buted.
C. Provide nine m-ears         No. of staff in post,
of technical assistance    and effectiveness of
for accounting              assistance.
procedures
2. Junior Secondary       Iuprove access to and    A. Upgrade elght existing       Number of schools
Education             quality of junior/           and construct 23 new        upgraded/constructed.
secondary education          replacement achools         furnished, equipped
and in use
B. Supply library              Proportion of 1.bra.y
reference & textbooks      materials procured, nd
to 68 nev or existlig      and nmber of libraries
schools                     fully or partially
equipped
3.  Vocational Training   Expand and improve        A. Construct two Vocational   Number of Vocational
vocational training         Training Centers            Training Centers con-
opportunities and                                        structed, furnished,
quality, and support                                     equipped, staffed
rural development                                        and in use
objectives.
Coordinate vocational    B. Construct one Industrial   Facility built, fur-
and skill training.          Testing Center              nished and equipped,
Develop national                                         and operating.
standards for training                                   Development and
and testing                                             iplement tion of
certification                                            trade training,
testing and certifi-
cation criteria and
coordination techr
niques
4.  Studies               Strengthen the            A. Contract r-cessary          Completion and evalua-
Govt's research,              services ana undertake    tion of studies
planning and evalu-           itudies on:
ation capabilitles.       -  cost effectiveness of       Implementation of
Provide a basis              vocational and skill        results of studies
for educational               training
resevarch, development    -  correlaiton between
and planning                  formal and non-formal
education A training.
and employment aspir-
ation & opportunities;
- low cost buLlding
techniques;
- post secondary man-
mnpower supply and
demand
5. Support Sources         Increase operational     A. Proviie 12 man/year of    Specialists in post
effectiveness by              technical assistance      and performing
strengthening                for Clerks of Works         satisfactorily
project administration       duties
B.  Provide vehlcle for        Acquisition of vehicle
use by Clerks of Works    and its use for
designated purposes



FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF SPECIALIST SERVICES AND STUDIES
Project Component            Title         Han-HMoth Starting             Summary of job Description
Date
Primary Education          Accountants           108      4-86   Cost control and progress monitoring of the
HLGL's primary classroom construction
programs, financed In part through this
proposed project and by DANIDA.
Secondary Education        Clerk of Works        192       9-85   Progress monitoring and site supervision of
and Vocational/                                                   all JSSU, VTCs, and the ITTC included in the
Technical Training                                                MOE and MORA development plan.
Studies:
(a) Cost effectiveness  Manpower Economist        9       9-86   Analysis of existing system including
of Vocational/                                               comparative unit coats and effectiveness of
SkiIl Training                                               individual training schemes.
(b) Correlation            Tracer System          9       9-86   Evaluation of the relevance of both the
Between Education/      Specialist                           existing and revised educAtionftraining
Training and                                                 programs io the context of employment
Employm nt                                                   aspirations.
(c) High level          Manpower Specialist       9       9-86   Development of investment options in post
Manpower Supply                                              secondary education emphasizlng manpoer
and Demand                                                   requirements and cost recovery.
(d) Construction           Construction           3       3-86   Investlgation of the applicability of existing
Technology              Specialist                           building technologies (developed and used in
other countries) to Rotswana. The study would
consist of testing such technologles and
decide on their appropriateness to Sotvoa
This study would be conducted under the
responsibility of the Project Unit.
( ) Project Prepara-    General Educator,        24       9-87   Based on the findings of the -high level
tion and            Manpower Economist,                      manpower supply and demande  studies,
Architectural/          Architect/                           preparation documents for future investment
Engineering             Engineering                          needs Including as may be required
Preliminary                                                  preliomiary architectural/emgieerIng
Services                                                     services.
Project Administration  Project Director         12       3-90   Responsible for project coordination and
(Architect)                   -      lmplementation.



- 52 -
ANNEX V
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECtED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. SELECTED REPORTS AND STUDIES
1. Botswana, Education and Human Resources Sector Assessment, June 1984,
USAID.
2. National Manpower Development Planning, 1984. Employment Policy Unit,
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning.
3. Strengthening the Industrial Training and Trade Testing System of
Botswana, Final Report, GTZ, 1984.
4. Junior Secondary Education Improvement Report, USAID.
B. PROJECT REPORTS AND STUDIES
1. Document prepared for Fourth Education Project, November 1984 and
update April 1985.
2. Primary Education, prepared by Ministry of Education and Ministry of
Local Government and Lands, November 1984 and April 1985.
3. Vocational Training, prepared by Department of Technical Education,
Ministry of Education, April 1985.
4. CJSS and the Planned School Building Programme Phases I-VI, MDE,
Planning Unit, May 1985.
S. Consultancy on Textbook Supply.
6. Education Sector, prepared for IBRD for Fourth Education Project,
Ministry of Education, November 1984.
C. WORKING PAPERS
Architectural and Educational Working Papers.



IIRD 191
iI          -_                     A   G 0                                                                           r ASWANA
r--5E      \-/.     g  \SFOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
c n    5  Ra   r  C  T   C H 011E                           S L  e
KAMN LI_FIIL_  - TAWAA
|nai  *JEPII U -
"N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,g
a..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Jr r--J X c H~~~~~~~ A                                          Ct    II\ E   11 t A A L   ,
K  A  I  A  H  A---SO  1
\<  fiCAl tAol  \\ 19: - +G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AEC
1>  0 A8 L0, Al_Ol C/ A Di
| \ n X SN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMISIAI 
1   )           ~~~~~Tfiho     e                            Xfeting                                                        rlOT WAN
1   Jr  r                   r                        r                                         1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OT



