Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                   --------__
FILE GP
Report No. P-3707-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$150.4 MILLION
TO
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
January 6, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Dirtam (DH)
US$1 = DH 7.5
Dirham (DH) 1 = US$o0.126
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BdM          Banque du Maroc
(Bank of Morocco)
BMCE         Banque Marocaine du Commerce Exterieur
(Morocco's External Trade Bank)
BNDE         Banque Nationale Pour le Developpement Economique
(Morocco's Development Bank)
CMPE         Centre Marocain de Promotion des Exportations
(Export Promotion Center)
CNCA         Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit Agricole
(Agricultural Credit Bank)
ITPA         Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment
MCIT         Ministry of Commerce, Indiustry and Tourism
OCE          Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation
(Office for Exports and Marketing)
SIT          Special Import Tax
TPS          Sales Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOROCCO
INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page
LOAN SUMMARY                                                              i
PART I:  THE ECONOMY                                                      1
A.   Morocco's Economic Performance in the 1970s.                     2
B.   Recent Economic Developments.                                    3
C.   The 1983 Stabilization Program.                                  4
PART II:  THE GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                             5
A.   Structural Problems and the Need for Structural Change.          5
B.   The Short and Medium Term Adjustment Program.                    7
C.   Macroeconomic Projections.                                      10
PART III:  THE INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN               14
A.   Loan History.                                                   14
B.   The Adjustment Program under the Loan.                          14
C.   Expected Effects of the Adjustment Program.                     26
D.   IMF Activities in Morocco and
Government/IMF/Bank cooperation.                               28
E.   Benefits and Risks.                                            30
F.   Disbursement and Procurement.                                  31
G.   Monitoring.                                                     32
PART IV:  OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO                         32
PART V:  LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY                                 34
PART VI:  RECOMMENDATIONS                                                34
ANNEXES:   I. Country Data.                                              35
II. Status of Bank Operations.                                41
III. Supplementary Loan Data Sheet.                            42
IV. Government's Statement of Development Policy.             43
V. Use of IMF Resources.                                     57
VI. Summary of Measures and the Implementation
Schedule of the ITPA Program.                             58
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
MOROCCO
INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:            The Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:              US$150.4 million equivalent, including the capitalized
front end fee.
Terms:               17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Loan Description:   The proposed loan would support the first phase of
implementation of the Government's industrial and trade
policy adjustment program. The principal aim of the
program is to introduce structural changes in the system
of incentives in order to eliminate bias against export
production, lower manufacturing costs and hence lay the
basis for a restoration of dynamism to the pattern of
industrial growth. To achieve those objectives within the
context of a medium-term adjustment program, specific
actions have been taken and others would be implemented
over the next twelve months to reform the system of
(i) export incentives; (ii) import protection (tariffs and
quantitative restrictions); (iii) fiscal incentives;
(iv) financial policy (interest rate policy and export
credits); and (v) price controls (liberalization of
prices). The program is described in the Government's
Statement of Development Policy to the Bank. The foreign
exchange provided by the loan would be used to finance
imports. The main benefit of the program would be an
improvement in the balance of payments by increasing
exports and reducing the current account deficit; it would
also improve the allocation and efficiency of industrial
investment and increase national production. The risks of
the program relate to assessing the length and difficulty
of the adjustment process, internal resistance to a timely
and continued implementation of the program, uncertainties
in the external environment and export prospects, and the
possibility of further deterioration of Morocco's
financial situation which could affect the commitment to
import liberalization.



- ii -
Estimated Disbursements: The loan. would be disbursed in two tranches.  The
first tranche of US$75.4 million would be available
for disbursement at the time of loan effectiveness.
The second tranche of US$75.0 million would be
released after implementation of specified actions
and a progress review approximately six months
later. Disbursements for the entire loan are
expected to be comp:Leted within 12 months of loan
effectiveness.
Appraisal Report:          This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$150.4 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan to
the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$150.4 million, including the
capitalized front-end fee, in support of its program of industrial and trade
policy adjustment. The Loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report, entitled "Morocco: Priorities for Public Sector
Investment (1981-85)" (No. 4156-MOR), was issued on June 15, 1983. An
economic report entitled "Morocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion"
is expected to be distributed to the Board shortly. An economic mission on
financial intermediation was in Morocco in September 1983 and its report
should be ready in 1984. Country data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural resources. Morocco has the world's largest and most easily
recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key export
sector. Other minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead and zinc are also
exported, but in much smaller amounts. Coal and hydropower plants satisfy
only a small part of the country's energy requirements, but Morocco has some
uranium and oil shale resources which could become significant energy sources
in the long term. There are moreover preliminary indications of natural gas
reserves. Morocco has also a relatively good agricultural potential. In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration to the EEC countries.
4.       During the first 15 years after Independence in 1956, a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco, and GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. A relatively weak savings effort and
conservative external borrowing policies permitted only a slow rise in the
share of resources allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s
with no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Although some industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor force
was employed in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural sector,
and primary products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise exports, with
phosphates representing about a quarter of the total.



-2-
A. Morocco's Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the mid-1970s, economic policy became more ambitious.  In
1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate prices, phosphate export earnings more
than quadrupled, and although the petroleum import bill also quadrupled in
1974, the current account of the balance of payments remained in surplus.  The
Government launched a massive public investment program which brought about a
sharp acceleration in the rate of growth of the economy, and GDP grew at the
rate of 6.7% per year in 1973-77.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived and phosphate exports
started falling in both volume and value as early as mid-1975. Markets for
other exports as well as for tourism and labor migration were also negatively
affected by the world recession. Agricultural production and exports entered
a period of prolonged stagnation and Morocco turned from being a net exporter
into a net importer of foodstuffs. As a result: of all these factors, the
growth of exports of goods and nonfactor services, which in constant prices
had exceeded 8% a year in 1968-72, averaged only 0.6% a year in 1973-77.
7.       Accelerated investment, growing public: expenditures, and particularly
increased defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western
Sahara, created strong pressures on both the balance of payments and the
Government budget, with the result that the overall Treasury deficit reached
17.6% of GDP, and the current account deficit 16.5% of GDP in 1977. To help
finance the gap, Morocco borrowed heavily from the international capital
market, which led to rapid increases in external debt and the debt service
burden. The debt service ratio rose from 5.6% of exports of goods and
services in 1975 to 10.7% in 1977.
Stabilization Program 1978-1980
8.       In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
with the aim of reducing internal and external deficits to sustainable
levels. The demand management policies of that period centered on reductions
in investment outlays and stricter import controls and included an exchange
rate devaluation in 1980, but did not address adequately the fundamental
structural weaknesses of the economy, with the result that the short-term
downward adjustment of the economy was only moderately successful. By 1980,
both fiscal and external imbalances were still substantial: the overall
Treasury deficit remained at about 12% of GDP and the current account deficit
at 8% of GDP.
Social Development
9.       Social expenditures have been at a high level in recent years,
accounting for more than half of current budgetary outlays. However, social
indicators still appear to be at a relatively low level in Morocco. The
limited effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the lower income
groups, especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as a major



-3-
issue, and the strategy of the 1981--85 Development Plan emphasizes the
importance of rural development in rainfed areas, where most of the poorest
households in Morocco currently live, and the need to improve mechanisms for
delivering services to meet basic needs at an affordable cost. An effort is
also being made to increase the involvement of local communities in meeting
basic needs, particularly for low cost housing, water supply, sewerage and
electrification. Although rapid results cannot be expected in any of these
areas, implementation of these policies would help meet the needs of
low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of social programs.
B. Recent Economic Developments
10.      Pattern of Growth.  The agricultural sector, which grew by nearly 4%
in the sixties, failed to grow in the seventies partly as a result of poor
climatic conditions. This trend continued in recent years with a sharp fall
in output in 1981, partly reversed in 1982. At the same time, and despite
large public investment in manufacturing since the mid-seventies, value-added
in manufacturing declined in 1980-82. As a consequence, Government services
have been the main source of growth (12% p.a. in real terms), reflecting the
rapid rise in Treasury expenditures. Overall, real GDP increased by only 2.1%
p.a. in real terms in 1980-82 compared with 3.6% p.a. in 1977-80, so that
Morocco's real income per capita declined for the first time in many years.
11.      In the last three years, the Government's effort to stabilize the
Moroccan economy has been severely 'hampered by a series of external shocks:
(a) the 1979 increase in oil prices which aggravated an already substantial
oil import bill ($1.2 billion in 1982); (b) a severe drought in 1981, which
reduced agricultural output by about 20% and led to substantial imports of
cereals; (c) the rise in international interest rates which contributed to a
steep increase in debt service; and (d) the international economic recession
which contributed to a 31% decline in 1982-83 in the dollar price of rock
phosphates, as well as to a fall in workers' remittances, Morocco's principal
sources of foreign exchange.
12.      In addition to the external shocks, growing internal pressure to
provide social services and consumer subsidies to a rapidly growing
population, as well as defense expenditures for the Sahara war, led to a rapid
growth in Government current expenditures. At the same time, the 1981-85
Development Plan, which aimed at an ambitious 6.5% p.a. GDP growth rate,
induced a sharp increase in Treasury investment expenditures (46% rise from
1980 to 1982). Thus, despite tax increases and improved tax collection that
brought the fiscal pressure up to 23.1% of GDP in 1982, the overall Treasury
deficit-1  rose from 12.2% of GDP in 1980 to 14.1% of GDP in 1982, thus
constituting the major source of financial imbalance.
1/ Excluding special accounts and annex budgets.



- 4-
Balance of Payments and External Debt
13.      The combined effect on the balance of payments of the previously
mentioned external shocks and of a highly expansionary fiscal deficit was an
overall increase in the current account deficLt from $1.4 billion in 1980 to
$1.9 billion in 1982 (or from 8% to 13% of GD3?). While there were some
positive factors on the export side, such as 'the continued growth of
manufactured exports, the emergence of new non-traditional exports and renewed
growth in the tourism sector after the 1980 exchange rate devaluation, these
were more than offset by the fall in phosphate earnings, agricultural exports
and workers' remittances. On the import side, imports continued to increase
due to petroleum and capital goods imports, although at a slower rate than
previously because of the economic slowdown, thus contributing to a larger
current account deficit.
14.      To finance its current account deficit and meet its debt amortization
payments, Morocco increased its external borrowings considerably. By
December 1982, its external mediulm- and long-term debt (disbursed only) rose
to $9 billion or 61% of GDP (excluding military debt) and in 1983, its total
external debt including military and short-term commercial debt reached an
estimated $13 billion. As a result of growing debt and the increase in
international interest rates, Morocco's debt service (excluding IMF) amounted
to $1.2 billion in 1980 and $1.4 billion in 1982 of which $0.6 billion in
interest. This was equivalent to 27.0% and 36.3%"' respectively of total
exports of goods and services. Loan commitments in 1980-82 averaged
$2 billion a year of which $0.9 billion from multilateral andl bilateral
sources (excluding special grants). As in previous years, major sources of
official aid were Saudi Arabia, France, the United Arab Emirates, the United
States, Germany, and the Bank Group. At the end of 1982, the Bank Group's
share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was 7.7%,
and its share in debt service was 6.4%.
C. The 1983 Stabilization Program
15.      In 1983, the financial situation deteriorated rapidly and net foreign
assets declined sharply, prompting the Government to reverse the earlier trend
toward trade liberalization by tightening import restrictions in March 1983.
With freely usable reserves virtually depleted, and the high level of external
debt entailing an unsustainable debt service burden for the next few years,
the need for a stabilization program was evident. A Government program
prepared in mid-1983 was supported by an IMF Stand-by arrangement covering the
second half of 1983 and calendar 1984 in an amount equivalent to
SDR 300 million. Its principal objective is to reduce the balance of payment
deficit from 12.9% of GDP in 1982 to 8.9% in 1983 and 6.6% in 1984. This
objective would be pursued through limits on monetary expansion, reduction in
the Treasury deficit and continued use of a flexible exchange rate policy.
16.      To reinforce the adjustment process, the flexible exchange rate
policy initiated in 1980 was continued in 1983 with the dirham being
depreciated by about 10% in September 1983. In addition, a process of debt
1/ 38.7% including repurchases from IMF.



rescheduling was started in order to improve the debt profile and restructure
it in the light of the estimated resources available for debt servicing.
Although the overall impact of the stabilization program would result in a
sizeable decrease in the current account deficit, projected debt service
payments of about $2 billion per year in 1983-86 on external medium- and
long-term debt outstanding as of December 1982 (excluding military debt) would
create severe difficulties for debt management over the next few years.  Given
these factors, the Government has asked for a rescheduling of its external
public debt due in 1983-84 with the Paris Club and commercial creditors.
Negotiations with the Paris Club were held successfully in October, and
rescheduling with commercial banks is expected to be completed by early 1984.
At a meeting of donors in Paris in November, which was chaired by the IMF,
indications of new official aid to Morocco of about $500 million in 1983-84
were given, and it was agreed that a Consultative Group would meet in late
1984. Preliminary indications are that rescheduling of Morocco's debt would
yield about $1.7 billion in 1983-84. Furthermore, in order to improve
Morocco's debt profile, appropriate ceilings will be set under the IMF
Stand-by on short-term debt (up to one year's maturity) and non-concessional
borrowings (up to 15 years' maturity). Under the present Stand-by, net IMF
financing is expected to amount to $293 million. These various forms of
financing, in conjunction with the implementation of a continued adjustment
program, would make it possible for Morocco to cover its projected financing
gap ($2.4 billion in 1983-84) and increase its external reserves.
PART II: THE GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Structural Problems and the Need for Structural Change
17.      The underlying structural problems faced by the Moroccan economy were
already evident in the 1960s, but their impact on the balance of payments was
mitigated by the fact that Morocco followed a cautious fiscal and monetary
policy. In the mid-seventies as the Moroccan Government adopted a much more
ambitious growth-oriented policy than had been followed earlier, imports of
goods and non-factor services increased rapidly (17% p.a. in real terms in
1972-77) while exports lost their previous dynamism and grew very slowly (0.6%
p.a. in real terms in 1973-77). A a consequence, the external trade situation
became increasingly unbalanced during that period. Although this trend was
checked and slightly reversed with the implementation of the 1978-80
stabilization plan, the trade deficit became gradually worse in 1980-82 with
merchandise exports declining from 64% of imports in 1980 to 54% in 1982.
18.      This structural weakness in external trade is in part due to the slow
growth of phosphate earnings but the large trade deficits generated by other
economic sectors such as agriculture and industry point to other more
fundamental causes, including stagnation in agricultural production and
structural weaknesses in the sectors themselves. First of all, over the last
ten years, there has been a sharp increase in the level of protection and the
number of quotas, with the result that the bias against exports, resulting
from the structure of incentives, was increased. At the same time, there was
also a substantial appreciation of the real effective exchange rate during the
1969-80 period, which was only partly offset by depreciation in 1980-82.



-6-
Besides the sectoral problems, these last two factors explain to a large
extent the decline in agricultural and food exports, the stagnation of tourism
receipts in real terms as well as the lack of diversification of manufactured
exports during the seventies.
19.      The second main macroeconomic structural problem faced by Morocco
concerns the low (and declining) level of domestic savings. After increases
in the late sixties and early seventies, domestic savings fell from 15% of GDP
in 1972 to 8% in 1980. This decline was mainly due to a rapid increase in
Treasury current expenditures in excess of current revenues so that net
savings generated by the Government became negative in 1977. In addition,
financial private savings have remained low, partly due to inadequate
financial and banking policies and negative real creditor interest rates in
the 1970s (whereas they were positive in the 1960s). In contrast with the
evolution of domestic savings, gross; fixed investment rose sharply in the
mid-seventies, and despite a sharp decline in 1977-80, remained at a
relatively high share of GDP in recent years (22% in 1982 vs 14% in 1972). As
a consequence, high foreign borrowings, contracted almost entirely by the
public sector, have been necessary during the second half of the decade to
help finance high investment levels, and external debt (disbursed only)
increased from $0.9 billion at the end of 1973 to $9 billion at the end of
1982 (61% of current GDP).
20.      As Treasury expenditures have persistently increased in recent years
at a rate in excess of normal revenue growth, they have been a major factor in
fiscal disequilibrium. Their financing has required successive raises in tax
rates and the imposition of additional taxes, with the result that the fiscal
pressure in Morocco has become quite high (23% of GDP) and extremely unequal
across sectors or firms, thus accentuating distortions in the allocation of
resources. At the same time, the increase in the domestic borrowing
requirements of the Treasury in conjunction with quantitative ceilings on
domestic credit has narrowed access to credit by private firms, The large and
growing deficits of the Treasury have also been the key source of the growth
of Morocco's foreign indebtedness.
21.      Thirdly, despite the sharp increase in the investment ratio achieved
in the seventies, the growth rate of the econoiy has now fallen to a level
(3.2% p.a. in real terms in 1977-82) below the one achieved in the sixties,
and barely in excess of the population growth rate. Morocco's gross
incremental capital-output ratio thus rose froml a level of 3 in the sixties to
4 in the period 1975-80, reflecting a significant decline in the efficiency of
investment and a poor selection of projects. In industry, this was due to a
poorly conceived import-substitution strategy, involving high cost
capital-intensive projects which simply shifted. dependence fromn consumer goods
imports to imports of intermediate and capital goods. This strategy
encompassed heavy reliance on a continuing increase in tariff levels and
quotas, a system of generous investment incentives and an artificially low
price of capital. In the public sector, the low efficiency of investment was
due to poor project selection in a number of sectors and the continued
preference for large-scale, capital-intensive projects. In some cases,
capacity was extended prematurely and design standards other than least-cost
options were adopted. Also, Government financial institutions performed
poorly in the selection of projects and achieved low recovery rates.



-7-
22.      Fourthly, unemployment (about 10%) and underemployment (estimated
between 30% and 40%) remain high. 'While unemployment was alleviated in the
mid-seventies due to the rapid growth of that period, employment creation was
less than could have been expected due to the inefficient allocation of
capital. Since then, it is likely that unemployment has worsened due to the
economic recession. In addition, a growing percentage of the unemployed are
relatively well educated young people, but their skills do not match demand,
creating a potential source of increasing political and social tension.
The Need for Structural Change
23.      Current account deficits of 8 to 13% of GDP which Morocco has
experienced during the last five years cannot be sustained in the future. In
view of the liquidity problem and the debt management problems experienced by
Morocco in 1983, a fundamental stabilization effort needs to be made in the
next few years and combined with a program of structural adjustment if the
current account deficit is to be reduced from 13% of GDP in 1982 to a more
sustainable long-term level of 3% by 1987. Macroeconomic projections of the
likely outcome of the implementation of a stabilization program without
fundamental structural changes being made suggest that Morocco would, in such
circumstances, experience a sharp decline in GDP with severe social and
economic consequences. In the event, however, that Morocco implements a
program of structural reforms, the required external and internal adjustment
would be achieved at a lower economic and social cost. The macroeconomic
projections clearly indicate (see Part C below) that the Moroccan economy
cannot return to a financially sustainable internal and external situation
within a reasonably short period of time unless a series of extensive
structural adjustment measures are implemented over the next few years.
B. The Short- and Medium-Term Adjustment Program
24.      The Government's program of adjustment and stabilization was started
in 1983. The basic objectives of this program are as follows:
(i)    to reduce the deficit of the balance of payments over the short and
medium term through policy changes in agriculture and industry that
would promote exports and efficient import substitution while raising
output in these sectors;
(ii)    to improve the allocation of capital and the efficiency of
investment, both in the public sector (through appropriate revisions
of the investment program) and in the private sector (through reform
of the protection system and of interest rate policies);
(iii)   to increase the level of public sector savings through reductions in
the Treasury deficit and improvements in the efficiency of public
enterprises;
(iv)    to improve the mobilization of private savings through a reform of
the financial sector involving interest rate increases,
diversification of financial instruments and greater competition in
the banking sector; and



(v)    to accelerate the rate of employment creation through better manpower
planning and a revision of the protection and incentives system so as
to encourage investment in labor-intensive activities.
25.      In view of the external financial constraint faced by Morocco, the
Government's adjustment program focusses on those policy areas which have the
greatest need for fundamental reform and the greatest potential for improving
the balance of payments. As the preparation and implementation of
far-reaching policy reforms require considerable time and staff resources, the
program is phased over time and concentrated cn a limited number of sectors in
each phase. The first phase of adjustment would thus be focussed on
(i) stabilizing the economy and (ii) reforming the system of industrial
incentives and export promotion. Reforms in these two areas are essential as
they condition the successful implementation cf the second phase of
adjustment, which includes further trade liberalization and reform of the
domestic capital market. The third phase of adjustment, which could overlap
with the second phase, could address issues of domestic resource allocation in
the agricultural sector and public enterprises.
26.      Within the overall adjustment program, the proposed Loan would
support the implementation of policy reforms in the industrial and trade
sectors during the first phase of the adjustment program; the program of
measures supported by the Loan would not, however, constitute a structural
adjustment of the economy as a whole. Details of the measures to be taken
under this Loan are presented in Part III-B.
First Phase of Adjustment
27.      The first phase of the adjustment prcgram started in mid-1983 and it
focusses on (i) stabilizing the economy through restrictive budgetary
policies; (ii) implementing a comprehensive program of adjustment of the
system of protection (tariffs and quantitative restrictions), export promotion
and incentives, and (iii) initiating a reform of the fiscal and financial
system. The program of adjustment under this first phase is detailed below.
28.      Treasury Deficit.  To achieve the objective of stabilizing the
economy, the Government has adopted a stabilization program focussed on
reducing the Treasury deficit through cuts in current and investment
expenditures and implementation of a fiscal reform. In the 1983 revised
Finance Law, particular emphasis was placed on a sharp reduction of consumer
food subsidies"" (and their elimination in the case of sugar cubes, luxury
flour, edible oil and butter). This policy wculd be pursued in 1984 with the
result that food subsidies would be cut in half in 1983-84 and nearly
eliminated by 1985.  Additional restraint of Treasury current expenditures
would also be achieved in 1984. A new education policy reflecting the
recommendations of a World Bank study would be' implemented, and the Government
1/ Subsidized food prices were increased by 17% to 60% (with the exception of
granulated sugar and non-luxury flour) in July 1983.



- 9 -
would limit recruitment, wage increases and subsidies to public enterprises.
As a consequence of these changes, the earlier trend of excessive increases in
Treasury current expenditures would be reversed and current expenditures would
decrease in real terms.
29.      Apart from the short-term fiscal and financial mianagement issues
which are being addressed by the 1983-84 IMF Stand-by, there is a need for
long-term fiscal reform. This would serve the objective of development as it
will correct the large distortions currently in existence and minimize present
disincentive effects. To address these issues, the Government has prepared a
comprehensive tax reformn which will be implemented in phases, with technical
assistance from the IMF. In 1984, legislation concerning the general income
tax and the corporate income tax will be submitted to Parliament for approval
and effective implementation of the new tax laws is expected to begin in
1985. In 1984, the Government will also initiate a reform of the system of
indirect taxation with the objective of establishing a general value added tax
over the medium-term.
30.      Government Investment.  In view of the present shortage of resources,
the investment program formulated in the 1983 revised Finance Law calls for a
significant decline in expenditures. Appropriation levels were reduced from
DH 18.7 billion to DH 13.6 billion for 1983, and actual Treasury investment
expenditures are expected to decline from DH 12.5 billion in 1982 to
DH 8 billion in 1983. To achieve these objectives, most new projects have
been cancelled or deferred and ongoing projects have been stretched out over
longer implementation periods or scaled down to reduce costs. The sectors
most affected by the budget cuts are dam construction (nearly all new dam
projects have been cancelled or deferred), energy (oil shale and most hydro
projects), ports and railways. Some large road investments are also being
delayed. In the social sectors, there are large reductions in education and
hospital construction. In the agricultural sector, few projects have been
cancelled, but all are being stretched out over time. Overall, the decision
to cancel or postpone a number of new projects appears justified and it
corresponds quite well to the present priorities faced by Morocco and to the
recommendations of the Bank report on Public Sector Investment (Report
No. 4156-MOR). However, the reduction is also likely to affect the completion
date of ongoing projects. This should be minimized through allocation of
additional resources that may become available to the completion of advanced
priority projects.
31.      Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment.  In addition to improving
resource use and establishing industry as a leading growth sector, reforms in
these areas would have a directly beneficial impact on the balance of payments
by promoting exports, encouraging efficient import substitution and limiting
dependence on external borrowings by reducing the resource gap. The most
important elements of this program - which would be supported by the proposed
ITPA Loan - include measures to promote exports, the first phase of a major
tariff reform and import liberalization, policy changes and institutional
development in agriculture and industry that would raise productivity and
output in these sectors. The complete program is discussed in more detail in
Part III-B.



- 10 -
Second Phase of Adjustment
32.      The second phase of the adjustment program expected tc be implemented
in 1985 would continue the industrial and trade policy reforms initiated in
1984 and it would extend the reform program in the financial sector. In the
area of trade policy, this program could include further across-the-board
reductions in the level of tariff rates and the second phase of reduction of
quantitative restrictions. The objective would be to reduce the excessive
levels of effective protection granted to some sectors and to reduce the
variation of protecton rates within sectors so that rates of protection would
not exceed 25% by 1988.
33.      Financial Sector Reform.  The objectives of this reform would be to
address issues of private savings mobilization, sectoral allocation of funds
by commercial banks and specialized financial institutions, increased
availability of medium and long-term financing and the efficiency of financial
intermediation.
34.      In all these areas, the Govrernment has initiated or is planning to
initiate studies which will provide the basis for a detailed formulation of
the second phase of the adjustment program. In the case of the financial
sector reform, a Bank mission on financial sector intermediation was in
Morocco in September 1983, and the conclusions of its report, if approved by
the Government, could serve as a basis for adjustment measures.
Future Adjustment Programs
35.      Future phases of the Government's adjustment program will continue
the trade policy reforms, address further issues of fiscal reforms and
initiate reforms in public enterprises and in agricultural policy. A
comprehensive review of public enterprises has been carried out by the
Government in 1979-80. This study, which covers, among other subjects,
pricing policies, financing and the legal status of enterprises, provides a
basis for preparing proposals for rationalization of this sector. The program
in this area would be reviewed with the Governm.ent in 1984 during a Bank
mission on public enterprises. Concerning agriculture, the adjustment program
would aim at increased farmer incentives and improved resource allocation.  A
study on the incentives system in agriculture is now being initiated by the
Government in collaboration with the Bank.
C. Macroeconomic Projections
36.      Preliminary projections based on the above policies bring out the
dampening effect on growth in the short-term and the importance of improving
the efficiency of investment, domestic savings and export incentives for
higher long-term growth. As efforts to promote exports and increase domestic
savings can be expected to bear fruit only graclually in Morocco's
circumstances, this would severely limit the level of investment that could be



financed in 1983-85 under the conditions of a projected decline in the net
amount of external financing available to Morocco. In the short-term, the
external constraint will also require a reduction in Treasury current and
investment expenditures, with a resulting deflationary impact on domestic
demand. Implementation of the adjustment measures aimed at improving export
incentives would, however, induce an expansion of exports and a gradual
increase in output. Overall, the projections indicate that Morocco's GDP may
increase by 1.5% in 1983-85 (Table 1).
37.      In the medium-term, structural improvements in the efficiency of
resource use should induce a resumption of economic growth, and GDP is
projected to increase at 3.8% p.a. in 1985-90 without unsupportable strains on
the balance of payments. This result would reflect a change in the sources of
growth with the manufacturing and phosphate sectors playing an important role
in improving the balance of payments. As the anti-export bias of the present
system of incentives would gradually decrease in the short- and medium-term,
exports of goods and non-factor services would grow at 5.6% p.a. and those of
manufactured products at 9.8% p.a. in 1985-90. At the same time, under the
assumption that the present international economic recession ends soon,
exports of rock phosphate and phosphate derivatives would increase at 5.4%
p.a. in 1985-90. As a result of both factors, the overall growth rate of
Morocco's exports of goods and nonfactor services would reach 5.6% p.a. in
constant prices in 1985-90. With respect to imports, the change in the
structure of incentives in conjunction with the 1983 depreciation of the
dirham would improve the efficiency of import substitution and reduce the
reliance on imported inputs. As a consequence of recent increases in the
domestic price of energy and petroleum products, the oil import elasticity can
also be expected to fall from 1.04 in 1975-80 to 0.8 in 1985-90. Overall,
import growth of goods and nonfactor services would be limited to 3.7% p.a.
during 1985-90.
38.      Given the strong constraints on the resources available, investment
is projected to decline in the short-term from 21% of GDP in 1982 to 14% in
1985 and to rise gradually thereafter to 16% of GDP by 1990. It is assumed
that, in conformity with the Plan objectives, the Government would start fewer
large capital-intensive projects and restrict the allocation of investment to
priority subsectors so as to improve the sectoral allocation and the
efficiency of investment. Priority is to be given to projects that are
export-oriented, less capital intensive and which use a greater proportion of
domestic resources. In addition, particular attention would have to be paid
by the Government to manpower planning and to the employment effect of
investment in order to prevent unemployment from rising to excessive levels.
39.      An essential aim of the adjustment process would also be to increase
domestic savings. As a consequence of the reduction in the Treasury deficit
and improvement in public enterprise efficiency, public savings are projected
to increase by about 3% of GDP. In addition, improvements in the mobilization
of private savings through interest rate increases and reform of the financial
sector could generate an increase of about 2% of GDP, so that the overall
savings rate would rise from about 8% in 1984 to 13% in 1990. The
acceleration of export growth relative to import growth in conjunction with an



- 12 -
Table 1: Morocco - Projection of Selected Economic Indicators
(with adjustment-')
Estimate             _   Projected
1980-82       1983        1983-85      1985-90
Growth Rates (1980 prices)
GDP                             2.1        -0.8            1.5         3.8
Consumption                     3.1        -1.4            1.0         2.7
Investment                      3.3       -16.9          -13.6         7.1
Exports of goods and NFS        2.5         4.1            7.6         5.6
Imports of goods and NFS        8.1       -10.8           -5.9         3.7
Other Indicators (% GDP)
Investment                     22.52"      18.9           13.73'      15.84'
Domestic savings                8.42'       7.9            8.13/      13.04'
Current Account Deficit        12.92/      10.4            5.73'       3.04/
Notes:
1/   This includes the effects of the ITPA program as well as of other
adjustment programs to be implemented in 1983-90.
2/   1982 data.
3/   1985 data.
4/   1990 data.



- 13 -
Table 2: Morocco - Balance of Payments
(Millions of current dollars)
(with adjustment'')
Actual               Projected
1982         1983        1985         1990
Exports of Goods and NFS             2,991        2,936       3,976       7,515
Imports of Goods and NFS            5,176        4,570       4,920       8,310
Net Factor Services                    204          196         104          -3
Current Account Deficit             -1,982       -1,438        -840        -798
Net transfers                          205          427         203          66
Net Foreign Investment                  76           85         106         171
Public M & LT Debt (gross)           2,180        1,503       2,108       2,886
Amortization on M & LT Debt-           779          645       1,364       1,996
Net M & LT public Debt2'             1,401          858         744         890
Net IMF-!'                             385           86        -207         -53
Others                                 -85          -18          -6        -276
Selected Financial Indicators
Debt Service Ratio (% of goods
and services)/' 3/                    38.5         35.2        46.7        36.3
Notes:
1/ This includes the effects of the ITPA program as well as of other
adjustment programs to be implemented in 1983-90.
2/ Including the projected effect of the 1983-84 debt rescheduling.
3/ Including IMF debt service.



- 14 -
increase in the savings ratio relative to the investment ratio would be
compatible with a stabilization of the current account deficit at a
sustainable level of $0.8 billion by 1985 (Table 2). It would also be
consistent, under the above conditions, with a GDP growth accelerating from
2.1% p.a. in 1985 to 4.2% in 1990. However, external borrowings are projected
to increase from $2 billion in 1985 to $3.0 billion in 1990 as repayment of
debts contracted in the early 1980's and rescheduled in 1983 fall due. The
debt service ratio would remain in the range of 37% in the second half of the
eighties and would gradually decline thereafter.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A. Loan History
40.      The role of the Bank in industrial development in Morocco has been to
support structural change through a dialogue on policy issues, and through the
development of individual sub-sectors and of key institutions. In recent
years the policy dialogue has focussed on the structure of protection and
incentives, the expansion of manufactured exports, employment generation, and
deepening of the industrial structure. A detailed study, supported by the
Bank, was undertaken in 1979, to assess protection, pricing, and incentives,
and to recommend changes with a view to rationalizing and improving the
system. The preliminary conclusions of the Ba.nk report following this study
(Morocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion, paragraph 2 above) were
discussed with the Government in March 1983. The Government expressed keen
interest in the study's findings. Since the proposed measures for structural
change in industry and external trade would form part of the country's global
immediate and medium-term efforts 'to restore stability to its balance of
payments position, and to improve economic growth performance, the Government
requested the Bank's support of these efforts through an Industrial and Trade
Policy Adjustment Loan, the first in an eventual series of sectoral adjustment
loans to Morocco. The loan was appraised in two stages, in July/August and in
September 1983.  Negotiations were held in Washington in December 1983.  The
Moroccan delegation was led by Mr. Ben Mansour, Director of the External
Finance Department, Ministry of Finance. Supplementary loan data are provided
in Annex III.
B. The Adjustment Program under the Loan
41.      The program of industrial and trade policy adjustment which would be
supported by the loan is described in the Government's Statement of
Development Policy (Annex IV). The measures constituting this program and
their implementation schedule are outlined below and summarized in Annex VI.
42.      The adjustment program under the proposed Industrial and Trade Policy
Adjustment loan is focussed on measures aimed at (i) improving the system of
industrial incentives so as to address the fundamental issue of inefficient
resource utilization in the industrial sector; (ii) improving the balance of
payments by encouraging exports and a more efficient import-substitution
policy; and (iii) promoting greater domestic resource mobilization and



- 15 -
increased availability of long-term finance for industry. The proposed Bank
loan would thus support the implementation of a program of reforms concerning
export incentives and trade policy, and measures to improve the fiscal system,
price controls and the financial sector.
Export Incentives
43.      The main objective of this set of measures would be to improve the
international competitiveness of the Moroccan economy and increase the
efficiency of resource utilization. To achieve these objectives, special
attention is being focussed on reducing the bias of the system of incentives
against exports. It is estimated that in 1978 this bias resulted in the rate
of effective protection in the manufacturing sector being 50% higher in
import-competing sectors than in export-oriented activities. This reflected
the imposition by Morocco of import restrictions as well as high customs duty
rates. Although various schemes to ensure duty free access to imported inputs
by exporters as well as some specific export incentives were introduced, their
overall effect on export profitability was insufficient to overcome the large
incentives given to import-substitution by tariffs and import restrictions.
To offset the present bias against exports, a major reform of trade incentives
would be implemented under the ITPA loan; it would aim at (i) improving the
system of export incentives, and (ii) reducing the overall level of import
protection.
44.      During the first year of the adjustment program supported under the
ITPA loan, the Government will implement a reform of the system of export
incentives in the following areas: (i) exchange rate; (ii) exports of
agricultural and food products; (iii) special customs regimes; and
(iv) administrative procedures. In addition, measures have been taken to
improve the system of export credits and exports by construction firms
(paras. 79-81) and further measures will be studied.
45.      Exchange Rate.  During the 1972-80 period, the real effective
exchange rate (trade weighted) appreciated by about 19%. To offset the
resulting disincentive effects on exports, Morocco devalued its real effective
exchange rate by about 6% in 1980-82. In view, however, of the need to
further reduce the bizs against exports of the system of incentives, Morocco
devalued its exchange rate by 10% in August 1983 under the Stand-by
arrangement with the IMF. Additional adjustments in the exchange rate will be
made in conjunction with future trade liberalization and reductions of import
duty rates, if considered necessary from the point of view of the balance of
payments and trade policy.
46.      Agricultural and Food Products.  In the present system, exports of
fruits, vegetables and processed food products are under the exclusive control
of OCE (Office of Marketing and Exports). Although firms are allowed to
initiate market surveys and prospection of new buyers, they are not entitled
to negotiate directly with their customers. Contract negotiation and
implementation are carried out by OCE including the transport, marketing and
quality control of processed food exports. In exchange for its role, OCE



- 16 -
receives a commission of 1 to 3% of the value of the contract, amounting to
about 6 to 14% of value-added depending on the product, which constitutes a
strong deterrent to exports. In order to improve export incentives in the
food sector, the Government intends to eliminate the export monopoly of OCE
for processed food exports by September 30, 1984, so that firms will be left
free to choose their own commercial and shipping agent and sign their own
contracts, and their exports would no longer be submitted to price controls or
commissions charged by OCE. OCE, however, wilL continue to be responsible for
quality control.
47.      In addition to processed food, OCE has a monopoly for exports of
agricultural products. It appears likely that modification of the present
structure of export marketing for agricultural products could have a
significant impact on the growth of exports of such products. However, such
changes raise complex issues related to OCE's future role, markets in the EEC
and marketing strategy. Accordingly, the Government will carry out a study of
the arrangements for export marketing of fresh vegetables by
September 30, 1984. On the basis of this study, appropriate changes in the
arrangements for export marketing of fresh vegetables could be implemented in
1985.
48.      During the last few years, administrative procedures for exports have
been significantly improved. However, exports of agricultural products remain
under strict Government control. First, exports are explicitly prohibited in
the case of a few products (seven items), so as to protect rare species (fowl
and game) or commodities (undressed walnut wocd and charcoal)., Secondly, an
export licence is required for practically all agricultural products. In
general, denials of export licences have been infrequent and have affected
only a few raw materials used in local processing industries (for example,
hides and leather). On the other hand, the requirement of an export licence
has not only resulted in a lengthening of the administrative process for
exporting, but it has also introduced an additional element of uncertainty as
to the probability that future exports would be allowed. In some cases, this
has led to a loss of foreign markets, as in the case of aromatic plants.
49.      In order to increase exports of agricultural products, the Government
intends to review its present system of export. licencing and to significantly
reduce the number of products subject to it. By June 30, 1984, export
licencing will be abolished for all agricultural products currently subject to
licensing requirements (about 100 positions in the customs nomenclature),
except for subsidized basic food products.
50.      Special Customs Regimes.  The objectives of this reform are to ensure
duty free access to imported inputs by exporters. Although a number of
special customs regimes were created in Morocco, exoneration from customs
duties and indirect taxes was not granted to all imported inputs for exports.
This situation was particularly important for chemical products and other
inputs, which are physically altered during the production process. Since
these inputs were typically subject to high customs duties, at rates often
higher than those on output, the structure of protection was reversed. This



- 17 -
is the case, for example, for leather products in Morocco. In other cases,
imported inputs were exonerated from customs duties and indirect taxes, but
only on an ex post basis through refunds (drawbacks) and after lengthy delays,
reaching several years in some cases. As a result, the cost of production for
exporters was effectively raised. ]n 1978, limited access to duty-free
imported inputs resulted in an estimated 7% average increase in the cost of
inputs for exporting firms in Morocco.
51.      In order to improve existing customs regimes and assist exporters,
the Government introduced several important reforms in late 1983. First, the
procedure of temporary admission, permitting exporters to import
automatically, free of duties and taxes, was extended to cover all inputs
imported by direct and indirect exporters except a few specified by the
Customs Office. Secondly, the wastage allowance procedure was revised, the
principle being that firms would indicate wastages and wastage allowance rates
to the Customs Office, and that these rates would be accepted as final, unless
otherwise decided by the Customs Office within a period ot six months.
Thirdly, the regime of drawbacks was reformed, so as to replace drawbacks by
the system of temporary admission'/, for firms primarily engaged in
exports. Fourthly, in cases where manufacturers opt to export goods already
produced and initially destined for the local market, they are now permitted
to import "non-consumable" 1/ inputs under the temporary admission system, to
replace such inputs used for the manufacture of the exported items. Fifthly,
the Customs authorities have instituted a new system which allows exporters to
obtain customs clearance for both imported inputs and exported products at the
production site, rather that at the port of entry or exit. To complement
these measures, capital goods belonging to foreign firms, and imported for use
in export production, will, with effect from June 1984, be exonerated from
import duties. Consideration is also being given to the extension of new
forms of guarantees, for customs duties potentially payable by exporters, in
replacement of traditional bank guarantees.
52.      Administrative Measures.  To complement these reforms, several
important administrative reforms would be implemented. First of all, direct
control by the Government on exports would be significantly reduced. In
addition to the measures outlined in paragraph 49, export licensing will be
eliminated on cement and tires by December 31, 1983, and on the few other
industrial products subject to it (construction materials, scrap metals,
molasses, cattle-cake) by June 1984. In the case of mining products, export
licensing and taxation will be the subject of a Government study in 1984.
Secondly, measures would be taken to provide specific assistance to exporters
and promote exports in 1983-84; they include revision of the customs manual,
creation of customs offices for exporters, technical assistance to new
exporters by the Customs Office, study of the problems encountered by small
1/ This procedure provides for exoneration from import duties at the time of
import rather than ex post as under the drawback system.
2/ Not physically altered during the production process.



- 18 -
exporters in the case of marine transport, revision of per diem rates for
foreign travel by exporters and an information campaign to inform
entrepreneurs of new policy changes (see para. 66).
The System of Import Protection
53.      As the reforms of export incentives would affect mainly exported
goods, a reform of tariff and nontariff protection would have to be undertaken
in order to modify the level and struicture of incentives grantecl to import
substitution activities relative to exports, so as to further decrease the
bias against exports. Such a reform would also improve the efficiency of
import substitution.
54.      Morocco's system of tariff and nontariff protection has been built up
progressively since Independence in response to several objectives.
Immediately after Independence, and in an attempt to reduce the trade gap, the
existing uniform customs tariff (10%) was replaced by a range of higher
tariffs differentiated on a product basis.  In 1967, the previous cumbersome
system of import restrictions and bilateral clearing arrangements was
abolished and replaced by the creation of three categories of imports.  List A
comprised goods which could be freely imported, list B consisted of imports
requiring authorization and list C of prohibited imports. In the seventies,
as the role of the public sector expanded considerably and industrialization
was emphasized, import substitution became the principal instrument of
Morocco's industrial policy.  Tariff protection was granted automatically to
any new enterprise and the number of products subject to import licensing or
interdiction was increased in order to reserve t:he domestic market for local
industry.
55.      The allocation effect of the system of protection in Morocco was
analyzed in a joint research project undertaken by the Bank and the Ministry
of Commerce, Industry and Tourism during 1979-82. The general conclusions
were that the system of tariffs and import restrictions (i) has been a major
cause of inefficient use of capital and low labor absorption, as it has
frequently favored industrial activities where Morocco does not have any
comparative advantage, and (ii) has resulted in a strong bias against exports
and activities which corresponded to the country's comparative advantage.
Overall, relatively high effective protection rates were granted to
import-substitution activities and low rates to export-oriented activities.
Within the import-substitution sector, the variation in effective protection
rates was quite large across sub-sectors, with no clear relationship to the
economic profitability of the production process.
56.      Tariff Protection.  Tariff protection in Morocco takes the form not
only of customs duties, but also of the special import tax (SIT). Unlike
customs duties, the SIT is levied at a uniform rate on the vast majority of
imports (the exceptions are imported inputs for exports, some basic food
products and a few other commodities). From an initial rate of 2.5% in 1973,
the SIT was raised to its present 'Level of 15%, with a resulting substantial
increase in the level of import duties (which besides the SIT and customs
duties include a stamp duty). As this represents an asymmetrical devaluation
for imports without any counterpart for exports, the bias of the protection



- 19 -
system against exports was worsened.  At present, import duty rates range from
a minimum of 18% to more than 180% and exceed 40% for some 41% of the items in
the customs nomenclature. When sold on the local market, imports are also
subject to sale taxes (TPS) (usually at a rate of 19% in 1983).
57.      The combination of high import duties and indirect taxes resulted in
turn in a significant increase in production costs, both for exporters
(para. 50) and for firms producing for the local market. Since the SIT was
considered an import duty and not an indirect tax (although it was created for
budgetary reasons), fiscal deduction of the SIT was not allowed for the
manufacturing sector unlike in the case of the tax on products and services.
As a result, the indirect tax system in Morocco moved farther away from a
value-added tax, and the cascading nature of the indirect tax system became
more widespread.
58.      To offset in part the disincentive effect of higher taxes on economic
activity, the Government introduced several investment codes, whereby finns
were allowed to import capital goods equipment duty free. As a consequence of
the gradual increase in import duties, the pressure to exonerate other imports
from tariffs intensified and exemptions from customs duties were granted to
fisheries (boats), the agricultural sector for its inputs (tractors,
fertilizers, seeds, cattlefeed and insecticides) and to basic consumer
products (cereals, frozen meat, books and newspapers). As a consequence, the
overall impact of the tariff structure has become extremely unequal and
distortions have worsened.
59.      To address these various issues, the Government has initiated a
program of reforms of its tariff policy, which will be implemented in
successive phases over a five-year period starting in 1984. The medium-term
objectives of the tariff reform are to reduce the overall level of protection,
decrease the maximum customs duty rates to 25% and even out the spread in
tariff rates within and between sectors. The aim of these measures would be
to increase economic efficiency in Morocco, and this would be achieved if the
current range of effective protection rates was narrowed and made more
uniform.
60.      Towards these goals and in order to promote exports while cushioning
the effect of the loss of fiscal revenues, the Government has decided to
reduce the special import tax from 15 to 10%, with effect from January 1984.
Subsequently, the Government will reduce this tax to 5% in January 1985, and
eliminate it on January 1, 1986. The elimination of the special import tax
would significantly reduce the anti-export bias of the present system of
incentives, but there would still remain an important bias due to high tariff
rates, which have been an important cause of the unsatisfactory performance of
the Moroccan manufacturing sector as well as of the high cost of the
import-substitution policy. In order to reduce this bias, a reform of customs
duties rates would be implemented over a period of five years. First,



- 20 -
the maximum customs duty rate would be reduced to 60% by June 30, 1984 (so as
to decrease tariff redundancy, import smuggling and the high cost of
protection).  This measure would affect 320 tariff positions in the customs
nomenclature (out of a total of 3100 positions,. Secondly, the Government
will prepare a new customs nomenclature (international harmonized system)
which would include an initial rationalization of customs duties (to ensure
that tariffs are not higher on inputs than on output). In parallel, a major
tariff reform would be implemented in phases during the period 1985-88,
involving further progressive reductions in tariff rates. This policy change
is expected to improve efficiency in industrial investments by promoting the
establishment of competitive industries.
61.      Protection Policy for New Investment.  In the past, tne protective
trade regime together with the overall incentives system has been a major
cause of inefficient use of capital and labor. As outlined above, the
Government intends to promote the creation of an internationally competitive
industry. To achieve this objective, the following principles will be applied
in considering requests for additional protectLon for new investments:
(a) protection will generally be given onLy through tariffs and not
through quantitative restrictions; in the exceptional cases where
quantitative restrictions are considered necessary, these will be
limited to a period of three years.
(b) while a level of tariff protection corresponding to protection in
excess of 25% may be accorded during the first three years after
project completion, tariffs would be set at a level providing
protection not in excess of 25% thereafter.
(c)  protection along the lines of (a) and (b) above will only be accorded
to new products whose profitability is demonstrated after rigorous
economic and financial analysis. It is also understood that the
anti-dumping provision, as defined by GATT, could be applied for
these new products.
62.      In view of the multiple demands on the country's limited capital
resources, initiation of public sector investment projects would be phased
carefully. During 1983, the public investment program has been substantially
reduced, on the basis of a detailed analysis of investment priorities. In
view of the continued scarcity of resources, new public investments will only
be initiated after careful analysis of their economic benefits and budgetary
impact. In the case of public investment in manufacturing, the criteria for
granting of tariff protection outlined in the preceding paragraph will be
applied. In addition, economic evaluation criteria including net foreign exchange
savings (as explained to the Bank during negotiations), will be applied to new
public and private investment in manufacturing when these investments are subject
to a convention!/ with the Government under the Industrial Investment Code.
1/ Projects are subject to a convention with the Government under the
Investment Code when the size of the investment exceeds DR 50 million or
the investment is in a specified sector.



- 21 -
63.      Import Liberalization.  An essential element of the Government's
strategy to improve industrial efficiency is to expose Moroccan industries to
greater competition from abroad. In 1982, 42% of imports (in value) were free
of import licensing (List A). Although this percentage declined to below 10%
in March 1983, when additional restrictions were introduced, the Government's
objective is to renew the policy of import liberalizatiorn initiated in 1980-82.
64.      As a first step, the Government introduced an easing of import
restrictions in May and August 1983, so that all raw materials and spare parts
previously in List B (import licensing) were transferred to List A (no
restrictions). Following this liberalization, imports in List A represented
about 30% of total imports (by value, on the basis of data for imports in
1982). However, goods imported for use in production for exports have not
been subject to restrictions. The Government will maintain this principle.
65.      In 1984, further import liberalization will be i-'iplemented.  Some 12%
of total imports (in value, on the basis of 1982 figures) will be transferred
to list A (no import licensing) by June 30, 1984, and another 6% by
December 1984. This transfer will exclude wheat, green tea, sugar, crude oil
imports, and oil from petroleum and bituminous materials, since they are
imported by Government agencies or public enterprises. During this process of
liberalization, the Government will give priority to capital goods (including
imports under the investment codes) and to intermediate products not
manufactured in Morocco.
66.      In subsequent years, the Government's objective is to open the
economy further to competition from abroad, and progressively eliminate the
import restrictions prevalent in 1983 (with the exclusion of items injurious
to public morality and possibly certain luxury articles) by 1988. As regards
the prohibited imports in 1983 (List C), the prohibitions will be
progressively eliminated by 1988, beginning with products manufactured by
industries long-established in Morocco. The specific content of the action
plan for 1985 in this area will be defined in 1984. The Government has
initiated an information program. It aims at explaining to industrialists
concerned, in particular through meetings to be held before March 1984, with
relevant professional associations, the Government's medium-term (1988)
objectives in tariff and non-tariff protection. As the effort to restructure
protection and increase external competition might have an adverse impact on
certain industrial subsectors over the medium-term, specific restructuring
programs will be implemented by the Government in coordination with the
implementation of the reform of tariffs and import restrictions. To define
the restructuring measures which may be necessary, preliminary studies will be
carried out by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism in 1984.
Fiscal Reform
67.      In the fiscal area, apart from the short-term fiscal management
issues, there is a need for a longer-term fiscal reform which will serve the
objectives of development. Successive tax increases for budgetary revenues
have resulted in very high tax rates on profits from capital and a strong
disincentive effect on private enterprises. In part to offset these



- 22 -
consequences, the investment codes that have been introduced for nearly every
sector provide for partial or total exoneration from profit taxes during a
period of ten years. As a consequence, the actual taxation of capital varies
widely across firms from very low rates to rates reaching 80% of profits,
which distort the sectoral allocation of resources and capital intensity. In
addition, there is a clear need to harmonize all, the various taxes on capital,
some of which are still in existence purely for historical reasons.
68.      In the case of indirect taxation, the pressure to increase fiscal
revenues in conjunction with the social objective of preserving the purchasing
power of low income groups has led to wide variations in the fiscal burden
across products and within the same category of products. The diegree of
fiscal neutrality of the indirect tax system has also worsened over the
years.  This trend has been reinforced with the revenue-raising role
attributed to the special tax on imports (SIT), which, as mentiDned earlier,
has accentuated the degree of cascading of the indirect tax system.
69.      During the last two years, the Government has made considerable
progress in formulating a compreher,sive fiscal reform (Loi Cadre), which was
approved by Parliament in 1982. The Government's intention is now to prepare
detailed proposals for the reform of direct taxation which would be presented
to Parliament in 1984 with a view to implementation in January 1985. This
reform would be part of a wider tax reform program pursued by the IMF which
includes the introduction of a unified personal income tax (presentation to
Parliament in 1984) and of a value--added tax (in the medium-term).
70.      Within this context, the ITPA project would support specific measures
which have been identified in the Bank report on Industrial Incentives and
Export Promotion (para. 2) as being particularly important for economic
development and export promotion. These measures would be aimed at: (i)
harmonizing the fiscal pressure on enterprises while minimizing losses of
revenues; (ii) modifying aspects of indirect taxation which are particularly
disadvantageous for exporters; and (iii) restoring fiscal neutrality between
local and imported products.
71.      In the case of direct taxation, measures of particular importance for
improving industrial incentives would include the establishment of a uniform
profit tax rate, simplifying accounting rules for taxation of small firms, and
providing for the revaluation of balance sheets. These reforms would be
presented to Parliament before mid-1984 and implemented by January 1985.  In
the medium-term, the Government's objective is to bring about greater
harmonization of the incidence of profit taxation through a revision of the
various fiscal subsidies provided for by investment codes.
72.      In the case of indirect taxation, the immediate objective of the
Government as concerns industrial incentives and export promotion is to reduce
the rate of the special import tax (SIT) from 15% to 10% in January 1984 and
to eliminate it completely by January 1986. Elimination of the SIT will
generate a loss of fiscal revenues of about 1% of GDP in 1984 and 5% of GDP by
1986. Part of this loss will be offset by the increase in fiscal revenues
(about 1% of GDP by 1986) due to the additional output generated by the



- 23 -
expansion of exports. To compensate for the remaining impact on the
Government's financial position, additional measures to increase revenue and
reduce expenditure will need to be carried out in parallel with the
progressive elimination of the SIT. In mid-1983, the first adjustment was
implemented with an increase of two percentage points in the rate of the sales
tax (TPS) on manufactured products, which would compensate about half of the
fiscal loss due to the five percentage point reduction in the SIT tax in 1984.
73.      In 1984, the Government will also modify three aspects of the
indirect tax system which are particularly disadvantageous for exporters,
pending the full implementation of a value-added tax. First of all, the
number of products for which the sales tax (TPS) paid on purchases may be
deducted from the tax on sales will be increased. Secondly, wholesale trading
companies will be entitled to the TPS deduction. This last measure is
particularly important from the point of view of export promotion, since
trading companies could not previously deduct the TPS paid on purchases, even
in the case of exports. Thirdly, TPS rates will be revised and harmonized
(including the abolition of differential rates for local products and imports
so as to restore fiscal neutrality between local and imported products). In
the medium-term, with implementation of the value-added tax, the "cut-off
rule" which limits fiscal deductions from the sales tax (TPS) would be
substantially abolished. In addition, as concerns the wastage allowance rates
to be applied for fiscal purposes (when a product imported by an exporter is
sold locally), a study of the rates will be completed in 1984 by the fiscal
authorities and the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism.
Financial Sector Reform
74.      The Government is in the process of formulating a comprehensive
reform of the financial sector to make it more flexible and responsive to the
country's development needs in order to promote growth of domestic savings and
a better financial intermediation. To complement the reform of industrial
incentives, the ITPA project would support the implementation of a first phase
adjustment. These measures would aim at (i) mobilizing financial savings
through interest rate adjustments; and (ii) reforming the system of export
credits, and insurance for export credits.
75.      Interest Rate Adjustment.  Over the past several years, the
Government's policy has been to increase the level of interest rates and to
make them more flexible, so that they would play an increasing role in the
allocation and mobilization of financial resources. Since 1979, interest
rates on savings accounts, time deposits, bonds and Treasury bills have been
raised by 2 to 4 percentage points, while the inflation rate has remained
nearly constant at about 10% per year. As a result, interest rates have
become positive in real terms for term deposits (over one year). Sight
deposits yield no interest, and the rate of interest on other accounts varies
from 4.5% for one-month time deposits to 10% for one-year time deposits and
10.5% for 18-month deposits. Savings accounts yield 7%.



- 24 -
76.      In the case of lending rates, similar increases were enacted in
1979-83. Interest rates on medium- and long-term loans to the industrial
sector by BNDE (National Bank of Economic Develcpment) reached 1L4% (12%, net
of subsidies) in 1982'", and have remained positlive in real termns. Maximum
rates charged by commercial banks on rediscountable loans are now 10% for
short-term loans and 11% for medium-term loans. Interest rates on CNCA
(Agricultural Credit Bank) loans to agriculture range from 7% to 11% on
short-term loans and from 10% to 13% on medium- and long-term loans.
77.      The position of the Government is that interest rates should be more
flexible than in the past, and fixed at levels permitting the necessary
equilibrium between national savings and investment. In 1983, in view of the
current economic recession and the excess liquicdity of the banking sector, it
was felt that no general increase in interest rates was necessary. However,
several important adjustments to the overall inl:erest rate structure were
implemented. First of all, in August 1983 the rates on non-rediscountable
credit were increased by 1% under the Stand-by arrangement with the IMF.
Secondly, the Government has set the rate of inl:erest on incremental deposits
in the accounts held by Moroccan workers abroad at 8% at the end of 1983 (so
as to stimulate workers' remittances, Morocco's largest source of foreign
exchange earnings; formerly no interest was paid on these accounts).  Thirdly,
the Government increased CNCA lending rates by two percentage points on
average, so that they would be positive in real terms. For the future, and in
normal economic conditions, the Government intends to maintain interest rates
at levels that are positive in real terms, with the exclusion of certain
concessional rates, notably for export credits.
78.      Adjustment of interest rates will improve the mobilization and
allocation of financial resources in Morocco. To complement this reform,
there is also a need to increase the financial intermediation function of
commercial banks, which have typically shown a preference for collecting
short-term deposits and making short-term loans. Specific measures to achieve
this objective are being formulated in the context of the financial sector
reform that would be implemented in the second phase adjustment (paras. 32-34).
79.      Export Credits.  The system of pre-shipment credits was established
in 1978 by the Bank of Morocco (BdM). It is designed to finance the
acquisition of both imported and local inputs on a short-term basis of up to
one year, and the credits are denominated and repayable in local currency and
rediscounted by the BdM. These credits are officially excluded from the
rediscounting and credit ceilings authorized by the BdM for the commercial
banks, as export finance is considered a priority sector; for the same reason,
borrowers are charged an interest rate of between 5.5 and 7% per annum. In
general, the scheme of pre-shipment credits appears to function
satisfactorily. The two major constraints in the past have been:
(i) conservative credit ceilings for exporters, averaging about 1.5 months of
export sales; and (ii) limited access of smaller firms to credit. The first
1/ These rates are net of taxes which amount to about 2 percentage points.



- 25 -
constraint is being addressed through a greater readiness of the BdM to be
flexible in establishing ceilings for pre-shipment export credits and in
extending the maturities of post-shipment export credits (Annex VI). The
second constraint has been due to the general difficulties of access to credit
by smaller firms as a result of conservative collateral requirements of
commercial banks. The Government is exploring various approaches to
addressing this issue and reducing the risk-aversive tendencies of commercial
banks, in the context of credit to small- and medium-scale enterprises, as for
instance, through a guarantee fund. In the medium- to loag-term, it is
expected that various reforms being considered in the financial sector to
improve the degree of competition and increase the capability of commercial
banks to conduct project appraisals, would reduce their insistence on
extensive collateral requirements.
80.      To complement further the reform of export incentives, the system of
medium-term credit is also being revised. A medium-term -redit facility was
recently created for the financing of equipment goods in i4orocco, and in 1983
a similar facility was established for exports of capital goods. In 1984, its
effective use by commercial banks will be developed; a study of the
feasibility of extending its term from five to seven years and coverage to
exports by construction and engineering service firms will be carried out.
Until now, and unlike other countries in the Middle-East, Moroccan firms have
not participated in any construction projects outside Morocco. To further
promote such exports, the Government will initiate a study of the feasibility
of providing the required bank guarantees for export contractors through a
consortium of Moroccan banks.
81.      The export credit insurance system was also revised in 1983.  The
globality rule was eliminated so that exporters may insure only part of their
exports; minimum limits on premiums and maximum limits on repayments were
removed and budgetary credits were allocated to the insuring agency (BMCE).
Extension of the insurance coverage to include manufacturing risk insurance
will be studied by the Government in 1984, with a view to implementation
before mid-1985.
Price Liberalization
82.      The Government's position is that competition is a vital element to
increase dynamism and productivity, and it intends to make the Moroccan
economy more responsive to market forces. In 1983, price controls on
manufactured goods were significantly reduced, as the prices of about
19 products were liberalized (out of a total of 40 manufactured products
subject to price control). The intention of the Government is to liberalize
the prices of about 10 more manufactured products in 1984. Remaining price
controls on about 12 manufactured products would be gradually removed in later
years in line with the elimination of import interdictions (or restrictions)
on those industries and greater exposure to international competition. Price
controls would be retained only for subsidized basic commodities, public
utilities, and commodities for which there is limited competition.



- 26 -
C. Expected Effects of the Adjustment Program
83.      The set of measures under Morocco's Industrial and Trade Policy
Adjustment (ITPA) program is designed to: (i) help improve the country's
balance of payments in the medium-term with minimum short-term adverse
effects; (ii) increase national savings so as to reduce external borrowings;
and (iii) improve industrial incentives. As mentioned in Part II, the policy
reforms that have been or would be implemented under the ITPA project are part
of a series of adjustment programs that extend over the medium-term and which
are complementary. The overall impact of this series of sectoral adjustment
programs on the Moroccan economy was analyzed in Part II. In order to
evaluate the economic and financial effects specific to the ITPA program-',
the effects of the proposed measures were assessed on the basis of the 1978
input-output matrix for Morocco ancd econometric regressions for exports and
imports.
84.      Balance of payments effects.  The progressive elimination of the
special tax on imports would constitute an important step towards reducing the
bias against exports in the present system of incentives.  This policy change,
which would be further supported by the proposed reform of other export
incentives, would ensure a sustained growth of exports. However, reduction in
the level of customs duties would by itself lead to a rise in imports.  To
offset the increase in imports and strengthen export incentives, Morocco would
therefore implement a flexible exchange rate policy.
85.      In 1983, in line with the Stand-by arrangement with the IMF, Morocco
devalued its exchange rate by 10% and by a larger percentage than the
reduction in customs duties (the special import tax would be reduced by
5 percentage points in January 1984). As a result of this partially
compensated devaluation, there wouLd be an increase in exports and a reduction
in imports in 1984, which would make it possible for Morocco to pursue future
tariff reductions and trade liberalization under conditions compatible with a
financially sustainable balance of payments deficit. At the same time, the
reduction in tariff rates will also reduce the increase in import prices due
to the devaluation. Overall, the cost of living index is not expected to
increase by more than 9-10% p.a. in 1983-84z/.
86.      Besides their impact on exports of food and agricultural products (a
6% increase in dollar terms in 1983-86), and of manufactured products3' (a
26% increase in dollar terms in 1983-86), the changes in export incentives
would also stimulate tourism (a 20% increase over three years) and workers'
1/  Including the policy measures agreed under the IMF Stand-by concerning the
exchange rate, and workers' remittances.
2/ As of December 1983, the increase in the ccist of living was 9-10% on an
annual basis.
3/  Excluding mineral products and phosphate derivatives, which were
considered as not being affected by the change in export incentives.



- 27 -
remittances (due to the rise in the interest rate on the checking accounts of
Moroccan workers abroad). Overall, the effects of the complete elimination of
the special import tax in conjunction with adjustment of the exchange rate
would be to reduce the current account deficit by about $350 million in 1984
and $500 million in 1986 (or 3% of GDP) (Table 3). However, these estimates
do not take into account the effects of the other reforms of export incentives
that Morocco would implement in 1984-86, ' so that the final improvement in
the balance of payments is likely to be larger.
Table 3: Effects of ITPA and Stabilization Measures
on the Balance of Paymentsa/
(Million of current dollars)
1984             1985            1986
Balance of Trade
Exports                          +63             +155            +200
Imports                         -187              -69             +41
Non factor Services
Tourism                          +40              +86            +116
Goods and Nonfactor Services         +290             +310             +275
Interest on M & LT debtb-        -18              -60            -107
Workers remittances              +47             +100            +108
Current Account Improvement          +355             +470             +490
Notes:
a/   A plus sign indicates an increase in receipts; a minus sign a decrease in
payments. These measures include the elimination of the special import
tax, adjustment of the exchange rate, and increases of the interest rate
on the incremental deposits of expatriate Moroccan workers, but exclude
other reductions in customs duties and import liberalizations that would
be implemented in 1985-86.
b/   Due to the reduction in external borrowings.
1/   Their impact on the balance of payments could not be easily quantified.



- 28 -
87.      Growth and employment effects.  The increase in exports will induce a
rise in the total demand for Moroccan products, which will stimulate output.
Although such an increase cannot be expected to completely offset the
deflationary impact of the required stabilization program, implementation of
the proposed measures under the ITPA program would considerably ease the
economic and social cost of the adjustment of the Moroccan economy. First of
all, the expansion of exports would lead to a direct expansion of production
in agriculture, manufacturing and the tourism sector. As the industrial
sector is currently using only a small part of its capacity (output has
stagnated since 1978), the direct gain in output need not put any pressure
on domestic prices, so that it will, in turn, have a multiplier effect on
income and demand (estimated for the whole Moroccan economy at aLbout 2).
Implementation of the proposed reform of export incentives would thus lead to
a cumulative gain in output of about 2% of GDP in 1984 and 5% byr 1986/'.
However, due to the deflationary impact of the required stabilization
policies, the overall GDP growth rate is projected to increase by only 1.5%
p.a. in 1983-85.
88.      Secondly, the expansion of output would also create new job
opportunities. As exporting industries are generally labor intensive in
Morocco, the increase in exports would generate a sharp rise in employment
directly in the exporting sectors, but also indirectly in other industries.
Overall, the rise in employment2- would amount to about 110,000 in 1984 and
210,000 by 1986. Since the average wage levels irn the exporting industries
are well below sectoral averages, the increase in employment would benefit
primarily the poorest part of the labor force in Morocco and it would
contribute significantly to poverty alleviation.
D.   IMF Activities in Morocco and Government/IMF/Bank CooperatLon
89.      In 1980, the IMF and the Moroccan Government negotiated a three-year
stabilization program to be supported by financing of $1.2 billion
(SDR 956 million) under the Extended Fund Facility. The program was aimed at
(i) containing the growth of domestic expenditures through a gradual reduction
of consumer subsidies as well as restraint concerning wage, fiscal, monetary,
and external debt policies, and (ii) restructuring supply-side policies as a
basis for sustained long-term growth. Appropriate measures were adopted
concerning the liberalization of trade and payments, interest rates, petroleum
price increases, energy policy and utility tariffs. However, Morocco was
1/   These estimates do not take into account the effect of the stabilization
program. The overall impact on the economy of adjustment and
stabilization policies was indicated in Part II-C.
2/   Estimated on the basis of labor coefficients derived from the 1978
input-output matrix. These estimates do not take into account the impact
of the stabilization policies to be implemented in 1983-86, so that the
actual increase in employment would be lower than indicated.



- 29 -
unable to meet the EFF fiscal targets and the ceilings on domestic credit were
exceeded in 1981. The EFF was declared inoperative in late 1981, and replaced
in April 1982 by a one-year Stand-by arrangement, augmented by drawings under
the Compensatory Financing Facility (to offset the balance of payments impact
of the 1981 drought) for a total of about $570 million (SDR 518 million). The
emphasis of the 1982 program was on a reduction in the overall budget deficit
by over one-third, complemented by other elements, including a small
depreciation of the dirham, increases in interest rates, restraint on overall
credit and monetary expansion, and further trade liberalization. Results
under the Stand-by arrangement were reviewed in early 1983 by the IMF, and it
was found that the Government had met all the performance criteria for 1982,
although progress towards meeting the internal and external goals of the
Stand-by was slower than expected. Intended structural measures, especially
in the areas of education policy, reform of public enterprises and tax reform
were not implemented. Moreover, beginning in the last quarter of 1982, partly
because of optimistic assumptions regarding concessional external assistance,
the Government increased capital expenditures well beyond the program targets,
with a resulting accumulation of unpaid bills. Thus, although the performance
criteria under the Stand-by agreement were met, the financial outcome was
disappointing, and the objective of reducing the deficit in the balance of
paynents was not achieved. The developments leading to the latest Stand-by
agreement were negotiated in July 1983; the main features of this new
agreement are discussed in Part I.
90.      There has been full coordination of Fund and Bank positions and
assistance to Morocco, with extensive consultation and exchange of information
at the staff level between the two institutions. With a view to ensuring that
the program under the proposed Bank loan and that under the Stand-by agreement
are consistent, two Bank staff members participated in the mid-June
preparatory IMF mission. Their participation was aimed in particular at
ensuring consistency in economic and financial projections, and reviewing the
revised Government investment budget. In addition, the recent Bank report on
the education sector in Morocco (No. 4105-MOR of June 10, 1983) provided the
basis for the Fund's discussions with the Government on education policy.
91.      In the context of the program of measures under the proposed loan,
there have been detailed discussions with Fund staff, leading to full
agreement on the overall objectives of the program, on the specific measures,
and on their timing. In the area of fiscal policy in particular, the division
of work has followed the comparative advantages of the two institutions, with
the Fund handling short-term macro management and budgetary issues, as well as
the proposed fiscal reform, while the Bank has addressed specific features of
the fiscal system of relevance to industrial growth and exports.
92.      The Bank has also participated in discussions organized by the IMF to
coordinate balance of payments assistance over the short-term (para. 16). At
these meetings, the Bank presented its view of Morocco's medium-term prospects.



- 30 -
E.   Benefits and Risks
93.      Benefits.  The main benefits of the locn consist of the effects of
the policy adjustments which they support. These effects are expected to be
in the form of an improved balance of payments, growth of output, and
generation of employment. Estimates of the quantitative impact of these
benefits were provided in Part IV-C.  An improved growth and balance of
payments performance (as against what might occur in the absence of policy
reforms) will help restore Morocco's access to funds from foreign donors and
lenders. Finally, the loan will provide quick-disbursing foreign exchange at
favorable maturities which will help the country meet its substantial foreign
financing needs in 1984.
94.      Risks.  The risks of the adjustment program relate to assessing the
length and difficulty of the adjustment process, internal resistance to a
timely and continued implementatior, uncertainties in the external environment:
and export prospects, and the possibility of further deterioration of
Morocco's financial situation, which could affect the commitment to import
liberalization. Since the magnitude of the expected benefits of the program
cannot be predicted with certainty, if the projected increase in exports does
not materialize, the rate of growth may be reduced, and trade liberalization
may proceed more slowly. The need to reduce the Treasury deficit, and the
elimination of the special import tax mean that the Government will have to
take difficult decisions to raise other tax revenues and cut Treasury
expenditures. Unexpected adverse developments in the trade environment and
international economic conditions may cause the Moroccan economy's performance
to be lower than projected; resulting lower output and increased unemployment
may lead to pressure on the Government to abandon stabilization efforts, and
reverse its policy of import liberalization.
95.      There are, however, a number of features that reduce the above
risks. First, measures are being implemented to offset some of the adverse
effects of the trade liberalization program.  For example, during the first
year of the program, a flexible exchange rate policy will be maintained so
that reductions in tariff rates will not induce an increase in imports. Also,
industrial restructuring programs would be implemented by the Government to
help firms adjust to a more competitive environment. Second, the adjustment
program would be implemented in phases so as to allow exports to grow and
provide the foreign exchange required to finance the increase in imports that
the import liberalization program rnight entail. Also, the phased
implementation will allow firms to adjust gradually. Third, the budgetary
cost of the tariff reduction was taken into account in the formulation of the
program; estimates of the fiscal cost of the program were reviewed in detail
with the Government, and proposals were made so as not to increase the
Treasury deficit. Finally, the Government has so far shown a strong
commitment to the program both by preparing the reforms through a three-year
research program in collaboration with the Bank, and by implementing the first
phase of the industrial and trade policy adjustment in an extremely adverse
international environment.



- 31 -
F. Disbursement and Procurement
96.      The proposed loan would be disbursed in two tranches, and is expected
to be fully disbursed within a year of loan effectiveness. The first tranche
of $75.4 million would be available upon effectiveness, and the second tranche
of $75 million would become available about six months later. Disbursement of
the second tranche would be conditional on i) satisfactory progress with
respect to continued implementation of the program of industrial and trade
policy adjustment set forth in the Government's Statement of Development
Policy (Annex IV), and ii) on the Government's having taken the following
actions: (a) reduction of the maximum rate of customs duty on each import to
60% (paragraph 13 of the Attachment to the Government's Statement of
Development Policy); (b) liberalization of imports, through the transfer of
12% of total imports (in value, on the basis of 1982 data) to List A (imports
free of licensing), so that the percentage of imports in List A will reach at
least 42, this transfer to exclude wheat, green tea, sugar, crude oil and oil
obtained from petroleum and bitumincus materials (paragraph 21 of the
Attachment); and (c) elimination of export licensing requirements for all
products except minerals and subsidized food products (paragraph 7 of the
Attachment)/(Loan Agreement, Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 and Schedule 4).
97.      The loan would reimburse 100% of the foreign exchange cost of
eligible imports. Excluded categories involve goods financed from other
sources, goods intended for military or paramilitary use, and goods for luxury
consumption. A list of ineligible imports is included in the Annex to
Schedule I of the Loan Agreement. Expenditures for goods procured under
contracts of $25,000 or less would not be eligible for financing.
Disbursements against petroleum products and foodstuffs will be limited to a
maximum of $50 million.
98.      The Banque du Maroc (BdM) will be responsible for maintaining loan
accounts, and for the preparation and submission of withdrawal applications.
Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made on the basis of a summary
from the BdM detailing individual transactions in a given period, in respect
of eligible imports, together with a certification from the BdM of payment of
the amounts involved, and of their eligibility under the loan. Documentation
would be retained by the concerned commercial banks, and made available for
review by Bank supervision missions. Applications for withdrawal will be
consolidated and submitted in amounts not less than $1 million (Loan
Agreement, Section 2.02(b)).
99.      Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing. Certain commonly traded commodities may be purchased through price
quotations available from organized international commodity markets.
Petroleum would be procured under bilateral agreements with oil-exporting
countries; these agreements are based on prevailing market prices, and are
generally for a maximum period of 12 months. All other purchases, public and
private, under contracts of $5 million or more each, will be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Contracts for the procurement of goods by the private sector estimated to cost



- 32 -
less than $5 million each will be awarded on the basis of normal procurement
procedures of the purchaser. Public sector imports under contracts below $5
million will be procured in accordance with standard government practices,
which are acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement:, Schedule 3).
G. Monitoring
100.     To monitor the implementation of the adjustment program, the
Government has established an inter-ministerial committee under the
chairmanship of the Prime Minister's office.  This committee would meet
regularly to review progress, and to decide on appropriate acti:ns necessary
to ensure timely implementation.
101.     The Bank will also monitor the progress of the program in two ways:
(a) through regular supervision and exchange of views with the Sovernment; as
part of this process, the Government will prepare and send the Bank two status
reports, summarizing the status of implementation of the program, the first by
early July 1984, and the second in early January 1985; and (b) through
extensive discussions with the Government which will be required for the
preparation of future sectoral adjustment loans to Morocco, assuming
successful implementation of the program specified under the proposed loan.
The first status report would also serve as a basis for a mid-term review
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(a)) which in turn would form the basis for the
release of the second tranche of the loan (see para. 97 and Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, paragraph 3).
PART IV - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
102.     Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 64 projects, financing
a total of $2,406 million (net of cancellations), of which $1,480 million has
been lent since the beginning of FY1978. IDA credits, totalling $51 million,
have been made available for five projects and a Third Window loan for
$25 million has been made for an education project. IFC investments have
amounted to $99.3 million ($59.1 million after cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales). Annex II contains a sunmary statement IFC investments
as of September 30, 1983, and of Bank loans and IDA credits as of
October 31, 1983.
103.     Until recently, performance in project execution has been
satisfactory overall, although in some cases management problems have caused
delays in project implementation, and in others insufficient tariff
adjustments have affected project entities' financial performance. However,
during 1983, as budgetary constraints became more severe, projects relying on
the Government budget for a substantial part of financing have been seriously
delayed because of inadequate budgetary allocations.
104.     The objectives of Bank Group activities in Morocco are to support (a)
investments and policy reforms aimed at strengthening the balance of payments;
(b) measures to reduce the Treasury deficit; and (c) efforts to redress
poverty and improve income distribution, particularly through lowering the



- 33 -
unit costs for the delivery of basic services, in order to increase access by
lower-income groups. As mentioned earlier (para. 25) important structural
reforms must be undertaken in the coming years, in order to return to a path
of reasonable economic growth compatible with a sustainable external payments
positon. A major objective of Bank economic and sector work is to provide the
analytical basis for the development of specific proposals for structural
reform, which in several cases may later be supported by Bank lending. The
Government has requested that, in addition to ongoing work on the public
investment program, the Bank assist in developing reform proposals relating to
the financial sector (for which a mission visited Morocco in September 1983),
public enterprises (for which a first economic mission is envisaged for Spring
1984), and the education and agricultural sectors. Because severe budgetary
constraints are likely to persist over the medium-term, projects now under
preparation are being designed to minimize their reliance on budgetary funds.
105. Agriculture continues to represent the most impirtant sector in Bank
lending for Morocco. Past Bank lending has primarily supported rural
development or irrigation projects focusing on particular geographical
regions, as well as a highly successful agricultural credit program. In the
future, increased attention will be given to agricultural support services at
the national level, which are essential for backstopping regional development
projects and would be more appropriate vehicles for addressing sectoral policy
issues. Projects are under preparation in agricultural inputs distribution,
research and extension services, cereals storage and marketing and irrigation
management. In view of limited budgetary resources, special attention would
be paid to maximizing non-budgetary financing and improving cost recovery.
Sector work on agricultural incentives - fiscal, financial, pricing and
institutional policies - is expected to provide recommendations on structural
reforms which could lay the basis for an agriculture sectoral adjustment loan.
106.     Energy and mining.  The Government has given high priority to
reducing the oil import bill, a major factor in the current account deficit,
through development of domestic energy supplies. The Bank has supported this
effort through loans for the exploration and appraisal of petroleum (primarily
natural gas) and oil shale resources as well as for power generation and
transmission. Future projects would assist in the development of domestic
energy supplies, including gas, coal and hydropower. Through these projects
as well as in our sectoral policy dialogue, efficiency in energy development
and use would be promoted through attention to pricing, cost recovery and
management issues. A pilot project to support small-scale, export-oriented
mining activities in a remote, low-income region will be monitored with a view
to its possible extension.
107.     Bank lending for infrastructure and utilities has helped to build a
number of technically competent agencies in the fields of road transportation,
electricity, water supply, housing finance, and community infrastructure
finance, as well as to expand the provision of essential services. Future
projects will place greater emphasis on improving the productivity and
efficiency of existing infrastructure through improved financial and
management performance. Mobilization of private and non-budgetary financing



-- 34 -
as well as improved cost recovery in these subsectors through tariffs should
help redluce the Treasury deficit. In addition to continuing support for the
above-mentioned subsectors, projects are under preparation for ports, sewerage
and telecommunications.
108.     Industrial development in Morocco has been supported primarily
through strengthening the financial and institutional resources of the Banque
Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE), the major source of industrial
medium-term credit. In addition, policy changes were introduced to widen
access to credit by small-scale labor-intensive industries. Other projects
focussed on phosphate processing and cement produ,ction. The Bank's efforts
are now focussed on the development and implementation of medium-term policy
reforms aimed at encouraging exports and improvirng incentives to domestic
production. A first phase of such reforms would be supported by the proposed
loan, and further sectoral adjustment lending is likely in industry to support
subsequent phases of the medium-term ITPA program adopted by the Government.
109.     Education, health and urban development projects will increasingly
concentrate on lowering unit costs in order to widen the access by low-income
groups. Policy dialogue in these sectors will continue to encourage the shift
away from capital-intensive investments benefitting limited clientele and to
the development of more cost-effective delivery systems for basic services.
Previous Bank-financed projects supporting technical education, rural primary
education and improved teacher training would be complemented by efforts to
expand basic education and skill training and, more importantly, by a sector
loan aiming at restructuring the education systern, which has represented a
major drain on the recurrent budget. The experience of projects in urban
upgrading will be continued and expanded, with increased efforts to mobilize
private financing in order to reduce budgetary costs.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
110.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provrided for in Article III, Section IV (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately.
Proposed special conditions for disbursements are described in Annex III.
PART VI -- RECOMMENDATIONS
111.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
112.     I recommend that the Executives Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
Presideni:
Attachments
January 6, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 35 -
ANNEX :I
T A B L E  3A                             ANNEX   I
Page 1 of 6
MOROCCO                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb  RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCQIE
1 9 60/1-b  1970/  ESTimAT8         N. AFRICA & MID EAST   LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
AR  (THOUSAND SQ. KR)
TOTAL                                446. 6/c    446. 6/c    446. 6/c
AGRICULTURAL                         190.27W     200.i7W     202.27.
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    210.0       340.0       860.0              1340.0                    2088.2
ENERGY CONSUMPrION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       173.0       247.0       368.0               810.4                    1407.6
POPULATION AR VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   11626.0      14993.0     20891.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         29.3        34.6        41.2                47.4                      65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              40.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                               112.5
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                               2120
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. YM.                         26.0        33.6        45.2                36.0                     35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND             61.1         74.9        99.8              449.0                       93.2
POPU'LATION ACE STRUCTURE (5)
0-14 YRS                           44.8        47.6        45.8                43.9                     40.1
15-64 YRS                          52.6         48.3        51.1                52.8                     55.8
65 AND ABOVE                        2.6          4.2         3.1                 3.3                       4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                2.6         2.5         3.0                 2.9                       2.3
URBAN                                3.7         4.2         4.6                 4.6                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          51.8        47.4        46.2                42.5                      31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TROUS)          23.4        17.2        12.5                12.0                       8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5         3.5         3.4                 3.0                       2.0
FAMILY PLAkNNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             .         25.1        78.O/d
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..         1.0         5.47W*
FOOD AHD NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(!969-71-100)                        99.0         98.0        69.0                97.5                    113.0
PER CAPITA SUvPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)       101.0       103.0       110.0               102.3                    111.3
PROTEINS (CGRAMS PER DAY)           65.0        66.0        70.0                72.0                     67.9
OF WHICH ANTIMAL AND PULSE         14.0        13.0        14.0/e              17.8                     34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          36.8         26.6        14.5                15.2                       5.3
HEAL T
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         46.7        51.7        56.9                57.2                      64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)       160.5        136.4       104.3              104.2                      62.6
ACCeSS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                               30.6        51.0        55.0/d              59.3                      64.8
'JRBAN                             58.7         92.0       l00.o7W              84.9                      77.8
RURAL                               19.0        28.0        25.07W              37.5                     44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        29.0          ..                  ..                      54.6
URBAN                                 ..        75.0          ..                  ..                     69.8
RURAL                                 ..         4.0          ..                  ..                     29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           9410.0    12810.0       11200.0             3536.0                    1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                 ..      2740.0      1830.0/e            1820.7                   1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              630.0       660.0       770.0/e             643.3                    477.0
URBAN                                 ..       450.0       620.077             545.0                    667.5
RURAL                                 . .     5820.0      3090.07.            2462.0                   1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        15.5        17.9/e              26.4                     27.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOLCSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.8         5.5
URBAN                                4.3         4.9
RURAL                                5.1         5.8           ..                 .
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                2.2         2.4          ..
URBAN                                2.1         2.1
RURAL                                2.3         2.6          ..                  .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..          ..                46.2
URBAN                                 ..        68.4        65.0/e              77.6
RURAL                                 ..          ..          ..                16.1



-36-
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                Page  2  of  6
MOROCCO                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960        1970b  ESTIMATELb    .. AFRICA & MID EAST   LAM:. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    47.0        52.0         76.0               89.6                    105.0
MALE                    67.0        67.0         95.0              104.8                    106.3
FEMALE                  27.0        36.0        58.0                72.4                    103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    5.0        13.0        24.0                41.7                     40.0
MALE                     7.0        16.0        29.0                52.8                     38.6
FEMALE                   2.0         7.0        18.0                31.2                     41.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)          30.2         2.3          1.3               10.3                     34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            42.0        34.0         38.0               31.9                     30.7
SECONDARY                           6.0        20.0        22.0                23.3                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)              13.8        21.4        28.0                43.3                      79.5
CONSUllT ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP          10.7        14.8        20.8/f              18.0                     45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         45.8        62.4       148.6               138.1                    228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             0.4        11.6         37.1               45.6                    108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             22.1        15.2         11.8               31.0                     64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       1.5          ..          2.0/e              1.7                      2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          3389.0      3945.0      5510.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   10.0        14.2        15.9                10.7                     24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              62.0        57.0        52.0                42.5                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.0        17.0        21.0                27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              29.1        26.3        26.4                25.6                     31.3
MALE                               52.1        45.2        44.4                45.4                     49.8
FEMALF                              5.9         7.5         8.4                 5.6                     14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.6         2.0         1.9                 1.8                      1.4
INCtEE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS           18.O/g      20.O/g
HIlGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS         43.37j      49.07          ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            7.o7j       4.0/          ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS           18.07j      12.0Li
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOM E
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             107.0       157.0       389.0               276.1                    289.8
RURAL                              66.0       101.0       238.0               177.1                    184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        242.0              400.0                    519.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      157.0               283.3                    372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                              51.0        38.0        28.0                22.0
RURAL                              49.0        45.0        45.0                30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c Excludes the ex-Spanish Sahara; /d 1976; 'e 1977; If 1978; /g Consumption expenditure of households.
May 1983



- 37  -                                            ~~~~ANNEX  I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL IyIICAOTRS                                                    a    e    3    o         
route:  Alnboagh the data are dcant-           ora -  geneall 1,jadged the             ..art..  ...er .eom .o relabl,Ittol  alo  anoeto  then oar not ho Intra  na
coparable becus  of tin  lack of stoda-dieed detto.n ocpsae  by dIfferet caore   I                                            .lnto    h  dat._ Th  datc ac, noneheless,.  ..efalto
disc-tbe -rder  of eagollode, ltet   rends  sod chaeter Ise --ee to.mJor dIfte-nte  ho rec  co-tra-
The rtferencr groups ar  (1) the eas  cautry gos o.   f rOe  object ceecty and 10) a co...rc g-Ipo alth tonehat hlghar araaIncome- thac the   --ony droop of the
aohjethoo_n_y flcynto  "ifug  Iocean' Oil Enp-- el " gR_p etere  'Siddle Ioo   North'l  ofrlca and.Mi~ddl  tart   r cio.en bIca... of r.Icogerncocloa
aft leiler) .  n the etreno  g..ay dat  the anraeear  pepolatlot neghte d seibert-   mentfc  ah IndIcator at._sor  non  fo  aj  I t   ftecutisI
eneein   in  elaIng   -erges a  oc- ltd icto.rto nar The  acrae  ate onyo                     Ia in cnparodofb     cb   ofnr    latra         _rtm  anoog the cooney and
T            -- Tc)tr o  area cenptlelng land area and Inladase; 1960,                            phaoasqaIIdfo       eia   nola                        ortyI .enel
1970 and 1983 detboouinto  uniFro-cuoulnIodd0  arnhoe oF pract~icg
Agolatu1ral               I alot   f ag1icu-t-ro  sein  used tepo-raily or peraaeo1y                 saec1tnl   edoenre,enmattre,p-occlca  Inoren and
fo   eoa   asoe   , nate  end kitchen  ga_ders or te lte fa1les; 1960,                             no-ale  _oilierie.-
19)0 and 180 data.                                                                               Pepa.a.i.. ret lelalbd - total, omb  , und rural -  .poylocln  toal
-ean, and  -aro) dhoOded by thei Iccsperot or nne  of one pial1 bade
2Ny yIE  CAFITA 1051) - GNPye  cay -ple  enna-ra-  corectmatatpetem                                     a-alblubt  i  pahlio and prinate gEnero..  ai  ipeli-dee  haytil.  red
cnlooI-td by  ennatoIon artlod .r goold tank ilu  (11919-Sibas;rhbltnl'cnen                                                       optlmurohblfttt _hrmeenet--ip atafftd
19 60, 1970, and 1981 dai,.                                                                          by at -ece  one yhylcia.  E.rnbehlt etI PIo Ilog, pIncipally ocatdilo
ENE10Y CCNSl9MyTION PER CAPITA -   naI apparn  oossre  of  .a.e..c..                                    medica-1    tenntytnon -(p--stu"ffed by a physician  (hoc by aedios1
yet narymeetgy (oal srI  igeire,  etrolea    narara  gs  and hydr-, codein              a-i--a, nuae, rtdrlfe, ti.) chic  offee lo l-yten  a--rmda-tn  ard
rod gmottrrerl  leoneiciny) ir  nilogeame ot col eqolalrnn  ye  capita;              oc,ord, a lie Ined cogIf ce-cltollI- ta   for eta. tiaJual yacp..en
1960, 197i, end 19f0 dIsts.                                                                            rban boeytl   _colol  WHOa yrto-iyl/g-nr-o  -opital, and tu..a)
hosyltola, loca  or corhl bopitI  and ordinal  -od  -at-rltycnes
POPULATCION ANT VITAL. STATISTICt                                                                       Spenliceel; bespyltls  r   nlldocycdrct
Teral Poelaitoo, ad-Tear )nrooonds)     aof July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1981                _llroapefopia   e       oa   nb Ero   lotio  t   rIatr
data.                                                                     Iron~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f.  hospitals diuided If tho no.h.  oO I  bed_
..r.an .o..letlN I peroe of total) - Offanlo offarhe-nIte total poyolailon 
difeert dfiotloe  f obacare my  f Iron  -ope-billey af dat                         cIbN
-cIg caere;1960, 1970, and 19f  dat.                                                             OnrgPIno   ioeodIpro eKper inontll)-ttl   rhn   o   oo
foaainprlennlei -..houehId cnnc  of a grooc ot. ndll-a_  oh   ha    lta    oanr
Ptyrlauln In yer OOOC    C.e... y...alo  ye)cr      `se  tame  on  931                      -nI thIte main o-a.  A hbselc  oe Iodgo  nay on ray ant he Included  In
totalPpulaie   y aE ad Vttan  theIr motality acd fertilIty                                       the h_hnetod foestaIstcal porOtr
J_eaatalgOf  epcaoy_              it   -oeenigie               I noa ,ry-                A e  fyemn   e  cone In all  rhIn  an   ua   cuid on,Iootlonal
platne    cefe    "c. tat b..o.ey Isi then a-ssind oe  o-c-m intCnno  Elonalbel Iniat  eetIIt   niulgoateea   er tg
nombloaniote  f nernailty ed fetlysenI    t  orpojcto-pptt.o  unto . orha-, an  rurl  eeloft  epd                                         nuey
Siitoeyoeoano  -I  a eat-nab.opaen-d hee.I.n.graI
sInce  he bnrh rateIs eqol to  he d-oh rate  sd al1oceag                           tIpICifIy
mathgenrrnou  f emeeerp_ ca  SmltencIf. Teselnr                                               noloo   falagna  tbc p'llry GIaro  as                 1  -1nrnae  oldf eurIlo
15dm  of te popalaton On th  yer0000,an  th Irt   ofdeI_o ofyan  a   djne  feh  tct  legts  f  rur  edct o;fa
pou-toti ir   l)i   eo  e.Scodoym  ol-toa,ml_o  fcn-ala                                                                                          d- Cnae  at1d of    , 6o;  e     ac
ina  ae;-       90.17,In 08  ln.                                                                     ol 5       dsna-l of1 deo   f-7   l-ora o  a  f gr   ore,oder   ace    r
onl; 162,190  an  190 dra-n-aninsienrllmnt   ceoicuh-codor........oul  onoi_ to_
Peylno  aeSrctr     reet     Clfa  (-4par),eebu-gk(S                                                 nluretir)    a -oei,  --Ia ,d fcc         i oce  y Cog p-s _hc  oproe _ dy
P_o   outno   o  199060      ,  960-1,Ia. i..-f..rerpodfog,',,Yo
f'oplaol  OrahRf1           eoet   sot    eo7    rahrnso abr- -I--bIon-                         PMolt 1       -ne lcYut  12ena II -  ieat1d7i  I het   rdadalIi)e
papalenleem1 fo  I O-61960-70,. aoVi90-1-oprrntg  o   otladltppoa Inopl  7yea   aloue
oplio;lh,1970, and 1911 laaIansa  o   enta   lciprsn;eroianlor    er                                                                                                n
Se   omiePeoo               96n pcid If  t  sprent    oae-adseeI t970taltecedorer-y                           yen _ tho_ raid poyclt.on -d Il  pcyo  rerlnee  fo-ai
fetIIt   aue;usaipfleyer  neseeenbg'I-16h   1970  ao-ra-at    ngnclpff   e  tnuolo   rcono;aou                                                                  n
-eogear.                                                                                         TOOIcinra  pehnh-dndIofoenon)- b'  or  Iner   fo .bndrsn
yamid. Pia           196ng- 1970s  -dern  of8 darete  coel-Pretaeo   aer                             tnrlph     per oon-e- 'oycltirn    Yn-aoe  -oload TI   cceor
GElo  ofFodPrdoto  per              1 Cals11-l1t      )-..no   etcyt                                p...lena>ut      II 00c1hprtaidl  f            p_oelo Ignralno.IIInlae
feed aoi-s oo cale da fea  hat.hmolte   oe   errgoa(.g                                    laaaco   tednrprlct   a  Tra_-Ouned -on nb  oun tr o
base   on"Yinleccg  pfc-o-  -pric  o              digbt;    1961-6, 1970, coed 1911PI  h.                                       d                 , 
dma.                                                          00000 ertll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
cr uyis  oylyofcrunes(ooronofteaucnetr  -Copaelicn                otl ahe  net ihornn)- connruiyurbu  ynnnt  iridig_noe
eoergyeqonalenn  ofon  ford  oepp - leasealle -1 In -u b-pecaiaprfeesadaeyoe L_i an                                            ......e .    Ifoteanrt,Itooi-, etc.,d coe-r
da.   oslsleroplesceprnedoesicprlotio,topotelae                            oplato   o  all ogre   TUfon  Yi_o tooenscsoer                      o
enyiot, ao  chager I  amok    retiop1et.   .t- tclad  snml feed, reds                     nmorbl;   90,190  n  181laa
Per rarln  lapely  f proirn  Iran  te_a)  -  eti  cnete7pecpt                                  1970        j aol 1981 dots
pulse poteIn,of allh  10 gsna sioo6d b7anima  peni.Thr                                    OO   1070  21, aoI1d1laa   Tboaat  aedo  00'tpatiipoin  ae
ci  nial  en m   n a f eeao  or hen_all pryned  y--P  n  he                                    emeridair  reIro    pniocld-rea
deee rtI       nacaadpollee It  ean  per la;  951-65, 1970i and 1977'  l                                                                                        li i    ,          '
data.                                                                              leCoec oloiNISpfIPIg
at bIrth; 1560, I dP cod _198  daa                                                            h9l einepeIdrc  cmdich                       atin
peat .o . age pe   hoen  ln    leh;  Ni 1-  d b191  at.Phslable p19e6o Incom   lnId                                                I  hnbcm   enhloaii                     iia
N iartf  tpt(tli   nhn   e  tA esl)- aI   reasona,ille-adet  no.suit                            afiucdohlr
esterspl  itid       e   tratd-   tuf renacraoranteaelba                                         Enlae   atm    oeiyicn   aaI(S    e   sptl-abr  o   os
ococrlsefete   ah  mebtfompodceibrholt.srng,ad                                                    ua-rlniapoetIioe  lecl I  oo-.Icdob                       ocgeprcpt
etite   rir  c   eretae  o   taresetOrpouaroe.I  a                                 esoa  moe  fth   rucy.iha   enlislrre   tu  tna  oa
nra  ae  apblcfoonasorldeps  loctelnetcae  han20  nrei                                              eo-   id   sloietfechge-ot-fioo   n  rzocet
cora  -  ohto  yoi   it,ubn   n  roo) sine   byeaceetoe
p      6lie  and sfle Intia 1 Psior.                                                                                                          lay Id20  1983 i-   -  ~iyV_b



- 38 -
Population        21.6 million (mid-1982)                                                                                           ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita.  USE 820 (1982)                                                                                                     Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                                                     f/
(million US$ at                                       Anaual Growth Rates (X)
current prices)                        Actual                                              Projected
Indicator                       1981                   1978   1979   1980   1981 e/   1982 e/                  1983   1984   1985   1986
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   14836                     2.2    4.8    3.6   -1.3          5.6                  -0.8    0.9    2.1    3.0
Agriculture                 3099                 18.0   -1.7    6.2  -22.9          19.0                 -3.0    4.0    2.0    2.0
Industry                    5315                 -0.9    7.7   -2.5   -0.1         -0.5                  -2.7   -1.1    2.5    3.0
Services                    6608                  4.0    5.1    6.4    6.0          6.0                   2.5    1.5    2.0    3.3
Consumption                    13877                 4.2    5.8    2.5    1.7           4.5                  -1.4   -0.1    2.2    1.4
Gross investment                3187               -25.9    1.3   -7.3   -1.9          10.9                -16.9  -14.6  -12.7    7.3
Exports of GNFS                 3082                  3.3    0.9    3.7    0.1          3.8                   4.1   10.1    6.9    5.7
Imports of GNFS                5310                -17.4    3.3   -9.8    8.3          5.5                 -10.8   -5.9   -2.3    2.3
Gross national savings          1325               -15.4    3.2    6.0  -19.3         -3.8                    5.2   -7.2   -6.8   15.6
PRICES
GDP deflator (1969 - 100)          .               186.5  200.2  218.4  242.0        264.3
Exchange rate (US$ per DH)         .                 .240   .256   .254   .193         .166
Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)                             Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)d/                        (at constant 1969 prices)   (at constant 1980 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990                 1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                              4.0        4.6        5.1        1.4        3.8
Agriculture /          29.1   19.2   17.9   18.1   16.0  14.8                   3.5       -2.1        3.8        0.7        2.2
Industry b/             23.5   27.2   35.2   32.3   29.7  29.6                   4.7        7.1        4.2       -0.7        3.7
Services _/             47.4   53.6   46.9   49.6   48.8  50.1                   4.1        5.5        5.9        3.5        4.4
Consumption                89.2   85.5   85.5   88.5   89.5  85.0                   4.1        4.8        5.8        1.2        2.7
Gross investment           10.3   18.5   25.4   22.6   13.7  15.8                   8.0        9.3       -2.8       -7.9        7.0
Exports GNFS               27.4   17.6   22.5   18.4   23.2  25.3                   1.3        2.1        4.9        6.3        5.6
Imports GNFS               26.9   21.6   33.4   29.4   26.4  26.1                   3.5        8.1        0.5       -1.9        3.7
Gross national savings   11.0   14.8   19.3   14.6   11.9  15.2                     3.5       15.3       -4.4       -2.5       10.7
AE X_of GDP
1960      1970       1975       1980       12
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                  16.5       16.1       23.3       21.6       23.1
Current expenditures                              15.6       14.5       20.2       21.8       23.0
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                         0.9        1.6        3.1       -0.2        0.0
Capital expenditure                                3.8        5.7       12.2       12.4       14.1
Foreign financing                                    ..       1.3        3.7        5.6        7.0
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                      4.0         6.0       5.2         1.1       3.7
GNP per capita growth rate (2)            1.6       3.1        1.8       -1.7        0.9
Energy consumption growth rate (2)    3.8           6.7        5.6        1.6        3.7
ICOR                                     3.09       3.0        4.1       15.6        3.9
Marginal savings rate                    0.10       0.38      -0.15      -0.36       0.31
Import elasticityc/                      0.95       1.84       0.13      -0.17       1.02
a/  At market prices.
b/  Share of GDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factor cost beginning in 1980-85.
c/ Goods only.
d/ Projected years at constant 1980 prices.
e/ Partially estimated.
f/ 1977-1980 at 1969 prices, 1981-86 at 1980 prices.
November 4, 1983
EMENA CP II-B
ID 0180B p.1



- 39 -
'opulation    : 21.6 million (mid-1982)                                                                ANNEX I
.NP Per Capita:  US$ 820 (1982)                                                                        Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator              (million USI at                             Annual Growth Rates ( I) 1/
current prices)                 Actual                                            Projected
1981             1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982             1983   1984   1985   1986
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)         2283             10.7    5.3    1.8    5.1    0.0   -1.5               7.5   11.5    7.7    5.9
Primary products               1626              7.7    5.4    0.0    5.8   -7.0  -11.7               2.3    7.0    3.0    2.9
Phosphate rock               740              9.6    9.6    3.2   -7.4   -5.4  -10.5              0.2    3.0    3.0    3.0
Others                      886               6.5    2.8   -1.7   14.7   -7.9  -12.4              3.8    9.8    2.9    2.9
Intermediate & manufactures   657               23.8    5.0    7.1    2.8   22.5   26.5             15.4   17.4   13.4    9.2
Merchandise imports (CIF)         4363             14.4  -19.9    6.6   -7.1   11.2    8.4              -8.4   -5.8   -2.1    3.3
Food                            892              0.4    8.6    2.2    3.4   38.6  -22.5             -2.8   -0.8   -5.0    3.0
Petroleum                      1184              8.7   11.0   12.1  -11.9    9.8   -3.2             -9.3   -1.5    2.5    2.7
Machinery and equipment         746             26.7  -44.3   -3.2  -19.8    7.4   53.7            -25.2  -20.0  -12.0    6.1
Others                         1541             13.0  -15.1   12.5   -5.2    0.8   11.6               1.4   -2.6    0.8    2.8
PRICES (1980 = 100)
Export price index                .                68.4   69.7   83.5  100.0  124.1  131.2             139.2  160.8  183.3  199.6
Import price index                .                67.9   73.0   79.2  100.0  120.3  128.4             147.1  177.5  197.3  212.1
Terms of trade index              .               100.7   95.5  105.4  100.0  103.2  102.2              94.6   90.6   92.9   94.1
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                      Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)                     (Constant 1969 prices)   (Constant 1980 prices)
1960    1970   1975   1980   1985   1990        1960-70  1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                         2.0      -1.2       6.6        6.9        5.7
Primary products         89.5    89.4   86.9   74.4   55.2   48.8            ..     -2.7        5.3       -0.1        3.2
Intermediates & manu-   10.5    10.6   12.9   25.6   44.8   51.2             ..      8.1       12.1       20.3       8.3
factures
Imports                                                                         4.0       9.1       0.7       -0.2        3.7
Food                     27.3    16.9   25.0   16.9   13.9   15.6            ..     14.0        3.0       -2.3       3.0
Petroleum                 7.4      5.5   10.8   23.6   24.6   22.1           ..      9.6        5.3       -1.4        3.0
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.1   24.0   18.9   14.4   17.2             ..     12.8       -7.0       -3.4        6.2
Otners                   58.6    53.5   40.2   40.6   47.1   44.5            ..      5.5        2.9        2.8        3.7
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with             Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)         Developing Countries (%)       Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (Z)
1960      1970       1980        1960       1970      1980      1960           1970            1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                        72.3       73.7      76.5        27.7       25.4      21.6        ..            0.9             1.9
Imports                        76.7      74.9       72.9        23.3       25.1       8.3        ..             ..            18.8
I/ 1975-1982 at 1969 prices, 1983-1986 at 1980 prices                                               November 4, 1982
EMENA CP II-B
ID 0180B p.2



- 40 -
Population         21.6 million (mid-1982)                                                                                           ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 820 (1982)                                                                                                      Page 6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                     Actual                                                Pro'ected
1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981   19824/         1983    1984    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services               2288      2486      2955      3694      4364      4132   3843           3769    4179    4837    8721
Of wnich% Merchandise f.o.b.             1245      1283      1488      1938      2414      2283   2043           2026    2318    2794    5496
Imports of goods and services               3691      4364      4353      5268      5912      6095   5912           5207    5168    5677    9519
Of whicn:  Merchandise f.o.b.!/          2305      2820      2628      3245      3770      3840   3815           3900    3938    4214       7270
Net current transfers                         47        52        50        44       128       102    170               -        -       -         -
Current account balance                    -1355    -1826    -1348    -1530    -1420    -1861  -1899               -1438    -990    -840    -798
Special grants                               435       360       260       420       314       313    204            427      224      203       66
Current account balance after grants    -920    -1466    -1088    -1110    -1106    -1548  -1695                   -1011    -766    -637    -888
Private capital                               38        53        45        37        88        68    124             85       95      106      171
MLT loans (net)                              628      1670       887      1017       993      1104   1401            858      620      743      890
Official                                  139       680       385       341       716      1034    647            290      522      339      259
Private                                   489       990       502       676       277        70    754            568       98      404      630
Other capital                                238      -263       148         3      -222       118    227              ..       .     -. ..      ..
Monetary movementsb/                          16         6         8        53       247       258    397              68       51    -212    -329
International reserves                       548       609       772       917       814       508    435            237      230      237      635
Of which:  Gold                            82       104       154       360       415       278    217            217      217      217      217
Reserves as months imports                   1.8       1.7       2.1       2.1       1.7       1.0    0.9            0.5      0.5      0.5      0.8
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                          725      1787      1182      1405      1567      1734   2180
Concessional loans                        111       636       325       293       750       894    511
DAC                                    63       109        91        76        96       131      88
OPEC                                   41       507       189        168      584        746    401
IDA                                     4         3         -         -          1         1      1
Other                                    3        16       45        49         69        16     21
Non-concessional loans                    614      1151       859      1113       818       839   1669
Official export credits                22        27          2         2        12        54     57
IBRD                                   59        68        72       137        64        99    134
Other multilateral                       2         6        53         7        13       116     67
Private                               531      1050       732       967        729       570   1411
Suppliers credits                   10       171        10         8        16        36    100
Financial credits and bonds        521       879       722       957       713       534   1311
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           2330     4069       5123      6182      7097      7963   9043
Official                             1250      1975      2456      2833      3482      4346   4911
Private                              1080      2094      2667      3349      3615      3617   4132
Undisbursed debt                          801      1024      2280      2337      2058      3129   3056
Deot service
Total service payments                    162       264       547       798      1191      1284   1394
Interest                               66       148       252       410       618       655    615
Payments as Z exports of G+S c/           7.2      10.7      18.7      21.8      27.3      31.1   36.3
Average interest rate on new loans (Z)          7.7       6.8       7.0       8.2       8.1      10.5   10.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)           11.7     13.1      13.2      15.9       13.7       7.0    7.0
As Z of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year (1982)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                             56.2
Maturities due within 10 years                                            80.8
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                             5.9
a/ c.i.f. for projected years.
b/ Includes IMF credits.
c/ Excluding debt service on IMF loans.
d/ Partially estimated.                                                                                                               November 10, 1983
EMENA CP IX-B
ID 0180B p.3



- 41 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS a/
(As of October 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                                 us$ Million
Credit                                                       Amount   (less cancellations)
Number   Year         Borrower              Purpose          Bank          IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty-nine Loans fully disbursed                            802.8
Four Credits fully disbursed                                               36.8
555     1975    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                          14.0        9.8
1220-T  1976    Kingdom of Morocco    Education               25.0                     8.4
1416    1977    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             41.0                    25.2
S-7    1977    Kingdom of Morocco    Engineering              1.5                     0.1
1528    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development  18.0                         12.6
1602    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             65.0                    54.9
1681    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Education              113.0                    95.5
1687    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               20.5                     5.9
1695    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Power                   42.0                    31.5
i724    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            49.6                    19.6
1757    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             58.0                   43.4
S-18    1980    ONAREP                   Oil Exploration    50.0                       2.8
1830    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways                62.0                   28.3
1848    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             34.0                   29.5
1943    1981    CIH                      Tourism             100.0                   51.9
1944    1981    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development  36.0                        34.3
2006    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply            87.0                    80.2
2037    1982    BNDE                     DFC                  70.0                    65.6
2038    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)               70.0                    69.9
2082    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             29.0                   28.5
2109    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                   9.5                     9.4
2110    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Forestry                27.5                   26.3
21i4    1982    UNAREP                   Oil Shale            20.0                    18.8
2149    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Education               50.0                   48.2
2217 b/ 1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             30.0                    30.0
2245    1983    CIHI                     Housing Devt.        60.0                    59.6
2253 b/ 1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture             42.0                    42.0
2254 h/ 1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways                85.0                    85.0
2271    1983    ONAREP                   Oil Exploration    75.2                      72.4
2272 b/ 1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Village Infrastr.  16.0                         16.0
Total                                                  2239.8c/      50.8
of which has been repaid                              284.7         1.6
Total now outstanding                                  1955.1        49,2
Amount Sold                         20.1
of which has been repaid          19.5                  0.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                         1954.5        49.2
Total undisbursed                                      1095.8         9.8    1105.6
NOTE
a/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in operation, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to
the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
_/ Not yet effective.
c/ Excludes loan of $115.4 million to CNCA, approved by the Board on 13 December 1983, not yet
signed.
3.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US5 Million
Fiscal Year                                                     Loan       Equity   Total
1963/1978/1984  BNDE                  Development Bank             37.8    2.7       40.5
1966             CIL                  Canning Factory            0.9       0.5         1.4
1970             Marrakech Cement   Cement Factory                 -        1.3        1.3
1977/1980        Temara Cement        Cement Factory             4.7        3.6       8.3
1979             Agadir Cement *    Cement Factory               12.5       2.2       14.7
1980             SOMIFER              Copper Mining              13.0       2.3       15.3
1981/1983        Casablanca Cement  Cement Factory               15.8       2.0       17.8
Total Gross Commitments                                       84.7       14.6      99.3
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales  36.7            3.5       40.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                             48.0       11.1      59.1
Total Undisbursed                                             21.6       0.3       21.9
* Agadir Cement has been cancelled.
ID.0479Bp9
U1/05/84



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare program               9 months (from March 1983 to
November 1983)
(b)  Appraisal Mission:                          July/August and September 1983.
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:                 December 28, 1983
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:              April 14, 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
By July 15, 1984, or other agreed date, the Bank will rev-iew the
Government's progress in implementing its adjustment program (para. 101).
Section III - Special Conditions
Release of the second tranche of $75 million of the loan would be
contingent upon (para. 96):
i)   satisfactory progress with respect to continued impliementation of
the program of industrial and trade policy adjustment; and
ii) the Government's having taken the fol.lowing measures:
a) reduce the maximum rate of customs duty on each imported good to
60%;
b) liberalize imports, through the transfer of 12% of total imports
(in value, on the basis of 1982 data) to list A (imports free of
licensing), so that the percentage of total imports in List A
will reach at least 42; and
c) eliminate export licensing requirements for all products except
mining and basic food products subsidized by the Stabilization
Fund.



- 43 -
TRANSLATION OF THE ORIGINAL. IN FRENCH                  ANNEX IV
page 1 of 14
Dear Mr. Clausen,
Statement of Development Policy
Since Independence, Morocco has followed a pattern of growth that has
emphasized development of national capabilities, and increased
self-sufficiency through reduced dependence on imports. There has been major
progress in creating the base of a modern and progressive economy. However,
an unintended consequence of import substitution policies, of the structure of
protection that has evolved in support of these policies, and of exchange rate
management, has been a disincentive effect on exports in agriculture,
manufacturing, and tourism receipts.
A second major structural question that concerns the Government is
that of the level of domestic savings. After increases in the late sixties
and early seventies, domestic savings fell from 15 percent of GDP in 1972 to
11.5 percent in 1980. Meanwhile, the Government has faced the need to meet
mounting demands on its financial position: it was considered essential to
increase military expenditures in defence of the national territory, and the
highest priority was attached to increasing the access to social services, and
to meeting the basic needs of the poorest sections of the population.
Gross fixed investments rose sharply in the mid-seventies, reflecting
the strategy of accelerating growth through higher Government expenditure and
public investment. This strategy was successful in raising the growth rate in
real terms from 4 percent p.a. in the 1960's to 6.7 percent in 1972-77.
However, imports of goods and non-factor services increased by over 17 percent
p.a. in real terms in 1972-77, while exports lost their dynamism and grew by
only 0.6 percent p.a.
Because of the important commitments by the Government, there was a
rapid increase in Treasury current expenditures in excess of current
revenues. The financing of current budgetary expenditures led to increasing
fiscal pressure, and consequently some adverse effects on the allocation of
resources and the growth of private financial savings. Because of the effort
to mobilize resources in the face of constraints on domestic savings, there
was an increase in foreign indebtedness (much of it on commercial terms).
In 1978-80 the Government, realizing the gravity of overall
imbalances in the economy (particularly in the balance of payments and
budgetary position), undertook sericus stabilization efforts, in collaboration
with the IMF. The policies of this period centered on demand-management, and
included reductions in investment outlays, stricter import controls and a
devaluation of the exchange rate (in 1980). These measures brought about a
decline of the current account deficit from 16.5 percent of GDP in 1978 to
8 percent 1980. Since then, the Government's efforts to stabilize the economy
have been severely hampered by external shocks.



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
page 2 of 14
As you are aware, developments, both international and internal, have
placed a great strain on the Moroccan economy over the past several years.
The series of external shocks in recent years have included the 1979 rise in
oil prices, the rise in international interest rates, and a decline in the
world price of phosphate, Morocco's principal export. A severe drought in
1980-81 reduced agricultural value--added and led to substantial imports of
cereals. In addition there has been renewed financial pressure to meet
defence needs, social priorities, and to implemqent the increased investments
of the 1981-85 Development Plan, which aimed at raising the GDP growth rate to
6.5 percent p.a. As a consequence, the overall Treasury deficit rose to
14 percent of GDP in 1982, and there was a corressponding weakening of the
balance of payments position. By 1982 also, the debt-service ratio had risen
from 18.7 percent of exports of goods and services in 1978 to 35.8 percent.
The rate of growth of the Moroccan economy and the pattern of this
growth are of great importance in any structural analysis. Despite the sharp
increase in the investment ratio achieved in the seventies, the growth rate of
the economy has fallen to a level of 3.2 percent p.a. in real terms in
1977-82, barely above the rate of growth of the population. The Government is
determined to reverse this trend and is committed to improving the efficiency
of investments and the process of project selection.
The Government is equally committed to restoring balance to the
pattern of growth.  In this connection, recent trends in the productive
sectors are disturbing. The agricultural sector, which grew by nearly
4 percent p.a. in the 1960's experienced large fluctuations in output in the
70's in response to poor climatic conditions, and the trend rate of growth in
1973-82 was only 0.8 percent p.a. At the same time, value-added by the
industrial sector increased by only 4.3 percent p.a. in real terms in 1972-82,
and in 1982, it stood below the level reached in 1979 (in part because of a
severe decline in the construction sector).
Following discussions with the International Monetary Fund, in
mid-1983, the Government decided that a renewed stabilisation effort was
essential. In September, agreement was reached with the IMF on a
stabilisation programme covering the period up to the end of 1984.  In the
context of this programme, the Government's objectives are (a) to reduce the
current account deficit of the balance of payments to 9 percent of GDP in 1983
and 6.6 percent in 1984; and (b) to reduce the Treasury deficil: to 8.7 percent
of GDP in 1983 and 6 percent of GDP in 1984. It is also the Government's
objective to further reduce these deficits in subsequent years.
It is clear that the extent of the disequilibrium in the Moroccan
economy requires that the renewed stabilisation effort adopted by the
Government in mid-1983 be pursued over an extended period of several years in
order to return to a financially sustainable irnternal and external situation.
The Government is determined to adopt the series of policy measures necessary



- 45 -
ANNEX IV
page 3 of 14
for success of the stabilisation effort over the medium term. However,
pursuit of the stabilisation effort alone will severely constrain the
prospects for growth of the economy, with consequent implications for
employment and the pursuit of the Government's objectives for social policy.
Accordingly, the Government is convinced that stabilisation policies must be
accompanied by the implementation of a sustained programme of policy reforms,
aimed at addressing structural constraints, in order to restore dynamism in
the economy. The Government wishes to secure the support of the World Bank in
this effort.
The Government is aware of the importance of pursuing structural
reforms in various sectors of the economy. In order to ensure that reforms
are based upon a sufficient depth of analysis, and to address the most
pressing issues facing the economy, we believe it is essential to develop a
series of reform programmes dealing with different sectors. As a first
priority, the Government has already begun to implement a programme of
structural reform in the area of industrial and trade policy; the objectives
of this programme are to improve the balance of payments through the
development of exports, generate more efficient import substitution, and
establish the basis for increased employment and growth. This programme is
described in detail in the attachment to this letter.
Subsequent reform programmes, in addition to pursuing the medium-term
effort in industrial and trade policy reform, could address issues of public
enterprises, reform of the financial sector, incentives and resource
allocation in agriculture, and reform of the system of education and
training. The Government wishes the World Bank to give consideration to
providing financial support for the implementation of these reforms.
Substantial preparation work needs to be done in all these areas before
comprehensive programmes can be formulated. As you know, we are discussing
with Bank staff the detailed arrangements for the execution of the necessary
analytical and preparation work for these programmes.
I would like to emphasize that the programme of industrial and trade
policy reforms outlined in the attachment represents a significant departure
from past policies, and that we propose to bring about important changes in
our economy in the medium term. This letter and its attachment summarizes the
essence of the Government's new economic policy objectives, designed to bring
about key changes in priority areas in order that Morocco's economy could grow
on a sound and viable basis.
The Government declares its commitment to the objectives of the
stabilizaton and industrial and trade policy programmes as described in this
letter and its attachment, and will carry out the actions and policies
described in this attachment. In view of the measures being taken, we would



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
page 4 of 14
appreciate your favorable consideration of the Government's request for an
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan. It is our hope that the World
Bank will also support our efforts through other sector lending, as
appropriate, in the medium-term.
We appreciate the continuing exchange of ideas with the Bank, and
look forward to the opportunity to discuss from t:ime to time the progress in
implementing the reforms which are planned.
Yours Sincerely,
Abdellatif Jouahri
Minister of Finance



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
page 5 of 14
Attachment
THE PROGRAMME FOR INDUSTRIAL AND TRADE POLICY ADJUSTMENT
1.       The basic strategy underlying the Industrial and Trade Policy
Adjustment Programme (ITPA) consists of (a) shifting from an inward
orientation to an outward-looking approach to industrial and trade policy; and
(b) reducing administrative controls and increasing reliance on market
forces. It is our belief that such a strategy will permit Morocco to improve
the efficiency of the economy and to realize the substantial potential which
exists for the development of exports, particularly of manufactured products.
It also offers the prospect of achieving a structural change in the industrial
sector, encouraging the development of new industrial activities and creating
substantial additional industrial employment. The promotion of exports is of
particular importance, as a contri'bution to sustaining domestic economic
activity, helping to meet the foreign exchange needs of the economy and
helping to service external debt.
2.       The policy measures contemplated fall under the following major
headings: export incentives; protection reform; fiscal reform; financial
reform; and price liberalization. The implementation programme in each of
these areas, including progress achieved so far, is summarized in the
following paragraphs.
Export Incentives
3.       The Government's policy is that the maintenance of an appropriate
exchange rate is crucial to stimulating exports, in addition to its role in
complementing tariff policy in pro-viding reasonable protection to domestic
industry. The Government's policy is also that exports should be free of
taxation on imported inputs and that in principle this advantage should be
extended to indirect exporters. The Government will expand its export
promotion programme and expects to make rapid progress in this area. Measures
already implemented or which will be implementated before the end of 1984 are
the following:
4.       Exchange rate:  The exchange rate was devalued by 10% in August 1983
with respect to a basket of currencies. A flexible exchange rate policy will
continue to be applied in 1984, in line with our agreement with the IMF, and
with the objectives of maintaining Morocco's competitiveness and supporting
moves towards trade liberalization.
5.       Food Products:  In order to promote exports of tinned and other
processed food products, the Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation
(OCE) has held a series of discussions with producers' associations in the
relevant sectors, with the objectives of modifying current export procedures,
adapting OCE's administrative systems, and particularly of resolving the issue



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
page 6 of 14
Attachment
of alternative utilization of staff assigned to activities in these sectors.
A new marketing system based on the freedom of individual enterprises to
export, will be operational at the latest, by end-September 1984. OCE will
continue to be responsible for quality control. A study on the
export-marketing of fresh vegetables is planned. This study will be completed
by September 30, 1984, and recommendations aimeid at increasing fresh vegetable
exports, which could be implemented at the beginning of 1985, will be made.
6.        Special Customs Regimes:  The Government introduced several important
reforms in favor of exporters in late 1983. First, the procedure of temporary
admission, permitting exporters to import automatically, free of duties and
taxes, was extended to cover: (i) all inputs imported by direct: exporters
except those explicitly specified by the Customs Office; (ii) iindirect
exporters. Secondly the wastage allowance procedure has been revised, the
principle being that firms would indicate wastages and wastage allowance rates
to the Customs Office, and that these rates would be accepted as final, unless
otherwise decided by the Customs Office within a period of six months.
Thirdly, the regime of drawbacks has been reformed, so as to replace drawbacks
by the system of temporary admission, for firms primarily engaged in exports.
Fourthly, in cases where manufacturers opt to export goods already produced
and destined for the local market, they are permitted to imporl: non-consumable
inputs under the temporary admission system, to replace such inputs used for
the manufacture of the exported items. Fifthly, the Customs authorities have
instituted a new system which allows exporters to obtain customs clearance for
both imported inputs and exported products at the production site, rather than
at the port of entry or exit. To complement these measures, capital goods
belonging to foreign firms, and imported for use in export pro,duction, will,
with effect from June 1984, be exonerated from import duties. Consideration
is also being given to the extension of new forms of guarantees, for customs
duties potentially payable by exporters, in replacement of traditional bank
guarantees.
7.        Administrative Procedures.  Administrative procedures and controls on
exports have also been simplified. The number of products subject to export
licensing requirements will be substantially reduced. Before the end of 1983
export licensing requirements for cement and t:ires will be abolished. By
June 30, 1984, export licensing requirements will be abolished for all other
products subject to export licensing at present, except for mining products
and subsidized basic food products. In the case of mining products, export
procedures and taxation will be the subject of a study in 1984. In order to
ensure that exporters develop a full understanding of recent customs
regulations, and in particular the stipulations concerning them, a customs
manual will be prepared for publication by June 1984. In addition, an office
specialized in the customs regulations for exporters has been created in each



- 49 -
ANNEX IV
page 7 of 14
Attachment
of the ports of Casablanca and Tangiers, and the airport at Casablanca. A
special section for dealing with the problems of exporters will be created at
Customs headquarters before end 1984. The Customs authorities have initiated
a programme to give special assistance in explaining customs regulations to
new exporters during an initial six-month period.
8.       Market Development.  In order to allow exporters to investigate
markets and develop sales, the rate per diem and the ceiling per trip and per
individual have been raised by 20 percent for foreign travel. These rates and
ceilings will be revised at least once annually, to provide for inflation.
9.       International Transport.  In view of the importance for exports of
international transport, the Government initiated in 1983 a study of the
problems encountered by small exporters in the case of marine transport; this
study is being carried out by the Ministry of Fisheries and the Merchant
Marine, with support from UNCTAD and its recommendations will be reviewed and
appropriate follow-up action will be decided before the end of 1984.
10.      Information Campaign.  In order to inform entrepreneurs of the new
direction of Government policy aimed at promoting exports, the Government will
undertake an information campaign, during late 1983 and early 1984. Seminars
will also be held to explain the Government's policy in this field to
officials affected by the changes or concerned with the implementation of the
new policies.
11.      Tariff Protection.  The objectives of the Government's tariff policy
are to foster greater competitiveness and improve the efficiency of investment
and labour use. The Government will achieve those objectives through a phased
lowering and evening out of tariff rates so that the maximum rate of
protection would not exceed 25% by the end of 1988.
12.      Towards this goal and in order to promote exports, the Government
will reduce the special import tax from 15 to 10 percent, with effect from
January 1984. Subsequently, the Government intends to reduce this tax from 10
to 5 percent on January 1, 1985, and to eliminate it on January 1, 1986. No
customs duty rates will be increased with a purely fiscal objective, to
compensate for the reduction in the special import tax.
13.      In 1984, the Government will further reduce the level of protection.
To this end, the maximum rates of customs duty on each imported good will be
reduced to 60 percent by June 30, 1984.



- 50 -
ANNEX IV
page 8 of 14
Attachment
14.      In parallel with the phased reduction of the overall level of
protection described in the preceding two paragraphs, the Government will
prepare in 1983-84 a) a rationalization of the existing customs nomenclature,
and b) a reform of customs duty rates. Preparation of the new customs
nomenclature (international harmonized system) will be carried out: in 1984,
and would include an initial rationalization of customs duties to ensure that
similar products are subject to similar rates. The draft text is expected to
be ready by December 1984, subject to the Customs Ccioperation Council
completing by June 1984 the explanatory notes for application of the new
customs nomenclature. Necessary measures will be taken with a VieW to
application of the international harmonized system] (probably by
January 1, 1987).
15.      In parallel with the implementation of the new customs nomenclature,
a major tariff reform will be implemented in phases during the period
1985-88. It would primarily involve a shift from systematic import
substitution to a policy of encouraging investment in areas with comparative
advantage. This policy change is expected to improve efficiency in industrial
investments by promoting the establishment of a competitive industry. To that
effect, the Government will implement a general tariff reform aimed at
reducing and evening out customs duty rates so as to reduce rates of
protection to a level not exceeding 25%. The preparation of the reform of
tariff protection will be carried out according to the planning and
organization detailed to the World Bank.
16.      Protection Policy for new Investments.  In order to promote the
establishment of internationally competitive industries, the Government will
carefully examine requests for protection. The following principles will be
applied:
(a)    protection will generally be given only through tariffs and not
through quantitative restrictions; in the exceptional cases where
quantitative restrictions are considered necessary, these will be
limited to period of three years.
(b)    while a level of tariff protection corresponding to protection in
excess of 25 percent may be accorded during the first three years
after project completion, tariffs would be set at a level providing
protection not in excess of 25 percent thereafter.
(c)    protection along the lines of (a) and (b) above will only be accorded
to projects for the manufacture of new products, whose viability is
demonstrated after rigorous economic and financial analysis. It is
also understook that the anti-dumping prevision, as defined by GATT,
could be applied for these new products.
17.      Public Investment Policy.  In view of the multiple demands on the
country's limited capital resources, initiation of public sector investment
projects will be phased carefully. During 1983, the public investment



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
page 9 of 14
Attachment
programme has been substantially reduced, on the basis of a detailed analysis
of investment priorities. In view of the continued scarcity of resources, new
public investments will only be initiated after careful analysis of their
economic benefits and budgetary impact. In the case of public investment in
manufacturing, the criteria for granting of tariff protection outlined in the
preceding paragraph will be applied. We also confirm that in the evaluation
of applications for access to the advantages of the industrial Investment
Code, of public and private sector projects in manufacturing, subject to a
convention with the Government under the Code1', the criteria for economic
evaluation as detailed to the Bank (in particular, as concerns net foreign
exchange savings) will be applied.
18.      Organizational Aspects.  In 1983, the Government established a
planning unit in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. This unit is
responsible, in collaboration with concerned technical divisions, inter alia,
for the analysis of requests for protection and of proposals for public
investment in industry. In order to facilitate the work of the unit in these
fields, a manual for the evaluation of protection requests has been prepared.
19.      Import Restrictions.  An essential element of the Government's
strategy to improve industrial efficiency is to expose Moroccan industries to
greater competition from abroad. In 1982, 42 percent of imports (in value)
were free of import licensing (List A). Although this percentage declined to
below 10 percent in March 1983 when additional restrictions were introduced,
the Government will pursue the policy of import liberalization initiated in
1980-82.
20.      As a first step, the Government introduced an easing of import
restrictions in May and August 1983, so that all raw materials and spare parts
previously in List B (import licensing) were transferred to List A (no
restrictions). Following this liberalisation, imports in List A represented
about 30 percent of total value of imports (calculated on the basis of values
for imports in effect as of December 31, 1982). However, as regards exports,
goods imported for use in production for exports have not been subject to
restrictions. The Government will maintain this principle.
21.      The Government will take further measures in 1984, in pursuit of the
policy of import liberalization. By June 30, 1984, 12 percent of total value
of imports (on the basis of December 31, 1982 figures) will be transferred to
List A, so that the percentage of total value of all imports in List A will
reach at least 42; this transfer will exclude the following products: wheat,
1/ Explanatory note: Projects are subject to a convention with the
Government under the Investment Code when the size of the investment
exceeds DH 50 million, or the investment is in a specified sub-sector.



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
page 10 of 14
Attachment
green tea, sugar, and crude oil. Between July and December 1984, an
additional 6 percent of total value of imports (on the basis of December 1982
data) will be transferred to List A (again excluding wheat, green tea, sugar
and crude oil). During this process of liberalization, the Government will
give priority to capital goods (including imports under the investment codes)
and to intermediate products not manLufactured in Morocco.
22.      In subsequent years, the Government wilL relax restrictions affecting
imports, open the economy further to competition from abroad, and
progressively eliminate the import restriction prevalent in 1983 (with the
exclusion of items injurious to public morality and possibly certain luxury
articles) by 1988. This reform will be implemented in parallel with the
revision of customs tariffs and the implementation of programmes of industrial
restructuring. As regards the goods prohibited jErom import in 1983 (List C),
the prohibitions will be progressively eliminated by 1988, beginning with
industries long-established in Morocco. The specific content of the action
plan for 1985 in this area will be dlefined in 1984. The Government has
initiated an information programme. It aims at explaining to industrialists
concerned, in particular, through meetings to be held before March 1984, with
relevant professional associations, the Government's medium-term (1988)
objectives in tariff (see papagraph 15) and non-tariff protection.
23.      We are aware that the effort to restructure protection and increase
competition within Morocco's industrial sector will have an adverse impact on
certain industrial subsectors over the medium-term. We have identified the
subsectors of packaging, related products and screws as areas where the reform
of tariff protection may need to be accompanied by specific restructuring
programmes. We will carry out, within the Ministry of Commerce and Industry,
preliminary studies on these sectors to define more clearly the restructuring
measures which may be necessary. On this basis, specific studies will be
carried out by the end of 1984 and in coordination with the preparation of the
tariff reform programme in order to prepare specific subsector restructuring
plans.
Fiscal Reform
24.      The Government has already made considerable progress in developing
proposals for fiscal reform which aims, inter alia, at improving industrial
incentives through (i) harmonizing the fiscal priessure on enterprises while
minimizing loss of revenues and (ii) reducing the significant distortions
created by the present system.  In 1982, the Goviernment prepared the broad
outline of a general tax reform (Loi Cadre) which was approved by Parliament
in 1984. The Government will prepare detailed proposals for the reform of
direct taxation before mid-1984, which will be presented to Parliament, with a
view to application in January 1985. Proposals for reform of indirect
taxation will be prepared in a second stage.



- 53 -
ANNEX IV
page 11 of 14
Attachment
25.      Within the context of the reform of direct taxation, measures of
particular importance for improving industrial incentives would include the
establishment of a uniform profit tax rate, simplifying accounting rules for
taxation of small firms, and providing for the re-evaluation of balance
sheets. In the medium-term, the Government's objective is to effect a greater
degree of harmonization of the incidence of profit taxation.
26.      In the case of indirect taxation, the immediate objective of the
Government as concerns industrial incentives and export promotion is to modify
aspects which are particularly disadvantageous for exporters, pending the full
implementation of a value-added tax. In 1984, two important measures will be
prepared and submitted to Parliament for approval, with the objective of
implementation in January 1985: (i) the acceptance of the deduction of sales
taxes (TPS) will be generalized, in particular to cover wholesale trading
companies; (ii) TPS tax rates will be revised ard harmonized (including the
abolition of differential rates for local products and imports). In the
medium term, with implementation of the value-added tax, the "cut-off rule"
which limits deductions in certain cases, will be virtually abolished. In
addition, as concerns the wastage allowance rates to be applied for fiscal
purposes when a product imported by an exporter is sold locally, a study of
the rates to be applied will be completed in 1984 by the Tax Department of the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism.
Financial Sector Reform
27.      The Government is in the process of formulating proposals for the
restructuring of the financial sector in the medium-term, to make it more
flexible and responsive to the country's development needs, notably to growth
of domestic savings and of exports. These proposals are being prepared in
collaboration with the World Bank, and when they are finalized and approved,
it is the Government's wish that the Bank give consideration to supporting the
implementation of the reforms.
28.       Over the past several years, the Government's policy has been to
increase the level of interest rates and to make them more flexible, so that
they play an increasing role in the allocation of financial resources.
Interest rates on savings and term deposits, on medium and long-term credits
are now positive in real terms. The Government is committed to the policy that
interest rates should be more flexible than in the past, and fixed at levels
permitting the necessary equilibrium between national savings and investment.
Consequently, in normal economic conditions, and with the exclusion of certain
concessional rates, notably for export credits, interest rates will be
maintained at levels that are positive in real terms. Consideration is also
being given to the elimination of subsidies on medium and long-term interest
rates.



- 54 -
ANNEX IV
page 12 of 14
Attachment
29.      Recently, several measures have been taken in the field of interest
rates. In August 1983, the rates oni non-resdiscountable credit were increased
by 1 percent. The rate of interest on accounts held by Moroccan workers
abroad has been increased to 8 percent on incremental deposits.
30.      To complement the reform of export incentives, the system of export
credits is in the process of being revised. The ceilings on export
prefinancing are being applied more flexibly, with a maximum per exporter of
the average value of 3 months of the exporter's annual exports, to ensure that
a sufficient volume of such credit is available to exporting enterprises,
subject of course to the usual criteria of enterprise creditworthiness.
31.      In the case of short-term export credits, maturities, are currently
45 days for credits against documents, and 120 days in the case of payment
periods (usually 90 days). These maturities could be extended in specific
cases to allow for transport time.
32.      A medium-term export credit facility was created in 1983 for capital
goods. Its effective use by commercial banks will be developed in 1984. Its
extension to exports by construction and engineering service firms as well as
the feasibility of extending its term from five to seven years, will be
studied during 1984. The possibility of providing bank guarantees for export
contractors in construction through a consortium of Moroccan banks is also
being studied; conclusions of the study will be available by 31 March 1984 and
application would take effect befores 1 January 1985.
33.      The export credit insurance system was also revised in 1983.  The
globality rule was eliminated so that exporters may insure only part of their
exports; minimum limits on premiums and maximum limits on repayments were
removed and budgetary credits were allocated to the insuring agency (BMCE).
In 1984, the Government will develo]p proposals which could be implemented
before mid-1985 to extend insurance coverage to include manufacturing risk
insurance.
Price Liberalization
34.      The Government's position is that competition is a vital element to
increase dynamism and productivity, and it is committed to make the Moroccan
economy more responsive to market forces. In 1983, price controls on
manufactured goods were significantly reduced as the prices of about
19 products were liberalized. The Sovernment will liberalize the prices of
about 10 more manufactured products in 1984 (see Appendix 1 for list and
detailed timing). Remaining price controls on about 12 manufactured products
will be gradually removed in line with the elimination of import: interdictions



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
page 13 of 14
Attachment
(or restrictions) on those industries and greater exposure to international
competition. Price controls will be retained only for subsidized basic
commodities, for public utilities, and for commodities for which there is
limited competition.
Monitoring and Progress Reporting
34.      In order to monitor progress in the implementation of the programme
described above, an interministerial committee has been created, under the
chairmanship of the Prime Minister. This committee would meet regularly to
review progress and to decide on appropriate actions necessary to ensure the
timely implementation of the programme. Two progress reports, summarizing the
status of implementation of the programme will be prepared and furnished to
the World Bank, the first one finished in early July 1984 and the second in
early January 1985.



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
page 14 of 14
Appendix 1
Price Liberalization: Products and Timing
I.   Foods Products                 All powdered milk (June 30, 1984)
Soft drinks (December 31, 1984:1
II.  Industrial Products            Color television sets (Dec.31, 1984)
Cars (diesel and gasoline Dec. 31, 1984)
Ordinary soap (Dec. 31, 1984)
Tires (self-revision, June 30, 1984)
Explosives (Dec. 31, 1984)
Matches (self-revision, Dec. 31, 1984)
Molasses (June 30, 1984)
Scrap metal (June 30, 1984).
III. Services                       Four star hotels (June 30, 1984)



MOROCCO: PROPOSED SCHEDULE OF PURCHASES AND REPURCHASES
FROM THE IMF DURING THE STAND-BY PERIOD, SEPTEMBER 1983 - MARCH 1985
(in millions of SDRs)
1983                             1984                         1985    Tota1
Upon Board Oct.-Feb. March-May June-Aug. Sept.Nov. Nov.-Jan. Jan.
aoDroval                                                             March
Purchases                                   30.00      60.00       40.00       40.00      40.00       50.00    40.00   300.0
Ordinary resources                     (13.64)   (27.27)      (12.76)    (-)          (-)         (-)       (-)      (53.67)
Enlarged access resources              (16.36)   (32.73)      (27.24)   (40.00)    (40.00)       (50.00)  (40.00) (246.33)
Repurchases                                      -                             16.22      10.76       20.49    10.76    58.23
Compensatory financing
facility /                          (-)         (-)         (-)        (-)        (-)         (-)        (-)       (-)
Stand-by and extended arrangements  (-)            (-)         (-)       (16.22)   (10.76)       (20.49)  (10.76)  (58.23)
Net purchases                               30.00      60.00        40.00      23.78      29.24       29.51    29.24  (241.77)
Total (cumulative)                   1,103.82  1,163.82   1,203.82  1,227.60  1,256.84   1,286.35 1,315.59                                         U,
In percent of quota2"
Total holdings                    490.59    517.25        535.03    545.60    558.60        571.71   584.71
Holdings excluding IMF            385.52    412.19        429.96    440.53    453.53        466.64   479.64
In percent of proposed quotaa/
Total holdings                    360.73    380.33        393.41    401.18    410.73        420.38   429.93
Holdings excluding IMF            283.47    303.08        316.15    323.92    333.48        343.12   352.68
I/ Including cereal facility.
2/ Current quota of SDR 225 million.
3/ Proposed quota of SDR 306 million under the Eighth Quota Review.
Sources: IMF, Treasurer's Department.
1638Bp41
01/05/83
tlj



ANNEX VI
page 1 of 10
MORCCO:  SlMIARY OF MEASURES AND IMPIEMENLION SCHEDULE OF THE ITPA PROGRAM
I; EXPORT PFDJFION
DATE OF IhPLIEWNrATION
Before Board                    First Year              Condition of      Mediumn-Tern
Presentation                      Program               Second Tranche       Program
Release
A. General Measures
1. Devaluation of the exchange rate in line with       Devaluation of               Carinitmsnt to a
the stand-by arrangement with the IMF               10 percent effected         flexible exchange
in August, 1983             rate policy
B. Agricultural and Food products
1. Abolish the export monopoly of OCE for                                           L-iplerentatioD,
processed food products                                                         before October 1984
2. Elimination of required export licensing for about                               ITplementation before
100 positions in the custans nomenclature                                       July 1984
3. Implementation of study on export marketing                                      Implementation                               Implementation of
of fresh vegetables                                                             before October 1984                          study's recanyrt-
dations
C. Special Customs Regimes
1. The procedure of temporary admission would be       Inplemented in 1983
extended to include all imported inputs except
for those indicated on a list and to allow
indirect exporters to take advantage of this
procedure
2. Wastage allowance. The firm would indicate to        Implemented in 1983
the customs office wastages, and rates for
wastage allowance. Those rates would be
accepted by the custans office as final unless
the customs office would decide otherwise
within a period of six nonths
3. Drawbacks to be replaced by tenporary admission     Implemented in
system, for firms primarily engaged in exports      1983



ANNEX VI
page 2 of 10
I; EXPORT PRC(UIION
DATE OF IPIJEMENTATION
Before Board                    First Year            Condition of       MediLmi-Term
Presentation                    Program                Second Tranche      Program
Release
4. hlere goods originally produced for the local      Already introduced in 1983
market are exported, manufacturers may import
non-consumable inputs under the temporary
admission system, to replace such inputs used
in the exported goods
5. On-site customs clearance for imported inputs      Already introduced
and exported products                             in 1983
6. Capital goods belonging to foreign firms and
imported for use in exports production to be                                 Implmnntation
exempt from import duties                                                    by June 1984
D. Administrative Procedures
i. Reduction of the nurber of products requiring      Elimination of             Elimination of export   Impleentation
an export licence (export certificate)            export certificate          certificate for all    before July 1984
for cement and tires       products except mining
already effected in 1983    products and subsidized
basic food products
by June 30, 1984
2. Study of export procedures for mining products                                Ccmpletion of study
(specific taxes, export certificates, visas of                               in 1984
the Ministry of Industry and Ccaterce).
3. Clarification of procedures for imports and                                   Publication by
exports; publication of a revised manual                                     June 30, 1984
concerning custaos regulations
4. Offices with expertise in special customs regimes    Created in 1983
for exporters in ports of Casablanca and Tangiers,
and Casablanca airport
5. Progran to give special assistance in explaining   Program already
custas regulations to new exporters during an     initiated
initial six month period



ANNX VI
page 3 of 10
I: EXPORT PRO)MflON
DATE OF IMPLEMENrATION
Before Board                      First Year               Condition of        Medium-Term
Presentation                        Program                Second Tranche        Program
Release
E. Market Development
Increase of rate per diem and ceiling per trip and         Increase of 207
per individual for foreign travel by exporters for         effected; these rates
market development and export promotion                    will be revised at
least once annually
to provide for inflation
F. International Transport
Study of problems of small exporters in marine             Study initiated                                                               Implemetation of
transport                                                  in 1983 with ULNGIDA                                                         recamendations
of study
G. Information Campaign
Such a campaign, in late 1983 and early 1984               Initiated
will aim at informing entrepreneurs of new
Government policy direction with emphasis on
promoting exports; also seminars aimed at
explaining policies to officials affected by
changes or responsible for implementing them.
Also, information campaign to explain to
entrepreneurs the Government's nediun-term
objecLi-ves (1988) in tariff and non-tariff
protection.                                                                              By March 1984



ANNEX VI
page 4 of 10
II: TARIFF AND NONTARIFF PRO1ECTION
DATE OF IMPIEWfNATION
Before Board         First Year               Condition of            Mediuar-Term
Presentation          Progran                Second Tranche            Program
Release
A.  Tariff Protection
1. Special Import Tax on all imports of 15%           Reduction by 5                                                          Further reduction
percentage points                                                       to 5% by January
(to 10%)                                                                1985 and elimination
by January 1986
2. Reduction of maxisum  customs duty rate                                    Maxinun rate to be      Maxinum  rate to be     Maxinma rate to be
reduced to 60% by      reduced to 60% by       reduced to 25%
June 30,1984. This     June 30, 1984           by end 1988
would apply to 321
positions of the
custcms ncomnclature
3. Implementation of the harmonized system
(new custans nomenclature) and preparation of
the reform of tariff and nontariff protection
a) Rationalization of custcms duties on the                                Draft text to be
basis of the new harmonized international                               ready by December
customs namenclature and integration of                                 1984
old customs nomenclature into the new one
b) Implementation of new nomenclature                                                                                     January 1, 1987
c) Preparation of the tariff reform with the                              Preparation of                                  Implementation of new
aim of harmnizing the effective protection                              tariff refonm                                  tariff structure in
rate                                                                                                                   1985-88
4. Protection Policy for New Investments
a. Protection will generally be given             Recognition of           ITplementation of
only through tariffs, and not through          principle                principle
quantitative restrictions; in the exceptional
cases that quantitative restrictions are
considered necessary, these will be limited
to periods of 3 years



ANNEX VI
page 5 of 10
II: TARIFF AND NONTARIFF PROECTION
DATE OF IMPLEMENTATION
Before Board       First Year             Condition of            Mediumr-Term
Presentation         Program              Second Tranche           Program
Release
b. Alter the first 3 years fOllowing project      Recognition of         Lupleientation of
Completion, tariffs would be set at a level   principle              principle
providing protection not in excess of 25%
c. Protection along the lines of (a)ana(b) will  Recognition of          Implerrntation of
only be accorded to projects where viability   principle             principle
is  eenionstrated after rigorous econmaic and
tfiancial analysis
5. Evaluation of new public and private investnent
projects                                          Completed
EconLaic evaluation criteria including the
criteria of exchange savings will be applied to
new public and private investoients in manufacturing
unoer tne Industrial Investment Code, when these                                                                                                             aX
investments are subject to a convention with the
Govenment (investment in excess of IAH 50 million
or below this asnunt in specified sectors).
6. Organizational Aspects
a. Establishaent of pianning unit in the Ministry     Established
of Commerce and Industry to be responsible,
inter alia, for the analysis of requests for
protection and of proposals for public
investmient in inoustry
b. Preparation of manual for the evaluation of
protection requests                               Canpleted
b. Import Restrictions
ObjectLives: Progressive import liberalization
in order to improve industrial efficiency through
greater capetition tran abroad. During this
process of liberalization, the Goverrnent intends
to give priority to capital goods (including
imports uncer the investment codes), and to
interoediate products not manufactured in Morocco
1. TranLsfer of all raw materials and spare parts     Implanented in 1983
in List B (import licensing) to list A (no
restrictions)



AhJlEK VI
page 6 of 10
II: TARIFF AND NONrARIFF PROUIION
DATE OF IMPLE7ENrATION
Before Board       First Year             Condition of            Mediuar-Term
Presentation        Program              Second Tranche            Progran
Release
2. No restrictions on imports of goods for use      Principle recognized
in production for exports                       and in implaenetation
3. Transfer of a further 12% of total imports                              To be effected by       Tmplementation of
(in value, on the basis of 1982 figures) to                            July 1984               transfer before
list A, so that the percentage of imports in                                                   July 1984
list A will reach at least 42; this transfer
will exclude wheat, sugar, green tea, crude oil
and oil obtained fron petroleum and bituminous
materials.
0'
4. Transfer of additional 6% of total imports,                             To be effected
on the same basis, and with the same                                   between July and
exclusions as in (c) above                                             Deceiber 1984
5. Progressive elimination of import restrictions                                                                        To be inplemented in
prevalent in 1983 (with the exclusion of                                                                             parallel with. the
items injurious to public morality and                                                                               revision of customs
possibly certain luxury articles)                                                                                    tariffs and the
implementation of
programs of industrial
restructuring. The
process is to be
completed by 1988
6. Progressive elimination of import interdictions                         Specific content                              Process to begin
(List C) existing in 1983                                              of the action plan for                        with ixxnstries
1985 in this area to                          long-established in
be defined in 1984                           Mbrocco and to be
cq leted by 1988
7. Restructuring of specific sub-sectors                                   Studies to be carried
out, in coordination
with the preparation
of the tariff reform
progran, to prepare
specific sb-sector
restrucring pias



ANNEX VI
page 7 of 10
III: FISCAL REFORM
DATE OF IMPENrATION
Before Board                     First Year              Condition of       Medium-Term
Presentation                      Program                Second Tranche       Program
Release
Objectives: To reform direct and indirect taxation so as
to inter alia improve industrial incentives through
i) hanwnizing the fiscal pressure on enterprises while
minimizing loss of revenues; and ii) reducing significant
distortions.
A. Direct Taxation
Measures to establish uniform profit tax rate,           Broad outline of             Detailed proposals for                        lnpleamntation of
simuplify accounting rules for taxation of               general tax reform           reform of direct                              reform  in Jan.
small firms and provide for re-evaluation of             prepared by Govt.            taxation to be presented                      1985. Also,in Lhe                        a
balance sheets                                           in 1982, and approved        to Parliamient before                         mediumn-term,                            4
by Parliamnet               mid-1984                                      greater hanmmi-
zation of
incidence of
profit taxation
to be effected
B. Indirect Taxation                                                                      The neasures (1) and                          inplerentation
Modification of aspects disadvantageous to                                            (2) would be prepared                         of (1) and (2)
exporters through:                                                                    and approved                                  in Jan. 1985
1) Acceptance of deduction of sales taxes (TPS) will
be generalized, in particular, to cover wholesale
trading ccnpanies;
2) Revising and harmonizing TPS tax rates (this
would include abolition of differential rates for
local products and inports)
3) ADolition of "cut-off rule" according to which firms                                                                             This abolition
cannot claim deductions of sale tax (TPS) in excess                                                                             would be effected
of the sale tax on output                                                                                                       in the nediur-term
with implementa-
tion of a value-
added tax
4) Study of wastage allowance rates to be applied for                                 Study to ccsmpleted in
fiscal purporses when a product imported by an                                    1984 by fiscal authorities
exporter is sold locally                                                              M. inist.y^f t nm.rce,
Industry and Tourism



ANNEX VI
page 8 of 10
IV: FINANCIAL SEMDR REFORM
DATE OF INIIfENrATION
Before Board            First Year             Condition of      Mediuar-Tern
Presentation             Program               Second Tranche      Program
Release
A.  Jbbiiization of Financial Savings
1. Interest rates to be flexible, and fixed at    Agreelent reached
levels permitting the necessary equilibrium    on principle;
between national savings and investuent        interest rates on
savings and term-
deposits, medium
and long-term credits
are now positive in
real terms. The
elimination of subsidies
On nediun and long-term
interest rates is being
considered
2. Increase in interest rate                      Rates on non-redis-
countable credit
increased by 1% in
Aug. 1983; Rate on
incremntal deposits
of Moroccan workers
abroad increased to 8%.
B.  Reform of Export Credits
1. Ceilings on export prefinancing                Ceilings being
applied nwre
flexibly (up to
3 nmths of annual
exports)
1/  The ratio of ccpulsory uses of banks assets to deposits



ANNEX VI
page 9 of 10
IV. FINANCIAL SECTOR RERM
DATE OF DMPLETLENrATION
Before Board              First Year               Condition of        ?editnr-Tern
Presentation               program                 Second Tranche        Program
Release
2)  Extension of maturities of short-term              To be done in specific
export credits                                     cases to allow for
transport tine.
3) Creation of medium-term export facility             Created in 1983          Effective use by cammercial
for capital goods                                                           commercial banks willbe
developed. Study of feasi-
bility of extending term
from 5 to 7 years and
extension to exports by
construction and
engineering service firms
4)  Provision of bank guarantees for export            Study of feasibility    Implementation of study's                                                   a'
contractors in construction through a              initiated                conclusions
consortium of Mbroccan banks
C.   Reform of Export Credit Insurance:
a)  Extension of insurance coverage to include                                  To be studied by the
manufacturing risk insurance                                                Covernmnt in 1984
b)  Eliinantion of globality rule, so as to permit   Inplemented
exporters to insure only part of their exports
c) Reenoval of miniunin  limits or. prniuLu and        RerW_ved
maximum limits on repayments
d)  Allocation of budgetary credits to insuring        Effected
agency (BM1E)



ANNEX VI
page 10 of 10
V. PRICE LIBERALIZATION
DATE OF IMPLEMENTATION
Before Board                 First Year               Condition of          Medium-Term Program
Presentation                  Program                Second Tranche      (with import Liberalization
(Already done)                                       Release                according to cases)
Objective: To make the Moroccan economy more
responsive to market forces, so as to increse
dynamism and productivity
Progressive elimination of price controls, so that          Prices of 19 products        Liberalization of                             RemvNal of reamining price
such controls would only be retained for subsidized         liberalized in 1983          prices of 10 more                            controls on about 12
basic commodities, public utilities, and camiodities                                     manufactured                                 manufactured products
for which there is limited competition                                                   products, according
to agreed schedule
I.   Food Products                                          Procedure of self-           All powder milk
revision of prices:          (June 30, 1984
concentrated milk, yeast
Prices liberalized:          Soft drinks                                  Rice, imported butter
Powder milk for indus-       (Dec. 31, 1984
trial uses, noodles, jams
coffee, local butter
II.  Petroleum Products                                     LIbricants (self-revision)
III. Industrial Products                                    Electrical household         Color television sets                        Refrigerators,
appliances, black and        (Dec.31, 1984), cars                         kitchen stoves
white television sets,       (diesel and gazoline                         (lowest category),
kitchen stoves (except       Dec.31, 1984), ordinary                      tractors, trucks of
lowest category) agri-       soap (Dec.31, 1984),                         more than 5.5 tons,
cultural equipment           tires (self-revision,                        paper pulp, diesel
(except tractors), trucks   June 30, 1984), explosives                    engines, cattle-cakes,
less than 5.5 tons,          (Dec. 31, 1984), natches                     detergents, Javelle
tourism guide, paper and    (self-revision, Dec.31, 1984)                 water, batteries.
cardboard, deluxe soap,      molasses (June 30, 1984),
spare parts.                 scrap metal (June 30, 1984).
IV.  Services                                               Hotels five stars            Four star hotels                              Hotels three stars
and more                     (June 30, 1984)                              and less.
15i6B-Disk 106B
11/07/83






IBRD  I 5252R
*\i3         KINGDO0M OF MOROCCO                                                                       CA              N    -4c-d-5AP-'Y    4uvm ises
Parsadv7/a; >~~~ j : 'j6 ' : : :M '  r a0s                                                                                                            aercair,  Mrsdytestrrn ea             dS  5arr
*                     A[GERIA                                         -- S--S  sra ks                                                                                       r 
I A R I T A N I                                                                                                                                 K o a r o i l t   h OI  , aaAe n IsAd   a
r~ .                    *<     t                                                                                                                                                              a MLI  SN GE    i  : :  :    :A
in r     AL                           CHA  /j                               ti.   ; :f         :L4R      iA4v;  ;V/ 4        ;   kojW                                                                                           /o
r                           N ,iJ v,'"T                                                                                                    tl'i   ,            ae ibA,                                                 a,da
''c      'r                                Soir sre i .s    rilhete'7
S r r r 0 009  0    t    ig    0    0   0    i    j   j;   i    0   0    ;    (    0    f    t   t   ti;   ;/   t  ->~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iSm ro i J  j7<Maorirmaia  prietrsAmrFg g = nX  ro~
i :   DEIRA Port                           4Q0 miineter rajnfat tine                       Casabtooc
Etev:aff a aoVe t,:000 me tars               I J/                     r R
tnternfatrdhal osuofaries             0    C            '    ~      5                 n 
N                             ntOerAaItiaOat bOUo4arireS (agproximate a 
1n4ckctteS the territory of the farmer f~/,                                   ob  6i
--Span~shsqtrahra tWestern Sohare)
r* l       A2 :r L:      AIC                               D          v   A   NV
2' *: ',                                                  Foe,Peeofor</                       /E                                                     |. 
24       '    '             yPkt                                                                                                                       M    A L                              .. :                               24  /
NA~~~~~SA ~ ~
ri  0 - ij:t  t:        t2  :        (j  ->F'Thk                                                                                  i,
t jjt ; i: 2 t :t : : jt / = j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KISQMFT&PO 0                                                                                100       200        300        400       (2
id  . k  ::;;  i   i i  sgi    /                     j //       M      A        U     R I  T     A    N     IA                    Ir                     crrrrr,,r',s,Arroo,,2ro
: >    :  :  i  t    /   ,     . /f                                                                                        thH readers arlJ w e,,,.lv St t r She dhbrr3edunne n tsrt t , Fy,r,r,,W Thrrvr l,ra,yIr, FL,dar  Ooar,,rrrr,r \, F
W r  '   9   S                Z                                                                            i              Frnnnc. rorD-mtles r P 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F>nn,zs U-ed nrd !eu Lol,rr0 rrForrdnoAronkr  :r1orrr, aor rrcCcr   mrrrr    dO noroo
z ::          ~~La GL*ro  N 4isdhibsAro                           VrSA/rr     120                                           00                    |                      4                                             L
! !   A   I                           \             I                                            I                                            I                                    _        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T



