OFFICIAL            LOAN NUMBER 2377 MOR
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                             , 1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2377 MOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     da                       , 1984, between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated Decem-
ber 29, 1983 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the industrial and trade sectors of the Borrower's economy
(hereinafter  called  the  Program), declaring    the  Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed
imports required during such execution; and
(B) on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to
the Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated Cctober 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
"The term Project means the imports that may be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement."
Section 102. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms, defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective  meanings   therein   set  forth  and   the  following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿- 2 -
(a) "Nomenclature of Brussels" means the Nomenclature for
the Classification of Goods in Customs Tariffs published by the
Customs Co-operation Council, Brussels, Belgium, Fifth Edition
(1976);
(b) "DH" and "dirham" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(c) "Banque du Maroc" means the central bank of the
Borrower;
(d)  "OCE" means the Borrower's establishment responsible
for exports (Office de Commercialisation et d'Exportation);
(e) "CC" means the Borrower's establishment responsible for
compensation regarding certain products (Caisse de Compensation);
(f)  "ONICL" means the Borrower's establishment responsible
for compensation regarding wheat and vegetables (Office National
inter-professionel de Cereales et de Legumineuses);
(g)  "General  Program   of  Imports"   means  the  document
issued from time to time by the Borrower's Ministry responsible
for commerce, industry and tourism setting forth conditions for
the import of goods into Morocco (Prraramme General des Importa-
tions), including all amendments the   o; and
(h) "Circular" means the memorandum dated May 3, 1982
signed by the Direction des Affaires techniques de l'Administra-
tion des Douanes et Imp8ts Indirects of the Borrower's ministry
responsible for finance, listing in Annex 1 thereto the goods
subject to export licensing requirements.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
fifty million four hundred thousand dollars ($150,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 3 -
(b) Withdrawal applications under the Loan shall to the
extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal
of aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent. Each
such application for withdrawals on the basis of statements of
expenditures shall be submitted to the Bank with: (i) a statement
certifying (A) payment of the amount claimed for withdrawal from
the Loan Account and (B) eligibility of the goods, with respect
to which such payment has been made, to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
Section 203. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to three hundred seventy-five thousand sixty-two
dollars ($375,062).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.


﻿-4-
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period" means    the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified    Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(v) "Semester" *means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section  2.10.   (a)  Banque  du  Maroc   is  designated   as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
(b). Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts Banque du Maroc with responsibility for
the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and for
the collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Bank in support of such applications.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower undertakes that adequate provi-
sion will be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be


﻿-5-
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or
repair such goods.
Section 3.02. Upon the award of any contract for goods to be
firanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a
description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request of either party, and in any event not
later than July 15, 1984 or such later date as the Bank shall
agree, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(b) Without limitation on the generality of the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower and the Bank
shall, not later than January 15, 1985 or such later date as the
Bank shall agree, again exchange views on the progress achieved
in carrying out the Program.
(c) Prior to each exchange of views described in paragraphs
(a) and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved
in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
Section 3.04. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchangi, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges, on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of sach lien, shall make


﻿-6-
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
Banque du Maroc or any institution performing the functions of a
central   bank  or   exchange  stabilization   fund,  or   similar
functions, for the Borrower.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently maintained sound accounting      practices  the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, including
the separate records and accounts referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower shall:
Ci) maintain or cause to be maintained separate records and
accounts  reflecting   all  expenditures   on  account  of   which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year


﻿-7-
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the separate
records and accounts referred -o in paragraph (b) of this Sec-
tion as to whether the proceeas of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditures have been
used for the purpose for which they were provided;     and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.06. Not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance
by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is tipecified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that an event has
occurred which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date    7/        .0, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Rabat
Morocco
Cable address:                   Telex:
MINISTERE FINANCES               31936 M
Rabat, Morocco
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/SW     /,C                  r#"i A
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions hereinafter set forth or referred
to in this Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods required dur;ng the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds and in respect of the fee specified
in Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the chapters or
sub-chapters of the Nomenclature of Brussels set forth in the
Annex to this Schedule;
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to January 31,
1984;
(d) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof;
(e) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $25,000 equivalent;
(f) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(g) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpcse or for luxury consumption; and
(h) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equiva-
lent to $50,000,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan


﻿- 11 -
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall
have reached the equivalent of $75,400,000, unless the Bank shall
be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section
3.03 (a) of this Agreement: (a) with the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, and (b) that the
actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been
taken.
4.   If the Bank    shall have   reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of such proceeds.


﻿- 12 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Chapters and Sub-Chapters of the
Nomenclature of Brussels referred
to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 1
Chapter No.           Sub-Chapter No.         Description
22                      22.03           Beer made from malt.
(Beverages, spirits
and vinegar)
22.04           Grape must, in fer-
mentation or with fer-
mentation arrested
otherwise than by the
addition of alcohol.
22.05           Wine of fresh grapes;
grape must with fer-
mentation arrested by
the addition of alco-
hol.
22.06           Vermouths and other
wines of fresh grapes
flavoured with aro-
matic extracts
22.07           Other fermented
beverages (for example
cider, perry and
mead).
22.09           Spirits (other than
those of heading No.
22.08); liqueurs and
other spirituous
beverages; compound
alcoholic preparations
(known as "concen-
trated extracts") for
the manufacture of
beverages.


﻿- 13 -
Chapter No.           Sub-Chapter No.          Description
24                      24.01           Unmanufactured to-
(Tobacco)                                  bacco; tobacco refuse.
24.02           Manufactured tobacco;
tobacco extracts and
essences.
71                      71.01           Pearls, unworked
(Pearls, precious                          or worked, but not
and semi-precious                          mounted, set or
stones, precious                           strung (except up-
metals, rolled                              graded pearls tem-
precious metals and                        porarily strung for
articles thereof;                           convenience of trans-
imitation jewelery;                        port).
coin)
71.02 A,C,D,E   Precious and semi-
precious stones
unworked, cut or
otherwise worked but
not mounted, set or
strung (except
ungraded stones
temporarily strung for
convenience of
transport):
A. Rough diamonds,
unsorted.
C. Sorted diamonds,
other than
industrial
diamonds, rough or
simply sawn,
cleaved or bruted.
D. Other diamonds.
E. Other precious or
semi-precious
stones.


﻿- 14 -
Chapter No.           Sub-Chapter No.         Description
71.03           Synthetic or recon-
structed precious or
semi-precious stones,
unworked, cut or
otherwise worked, but
not mounted, set or
strung (except
ungraded stones tem-
porarily strung for
convenience of
transport).
71.07A*         Gold, including
platinum-plated gold,
unwrought or semi-
manufactured:
A. Non-monetary
71.08           Rolled gold on base
metal or silver,
unworked or semi-
manufactured.
71.11A          Goldsmiths', silver-
smiths' and jewel-
lers' sweepings,
residue, lemel, and
other waste and scrap,
of precious metal:
A. Of gold, excluding
sweepings contain-
ing other precious
metals.
71.12           Articles of jewellery
and parts thereof, of
precious metal or
rolled precious metal.


﻿- 15 -
Chapter No.           Sub-Chapter No.          Description
71.13           Articles of gold-
smiths' or silver-
smiths' wares and
parts thereof, or
precious metal or
rolled precious
metal, other than
goods falling with-
in heading No. 71.12.
71.15           Articles consisting
of, or incorporating,
pearls, precious or
semi-precious stones
(natural, synthetic or
reconstructed).
81                      81.04A          Other base metals, un-
(Other base metals                         wrought or wrought,
employed in metallurgy                     and articles thereof;
and articles thereof)                      cermets, unwrought or
wought, and articles
thereof:
A. Waste and scrap of
uranium depleted
in U 235 or of
thorium; such
metals, unwrought
or wrought and un-
wrought, and arti-
cles thereof.
84                      84.59A          Machines and mechani-
(Boilers, machinery                        cal appliances, having
and mechanical appli-                      individual functions
ances; parts thereof.                      not falling within
any other heading of
this Chapter:
A. Nuclear reactors
and parts thereof.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 1988
Through   September 15, 2000                 5,785,000
On March 15, 2001                                  5,775,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before                      1.00
maturity


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Except  as  provided   in  paragraph  2  of  this   Schedule,
contracts for the procurement of goods shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"1.2 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner (see also para. 3.1) of the opportunity to
bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply
for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
prequalification or to bid; such advertisements should be
placed in at least one newspaper of general circulation in
the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of
the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in these Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.9 of
the Guidelines:
"As an alternative, bidding documents may require the
bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."


﻿- 19 -
(c) Sub-paragraphs (a) and (d) of paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines are deleted and the following is substituted for sub-
paragraph (a) of said paragraph 2.10:
"(a) Payments under the contract will be made in the
currency in which the price has been stated in the success-
ful bid."
(d) The third sub-paragraph of paragraph 3.8 of the Guide-
lines is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"Customs duties and import taxes should be excluded for
the purpose of comparison among bids for the supply of goods."
(e) Paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines is deleted.
2.   (a) Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 each shall be awarded
on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the
purchaser of such goods.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of
this paragraph, contracts for commonly traded commodities may be
awarded on the basis of price quotations available for organized
international commodity markets.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof,
such documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract.
5.   The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of a con-
tract or the documentation received, as the case may be, was not
consistent with the provisions of this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDbLE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The reduction of customs duties on goods imported into
Morocco such that the maximum customs duty on each good imported
into Morocco shall not exceed 60% of the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for such.good.
2.   The elimination of all export licensing requirements for all
goods listed in Annex 1 to the Circular except those listed in
Part A of the Annex to this Schedule.
3.   (a) The reduction in the number of goods subject to import
licensing requirements by the transfer, from List B (goods
subject to import licensing) and List C (goods prohibited from
import) of the General Program of Imports, to List A (goods not
subject to import licensing) thereof, of as many goods as shall
be necessary to ensure that the designated goods in said List A
shall henceforth represent at least 42% of the aggregate value as
at December 31, 1982 (calculated in dirhams) of all goods listed
in the General Program of Imports.
(b) For purposes of this paragraph 3 "designated goods"
shall mean all goods listed in the General Program of Imports,
excluding those described in Part B of the Annex to this
Schedule.


﻿- 21 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
A.   Goods excepted under paragraph 2 of Schedule 4.
1.   Mineral products specified in Annex 1 to the Circular which
are listed under the following Chapters of the Nomenclature of
Brussels:
Chapter No.: 25, 26, 73, 74, 76, 78.
2.   Basic food products subsidized by CC or ONICL.
B.   Goods excluded from the definition of "designated goods"
under paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 4.
Nomenclature of Brussels
Chapter No.           Sub-Chapter No.         Description
9                       9.02          Tea (but only green
tea).
10                     10.01          Wheat and meslin.
17                     17.01          Beet Sugar and cane
sugar, in solid form.
27                     27.09          Petroleum oils and
oils obtained from
bituminous minerals,
crude.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    L     day of   1 6, 198   .
FOR SECRETARY


