RETURN TO'
REPORTS DESK                                                  RESTRICTED
WITHIN            CIRCULATING COPY                         Report No.  PE-33a
ONE WEEk BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specificaiy authorized orgnizations
Or persons. It may not be publ;sed, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMET ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
NIGERIA
March 9, 1972
Education Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
US$1         =  N0.IO329
NEa          =  Us$3.o0
Nkl,000,000  =  Us$3,0O0,000
MEASURES
1 sq ft      =  0.093 m2
1 M2            10.76 sq ft
1 sq mi      =  2.59 ii2
l kr2        =  0.386 sq mi
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
*For the purpose ox this report this exchange rate has been used except for
figures referring to Credit 72-UNI for wuiLch the old rate (UK - US$2.80)
is still used.



NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .............................                i
I.    INTRODUCTION  .........         ...............................       1
The Request ....................................               1
Background .....................................               2
II.    THE EDUCATION SYSTEM AND MANPOWER NEEDS ....             .........    4
Administration .................................               4
Structure of the Education System ....           ..........    4
Education Finance ..............................               6
Labor Force and Employment .....           ................    7
Manpower Requirements ..........................               7
III.    NEED FOR THE PROJECT ................................                  7
IV.    THE PROJECT ..........          ...............................       8
General .........        ...............................       8
Secondary Comprehensive Schools ....           ............   10
Teacher Training Colleges .....           .................   11
Technical Assistance ...........................              11
Cost of the Project ...................,......                12
V.    IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT .....             ................   15
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....             ...........   17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Nigeria in March 1971. The mission consisted of Messrs.
Dag Wittusen (economist) and Carl Hammerschmidt (architect).



Table of Contents (Continued)
APPENDIX
Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1. Education Indicators
2. Eastern States: Enrollment, Teachers and Number of Schools
3. Eastern States: State Government Education Expenditure
4. Eastern States: Distribution of Recurrent Expenditure on Education
5. Eastern States: Projected State Capital Expenditure on Education
and Total Public Sector, 1971-74
6.  Eastern States:  Secondary School Teacher Supply and Demand, 1970/71-
1976/77
7. Eastern States: Student Places and Streams in the Project
Secondary Comprehensive Schools
8. East-Central State: Summary of Project Costs
9. Rivers State: Summary of Project Costs
10. South-Eastern State: Summary of Project Costs
11. Eastern States: Summary of Contingency Allowance
12. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.  Eastern States:  Structure of the Education System, 1970/71
2. East-Central State: Educational Pyramid, 1969/70
3. Rivers State: Educational Pyramid, 1969/70
4. South-Eastern State: Educational Pyramid, 1969/70
5. Implementation Schedule
MAP
Location of Project Institutions



NIGERIA
BASIC DATA 1970
General
Area
Nigeria                                                  357,000 sq mi
Three eastern States                                      29,000 sq mi
Population
Nigeria                                                  66.0 million*
East-Central State                                        8.7   "
Rivers State                                              1.8   "
South-Eastern State                                       4.2   "
Population growth (Nigeria)                                    2.5% p.a.
Labor force (age 15-55)
Nigeria                                                  26.1 million
East-Central State                                         3.h
Rivers State                                              0.7   "
South-Eastern State                                       1.7   I
Education
Primary school enrollment as a % of the age group 7-12
Nigeria                                                  34%
East-Central State                                       80%
Rivers State                                             55%
South-Eastern State                                      50%
Secondary school enrollment as a % of the age group 13-17
Ni geria                                                  4%
East-Central State                                         9%
Rivers State                                              5%
South-Eastern State                                       3%
Total expenditure on education as % of GDP (Nigeria)          3.2%
State government education expenditure as % of total
State government expenditure
East-Central State                                        36%
Rivers State                                             20%
South-Eastern State                                      18%
-x Official. Nigerian estimate; other estimates are as much as 10 million lower.






NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.         The first education project (Credit 72-UNI) provided a credit of
US$20 million to assist secondary, technical and teacher training schools.
Progress in implementation was slow initially due to the delayed appoint-
ment of consultant architects and later because of constitutional changes
and the civil war. An estimated 30% cost overrun, to be financed by the
Government, is due to increases in labor and materials costs. That part
of the credit allocated to the former Eastern Region is in the process of
being reactivated.
ii.        The civil war was waged mainly in the former Eastern Region, now
the East-Central, Rivers and South-Eastern States, and caused extensive
damage to educational facilities in those States. Reconstruction of prim-
ary schools and the university of the region is being assisted by Unicef,
Unesco and bilateral agencies. Vocational schools in the three States and
teacher training colleges in Rivers and South-Eastern States are being aid-
ed by IDA under the revised part of Credit 72-UNI allocated to these States.
The bulk of the secondary schools in all three States and teacher training
colleges in East-Central State have not received any assistance. Limited
budget funds in the eastern States cannot provide for rapid reconstruction
of these important institutions.
iii.       War damage to the secondary schools and teacher training colleges
has adversely affected enrollments and the quality of education. Instruc-
tion is taking place in overcrowded, damaged rooms lacking even the most
rudimentary furniture and equipment. The eastern States propose to combine
reconstruction with a reform that would convert some of their present sec-
ondary schools into comprehensive schools, changing the traditional curric-
ulum by expanding science teaching and introducing pre-vocational courses.
The reform would improve the employment prospects of the vast majority of
students who terminate their education at the secondary level by making
them more trainable for jobs in areas where there are at present manpower
shortages. To improve efficiency, the East-Central State proposes to con-
solidate its 42 small,teacher training colleges into ten institutions of
viable size.
iv.        The objectives of the proposed project are to assist the im-
plementation of the reform and rehabilitation program of the secondary
schools and teacher training colleges in the eastern States, improve the
quality of instruction and the efficiency of these institutions, and en-
sure a continuous flow of graduates into the labor market and higher edu-
cation. The proposed project would concentrate entirely in the three
eastern States and would finance:



- ii -
(a) the rehabilitation and expansion of:
23 secondary schools in all three eastern States, and
7 primary teacher training colleges in the East-Central
State; and
(b) 20 man-years of specialists' services and 15 man-years of
fellowships to assist in technical teacher training, cur-
ricula development and strengthening the project implemen-
tation units.
The secondary schools would be converted into comprehensive schools with
pre-vocational streams in their programs. The teacher training colleges
would become regional institutions to replace a number of small, uneconomic
units. The project institutions are appropriately located.
v.        Adequate numbers of teaching staff for general subjects should be
available for the project institutions. Technical assistance for training
technical subject teachers for the comprehensive schools would be included in
the project. Accommodation schedules and furniture and equipment estimates
are suitable and economical.
vi.       A project director would be appointed in the Federal Ministry of
Education with overall responsibility for project implementation. He would
coordinate the work of the project units that would be established in the
Ministries of Education in each of the eastern States. The buildings would
be designed by State Ministries of Works architects or private architectural
firms. Contracts for civil works and procurement of furniture and equipment
would conform to the Bank's guidelines on international competitive bidding:
all civil works contracts are expected to go to local or locally-based for-
eign contractors. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would
be accorded a preferential margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f. price of compet-
ing imports or the existing rate of import duty, whichever is lower.
vii.      Total project cost is estimated at US$27.8 million (exclusive of
interest and other charges) with a foreign exchange component of US$15.8
million equivalent. Cost estimates are based on recent tendering under
Credit 72-UNI elsewhere in Nigeria, adjusted for local cost differences.
The project would be completed in about four years.
viii.     The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$17.3 million equiv-
alent to the Federal Republic of Nigeria, which would make available the
proceeds of the loan to the three eastern States. The loan would finance
all foreign exchange costs estimated at US$15.8 million and interest and
commitment charges during construction, estimated at US$1.5 million.



1. INTRODUCTION
The Request
1.01      The first Bank Group assistance to education in Nigeria was pro-
vided under IDA Credit 72-UNI (March, 1965). The project comprised mainly
the extension and equipment of secondary, technical, and primary teacher
training schools and facilities for science teaching throughout Nigeria.
The total cost of the project was estimated at US$30 million of which IDA
would finance US$20 million. Implementation was slow at first due to delays
in the appointment of the consultant architects and later because of con-
stitutional changes and the civil war. With these problems overcome, project
implementation has improved substantially in the last twenty months except
in the former Eastern Region, now the East-Central, Rivers and South-Eastern
States; the project should be completed by mid-1974. Labor and materials
costs have increased substantially since appraisal and a cost overrun of
US$9 million is expected.
1.02      With the outbreak of the civil war in July 1967, the Federal
Government suspended the Eastern Region authority to make withdrawals from
the Credit, bringing the project to a halt in that area. In January 1970,
the Federal Government indicated that this part of the project should be re-
activated and requested additional Bank Group assistance for school recon-
struction in the war-torn area. In October/November 1970 a Bank mission
comprising Messrs. M. Loewen (educator), C. Hammerschmidt (architect) and
D. Wittusen (economist) of the Bank, J. Chesswas (educator, Unesco) and
E. Mikhail (architect, consultant) visited Nigeria to (i) re-appraise the
Credit 72-UNI project items in the three eastern States in the light of
post-war priorities, and (ii) study the need for a reconstruction project
in that area. A second mission, composed of Messrs. Dag Wittusen and Carl
ilammerschmidt, visited Nigeria in March, 1971, to confirm priority items
for the first education project and complete appraisal of a reconstruction
project.
1.03      During reappraisal of the original items under Credit 72-UNI,
all three eastern States have given priority to technical training. East-
Central State proposes to spend its share 1/ (about US$1.3 million) exclu-
sively for the rehabilitation of technical schools, while Rivers and South-
Eastern States would divide their allocation (about US$0.5 million and US$0.8
million respectively) between technical education and teacher training. IDA's
review of the proposed project revisions has been finalized and implementa-
tion of the revised project is expected to begin shortly with completion by
June, 1974. The assistance provided under this reactivation of the first
education project is not, however, sufficient to meet the urgent needs of the
three eastern States.
1/   Based on an estimated project cost of US$3.9 million in the Eastern
Region,,the Federal Government has earmarked US$2.6 million from the
Credit to this region and has allocated: 51% of this total to the East-
Central State, 20% to Rivers State and 29% to South-Eastern State.



- 2 -
1.04       Primary schools in the eastern States are being repaired by aid
from Unesco and Unicef and by "self-help" schemes; reconstruction of the
University of Nigeria, Nsukka, is receiving assistance from bilateral
agencies. No external assistance is reaching the bulk of the damaged
secondary schools in the three States or the primary teacher training
colleges in East-Central State; without such assistance the eastern States
cannot rehabilitate these institutions.
1.05       During appraisal, the project, which was originally intended to
assist reconstruction needs only, was modified to take into consideration:
(i) capital limitations for education set in the Second National Development
Plan, (ii) the country's ability to supply teachers required for the project
schools, and (iii) the need for reform as well as for rehabilitation. In
effect, about 55% of the student places to be financed under the proposed
loan constitute rehabilitation and about 45% are additions to alleviate
shortages. As modified the project would consist of:
(a) construction, furniture and equipment for:
(i) 23 existing secondary schools, to be reconstructed,
expanded and converted into comprehensive schools;
(ii) seven existing primary teacher training colleges, to
be reconstructed and expanded into state institutions;
(b)   20 man-years of specialists' services:
(i) to train technical teachers;
(ii) to assist in comprehensive school curricula develop-
ment;
(iii) to support the project implementation units; and
(c)   15 man-years of fellowships for technical teacher training.
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$27.8 million, with a for-
eign exchange component of 57%, or US$15.8 million.
Background
1.06       Socio-economic.  Nigeria, with an estimated population of 66 mil-
lion growing at about 2.5% p.a. and an average of 181 inhabitants per sq mi
(70 inhabitants per km2), is the most populous African nation and among the
most densely populated developing countries. The labor force, growing at
2.3% p.a., is estimated at 26 million of which about 8% is unemployed.
Growth of GDP dropped from about 5% p.a. before the civil war to minus 4.8%
in 1967/68 but has since resumed an upward trend; GNP per capita now stands



- 3 -
at US$97. Agriculture is the main economic sector, accounting for 70%
of employment and 51% of GDP in 1970. Oil discoveries, which have created
a rapidly growing petroleum sector, are expected to put Nigeria in the
front rank of world oil producers. Even though reconstruction needs are
great, Nigeria's potential for economic development appears greater than
ever before.
1.07       Until 1968 the Nigeria Federation consisted of four Regions.
The Northern Region, the most populous, dominated the political life of the
nation while the three southern Regions were dominant economically. In an
effort to create a more viable political base, the Federal Government cre-
ated a 12-State federal system in May 1967 but the East rejected this step
and attempted to secede. The 12-State structure became effective in 1968.
1.08       The three eastern States together cover about 8% of Nigeria's
area. With about 15 million people, nearly a quarter of the Nigerian pop-
ulation, it is the most densely populated region with an average of almost
520 inhabitants per square mile. East-Central State is the largest of the
three States and has over half the region's population. The region, and
in particular East-Central State, is more highly developed economically and
educationally than the rest of Nigeria. The labor force is relatively well
educated and literacy is high. Over one quarter of Nigeria's manufacturing
output originated in the East before the war. Agriculture in this area
consists mainly of food crops for local consumption; palm produce is the
only significant export crop. Much of Nigeria's large oil deposits are
located in Rivers State.
1.09       Effects of the War in the Eastern States.  During the three years
of fighting, public buildings, including a large number of schools, were
damaged and looted, particularly in the area between Enugu, Onitsha, Port
Harcourt and Aba. Many school buildings have been damaged beyond immediate
use and most schools are operating in overcrowded buildings without adequate
furniture and teaching facilities; in many cases the structure itself is in-
complete, lacking roof and partitions.  To prevent further deterioration of
quality and efficiency in the secondary schools and teacher training colleges
it is important that the eastern States be assisted in the early reconstruc-
tion of these institutions.
1.10       Recovery of the area, and in particular the private sector, has
made significant progress since the war ended in January 1970.  Normal
farming cycles have been re-established in the rural areas and the first
post-war crops have been harvested. Small shops and public markets are
trading vigorously and most of the larger commercial enterprises have re-
opened. The public sector in the eastern States, however, suffers from
lack of investment resources; none of the three States now has any surplus
in its recurrent budgets for capital expenditure. This situation is im-
proving as general economic activity increases and the Federal Government
transfers capital to the States. These transfers, however, are insuffi-
cient to meet reconstruction needs, and external capital assistance has
an important role to play in the eastern States.



-4-
II. TiE EDUCATION SYSTEM AND MANPOWER NEEDS
Administration
2.01      The Federal and State Governments have concurrent responsibility
for providing educational development guidelines; in practice, the Federal
authorities seldom intervene in the States' educational planning and admin-
istration. Voluntary agencies 1/ (VAs) have traditionally played a large
role in the development, staffing, and administration of schools in Nigeria.
Since the end of the civil war, however, the Ministries of Education in East-
Central and Rivers States have assumed control of the VA schools. In South-
Eastern State the influence of the VAs is still strong. Other MIinistries in
the eastern States such as Agriculture, Health, and Establishments administer
some small vocational schools and training centers of various types. The
University of Nigeria at Nsukka, East-Central State, the only university in
the area, is an autonomous institution.
Structure of the Education System (Annexes 1 and 2; Charts 1-4)
2.02      The Nigerian education system consists of: (i) a six-year primary
cycle starting at age seven, (ii) a five-year secondary cycle leading to
the "O" level West African School Certificate (WASC) and a further two
year course leading to the "A" level WASC, (iii) vocational and teacher
training at various levels after the primary cycle, and (iv) higher educa-
tion of three to five years duration at universities and other institutions.
2.03      Universal primary education remains the objective of Nigeria, but
only 34% of the relevant age group was enrolled in 1970. East-Central State
has the highest enrollment ratio in the nation (80%) with Rivers State (55%)
anid South-Eastern State (50%) also well above the national average. However,
drop-out rates in the eastern States are high; only some 30% of the first
grade entrants complete primary school. More than half of the teachers are
unqualified.
2.04      Secondary school enrollment is low throughout Nigeria; only 4% of
the relevant age group was enrolled in 1970. East-Central State has the
highest enrollment ratio in the nation (9%) while in Rivers and South-
Eastern States the ratio roughly equals the national average. About 80-85%
of the Form I entrants complete secondary school in the eastern States.
There is a lack of qualified secondary school teachers, most serious in
Rivers and South-Eastern States, where some 55% and 70%, respectively of
the teachers are unqualified. The aim of the Second National Development
Plan 1970-74 (the Plan) to achieve a national enrollment ratio of 25% at
the secondary level by the end of the 1970s appears to be overambitious.
1/   The term "voluntary agency" usually refers to a religious organization
which inter alia operates schools, generally with government aid.



However, the Federal Government is implementing an emergency teacher traia-
ing scheme to meet the demand for secondary schlool teachers.
2.05        The Comprehensive School Reform.-/ The secondary school systemi,
at present, is dominated by the secondary grammar school, whose curriculum
is designed almost exclusively toward preparing students for higher education.
The grammar school curriculum has not been able to meet the country's needs
for middle-level manpower with science education and technical and vocational
training. In recognition of these shortcomings, the eastern States plan to
convert their secondary grammar schools into comprehensive schools. Science
teaching will be strengthened and employment-oriented courses with emphasis
on practical work will be introduced in the curriculum.
2.06        Formal vocational training is offered in: (i) three-year trade
schools after the primary cycle and (ii) three-year trade centers after
Form II or III. Enrollment in vocational courses accounts for about 3%
of secondary school enrollment in East-Central and South-Eastern States
and 7% in Rivers State. Trade schools appear to have lost their useful-
ness, the curriculum being too elementary for the needs of the labor mar-
ket and the students too young to determine the trade they want to pursue.
The trade centers, however, with students more mature and better trained in
the basic sciences, turn out skilled craftsmen who have been successful in
finding employment.
2.07        Primary teacher training, a two-year course after Form V, has not
kept pace with primary school expansion and an acute shortage of qualified
teachers has developed, particularly in Rivers and South-Eastern States.
Most of the primary teacher training colleges throughout the eastern States
are small and uneconomic with an average enrollment of 150 students. Con-
solidation, rationalization and expansion of these institutions are now
under way.
2.08        Advanced teacher training is offered in: (i) three-year advanced
teacher training colleges (ATTCs) for Form I-III teachers, (ii) three-year
university Faculties of Education for upper secondary teachers and teacher
trainers, and (iii) one and three-year courses in the National Technical
Teachers College for technical subject teachers. Secondary school teacher
training falls short of demand; the shortage is most acute in Rivers and
South-Eastern States. Both the Federal and State Governments are committed
to increase the supply of secondary school teachers and an emergency teacher
training scheme recently inaugurated by the Feceral Government is designed
to aid this effort.
2.09        Other higher education courses in Nigeria are offered in five
universities and five colleges of technology. The colleges offer courses
for middle-level technicians in the fields of engineering, commerce and
1/   A comprehensive school accepts students of various aptitudes and offers
various courses and programs of differing duration.



- 6 -
business. The two institutions serving the former Eastern Region, the
University of Nigeria and the College of Science and Technology, are both
located in East-Central State. After the war, both institutions have
become strongly identified with East-Central State and the Rivers and
South-Eastern Governments face pressure to establish their own institu-
tions.
2.10       The eastern States are among the few in Nigeria offering adult
education courses but the programs are still in their infancy; only a
fraction of 1% of their recurrent education budgets is allocated to adult
education. The programs emphasize literacy but also offer some evening
classes in technical and vocational subjects.
Education Finance
2.11       The State Governments are responsible for financing education
but receive considerable Federal grants to cover part of their capital
expenditure. Tuition fees are charged except in the lower primary grades.
In the eastern States annual fees range from Nb 1-8 in grades 4-6 and
from N6 5-25 in secondary schools. Education funds are channeled through
the State Ministry of Education budget except for a small percentage allo-
cated to vocational training by other Ministries. The budget of the
University of Nigeria is funded by contributions from the Federal, East-
Central and South-Eastern Governments.
2.12       An estimated 3.2% of GDP, a low figure among African countries,
was spent on education in Nigeria in 1970. This percentage, almost constant
since 1963, is not expected to increase during the Plan period 1970-74. Na-
tional expenditure on education is projected to grow at about the same pace
as GDP during the Plan period, 7% p.a. The planned education expenditures
will roughly match the estimated growth of enrollments and only limited
amounts will be available for major quality improvements. Hlowever, the pre-
sent program for consolidation and rationalization of secondary schools and
teacher training colleges in the eastern States will improve the quality and
efficiency of these institutions. The share of State Government budgets
(1971) devoted to education for both capital and recurrent expenditures
varies from a high of 36% in East-Central State to 23% and 24% in Rivers and
South-Eastern States respectively (Annex 3). The distribution of State Gov-
ernment recurrent expenditures on education by level is given in Annex 4.
2.13       Plan projections of State capital expenditures indicate that
16% of the State capital budgets in East-Central and Rivers States will
be spent on education in the period 1970-74 and 14% in the South-Eastern
State (Annex 5). Projections of recurrent education expenditures have
not been attempted because of the uncertainties due to the fact that re-
construction priorities and therefore the allocation of government funds
have not yet been finalized. However, on the basis of the Development
Plan and statements by government officials, the education sector is ex-
pected to receive sufficient funds to prevent deterioration of the educa-
tion system but rather inadequate for expansion and improvement.



-7-
Labor Force and Employment
2.14       According to official estinmates, the economically active popula-
tion of Nigeria (age 15-55) increased by 2.3% p.a. during the latter half
of the 1960s to reach 26 million in 1970 and the same growth rate is ex-
pected in the 1970s. Agriculture accounted for 70% of employment in 1970
and manufacturing and commerce for about 12% each. Wage employment accountpd
for 6% of total employment. About 8% of the labor force was unemployed in
1970. Unemployment is concentrated in the cities where unemployment rates
range from 10% to 20% of the labor force while under-employment is wide-
spread in the rural areas. The Development Plan indicates that 70% of
those unemployed have had no vocational training.
Manpower Requirements
2.15       The Second Development Plan (1970-74) is the only main source of
manpower information. According to the Plan document, total employment in
Nigeria is expected to increase by 3.3% p.a. during the Plan period or by
half the projected rate of growth of GDP. About half of the new jobs will
be in manufacturing and crafts, one third in agriculture, and the rest in
services, construction, transportation and mining. If the employment
targets of the Plan are achieved, unemployment will be reduced to 4.4% by
1974.
2.16       The Plan and other sources indicate severe shortages of:  (i) high
level manpower in the fields of engineering and technology, natural sciences,
medicine, agriculture, and administration, (ii) middle-level manpower, espe-
cially technicians, (iii) skilled workers, and (iv) teachers at all levels.
The need for these categories of manpower is estimated to grow by 7%-10% p.a.
during the Plan period. In terms of educational background, the greatest
demand is for personnel with science and technical training. The education
system is ill-prepared to provide the country with the needed manpower; the
main reasons are insufficient science and pre-vocational subjects in the
secondary school curriculum and the dearth of qualified teachers. These
observations apply equally to the eastern States.
III. NEED FOR TIE PROJECT
3.01       Reconstruction.  The most immediate need in the education sector
of the eastern States is reconstruction of selected secondary schools in
all three States and of primary teacher training colleges (TTCs) in East-
Central State. Many schools have been damaged beyond immediate use and
classes are conducted in overcrowded buildings without adequate furniture
and equipment.  Classes are ofte;n held in dormitories, communal and other
makeshift facilities; in many cases the structure itself is incomplete,
lacking roof and partitions. The condition of school facilities is adversely
affecting retention rates and the quality of education and is aggravating the
region's shortage of secondary school graduates and qualified teachers.



- 8 -
3.02       Curriculum Reform.  As in many other developing countries, the
Nigerian secondary school system has expanded with little reference to the
absorptive capacity of the labor market and higher education institutions
and the real needs of the economy. Preparation for higher education re-
mains the objective of the system. Yet only about 10% of the country's
secondary school students are able to proceed to higher education. The
rest of the secondary school output, with a background of general academic
education, is ill-prepared for most of the jobs available.
3.03       In reforming the present secondary school system, comprehensive
schools will expand science teaching and broaden the curriculum to include
employment-oriented courses so as to improve the employment prospects of
those students who do not enter higher education, make them more suitable
for technical and on-the-job training and meet better the manpower needs
of the economy. The eastern States, therefore, propose to combine recon-
struction of selected secondary schools with implementation of a curriculum
reform that would convert them into comprehensive schools. Science labora-
tories and workshops would be supplied to the project secondary schools
which are selected for conversion to comprehensive schools. Implementation
of the reform at the same time as reconstruction will also have the advantage
of economies of scale in construction and equipment.
3.04       Expansion.  Expansion of the number of secondary school places
is intended by each State by the end of the Plan period but exact figures
are not yet available. Instead of building small schools as in the past,
the States propose to concentrate expansion in a number of larger schools
to ensure optimum utilization of costly, specialized staff and facilities
required for a comprehensive school. The proposed expansion has a sound
base but the States are unable to undertake it without external financial
assistance.
3.05       In regard to primary teacher training, East-Central State pro-
poses to phase out 32 of its 42 small teacher training colleges (average
enrollment of 150) and consolidate all primary teacher training in ten
TTCs. These TTCs would have 600 student places each, a size recommended
for optimum utilization of resources. Expansion of these TTCs would be
combined with reconstruction of existing damaged facilities to minimize
costs of construction and equipment.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01       The objectives of the proposed project are to:  (i) rehabilitate
a number of war-damaged schools and re-estaolish normal operation at those
schools, (ii) strengthen science teaching ahd facilitate implementation of
the comprehensive school reform which relates education to the needs of the



- 9 -
country, and (iii) consolidate and expand the schools into economically
viable units. The scope of the project has been influenced by the expendi-
ture ceilings for education set by the Second National Development Plan and
also by the States' request that the project should concentrate on the key
secondary schools selected for conversion to comprehensive schools.
4.02       The proposed project would help to finance:  (i) rehabilitation
of 23 secondary schools and 7 primary teacher training colleges, (ii) con-
struction, furniture and equipment of additional classrooms, science labora-
tories and workshops at these institutions, and (iii) technical assistance
for technical teacher training, curriculum development, and supporting the
implementation of the project. The number of student and boarding places
for which the project would provide physical facilities, furniture and equip-
ment is given below:
Boarding
Student Places              Places
Number
Location and           of insti-  Rehabi-       Addi-                 Rehabi-
Type of Institution   tutions    litation    tional    Total          litation
East Central State:
Secondary Schools        10        7,650 /1    3,580    11,230          -
Teacher Training
Colleges                 7        1,130        3,070     4,200         -
Rivers State:
Secondary Schools         5        1,770        1,930      3,700      1,570
South-Eastern State:
Secondary Schools         8        2,600        3,300     5,900         -
TOTAL                 30       13,150       11,880    250301,570
/1   For about 3,570 student places only equipment and furniture would be
provided.
4.03       With respect to the reconstruction part of the project, the
institutions would be rehabilitated to their capacity at the outbreak of
the war. Additional academic facilities, furniture and equipment would
be provided to enable these institutions to accommodate planned enrollment
expansions by 1974-75.



- 10 -
4.04       The project institutions are appropriately distributed throughout
the three States. Because each of them serves the entire State in which it
is located and there is a housing shortage in the vicinity of the schools,
all project institutions are partly residential.
Secondary Comprehensive Schools
4.05       Consisteut with the reform proposals of making the general second-
ary schools comprehensive, the project schools would have a pre-vocational
orientation. They would have a coramon curriculum for all students in Forms
I and II, combining basic academic subjects with practical pre-vocational
courses. In Forms III-V the students would select among streams of science,
arts, agriculture, industrial arts, commerce or home economics. Each school
*ould have at least three streams of 120 students in Forms III-V. To as-
sist in the implementation of the comprehensive curriculum, the project
would provide the schools with additional classrooms, science laboratories
and workshops.
6.06       There would be enough arts and science teachers for the project
secondary schools (Annex 6). To ensure an adequate supply of practical
subject teachers, technical assistance for training such teachers would
be included in the project. The diversified curriculum and the size of
the project schools require well-trained administrators. The Government
has agreed during negotiations that principals and key administrative staff
for the project schools would receive proper training prior to completion of
the project.
4.07       East-Central State is the most populous of the eastern States,
suffered the greatest war damage to its schools, and has the largest
capital allocation for education in its Development Plan. Consequently,
the proposed project in East-Central State would be larger than in the other
two States. The project would rehabilitate 10 secondary schools and provide
additional facilities, furniture and equipment for their expansion and con-
version into comprehensive schools, for a total of 11,230 student places or
about 12% of the State's expected total enrollment in secondary schools in
1974. All the project schools would be co-educational and all but two would
hlave enrollments ranging from 1,000 to 1,400 students. Most of the schools
would have arts, science, technical or agricultural, commerce, and home econo-
D'ics streams and three would have three Form VI streams (Annex 7).
4.08       Seven of the ten project schools would be expanded by merging
with surrounding secondary schools (satellite schools), each complex of
schools becoming a comprehensive school. About 3,570 student places thus
added to the project schools would require furniture to replace that lost
during the war. Additional laboratories and workshops would be supplied
by the project to provide all the facilities needed for each complex. The
satellite schools are located close enough to their parent schools to afford
the students easy access to the central schools' special facilities. The
Government has agreed during negotiations that the existing buildings in
these satellite schools would be brought to a state of good repair by the
time of completion of the project.



4.09       R.iver.' ,1-ot    '   roject would reIhXIAl.itate five secondary
schools and pfrovidp -,-` .ticwral facilities A.nd equipmznt for their expansion
and conversiou  -,to c-mprehensive schools for a total of 3,700 student
places or a'.out 37X rf ", >Late's e:tected total enrollment in secandary
schools in 19/4.  E;ncl of the .rojcrt schooJs would have an enrollment of
740 students and have one Prts, one srcence and one technical or agricul-
tural stream along wit' two -iorrm W. s-treams of arts and science (Annex 7).
4.10       South-Eastern StatE.  Existing physical facilities would be re-
ecquipped in eight secondarv schools including one to be resited and addi-
tional facilities and e-iuipment would be provided for their expansion and
conversion into comprehensive schools. The project would provide for re-
construction of some bu1.Ufln,s but war damage was slight and most buildings
have already been repaired. During negotiations, th^ Government has agreed
that the land for resiting the school at Fket would be available within one
year of signing the loan agreement. Total enrollment of the eight schools
would be 5,900 students or about 32X of the State's expected total enroll-
ment in secondary schools in 1974.  Chrec of the project schools are for
h-ys, two for girls, and three are co-educational. Enrollment in each
school woull range from 600 to 940. All schools would have a minimum of
three streams each (Aninex 7).
Tp;~7cher Training CoIr,Jege5
4,11       To assist East-Central  t     in rehahiti'tating primary teacher
:raining, the project would hejr, *7nence rcconot1AAct...on and re-equipment of
seven primary teacher -ra-ni.P7g collegr-v,  TX &4lJi.:tato  tlhe consolidation of
most primary teac'-er t,ainir- Ln Lhese seven -oilegep. in order to economize
on hunan and financial re.5ources (pare. 3.05), the project would further
finance construction and equipment of additional classroo.s, science teaching
workshops and workshops for home economics, arts and crafts. All project
colleges would be co-educational.  When complete'd, each college would en-
roll 600 students in a two-year co.nrse (Post-secOndary) and would graduate
a rotal of about 2,000 L,uch ncsded Trimnry teachers annually. All project
colleges are located near priri'Fry c%-o.ool  fr£r easy -ccess to practice teach-
ing.  Adequate Rdministrative and teachiag staff would be available.
Technical Assistancc
4.12       liie project wculd in.-.Iide three technical assistance components
described in more detail in the AppePdix.  First, the project comprehensive
schools wouAld requiieL 90o-10 teihnical subject teachers by 1974-75 when the
schools would be in ftul  operation.  About 60 technical teachers can be sup-
plied f.om exIt-r, traininhL f;-eJ 'ties.  lo meet t;e cemaining need for in-
structors, the proJect w-`'j' pi:ovi,de 5 and 10 feliew3hips of one year each
for East-Central and Rivers .atc,- respectively, and two experts for a total
of five man-years for South-Eastern Sti.tte to organize and teach accelerated
trair'ng courses at the Governmxent. Trade Center at Opobo. The existing facil-
ities at thi!, Center are inaciequtve for technical teacher training.  The
C.ovcrnment, however, has agreed during negotiations to provide additional



- 12 -
facilities at the Center for the purpose of technical teacher training.
Second, the comprehensive school system with its broad curriculum is com-
paratively new to the eastern States. It is therefore considered desirable
to provide local staff with assistance in developing the curricula for the
various subjects to be introduced. For this purpose the project would in-
clude three curriculum specialists for a total of three man-years. During
negotiations, the Government has agreed that suitable programs for technical
teacher training and curriculum development would be drafted within one year
of signing the loan agreement. Finally, the project would provide the equiv-
alent of twelve man-years of an architectural firm's services to strengthen
the project implementation units. The appointment of the specialists under
the technical assistance program would be on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank. In order to provide continuity, the Government has agreed dur-
ing negotiations that suitable counterparts acceptable to the Bank would be
assigned to work with all foreign specialists in education provided in the
project.
Cost of the Project
4.13      The estimated costs and foreign exchange component of the various
parts of the project are summarized below and given in greater detail in
Annexes 8, 9 and 10.



- 13 -
Nb(Millions)             US$(Millions)  _ % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total Total
East-Central State
Teacher Training
Colleges                0.65    0.90    1.55    1.97    2.73    4.70  16.9
Secondary Schools          1.09    1.49    2.58    3.31    4.53    7.84  28.3
Sub-total          1.74    2.39    4.13    5.28    7.26   12.54  45.2
Rivers State
Secondary Schools          0.46    0.65    1.11    1.41    1.97    3.38  12.2
South-Eastern State
Secondary Schools          0.68    0.94    1.62    2.07    2.86    4.93  17.7
Technical Assistance        0.06    0.24    0.30    0.18    0.73    0.91   3.3
Contingencies
Price                      0.69    0.60    1.29    2.12    1.81    3.93  14.1
Physical                   0.32    0.37    0.69    0.96    1.14    2.10   7.5
/1
Total Project Cost-    3.95    5.19    9.14   12.02   15.77   27.79 100.0
Interest and other charges
during construction             0.51                      1.53
TOTAL                      5.70                     17.30
/1   Teaching equipment and materials are exempt from taxes and, therefore,
they are not included in the project cost.
4.14       The distribution of costs by category of expenditure is summarized
below:



- 14 -
Nb(Millions)        US$(Millions)       % of
Local Foreign Total Local Foregn Total Total
1. Construction
Academic and Communal          1.76   1.90   3.66  5.33   5.79  11.12  40.0
Boarding                      0.04   0.04   0.08  0.12   0.12   0.24   0.9
Site Development              0.25   0.27   0.53  0.77   0.84   1.61   5.8
Professional Fees             0.41   0.28   0.68  1.25   0.83   2.08 7 7.5
Sub-total               2.46   2.49   4.95  7.47   7.58  15.05  54.2
2. Furniture                      0.36   0.30   0.66  1.10   0.90   2.00   7.2
3. Equipment                      0.06   1.19   1.25  0.19   3.61   3.8(0  13.7
4. Technical Assistance           0.06   0.24   0.30  0.18   0.73   0.91   3.3
5. Contingencies
Price                         0.69   0.60   1.29  2.12   1.81   3.93  14.1
Physical                      0.32   0.37   0.69  0.96   1.14   2.10   7.5
Total Project Cost          3.95   5.19   9.14 12.02  15.77  27.79 1(30.0
Interest and other charges
during construction                 0.51                  1.53
TOTAL                           5.70                17.30
4.15      The foreign exchange component (excluding interest and charges) of
US$15.8 million representing 57% of total project cost, has been calculated
as follows: (i) buildings and site development 52%, (ii) professional
services 40% (iii) furniture 45%, (iv) equipment 95%, and (v) technical
assistance 80%.
4.16      The schedules of accommodation, with a use factor of about 80% of
maximum utilization, are economical. Construction, professional services,
furniture and equipment cost estimates are based on recent tendering under
IDA Credit 72-UNI, adjusted for local cost differences, and are reasonable.
Construction costs range from $12 per square foot for workshops and classroom
buildings to $15 for laboratories; site development is estimated at about 15%
of building costs. Detailed schedules would be prepared during the design
stage and approved by the Bank. The cost of professional services includes
surveys and supervision of project sites.
4.17      The project cost includes a contingency allowance for unforeseen
factors equal to 12% of estimated cost of buildings, site development and
professional fees and to 5% for furniture and equipment (Annex 11). This



- 15 -
is necessary because the high proportion of rehabilitation work included
in the project make exact cost estimates difficult. Estimated unit costs
are expected to increase during the project implementation period and,
therefore, a contingency allowance equal to 18% (based on 8% p.a. for
local currency and 5% p.a. for foreign exchange expenditure) of the basic
costs has been included in the project cost. All contingencies amount to
22% of the total project cost or 28% of total cost before contingencies.
4.18       By 1974/75 the annual recurrent cost of the project institutions
would increase the recurrent education budgets of the eastern States by
about 2-3%. The States should be able to meet this expenditure when, at
the end of the Plan period, reconstruction demands are expected to level
off and the general economic activity will have returned to normal.
V. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
5.01       Administration - Project Units.  The implementation of the project
would be under the overall direction of a full-time project director, respon-
sible to the Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Education, and
with qualifications acceptable to the Bank. His major function would be the
overall supervision of implementation and financial control of the project,
liaison with the Bank and coordination of the work of the three project units
to be established in the Ministries of Education in each of the three eastern
States. Each State project unit would be headed by a project manager, respon-
sible to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education in each State
and with qualifications acceptable to the Bank. Under guidance by the Federal
Project Director, the major functions of the project managers would be super-
vision and coordination of project implementation on the State level. The
project units would be provided with adequate supporting staff. Each State
Government would meet the operational cost of its project unit. Selection
of the project director and project managers would be made after consultation
with the Bank, and their appointment would be a condition of effectiveness of
the loan.
5.02       Consultants.  The project managers would be assisted in the imple-
mentation of the project by a firm of experienced consultant architects, en-
gaged on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The cost of its services
has been included in the project under the heading technical assistance. The
main functions of the firm would be to survey the project schools, develop
standardized design guides for buildings and furniture and assist the project
managers in preparing bid packages for construction, furniture and equipment.
Space requirements, building standards, design and construction drawings used
in the first education project would be applied wherever feasible to economize
in professional fees and to expedite implementation. The Government intends
to engage the consultant firm before the loan agreement is signed.



- 16 -
5.03      Professional Services.  The buildings would be designed by archi-
tects of the Ministries of Works or by local private architectural firms,
using the design guides to be developed by the consultant firm. Selection
of private architectural firms would be subject to Bank review and they
would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
5.04      Land for the Project Schools.  Land required for the expansion
and conversion of existing schools is available. The Government has agreed
during negotiations to acquire such land as is required for the construction
of the schools and colleges included in the project.
5.05      Construction - Procurement.  The selection of civil works con-
tractors and the procurement of furniture and equipment would conform to
Bank guidelines on international competitive bidding. It is expected that
all civil works contracts will be awarded to Nigerian building contractors
or to foreign firms already operating in Nigeria. Most of the furniture is
expected to be supplied locally' but equipment will largely come from overseas.
Furniture and equipment items would be grouped in economic size bid packages
to encourage international competitive bidding. Domestic manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be accorded a margin of preference equal to
the existing rate of customs duty applicable to competing imports or 15% of
the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower. Implementation of the project is ex-
pected to be completed in about four years (Chart 5).
5.06      Disbursements.  The Bank would disburse:  (i) the c.i.f. price of
imported furniture and equipment, (ii) interest and other charges during con-
struction, and (iii) 50% of the cost of civil works, professional services,
technical assistance and locally procured goods. The percentage would be
adjusted as necessary to disburse US$17.3 million equivalent or 62% of the
total project cost (excluding interest and charges), whichever is lower.
5.07      Retroactive reimbursement is recommended for the services of the
consultant architects (para. 5.02). Their work should be started as soon
as possible to avoid delays in the implementation of the project. Retro-
active reimbursement should cover expenditure subsequent to October 1, 1971.
The amount of expenditure before the date of the Loan Agreement is not ex-
pected to exceed US$80,000, of which US$40,000 would be eligible for reim-
bursement.
5.08      The loan would be administered by the Federal Ministry of Education.
The Borrower would be the Federal Republic of Nigeria, which would make avail-
able the proceeds of the loan to the Governments of East-Central, Rivers and
South-Eastern States.



- 17 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNDATION
6.01       During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)   training of principals and key administrative staff
for project schools and the development of suitable
programs for technical teacher training and curriculum
development (paras. 4.06 and 4.12);
(b)   bringing into good repair existing buildings in those
schools to be merged with the project schools in East-
Central State and the provision of additional facili-
ties at the Government Trade Center, Opobo (paras.
4.08 and 4.12);
(c)   provision of land for resiting the school at Eket,
South-Eastern State, and the acquisition of land
for the other project schools (paras. 4.10 and 5.04); and
(d)   the transfer of proceeds of the proposed loan to the
three state governments (para. 5.08).
6.02       It was also agreed during loan negotiations that a condition for
signing the Loan Agreement would be the appointment of the architectural
consultant firm on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.02).
6.03       Retroactive reimbursement is recommended for the services of
the consultant architects subsequent to October 1, 1971 (para. 5.07).
6.04       A condition of effectiveness of the loan would be the appointment
of a full-time project director in the Federal Ministry of Education and
three project managers, one in each of the Ministries of Education in the
eastern States, all with qualifications acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.01).
6.05       The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$17.3 million to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for a term of 25 years
including a 10 year grace period.






APPENDIX
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Technical Teacher Training
1.         When the project schools are in full operation (1974/75), the com-
prehensive curriculum of the 23 project secondary schools would require about
95 technical subject teachers to teach courses in woodwork, metalwork,
electricity and general mechanics. The eastern States will be able to
supply about 65 of these teachers, comprising 29 easterners who are expected
to return to their States upon graduation from the National Technical Teach-
er College (NTTC), a federal institution in Lagos, and 24 graduates of the
Colleges of Technology in Enugu and Port Harcourt who are expected to take
up teaching in their States, and 12 from the University of Nigeria at
Nsukka. With the completion (in 1973/74) of the new NTTC in Lagos, a Credit
72-UNI project item, the supply of technical subject teachers will increase
substantially but not in time to meet the needs of the project schools. The
needs and the supply of technical subject teachers in 1974/75 can be summariz-
ed as follows:
Supply
College of   Univ. of
Needs   NTTC  Technology   Nigeria   Total  Shortage
East-Central State         52       16       20           12        48      4
Rivers State               18        5        4           -          9      9
South-Eastern State        25        8        -           _          8     17
Total                 95                                      65      30
2.         To train the needed technical teachers, the proposed project
would include the cost of 15 fellowships of one year each for East-Central
and Rivers States and five man-years of technical teacher trainers for
South-Eastern State. The cost is estimated at US$304,000 and the imple-
mentation period at about two and a half years (Chart 5).
3.         One technical teacher trainer would be competent in woodwork/
metalwork, the other in electricity/general mechanics. They would organize
and teach accelerated training courses of about one and a half years dura-
tion. The courses would be run in the Government Trade Center at Opobo and
utilize the facilities in the existing Center with some additional equipment
to be provided by the South-Eastern State Government.



-2-
Curriculum Development
4.        To assist local staff in developing the curricula for the various
subjects to be introduced in the comprehensive schools, the project would
provide three man-years of technical assistance for specialists in science
and mathematics, social studies, and practical subjects. The cost of this
project component is estimated at US$114,000.
Consultant Architects
5.        A firm of consultant architects would be employed to assist the
project units in implementing the project. The major functions of the con-
sultants would be to: (i) survey all project schools, (ii) develop stand-
ardized design guides for buildings and furniture, and (iii) assist the
project managers in preparing bid packages for construction, furniture and
equipment.
6.        The cost of consultant services, included in the project, is es-
timated at US$490,000. The components of this part of the project and their
cost would be as follows:
Man-years      US$
(a)  One architect                                4      130,000
One quantity surveyor                        4      130,000
One educator/equipment specialist            4      130,000
Sub-total                    12      390,000
(b) Supporting staff, equipment and
two vehicles                                       100,000
Total cost                             490,000
Total Costs
7.        The total estimated cost for technical assistance is US$908,000.



COMPARATIVE   IROXUTIUR    INIADUNDRI                                                                              ANNEX U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  I   IS  I
11  102,3            il~~DRY       AU'Ull           PER            IIAA-       PAUNU                                                          0000         >.1              I           0.
TI>  OAT         >01          >41             >51           (A)               oN>           TI>          >01              10>          1111         TAUT 130> 5 I
TENN.   RT.  Np                   N             1.             UU  N .          NY             4V N.                        V.                 N             T            A              N              UI                           A
NANNDEIEAE                 XI~~~~~~~~1   ERM            UR.I             3. NX                         .            U.                 RB            04          NU               ..            19           IUAB
YADIAD ,                            IY            I.             E  A             YY            ElI 0          0.1             ._R             RB              R          NY               VT11                        10
OAUNADTOUUO            I            N. '9        24.8            TRA              BI             IV            I.E           UO.M               BR'            El4         MY               IX            B             A               D
d_-w-                            9~~~~~~,  .U.                       R           BEI    I.,              R         B             EEl I          A.R1           II'I              ON             ElMd                                        U                           U
AIR AABITM.TAT  AY AERDTTNEA.ABOUANRNEERR    . ANRA                             DRB_                             NI           BE             I              .               RO               RI            TY          N                NA           N              10N 
DEITATEU  ERAAUDENBTE LEUNEE  NENTAB DATTIO~ AR.    TIDBIT          O           10.1               VAN R         TV I           EE             A.A           UAN Y             NI             ON          IY               02 C          NI           10I01 
VT TIE DATA ETBADAVE DRUM EIABDNBBAT  EAANABB  V. AXEd             RE            0.1                RI             N             N            1.1 0          UU.Y              11             TE.          I                R            ID11  11  1
ADD UDE ENBIN  MENOTEORE AD ABBE  N. AbED  TI>                71~~~~~~~~~'  U.                OV             00            I  I4           E           22.E               BIN           04           UN               12 AR.
IIAARDATIRA1ATNEAT  ATIIEAEIE.  EBXRDTIB  UIUXETE          11            BEE              TURD           ...            UY            A.Y           TUb                ID             UB           I               BR           UN            120             AlA1A6  24  4  1.~  S4  11  I
EBDUAR  OTNIUTY  TOUDERIOB   TA. ARONA              RB           1~~~~~     ~     ~~~~      ~    ~~~~1.0 B 206B Y               U             UI.A              U              TI           IIAl                                       2                   
AD lTD AAAMNTAT DY ONE   00.  UAIBRUB              02           2.0               TRE I          UR              I            0.0           UU.O               III 4TU               I2      I             1      11                  NE N9            I C 2~
AIDTOB   IA. I   h   E   R  AA    BB                     U.  UMC                                I          1.11              TEB             E                           V0N            A.                 VT                        UA~A              N             U                            .0
DATUDNUTI BTETTEUDBAUOAA  ETOOA ID  TANAD  11. VA -RI         --                         RUV                 M  BS         4.              0            1.NU                                           31 C         AI              3             210          IT                U
NO2 IBDBIRN                          68            15:              29UN           N: NA           A7.B                       D6                 T33            TO          122N                           2            10                N 
U T~~IA.CBDUDN~~~~ BE EB1UARAUTTAAIBVOE   UE.  BOEEIUR    NO            1.7 B            -AM I            I              A            .. .           O.Y A              1            04131         124             1            EX           ED2                IASA1~  11
AAAUAAEBBUUAA.DEAIANANATDBUNUTI   IoDABI   1I~S.O,6N                            R                              3421  R        ..A             VA           20.0          22.11              hA1            VIA          U1              ED           IO            EN3lA
ETE NUN~~~~~ NDANB1                        EN. IBREBAUR~~~M Ld.                 RB 6         11.1                1    151     8              26AB          5.3 N          M11.              09EA                         A              NA N                       3AI               MU
'.1,l.IDUUOAREATUCNo_0 3UI                                                                                    AO            Y            E.Y:'          07.05'            10              R           >R                             l11I
I>~TDCB..UNETARATCBROV>AUT.UE>INCUTER    EU  IIBBBEE4  .A.                                   EM            E2B6            83I             II          4.51           07.               VI                 A       AS                1            B             0        
CONBUNRARPOBCUITIBOCBOBUEBB.   ON RETO    II  INBAIO37                          RB          B2. 71                            BC            3U             0.            >1.91R                            52          UN.             10                           7    MN
CADOYNTRBONBOBNE  ANUNBp1DANUEEAAANBEIE   ITNolle3RB                                        NBOA               VIA BA BE                                     U            BO                NEV                        E                1I                         EBOUl
U0UBANTAIITIBVBTBN0TTUBOCEBBLT1 OIUO  MC    40E  J-ID-I                                RB           2E                211             BA           Al             4.            U90 N                             40          EU              2E50lA                                        E
OC'BTVIIDBEEBDOAIADBUNB2ADBAAIT"       ER~~~4. PIBTB                                       ,               101             79             6             3U4           142 .             MI             E              l 1>100                                 Il               4U
h.            d.,.           44. Philipp7 . .DIN     OBMI          NE           910.              1MOB           NI            11             I.E           I9R                9              ME         4OD              ON6O                        10             100
C>~RNCUAROBYBRUBATUUTEEOBRUN           RYNEMNBAB                            N           11118               BB            ABA            1 .4                        IR.                010 U68110                                  EON           EE           UA
..B...UBRVIEBB. MUB         .BU           ....I.C8  O  SNUB=                             70          I5.E               21O  7          B            11             V.A           16                                 7          I I              I0           ER             U              AR
BBBEItIE~.  BEAMI  TVTIA Ed pD-ABRBCo     V. REBB                               RB           1.1               180            BB             B C            .0           14. 0              ESU E3lN                                   15000                       011000IB
ANB>BERCT7BCN  IUEBICEBOB   UA.EIOLpMIB.E                    71          3.11               1738           71             R              .6           29.1               RIB            31          I.E9I                         IVAXI7>6
B   EBE-ENBA NAN TNEAIOUAN  BOA BCBIIEBVRE> 47. TkvBR                           3U 1.                           290   __    49               92             3Il5            E                92X            11          25X             A              11           26B            laB
I'll,RRBMPORBECBUBO>OBBIf IOBAOT                       U,U.UM                                9           7.SSC                             7                             E           1.                   1             2          11                3             91                            U
QABMBIOEEiNBPBB                              60           II.             11.0          21.1               BR            110          19              EO            ER            EU              Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  6  0  2  4
tWAE                                                               BE             I             5.0           17I2               73             38          T3              B9            E
E.EREM                                            1~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~                                       ~~ ~~~~~~~0  5  3.C  11.2.  46I  31  7         Y            EA                             1
BERIMOB   ,.. 0ITBUYBBIABVI                         EMBEE    U - 181 IC ABEBE            I- CACCNI PRIEB                                  BRICEE AAI9OB   >1  ENd >M    EERI  IB-lB  ITBIA
O  MAINEBTEE   BEE OVEN '-IBfBAA   BIBE                              BOP   IRMIEAR   EMdUI  BU967IBR   (0),  Ill2, >1301 AIRCEBBUBICE   NE- AE
I  10              1~~~I.  CBO    UCB                                                                    >10






ANNEX 2
NIGERIA
Eastern Statpe:   n1=1IMI[ TeaMba  and fqmbar of Stheoln
East-Central        Rivers        South-Eastern
1967         1970     .170          1969   1970(est.)
Primary
Enrollment             806,990   1,089,000   1i9,700    308,808   320,000
Teachers                23,056      25,650        40-76      8,410     9,000
Schools                  3,716       3,720          409      1,247     1,430
Students per teacher        35          42           36         37        36
Students per school        217         293          366        248       224
Secondary General*
Enrollment              53,270      79,695       7,632      10, 04ha    14,000
Teachers                 3,330       2,950          350        537       600
Schools                    233         236          21          42         4Q
Students per teacher        16          27           22         19         23
Students per school        229         338          363        239        350
Technical/Vocational
Enrollment               2,725       2,750          527        312       275
Teachers                   201         130           37         14        18
Schools                    18           18            2          2         2
Students per teacher       14           21          14          22        15
Students per school        151         153         264         156       138
Primary Teacher Training
Enrollment               5,685       6,641         470       1,542     1,,640
Teachers                   388         250           30         98       105
Schools                     42          42            3         11        11
Students per teacher       15           27          16          16        16
Students per school       135          158         157         140       149
* Including Form VI and comrercial courses.
Source: Ministry of Education of each state.
May, 1971






NIGERIA
Eastern States: State Government Education Expenditure*
(in N£ million)
EAST-CENTRAL STATE                 RIVERS STATE                     SOUTH-EASTERN STATE
1970-71            1968-69    1969-70    1970-71        1968-69      1969-70    1970-71
I. Education Expenditure
1.  Recurrent                     12.5                 .5          1.4        3.1          2.0          2.9        3.4
2.  Capital                          6                n.a.         n.a.       1.2          n.a.         o.6        0.7
3.  Total                          6.1                 -            -          .3           -           T4
II.  Total Government Expenditure
4.  Recurrent                     29.4                1.3          4.3       12.3          8.3         11.4       10.2
5.  Capital                       15.9                n.a.         n.a.       6.o          n.a.        15.2        6.9
6.  Total                                                                       3 -  I                 21.7 .T1
III. Education Expenditure as % of
Total Government Expenditure
7.  Recurrent                     42                 39           32         25           2            25         33
8.  Capital                       23                  _            -         20            -            4         10
9.  Total                         36                  _                      23            -           13         24
*  Rivers State 1968/69 and 1969/70 actual data; all other figures are budget estimates.
Source;  Budget Estimates and data provided by the Ministry of Finance of each State.
May, 1971



NIGERIA
Eastern States: Distribution of Recurrent Expenditure on Education /
(in NE '000)
EAST-CENTRAL STATE            RIVERS STATE                      SOUTH-EASTERN STATE
1970-71           1968-69    1969-70    1970-71       1968-69    1969-70    1970-71
I. Ministry of Education
Administration                       660                97         106         347          150         337        306
Primary Education                  8,329             1,005       1,159       1,203        1,494       1,888     2,432
Secondary Education                1,726             1,070         645       1,002          132         191       241
Vocational Training2i                133                -          -            30           23          24         29
Teacher Training                     695               200         239         268          113         337       276
Higher Educatroan/                    66               -           -           -            -           -           36
Schol ships, all levels              463               300         200         200           38          96       107
Other&                               105                 5          53         -65                        6          7
TOTAL Ministry of Education         12,177             2,677       2,402       3,115        1,950       2,879     3,434
II.  Other Ministries                       286                -             9         34          -            15         12
GRAND TOTAL                         12,463             2,677       2,411       3,149        1,950       2,894     3,446
1/ All figures are budget estimates.
2/ In Rivers State included under secondary education; 30,000 in 1970/71 refers to the Sea School only.
3/ East-Central State: College of Technology; South-Eastern State: College of Education.
4/ Including adult education and sports.
Source: Budget Estimates for each State
May, 1971.



ANNRX 5
NIGERIA
Eastern States:
Projected State Capital Expenditure on Eucation and Total Public Sector, 1971-74*
(in N£ nillion)
1971     1972      1973     1974      Total
EAST-CENTRAL STATE
1. Total capital expenditure on education        3.6       2.9      1$5        -         8.0
2. Total public sector capital expenditure    15.9        14.4     11.5       9.0      50.8
3. Capital expenditure on education as
% of total public sector                   23        20       13          -       16
RIVERS STATE
1. Total capital expenditure on education        1.2       1.7      1.7       1.0        5.6
2. Total public sector capital expenditure       6.o      10.1      9.6       8.2       33.9
3. Capital expenditure on education as
% of total public sector                   20        17       18        12        16
SOUTH-EASTERN STATE
1. Total capital expenditure on education        0.7       1.0      1.2       1.3    -4.2
2. Total public sector capital expenditure       6.9       7.0      7.7       8.o       29.6
3. Capital expenditure on education as
% of total public sector                   10        14       16        16        14
* Fiscal years
Source: Nigeria: Second National De-elopment Plan 1970-74,
Federal Ministry of Information, Lagos, 1970.
May, 1971



NIGERIA
Eastern States: Secondary School Teacher Supply and Demand, 1970/71 - L976/77*
East-Central State                                 Rivers State                                South-Eastern State
i970/71    1972/73    1974/75    1976/77        1970/71    1972/73    1974/75    1976/77        1970/71    1972/73    1974/75    1976/77
Actual                     _                    Actual                                          Actual
Enrollment                   79,695     86,200      93,300     101,000        7,632      8,700      10,000      11,500       14,000      16,000      18,300     21,000
Students per Teacher             27         28          20          29           22          24         29          29           23          25          29         29
Teacher Demand                2,950      3,080       3,220       3,490          350         360        350         400          600         640         630        730
Teacher Supply                2,950      3,070       3,380       3,620          350         370        420         530          600         59C         810        850
Teacher
Surplus(+) or Deficit(-)          0         -10       +160        +130            0         +10        +70        +130             0        -50        +180       +120
% of Teachers Qualified         80%         82%        85%         87%          45%         51%        61%         75%          30%         34%         55%        69%
* Assumptions: (i) Growth of enrollments: East-Central State, 4% p.a.: Rivers and South-Eastern States, 7% p.a.
(ii) ReDlacement of teachers: 3% p.a. of existing stock.
(iii) In years of teacher surplus, unqualified teachers will be replaced.
Source: Mission's estimates.
May, 1971
0'



NIGERIA
Eastern States:  Student Places and Streams in the Project Secondary Comprehensive Schools*
Forms I-II                       Forms III-V                        Form VI Lower & Upper           Student Places
Item                                  (Common                          Com-    Tech./   Home    Sub-                         Sub-
No.   Name of School          Sex   _ Curriculum)   Art   Science  merce   Agric.   Econ.   Total  Art  Science    Total  Total   Existing   Additional
East Central State:
8    Wilcox Memorial        C            480        120      240      120      120       120    1,200   -         -          -    1,200        932         268
9    Presbyterian           C            320        120      120      120      120                 800   -        -          -       800       438         362
10    Union                   C           4°0        120      240      120      120       120    1,200   -         -          -    1,200    1,102             98
11    Anglican, Abagana    C              400        120      120      120      120       120    1,000   -         -          -    1000        748          252
12    Anglican, Nuskka       C            320        120      120      120      120        -        800  70       140        210   1,010        812          198
13    Community               C           480        120      240      120      120       120    1,200   -         -          -    1,200        914          286
14    Methodist Boys         C            320        120      120      120      120        -        800   -        -          -       800       282         518
15    Dennis Memorial        C            480        120      240      120      120       120    1,200  70        140        210   1,410    1,041           369
16    Community Compreh.   C              480        120      240      120      120       120    1,200   -         -          -    1,200        751         449
17    Government College   C              480        120      240      120      120       120    1,200  70        140        210   1,410        635          775
Sub-Total                                                                                                              11,230    7,655        3,575
Rivers State:
18    Bishop Dimieri         M            240        120      120       -       120        -        600  70       70         140      740       300         440
19    Kalabari               M            240        120      120       -       120        -        600  70       70         140      740       300         440
20    County Gramsar         M            240        120      120       -       120        -        600  70       70         140      740       570          170
21    Oporoma Gramm-ar       M            240        120      120       -       120        -        600  70       70         140      740       300         44C
22    Okrika                 M            240        120      120       -       120        -        600  70       70         140      740       300          440
Sub-Total                                                                                                               3,700    1,770        1,930
South Eastern State:
23    St. Patrick's          M            320        120      120      120      120        -        800  70       70         140      940       400          540
24    Government Secondary,
Eket                   C           320         120      120      120      120        -        800  70      70          140      940        -          940
25    Q. I. C.                C           240        120      120       -       120        -        600  70       70         140      740       400          340
26    Maryknoll, Ogoja       M            240        120      120       -       120        -        600   -        -          -       600       400          200
27    Cornelia Connelly    F              240        120      120       -        -        120       600  70       70         140      740       400          340
28    Methodist Boys          M           240        120      120       -       120         -        600  70      70         140      740       400          340
29    Union                   F           240        120      120       -        -        120       600   -        -           -      600       300          300
30    Government Secondary,
Ikom                   C           240         120      120       -      120         -        600   -        -          -       600       300         300
Sub-Total                                                                                                               5,900    2,600        3,300
Total                                                                                                                  20,830   12,025        8,805
* When in full operation, 1974/75
1/ F = Female, M = Male C = Co-educational
Source: Mission's estimates .
z
Februarv, 1972



2K                              c-a Acm-c-CL a C                   aAaa   am
C                                                      .    V              -      iCC
C                     C  I-
Cm          c-c-        a   ac-ac-  a   a
CCC 0                       Cc-ac-C   C
'C             2    C  3  C
-.       -  C  -      C  C      C  C  C  C  C
a   a                           C                                               C
C 'C  caCCO                           C C a
C  2  C  2               2                          C    2  2  -.
C                                       C
a   cc           a    2      a   r-   C   a
C cm C C 5
cc-C                  5*      c-Ca-in
aC2
a   a            laP- C
a a a                                               'a-c
a      Cc              2                       a   -   a   a   cm  a   a   a   a   a  Ca
C    C   C                                                                 a
C   a    C                                                                       22
-              a            a           a    aaaaaaa                   P-a
- K cm H    a-cc-cm    cm  cm a a a c-c-c-c-    H
a  C                                                                            Ic-
C                      c- a .m   a a a a cm a cm a   -cc- cm a-ca-c  a                2
2                      C, a      -           .-        -                     aCS2CCc
-                                                   C c-222
cm c-cm-cc--, a a    CCa CC
cm                       -[                                                  cCCCI
a, c-h. c-acmc-acmcmaacmcm                                           K
a    cm      a    a                                                         C    C    C
a a    LA I-C  Cc- c--cc,-c-cmc- c-a  acm    a A-acm   c-a-c   IC                    C
K               it
cm a -   cm   ac-cm  cm-cm                            C
cm        H          C
c-a  a
I  P-
a   V       a   a -cc--ca    -a  ac--cc--ca            cc-
cm-c-c-c-ca r
H-- aacma-c  H
a    al-c
CL cm  c-Ia    cm-c-,aa  cmc-cm-ccm-c   cm
ala  c-c- aaaCc-cmcm-a--A-
ala    acm                              -
a    a    ia
c-a   ia  :2±aa-ccma-c-c  cmaacmcmc-ac-
a      ako
*'ajaaC
P
c-Bc-   aaac-                              a
Wc-ccmc-aaacm  c- a c- c-   a           cm a a c- a c- a ac  -         a
P-c-ac-acmacm                                   c-ac-c--c-A



NIGERIA
Rivers State: Scase"ry of Pro-c-t Costs
(NC '000, March 1971 Prices)
Cost of 3cilding-os                         Cost of FP-citore
B-od-
Bcg                                            Brd-                                         o-d-
Scodect P      Places reachicg aod Commusal                                           leachlog acd toosooal   Boo                    Cast of iscipseot                              Total Cost
Re-
tias asd  Ro-
Replace-  cons trc-
Area of                     eent of   tins  -d    Co.t                                         Total                                                                           Cost of   Cost of
now              Noew     fonsi-    Replace-        of             N.e                       of all            Addi-                      Ttal             Addi-   Tota1   Profes-   Tech-
Co-stroc-          Coo-   tCre &    weot of         Sitl    Recon-  Coo-              Rco-e-             Re-      ti.ooa-         Re-      of all  Re-       tional  of all  siood        nical
Li.o               stec-  equip-    f-i-            devel-  siroc-  stroc-            stac-  stroc-   place-  fcrei-              place-  fucni-  ploce-o qaip-  equip-  ser-            asscs-
itee Nfs.     Ne,j  Location                   sq. ft.    Total  lice        nt       tots          pent  tion    tio-    Total  ti-n    -oc            sent    iota    Total  00000   ture    eeot    01nt    oent    vices             taLcc      NL(OO0)   us01o(05
Secondary SehooLs
18.   Rishop Dioieei Secondary School,
Ye-agoa                           27,720      740    440      300        300          33       20      109       129    38       167       5        13       18      3        21      L4       28       42       32         -         295          897
19.   Ralahari Natio.nal College.
Buga.o                            27,720      740    440      300        100          24        -      109       109      9      118       5        13       18      1        19      14       28       42       73         -         226          687
20.   booty Gra-,r School,
Ik-werreEtche                     10,710      740    170      570        570          tO        -       42        42    10        52    I           5       15      7       22       28       11       39       10         -         133          404
21.   Opar-o  Scoooa  Scool,
opo osaSc                         27,720      740    440      300        300          20       10      109       li1    IO       129       5        13       is      2       210      14       28       42       24         -         235           '15
22.   okrika CoaS o   O ka                    27,720   _40    440          3Sf       300           22        -      109       109    tO       119       5        13       18      3       2o       11       2R       39       23                 _224          6h1
Sub-totalc foe Stale             121,590   3,700  1,930   1,770        1,570         109       30      478       508    77       585      30        57       87    16       103       81      123      204      112                 1,113        3,384
Techcical Assista-ce                                                                                                                                                                                                       66          66          200
Cootinge-i-es-(  Avount                                                               34                                         _85                                          26                        40       33        12         325          988
Total far Rivcoc  Start                                                              143                                         765                                        129                        244      145        78      1,304         4,572
Total foreign .echage-.g   Ano.sot                                                    71                                         383                                          56                       231       56        61         856        2,608
Foceige eochaoge peecentags, excciding co-tinge-cies                                  52%                                         52%                                        45%                        95%      40%       807,
1/ 8e Aonex 11 flo cootiogoncy allowances cod foceigo exchasge coepocects.
Sarce:  M-issio's estinates.
Fehruary, 1972



00rO                0    00        0       00Z         01 T  4 
HowU  P                                                                                 ,   _° 
-                    I
0  j
ooXo                    0 C       0         0   t0   2 0       t°1'           1t
v X ~~~o    s                                 au 0    _    C   bI  o
ol       u vl   0)          ,,  ot                                                            a   ~-
o~~~~~~ 1   1                                                  0               0
:2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     o .,                 0  



NIGERIA
Eastern States:  Summary of Contingency Allowances (in US$ millions)
Professional         Technical
Site Development    Construction           Furniture           -Equipment              Services           Assistance       Total   Total
Local    Foreign   Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local   Foeign               Local  Foreign    Local, Foreign   Local   Foreign    Total
Allowance for
Unforeseen Factors                    12%        12%       12%      12%        5%       5%          5%        5%          12%       12%          Nil              10.7%      8.9%       9.7%
Allowance for
Price Increases                       24%        14%       24%      14%       257.     15%         23%       14%          21%       13%       26%      16%       23.7%    14.1%        18.1%
Total                     36%         26%       36%      26%       30%      20%         28%       19%          33%       25%       26%      16%       34.4%    23.0%        27.7%
Total Cost before
Contingencies                      0.77       0.84       5.45    5.91       1.10    0.90         0.19      3.61         1.25      0.83      0.18    0.73           8.94     12.82      21.76
Contingencies:
Physical                      0.09       0.10      0.65    0.71       0.06    0.05          0.01      0.18        0.15      0.10        -        -           0.96      1.14        2.10
Price                         0.18       0.12      1.31    0.83       0.28    0.13          0.04      0,50        0.26      0.11      0.05    0.12           2.12      1.81        3.93
Total                   0.27       0.22       1.96    1.54      0.34    0.18          0.05      0.68        0.41       0.21      0.05    0.12           3.08      2.95       6.03
Total Cost Including
Contingencies                       1.04       1.06      7.41    7.45       1.44    1.08         0.24      4.29         1.66      1.04      0.23    0.85          12.02     15.77      27.79
Source: Mission's estimates.
February, 1972



ANNEX 12
NIGERIA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(in US$ millions)
I                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.
=,      U ¢ Wilt  W          *-
4i                                       4i  to- 41  J~
e-)        r1 a. S) t a)                    vl         u
I4  I                - 4                   0)
CY                                   1-4       LJO~~4 
1   :   i  ve.       O .E       =  U. CO                          0 O 
1       0.07        0.07       17.23     0.0013     0.0323      0.0336
2       0.07        0.14       17.16     0.0025      0.0322     0.0347
3       0.1.2       0.332/    16.97      0.0060     0.0318      0.0378
4       0.12        0.45       16.85     0.0082      0.0316     0.0398
5       0.21        0.74-      16.56     0.0134      0.0311     0.0445
6       1.04        1.78       15.52     0.0323     0.0291      0.0614
7       1.21        3.102/    14.20      0.0562     0.0266      0.0828
8       1.42        4.52       12.78     0.0819      0.0240     0.1059
9       1.57        6.282-    11.02      0.1138      0.0207     0.1345
10       2.08        8.36        8.94     0.1515     0.0168      0.1683
I     11       3.06        11.72-2     5.58      0.2124     0.0105      0.2229
12       2.84       14.56        2.74     0.2639      0.0051     0.2690
13  0.70          ~~~2/
13       0.70       15.75-       1.55     0.2855     0.0029      0.2884
Total 1 to 13                             1.2289      0.2947     1.5236
14       0.70       16.45        0.85
15       0.56       17.30-/       -
1/ Beginning from loan effectiveness.
2/ Interest and commitment charges are disbursed semi-annually.
3/ Quarter: interest 1.8125%; commitment charges 0.1875%.
4/ This figure has been adjusted to US$ 1.53 million to allow for discrepancies
in disbursement.
Source: Chart 5.
February, 1972



NIGERIA
EASTERN STATES: STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 1970 -71
PRIMARY                               >  R .ECCNIsDARY                                                  O 4-                      POST SECONDARY AND UNlVERSISy
TRADE CENTER
SECONDARY            COMMERCIAL                                1           2           3         COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY
fECHNtCAL/AGRIC.                     {                                          NATIONAL T,CHNICAL TEACllERS CCIEGE (NTTC)
TECH  CAL AND
EDJCATION
COMMERCE
HOM2 EPCCNCOMCE
rOMPROOSEEN51 COMPREHENSIVE     SC
_________________________~~~~             SCHOOL       -- -----            R   ~ TS ---- ---       -----------------------------------------------------------------_
SCIENCE
ARTS                              ARTS
GENEIRAL N                                                                                                                                                               ED -E {   }{       -
EDUCANDTIONN                                                                                                                                                             LOWER        UPPER
TRANDb                                                  INGRAMMAR< < O U  POINT                                                                                                                                                                             ER    7     I
TEOY  IN SOTEASTERN  TA T S
GRDVNCE TEACHER TRAINING COLG (TC
s ,                                                                                                                       1            PRIMARY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AVNE TEACHER  TRAINING  COLLEGE  ( ATTC)
SCHOC L YEAR/GRADE         '           2          3           4           5           6                 7           8          9           0           11               12          13          14           15          16         17          18
AGE        i           i           i           i           i           i                |       _      |               -    i           i                 i                                                           i           i           
7          a           9          10           1I         12                13          14         Is          16          17                18          19          20          21          2z2         23          24
PROPOSED COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOLS (PROJECT SCHOOLS)
+    XAMINATION
*   OUTPUT POINT                                                                                                                                   RD-51(R
* ONLY IN SOUTH-EASTERN SIATE






N IGERIA
EAST-CENTRAL STATE: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID 1969-70
ENROLLMENT AS PERCENTAGE
AGE  GRADE                                                                                                                         OF AGE GROUP
UPPER      19 13                                                                   400 45                                                        T
SECONDARY                                                                                                                                       0.44%
18 12                                                                   730 100
a O Y S                                                       G I R L S
16 _0                                                                                                                                 I
LOWER                                                               TOTAL  *                    TOTAL  *
SECONDARY 15  9                                                  ENROLLMENT                   ENROLLMENT
53,500                      27,600
14 8
13  7P
12 6                                                               46,300.21,100
S1                                                              . 52,500   26,700                                                      I
10 4                                                            83 30
PRIMARY
93                                          11~~~~~      ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,200..6.,..0
7  I                             227,600                                       165,000                      I~~~~~~444  5  .......
7 1   ....   -                     :            ,.         .,- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   
200,000                 100,000                     0                     100,000                 200,000
* BREAKDOWN BY CLASS NOT AVAILABLE                                                                                                 IBRD - 5712 (2R)



I



NIGERIA
RIVERS STATE: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID 1969-70
ENROLIMENT AS PERCENTAGE
AGE GRADE                                                                                                                                        OF AGE GROUP
UPPER        1}3                                                                               32 0                                                             T
SECONDARY                                                                                                                                                       0.27
1812                                                                             74 61
17 11                                                                          4201 90
BOYS                                                                          GIRLS
LOWER       15  9                                                                         1,100   390
SECONDARY
14 8                                                                       1 .80    460
13  7                                                                     2,290       730
12  6                                                                          0        1,700
Z_ 5                                                                      82,500
10 4                                           :                                                                                                     %           
PRIMARY  104I 0-'.                                                                             40
9 3                                                    ..        7200. 7.700
8  2                                                         21200                           1 0                      
30,000             20,000              10,000                0                 I0,000              20,000
IBRD-5713 (R)






NIGERIA
SOUTH - EASTERN STATE: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID 1969-70
ENROLLMENT AS PERCENTAGE
AGE GRADE                                                                                                                                          OF AGE GROUP
UPPER        19  3                                                                                                                                                      0.3%
SECONDARY                                                                                          180 20
18112802 
17 11                                    BOYS                                       80   400                             GIRLS
16 _0                                                                             1,2 570
LOWER         5                                                                                 1,170  810                                                               3%
SECONDARY   10 91,                                                                                     5
14  8                                                                             1,500   1,030
13  7                                                                             1,570   1,100
12  6                                                                             8        4,700
115                                     :.9                                           00 ....  541
10  4                                                                                       400:
PRIMARY                                                                                                                                                               50%
9  3                        ......................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ............. 250
9 3
92
X 7                                                                             I :.:.:68,500;:yjx: . .      :.::fin~~:V...
60,000              40,000               20,000                 0                 20,000               40,000
IBRD-5714 (R)






NIGERIA
Implementation Schedule
Months:                 -3          3   /6   -9  12   15   18   21   24   27   30   33   36   39   42   45   48
Project Unit                  [IIII IIII EIALV AAAA AAAAAd MAA AAAAkAA            AA@AAAAAAAA   AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAS
Technical Assistance:
Technical Teacher Training:
Fellowships                      // /////, FFFIFFFE FFFFE FFFI FFFFF FFFF FFFF FFFFF
Teacher Trainers                 // ///// /BBB ,BBBE BBBBE BBBB BBBBB BBBB BBBB BBBB BBBB BBBB
Curriculum Development                ///,i /// CCCC CCCC CCCC CCC
Consultants                    I//f /1/U   °          k*** ***. **** ***** r**** **** **** t**** ***  **** **** **** **
Professional Services                   / //I, /==                      ****   :**** :***. :***. **** **** ***** **** e**
Construction                                                    TTTITTTTT
'XXXX 7XXXX EXXX2UXXJ U.XXXI X}   XXC            +FAF
Furniture                                                 r TXXXX  D   )DDDD )DD    D
Instructional Equipment                       -------TT TT  CXXD DDDDDD
__________________ __ _____  .____ -  TTTT _D DC DDDI)DD DD
IIIII  Establishment of Project Unit                        ....  Pre-qualification of contractors
AAAAA  Management during implementation                    TTTTT  Tender
///// Engagement of technical assistance/                 XXXXX  Construction or manufacture or
consultants/executive architects/                          assembling of equipment parcels
Fellowship Students
FFFFF  Fellowships                                             +  End of guaranty periods
BBBBB  Teachers in service                                 FAFAF  Final accounts
CCCCC  Curriculum Development                              ----  Compiling equipment list/specification
and tender documents
00000  Briefing documents                                  DDDDD  Delivery and installation
Supervision of design/construction                         Surveys/design/preparation of contract
and management to final inspection                         documents
1/  Date of effectiveness          *January 1, 1972
February, 1972






....                                                                           BENU- ENUE    PLATEAU                                    A
I~~~~~                                                                                ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I G Rk  I
N  I G  E R I A                                                                           9 !-
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT                                 0"
EASTERN   STATES
A     TEACHERS TRAINING COLLEGES
*     SECONDARY SCHOOLS
*     CENTER FOR TECHNICAL TEACHER TRAINING'                   A\ST4 :       E          A L
Numbers refer to schools as listed in Annexes
8, 9, and 10.                               IHAAOKIG Ihue2 
....... **STATE BOUNDARY
MAIN ROADS                           OG
SECONDARY ROADS                                3|,
RAILROAD               0-)
INTERNATIONAL BDRY.                                                     UAH
KILOMETERS ,)oj   
MILES                                                                                              I \               . w t $< {) 0 > r ) ; / the dieow   this mop do not
, imvpy *endorsoent r accepTfnce by the
IKOT.WOVW &a Wn  , End Itn otftllate.
t  9   G   I    0   |  ,   ,,      S    \.   ,   .: 20                  -O
--l   .  ;X:  .L .  X    tv ',   ;  B   /   G   h/  r   o   F   B  /  A   FR   A           ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  3421R3
NOVEMBER 1971



