                                                                                 78802
    STRICTLY        ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                      1




   LV/er                    INTERNATIONAL   BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                                     INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                                   Joint Meeting




                                                          Washington, D. C.
                                                          Tuesday, March 28,   1972

                                   A joint meeting of the Executive Directors of

                     the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

                     and the International Development Association was convened

                     at 10:02 a.m., in the Board Room, 1818 H Street, N.W.,

                     Mir.    Robert S. McNamara, President, presiding as chairman.




HOOVER 9EPORTING
Was6g-    DC 2000
(202) 54666
         STRICTLY                   ONFIDENTIAL
1                                                                                                          2



                                                          CONTENTS

                                    Agenda Item                                                            Page




                                    3.   Proposed Loan - Nigeria . .   . .   . .   . . .   . .   . .   .       3




                         CO, ING.
    320 Massachusetts Avenue, NE
    Washington, D.C. 20002
    (202) 546-666
     STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL                                                         3




                                            PROCEEDINGS

                                   MR. McNAMARA:




                                    And that brings us then to Agenda Item No. 3, a

                          proposed loan in the amount of $17.3 million to Nigeria for

                          an education project.    I will ask Mr. Pearce of the Western

                          Africa Department to present it to us.




HOOVER REROFUTI,'(   11
3,20 Ma , u tsA4

'204-) 540-666
     STRICTLY                   ONFIDENTIAL                                                       4




                                          MR.   PEARCE:     Mr.   Chairman,   Members of the Board,

                                the circumstances in      which the Federal Government,     in   January

                                 1970, requested Bank assistance for this project are

                                 outlined in the reports before you.          Two years have elapsed

                                 since then and some explanation of this delay is appropriate.

                                 Whil$e it reflects in part some of the peculiar problems,                 r
                                 administrative, institutional, and legal,facing the country

                                 since the civil war, it also indicates the manner in which

                                 Nigerian authorities have approached their reconstruction

                                 needs in the context of long-term development objectives.

                                           The project's original objective was quite simple:

                                 to reconstruct and rehabilitate war-damaged secondary

                                 schools and primary teacher training colleges in the three

                                 Eastern States.   However, in the process of reviewing their

                                 future manpower needs in the        light of postwar priorities,

                                 the three States decided not only to restore facilities to their

                                 prewar level but also to consolidate and expand them and,

                                 more importantly, to implement reforms in the secondary

                                 school curriculum.    The latter, comprising the strengthening

                                 of science training and the introduction of practical

                                 employment-oriented courses, were already being introduced

                                 experimentally in some secondary schools in the former

                                 Eastern Region before the civil war, which then disrupted




HOOVER REPORTING CO, INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E
Washington, D.C.20002
(202) 546-6666
      STRICTLY (ONFIDENTIAL                                                           5




                      the entire educational system.         Consequently,    the project,

                      during appraisal, was modified to include consolidation and

                      expansion of the selected secondary schools and primary

                      teacher training colleges and the implementation of

                      curriculum reform.        Nearly half the secondary school student

                      places and nearly three-quarters of the primary teacher

                      training college places to be financed by the proposed loan

                      represent additions to these institutions'           prewar enrollment

                      capacity.

                                       Apart from the obvious advantage of this modification

                      to and expansion of the original rehabilitation project, other

                      less visible but equally important benefits will follow.

                      First, the combination of reconstruction with consolidation ard

                      expansion will result in substantial economies of scale in

                      both construction and equipment.         Moreover,     the concentration

                      in   these expanded schools of the costly,        specialized staff

                      and facilities        required for the reformed secondary school

                      curricula will optimize their use.           Second, the expanded

                      project schools, which will account for about 12 percent,

                      37 percent, and 32 percent of the three States' total seconda y

                      school enrollments by 1974, may be expected to have a

                      considerable        "demonstration effect" on the development of

                      secondary education in the Eastern States and possibly




HOOVER REPORTINC~
370 -Mwl"hy       &
(,202) 5465ck26
     STRICTLY                    ONFIDENTIAL                                             6



                                 elsewhere in Nigeria.    Third, the proposed establishment of

                                 project units in the Federal and State Ministries of

                                 Education and the associated technical assistance represent

                                 a form of institution building intended to strengthen the

                                 administration of this project, which will hopefully be

                                 adopted in future education projects in other States,

                                 particularly in those new States where executive capacity is

                                 now extremely weak.

                                           To summarize, we believe that this second education

                                 project will, in the longer term, prove to have benefited

                                 from the time taken to prepare it.    In addition, the experien

                                 gained in preparing and implementing it is expected to help

                                 the   Nigerian authorities and the Bank develop a continuing

                                 program of education projects.    In this connection, the

                                 report of the 1971 UNESCO Project Identification Mission

                                 recommended the following priority areas for early action:

                                 primary teacher training, expansion of industrial trAining

                                 at skilled worker and technician levels, expansion and reform

                                 of secondary education, and improved adult education and

                                 agricultural training.   During the next three months, the

                                 Bank expects to prepare and appraise a third education project

                                 probably concentrating on the six Northern States' needs for

                                 improved primary education, including teacher training,



HOOVER REPORTING CO, INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20002
(202) 546-6666
     STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL                                                                7




                            secondary education and the better employment of non-formal

                            systems.   We hope that this project will be sufficiently

                            advanced to present a loan for your consideration during the

                            second half of Fiscal 1973.       In the meantime, we commend the

                            proposed loan for this second education project to your

                            consideration.

                                         Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                         MR. McNAMARA:    Thank you, Mr. Pearce.

                                         May I have your questions and comments?

                                         Dr. Sen.

                                         DR. SEN:   Mr. Chairman, this is a day for education.

                            Wehave not only three education projects before us, but

                            the population project is also basically an education project

                            because the large part of it is for the training of paramedical

                            personnel.

                                         I think all of these four projects are very

                            commendable and they have my full       support.   But I have two

                            general points which cover all three projects.         Therefore, I

                            will make those points now.

                                         1r. Chairman, in the Nigerian project, also in the

                            other projects, the things that are proposed to be done,

                            need to be done,    and I am very glad that provision is being

                            made for that.     There is   provision for teacher training,



HOOVER REPORT!PNG, fl,U j

Washigt.) .?00
(202) 546-6666
     STRICTLY IONFIDENTIAL                                                                  8




                             provision for improvement of secondary education, for

                             technical education.

                                          But I find that although today we have got three

                             projects and there is a promise of another project in Nigeria

                             in the near future, I find that the aspect of training in

                             management at the middle level in particular is not being

                             paid attention to.       I think of all the education projects,

                             it is only in one project in Turkey that some management

                             training was provided.

                                          Now, in most of these countries, there is a great

                             need for training of management personnel, giving training

                             in business management, administration, but not so much

                             necessarily at the top level because top level people can

                             get training abroad.        But middle level people, there is a

                             great shortage, and a reference to that was made in the

                             education sector paper.       And I feel that this is a very

                             important subject, and I think in the future education

                             projects attention should be paid,      particularly to training of

                             middle level management, business management and also administ1 a-

                             tion.     This is   one general comment that I have.

                                          The second point, Mr. Chairman, that I notice is

                             that in    none of these projects in civil works has the approach

                             of slicing and      packaging been followed.   I thought that these




HOOVER REPORTING      INf2
32C1as
Washington, DL 200Y
(202) 546-6666
    STRICTLY       (:ONFIDENTIAL                                                      9




                     are the projects which are eminently suitable for the slicing

                     and packaging approach so far as civil works are concerned.

                     There is some slicing in the population project, Indonesian

                     population project, but not in the other three education

                     projects.    Why is it I would like to know.

                                 Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                 MR. McNAMARA:       I will ask Mr. Chadenet to comment

                     on your second question regarding slicing and packaging

                     of civil works in a moment.         But first perhaps Mr. Ballantine

                     would comment on education for middle level management.

                                 Duncan, what's the problem, how do we approach

                     it, what other comments would you wish to make on it?

                                 MR. BALLANTINE:       Well, I can't speak, Mr. Chairman,

                     too fully about the case of Nigeria except that there is an

                     Institute of Management in the East Central States.

                                 MR. McNAMARA:       Speak more generalyabout the middle

                     management problem that we see in the developing countries and

                     the solution, if any, that we are working on.

                                 MR.   BALLANTINE:    Right.

                                 Well, we are certainly very conscious of this.           It's
                    borne in on us every day.        We are trying to expand our

                     activities through project identification.        We see several

                     forms of treatment of this.        First is through university




HOOVER REPORT4,C

W 5ashingto.D24
(202) 546 666
    STRICTLY (ONFIDENTIAL                                                                       10



                             training, which is training for a less specific market.              It's

                             a broad general market.          It's the basic training that would

                             be provided in an advanced country.

                                       We have an identification of a project forthcoming

                             in Korea identified possibilities for a thing like this, and

                             we will be doing it more and more.

                                       On the middle management level, the other approach

                             would be through the short courses.           And here I think what

                             we are doing in Turkey is the best example.           We have an

                             Institute of Management which is in the project that was

                             recently signed there,         and this   will call for one-year courseE

                             and for a series of short courses which will be offered on

                             specific subjects such as inventory control, personnel

                             management,    etc.    It    involves a very close relationship with

                             the employers.        And although it's not in the project, the systei

                             that has been developed in Turkey under the Turkish

                             Management Association calls not only for training of manager

                             in institutions in          either short or long courses,   but also forl

                             consulting services which will be sent out to firms that

                             will enable them within the firm to improve their management

                             practices.

                                           These are,         very briefly stated, the range of

                             approaches that we feel we can make.            I should point out




HOOVER REPORTING 00, 1N
320 Massachusdett, Aves N.
Washington, D.C 200C<
(202) 546-6666
     STRICTLY                ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                         11




                              also that of course, this would be dealt with through the

                              training adviser in Mr. Chadenet's office, that is to say, in

                              other projects as well.

                                        MR. McNAMARA:   I think it depends on what middle

                              level management means.   If you're thinking about rural

                              areas, and certainly a large part of our problem in education

                              is educating for increased efficiency in rural areas,

                              agricultural production, our agricultural vocational training,

                              particularly for extention agents, goes a long way toward

                              meeting that.

                                        One of the real problems we face in this Bank is

                              developing project managers for agricultural projects.     And

                              we are giving increasing attention to that.

                                        In the industrial sector, middle level management

                              there, the Turkish approach, the efforts to assist firms to

                              do their own middle level management teaching is something

                              we will want to give increased attention to.   Taiwan, for

                              example, has an extraordinarily effective program of that

                              kind.

                                        I don't think we have gone very far, frankly, in

                              developing training for middle level management, if you want

                            1! to call it the foreman level, the middle supervisory level

                              for industry.   The Turkish experiment is the most noteworthy



HOOVER REPORTMiN C-,    '

Washingion, D ; 20002
(202) 546-66666
      STRICTLY                       ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                    12



                                      example of anything we have done I think, Duncan.     But we

                                      will be giving more attention to it, Dr. Sen.

                                               .Are there other comments or questions?

                                                Mr. Wolf.

                                                MR. WOLF:    Mr. Chairman, as Mr. Sen has said

                                      already, it seems to be an education day, and that encourages

                                      me to say a few words on education as such.

                                                The projects.before us, three of them, or at least

                                      the two first, follow more or less a certain line which favors

                                      the improvement of secondary education.     But in all the

                                      appraisal reports it says that the primary education remains

                                      much to be desired and as a matter of fact, if you read the

                                      passages on what is said about primary education in those

                                      countries, it's really a matter of concern.

                                                   Now, Mr. Chairman, I am very much concerned --    I am

                                      much more concerned pken&ntly about primary education than

                                      I am about secondary education.     And I am very much concerned

                                      about the fact whether we are not trying to build the first

                                      floor and improve the first floor of a house before we have

                                      considered the basement at all.     And I think that's a basic

                                      consideration which is not limited to less developed

                                      countries.     It's a basic consideration going right through

                                      all countries of this world, and it's very much in the mind


                                 II
HOOVER REPORTING CO, INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20002           I
(202) 546-6666
      STRICTLY ("ONFIDENTIAL                                                              13




                              of many people nowadays what to do about primary education.

                              I think that's teally what we should be concerned about, to

                              give the best of any education at the earliest stage of a

                              child, and if considering what the priorities are, I would

                              say that the Bank as such should dedicate more attention to

                              the primary education, to the training of teachers for

                              primary education, and on top of that to adult education.

                                        One can find these priorities, these problems, as

                              I said, even in the richest country, and a few of us have

                              just recently had the opportunity to go to California on a

                              trip and we found there that even in the United States, the

                              facts are there that neglecting primary education costs an

                              enormous amount to the economy.

                                        Now, that leads me to the consideration and to

                              my little statement that I think the Bank should not try to

                              emphasize too much on secondary education but to help those

                              less-developed countries, and I think many developed countries

                              need help in this case, too, to improve,basically improve,

                              primary education, and especially teacher training for

                              primary education.   Because in my opinion, only the best

                              teachers should be available for primary education because

                              that's the age where the child is really formed and built.

                                       Thank you, Mr. Chairman.



HOOVER REPORTINC         IR

WashneLor., b.C. 200M2
(02) 4-666
     STRICTLY GONFIDENTIAL                                                               14




                                     MR.   McNAMARA:   Thank you,   Mr.   Wolf.

                                     Mr. Ballantine, would you comment on our attitude

                           toward primary education?

                                     MR. BALLANTINE:     Mr. Chairman, Members of the Board,

                           this   subject has had a long history in our dealing with

                           education, and at the beginning it was almost arbitrarily

                           excluded as not being one of the priorities.

                                     You will recall that in the submission of an

                           education policy paper a year ago last summer, the point was

                           made that we should not have a priori areas of eligibility

                           but that we should analyze the needs of the education training

                           sector as a whole and determine within the framework of the

                           Bank's major objectives, its declared objectives, what would

                           be the priority items.

                                     Now, I think the first thing we have to recognize

                           is that all of these countries we are dealing with have

                           extreme constraints, financial and resource constraints,

                           and that therefore the matter of priority is perhaps as

                           urgent in this sector as it is in any one, particularly

                           considering that investment is not revenue capturing, that

                           is to say, it requires a continued recurrent expenditure

                           in order to sustain the operation.       And this has to be our

                           guideline much more than the level of investment.




400OVEF, REPORTING CO,N,

Washingto!, D.C. 20002
(202) 546-6666
     STRICTLY (ONFIDENTIAL                                                           15




                                    That being so, we tried to approach the question

                           of priorities not in terms exclusively of building an

                           educational system, let alone a formal one.    As you know, we

                           are trying to broaden our view and take a look at the non-

                           formal and the formal together, but certainly not simply in

                           the sense of building up a formal education system.

                                     The point of reference that we prefer to use is

                           what will be the role that will be played, the economic or

                           in some cases the social role that will be played by a student

                           when he leaves that particular level of education.     And using

                           that and using the need to man the systems, both private and

                           public sector systems, of newly developed countries with

                           very poor stocks of manpower, we have to conclude that by

                           those strict criteria, primary education often has a lower

                           priority, in terms of enabling people to govern and manage

                           and operate the country effectively.

                                     Now, as our sector paper said recently when it was

                           presented to you last summer, we find that in certain countrie

                           there is a growing saturation or approaching th point of

                           saturation in secondary education.     We feel also that the new

                           objectives and trends in our thinking that are coming forward,

                           such as the maximizing, the distribution of income, and so

                           forth, call for a somewhat wider look, and we would feel, and I




400YER REFORTRIC      N,

Washingtr. DC. 2002
202) 546-6666
     STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL                                                          16




                     agree, I think, with Mr.   Wolf that primary education is

                     achieving a much higher priority in our thinking than it has

                     held in the past when we concentrated our attention more on

                     the secondary, on the technical, and vocational fields.

                               It's a question of how much the country can sustain

                     in terms of recurrent expenditure, what the vlume of our

                     investment is, what the degree of maturity of the system is,

                     andhow far we have gone in the direction of specifically

                     meeting manpower needs.

                               But I certainly, Mr. Chairman, would have no

                     argument whatsoever with the proposition that the gradual

                     extension of an improved --   and I underline an improved --

                     primary education should be a concern of ours.

                               I might add just one more point.      This Board did

                     agree, I believe, with a policy which was expressed in that

                     policy paper, and again in the sector paper, that we should

                     consider experimental projects in primary education which

                     gave promise of greater efficiency, relevance, or economy,

                     and we have begun to do that.    We still are approaching it

                     through primary teacher training primarily, but we would be

                     prepared to offer you projects which were experimental by the

                     description I have just given.

                               MR. McNA4ARA:    Thank you, Duncan.



 OOVER REPORTI546
              7666


,202) 546-6666
   STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL                                                      17




                            The problem varies in different countries.   In

               some countries with 90 percent enrollment of the primary

               age group in school, the problem is ensuring some reasonable

               degree of, I will call it, efficiency and relevance.      With

               dropout rates as high as 60 and 75 percent in some of these

               cases, the whole system is inefficient at the primary level

               and with relevance completely lacking because either the

               primary curriculum is directed toward movement of that entire

               group up into the secondary level which is impossible to

               finance in the area, or alternatively it does not prepare them

                for a terminal relationship to primary education.    Curricula

               revision is necessary.

                            In other areas, and Ethiopia is a good illustration

               with a very low rate of attendance in the primary schools,

               15 percent, I think, 85 percent of the primary aged group not

               attending school, the nonformal programs that Mr. Ballantine

               mentioned will become increasingly important.     As I think our

               Board knows, we have a research project under way now dealing

               with that subject.     We don't know how to deal with non-formal

               education.     I think we budgeted $250,000, something like that,

               included in the last budget that the Board reviewed last May.

               And I am very hopeful that project will throw some light on

               how to deal with a problem such as Ethiopia's.     It is a very




OOVEP RPORT


 :0)546-6666
     STRICTLY             ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                           18



                          common problem in developing countries where generations

                          have passed by primary school without exposure to it, and

                          not just past generations, but future generations are going to

                          be in that position because the resources of the nations will

                                                                                   to
                          not permit an expansion of the primary system sufficient

                          deal with the requirement of the people who don't go to those

                           schools.   So we have much further work to do on it.

                                      Duncan, did you wish to add something?

                                      MR.   BALLANTINE:   Mr.   Chairman, I just   wanted to

                           amplify your point about Ethiopia by way of illustration.

                                      In 1970-71, Ethiopia has about a 15 percent enroll-

                           ment of the primary age group.        It has 3.6 percent in the

                           secondary, and substantially less than one-half of one percent

                           in the higher education.       And it is spending 19 percent of

                           its total budget on education.        We have projected these

                           figures ahead to 1978, and we find that at that time, if

                           they achieve a level of 20 percent in primary enrollment,

                           of about 6 percent in secondary enrollment, and still less

                           than one-half of one percent in higher education enrollment,

                           they will then be spending 25 percent of their budget.              And

                           this rapid increase in the absorption of educational expenditure

                           the commitment to recurrent expenditure, I think, is a very

                           clear illustration of the problems that countries face if



HOOVER REPORTING "0, iF
320 Massanusetk A4c-q
Washingtop., 20002
0"02N 54-666
     STRICTLY GONFIDENTIAL                                                                    19




                                  they try to pursue meeting their educational needs through

                                  the conventional and costly system.

                                            MR. McNAMARA:    Therefore, there has to be an

                                  unconventional answer to this because I don't think any of

                                  us could visualize Ethiopia or the Ethiopias, because there

                                  are many of them, we just happen to remember those figures,

                                  in the 21st century being an effective nation with

                                  productive people with whatever it be, 80 percent of the

                                  60-year-old adults in the 21st century never having been

                                  exposed to primary education.    There must be some other

                                  answer and that's what we are searching for.

                                            Dr. Sen has reminded me I failed to address his

                                  second question.     I apologize, Dr. Sen, I was thinking so

                                  much of education I neglected to call on Mr. Chadenet to

                                  comment on your question regarding slicing and packaging for

                                  civil works.   Why haven't we done more of it in these

                                  projects, Bernard?

                                            DR. CHADENET:     In this slicing, we don't slice the

                                  projects because they are small, while we would slice the

                                  long highway into several elements which enable local

                                  contractors to bid on a contract which is in accordance with

                                  its ability;in the case of schools facilities, they are small,

                                  the units are small, therefore no need to slice them.




HOOVER REPORTINJG   CO,   f
30                        %a~~A
Washi-igtnn 0 .2000?
(202) 546-666
     STRICTLY (*ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                           20




                                       Now, why don't we package them?        In fact, we do.

                                       MR. McNAMARA:      You might comment on how we package

                             some of these educational projects.

                                       PR. CHADENET:      I think in this case I would like

                             Mr. Hammerschmidt to help me, but I think in this case we package

                             by groups of three to five schools.

                                       MR. McNAMARA:      Mr. Hammerschmidt, would you come

                             to the table.

                                       MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT:      Mr. Chairman, the map at the

                             back of the report will show how the schools are distributed

                             over the country,     and the Government would call for tenders

                             for two schools or three schools or four or five, as it is

                             practical in accordance with the distribution.

                                        So a builder would be able to bid for one school

                             or for five in    accordance with his capacity.

                                       MR.    McNAMARA:   Thank you,   sir.

                                        Dr. Mey.

                                        DR. MEY:    Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                        Mr. Chairman, let me enter into a slightly different

                             aspect of the project.

                                       Nigeria is a country in a rather special situation.

                             Due to the oil boom, the balance of payments prospect is very

                             good.   But at the same time the country is lacking the human




HOOVER REPORTING        IN
                        lO

Washington, DC. 20002
(202) 54C-666
     STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL                                                           21




                         resources needed to make adequate use of the excess external

                         resources.    Since this situation is to a certain extent

                         shared by some other countries, countries with large oil

                         and ore mineral resources, like Venezuela, I think it

                         deserves our careful consideration if we are to avoid a wastage

                         of resources and to promote an effective growth in those

                         countries.

                                   I think that for this country, Nigeria, the
                                                       the
                         present education project and / coming review of Bank financing

                         are two important steps in the right direction.     However,

                         although in paragraph 21, the paper recognizes that project

                         preparation and investment capacity are the major development

                         constraints, it looks like most of the burden of solving

                         this problem is on the Government side.

                                      I wonder if the Bank is playing or is going to

                         play a role more active than usual in identifying and prepari g

                         Government projetts in Nigeria, not only those to be

                         financed by the Bank, but also other projects which could take

                         advantage of the potential resource position?

                                      Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                      MR. McNAMARA:   Thank you.

                                      Mr. Chaufournier, would you comment on this, to

                         what extent is Nigeria penalized by a lack of capacity to



HOOVER REPORTIN-C C9-W
   Mass,-uet~~I
3120
Washington, DC 2000:
(202) 546-6660
      STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL                                                                     22




                                   prepare projects and what are we doing about it?

                                             MR. CHAUFOURNIER:   Well, I think it is our judgment

                                   that Nigeria is penalized by its inability to prepare a

                                   sufficient number of projects, and our willingness to help in

                                   this field has been known to Nigeria for some time.    Actually

                                   when we decided to establish a resident mission in Nigeria,

                                   we had in mind that this resident mission could do in

                                   Nigeria what the West African mission in Abidjan does     for

                                   other countries.

                                            .PJlAgahpm.h.   In discussing the matter with the

                                   Nigerians, they felt that immediately after the end of the

                                   war the problems of relations between the Federal Government

                                   and the States and the fact that responsibility for prepara-

                                   tion of projects was given to the individual States, it

                                   required for them to think out carefully their development

                                   plan before organizing substantial technical assistance in

                                   this field.   They agreed that the field of transportation,

                                   which was one very urgent in which they required our

                                   assistance, they would welcome Bank staff, and we are now

                                   stationing someone in Lagos for that:purpose.

                                             We have in mind to also help Nigeria in the field

                                   of agriculture particularly, and also in education, and these

                               .   are some of the questions we plan to discuss with the Nigeria




HOOVER REPORTING CO, INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20002         I
(202) 546-6666
    STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL                                                              23




                    Government in     the light of the conclusions of our economic

                    report.

                                As you have noted from the President's report, we

                    have not yet defined the final strategy vis-a-vis Nigeria,

                    this will come out of our discussions in our recent economic

                    mission.    But that   nission paid particular attention to the

                    point you have      raised, and we very much plan to help Nigeria

                    in   this area.

                                MR.   McNAMARA:   Thank you,   sir.

                                Are there other comments or questions?

                                Yes, Mr. Reynolds.

                                MR.   REYNOLDS:   Mr.   Chairman,     back on the question

                    of planning and priorities, we had one point.            We noticed

                    in paragraph 28 of your report there is a discussion of the

                    inadequacies of general educational planning in Nigeria.

                    The paragraph concludes with a notation that the Federal

                    Government is considering the establishment of a commission

                    of some kind to study the general educational system.             This

                    makes us wonder whether consideration was given to the

                    possibility of including provision for some such study in

                    this project.      Perhaps the question is now more relevant to

                    future projects.

                                MR. McNAMARA:     Mr. Pearce, would you comment on that,



HOOVER REFORTOW.3
     STRICTLY                    ONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                            24



                                 did -we consider providing funds to finance a review of the

                                 educational program?

                                                 MR.   PEARCE:     Yes,    sir.

                                                 UNESCO has recently looked at the educational

                                 sector     in    Nigeria last      year,         and for that reason we are

                                 not including any funds in               this     project for that purpose.

                                                 MR.   McNAMARA:     Is    there need for a national

                                 education study of the kind, for example, we financed in

                                 Malaysia?

                                                 MR. PEARCE:       I ask Mr. Burt to answer.

                                                 MR.   McNAMARA:     Yes.         Mr. Burt, would you comment

                                 on this?

                                                 MR. BURT:       Well, the study which UNESCO did last

                                 year is almost parallel to the one done in Malaysia.                     They

                                 put in a much bigger team, a very comprehensive group of

                                 people, and have produced quite a good report.                     So the work

                                 is   parallel to that done in Malaysia.

                                                 MR. McNAMARA:       Therefore, you did concluded it              k
                                 wasn't necessary to finance an additional study.

                                                 MR. BURT:       Well, this is quite a new idea for the

                                 Nigerians to provide this commission.                     They are only just

                                 talking about it now.             It's quite early in the day.

                                                 MR. McNAMARA:       Thank you.




HOOVER REPORTING CO, INC.
320 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20002
(202) 546-666
    STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                              25




                             Are there any other comments or questions?

                              If   not, we will consider the project approved and

                    move to Agenda Item No. 4, a proposed credit in the amount

                    of $7.2 million to Liberia for an education project.




Washngt    . C200
202) 546-6666
