LOAN NUMBER 2018 PE
Guarantee Agreement
(Power Engineering Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated&;           e                 , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2018 PE
GUARANEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            -                       , 1981,
between REPUBLIC OF PERU (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and Empresa Electricidad del Peru (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and Corporaci6n Financiera de Desarrollo,
S.A. - COFIDE the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million dollars
($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such
loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) among the terms and condit1ons set forth in the Loan
Agreement, the Bank has agreed to the relending by the Borrower
of different parts of the proceeds of the Loan severally to
ELECTROLIMA S.A. (hereinafter called ELECTROLIMA), to Energia
Hidroel&ctrica Andina (HIDRANDINA) S.A. (hereinafter called
HIDRANDINA) and to Empresa Minera del Centro del PerG S.A.
(hereinafter called CENTROMIN), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Bank and ELECTROLIMA and HIDRANDINA and
CENTROMIN, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the performance of obligations of ELECTROLIMA,
HIDRANDINA and CENTROMIN under the Project Agreement;
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, and into the
Project Agreement with ELECTROLIMA and HIDRANDINA and CENTROMIN,
has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower, of
ELECTROLIMA, of HIDRANDINA and of CENTROMIN;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with


﻿-2-
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preambles to this Agreement, to the
Loan Agreement and to the Project Agreement, and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement, and the punctual performance of
all the obligations of ELECTROLIMA, HIDRANDINA and CENTROMIN
as set forth in the Project Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower or to any of
the Entities will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures
required for the carrying out of Parts A and E of the Project, in
the case of the Borrower, Part B of the Project, in the case of
ELECTROLIMA, Part C of the Project, in the case of HIDRANDINA,
and Part D of the Project, in the case of CENTROMIN, to make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the
Borrower or ELECTROLIMA, or HIDRANDINA or CENTROMIN, as the case
may be, or cause the Borrower or ELECTROLIMA, or HIDRANDINA or
CENTROMIN, as the case may be, to be provided with such funds as
are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿-3-
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
.(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor shall, by June 30, 1982,
take all such action as shall be necessary, including amending,
if required, Resoluci6n 146-81-EM/DGE of the Guarantor's
Minister of Energy and Mines: (i) to transfer to the Borrower
all powers vested on and responsibilities given to, from time
to time, the Guarantor's Direcci6n General de Electricidad
(hereinafter called DGE) for purposes of electric power subsector
planning; and (ii) to commence the assignment to the Borrower of


﻿all such staff and resources, including equipment and funds, as
will have been assigned to DGE from time to time for such pur-
poses.
(b) The Guarantor shall take all action required under
paragraph (a) of this Section in a timely fashion so as to enable
the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Section 3.03
of the Loan Agreement, including completion, by December 31, 1982,
of the assignment of staff and resources mentioned in the pre-
ceding paragraph.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Economia, Finanzas y Comercio
of the Guarantor and the Director General de Cr&dito Pfblico of
the Guarantor's Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce are
severally designated as representatives of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Economia
Finanzas y Comercio
Avenida Abancay 5 ta cuadra
Lima
Perd
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINDEF                                  20176 PU
Lima, Perd                              MINDEF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-5-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of
Lima, PeruG, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Senior Vice President
Operations


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of      ., 198 L.
SECRETARY


