LOAN NUMBER 2018 PE
Project Agreement
(Power Engineering Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ELECTROLIMA S.A.
and
ENERGIA HIDROELECTRICA ANDINA (HIDRANDINA) S.A.
and
EMPRESA MINERA DEL CENTRO DEL PERU S.A.
Dated                            , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2018 PE
PROJET AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and ELECTROLIMA S.A. (hereinafter called ELECTRO-
LIMA) and ENERGIA HIDROELECTRICA ANDINA (HIDRANDINA) S.A. (herein-
after called HIDRANDINA) and EMPRESA MINERA DEL CENTRO DEL PERU
S.A. (hereinafter called CENTROMIN).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between EMPRESA ELECTRICIDAD DEL PERU (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that ELECTROLIMA, HIDRANDINA and CENTROMIN (hereinafter sometimes
collectively referred to as the Entities) agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by subsidiary loan contracts to be entered into between
the Borrower and each of the Entities, different portions of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
made available to each of them on the terms and conditions therein
set forth; and
WHEREAS the Entities, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to under-
take the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble thereto, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts B, C and D the Project
Section 2.01.(a) ELECTROLIMA, HIDRANDINA and CENTROMIN
shall severally carry out Parts B, C and D, respectively of


﻿-2-
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices.
(b) For purposes of the carrying out of Part B of the
Project, ELECTROLIMA shall enter with the Borrower into the
ELECTROLIMA Subsidiary Loan Contract.
(c) For purposes of the carrying out of Part C of the
Project, RIDRANDINA shall enter with the Borrower into the
HIDRANDINA Subsidiary Loan Contract.
(d) For purposes of the carrying out of Part D of the
Project, CENTROMIN shall enter with the Borrower into the
CENTROMIN Subsidiary Loan Contract.
(e) Each of the Entities shall exercise its rights under
the applicable Subsidiary Loan Contract in such manner as to
protect its interests and those of the Guarantor, the Bank and the
Borrower. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, none of the
Entities shall take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the applic-
able Subsidiary Loan Contract or any provision thereof.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist ELECTROLIMA in the
carrying out of Part B of the Project, ELECTROLIMA shall employ
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist HIDRANDINA in the carrying out of
Part C of the Project, HIDRANDINA shall employ engineering consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) In order to assist CENTROMIN in the carrying out of
Part D of the Project, CENTROMIN shall employ engineering consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) Each of the Entities shall cooperate fully with such
consultants in the performance of their services for the Project
and make available to them all information relevant to the
Project.


﻿-3-
(e) Each of the Entities shall cause the consultants
employed by it for purposes of the Project promptly to furnish to
the Bank and the Borrower copies of the documents prepared by them
for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof, plans,
designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates of costs, in
such number as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(f) With respect to the evaluation and putting int.o effect
of the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the
documents referred to in the preceding paragraph:
(i) during the carrying out of the Project, each of the
Entities and the Bank shall from time to time
exchange views on said recommendations and
conclusions;
(ii) upon completion of each of the components of Part B
of the Project, ELECTROLIMA shall consult with the
Bank on the recommendations and conclusions relat-
ing thereto;
(iii) upon completion of each of the components of Part
C of the Project, HIDRANDINA shall consult with the
Bank on the recommendations and conclusions relat-
ing thereto; and
(iv) upon completion of Part D of the Project, CENTROMIN
shall consult with the Bank on the recommendations
and conclusions relating thereto and, in agreement
with the Bank, shall initiate the carrying out of
the project engineered thereunder in the light of
such recommendations and conclusions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, each of
the Entities shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Entities shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Part of the Project for the carrying out of which such Entity
is responsible, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿-4-
(b) Each of the Entities: (i) shall maintain records and
procedures, including separate accounts for the Part of the
Project for the carrying out of which such Entity is responsible,
adequate to record and monitor the progress of such Part of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose their use in
such Part of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the sites related to such Part of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to it by the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning such Part of the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by each of the Entities of any contract
for goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, the Bank may publish a
description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom
the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of each Part of the Project,
but in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between each
of the Entities in respect of the Part of the Project for the
carrying out of which such Entity is responsible, and the Bank,
each of the Entities shall prepare and furnish to the Bank and the
Borrower a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of such Part of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by it and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement, the per-
formance by it and the Borrower of their respective obligations
under the applicable Subsidiary Loan Contract and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) Each of the Entities shall enable the Bank's representa-
tives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, build-
ings, property and equipment of such Entity and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Entities shall, at the request
of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the


﻿-5-
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the applicable Subsidiary Loan
Contract and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Each of the Entities shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes or thraatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan., or the performance by such Entity of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the applicable Subsidiary Loan Contract.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of each of the Entities
Section 3.01. Each of ELECTROLIMA, HIDRANDINA and CENTROMIN
shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations in
accordance with the ELECTROLIMA Charter, the HIDRANDINA Charter
and the CENTROMIN Charter, respectively, and with appropriate
administrative, business, financial, engineering, and public
utility practices, under the supervision of experienced and
competent management assisted by experienced and competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. (a) Each of the Entities shall at all times
take all steps necessary to maintain its legal existence and right
to carry on operations, including, without limitation, the Part of
the Project for the carrying out of which such Entity is respon-
sible and shall, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses,
consents., franchises or other rights as may be necessary or useful
for its operations (including such Part of the Project).
(b) The Borrower shall take all such action, including the
provision of funds and resources, as shall be necessary to ensure
that its facilities, equipment and property, are adequately oper-
ated, maintained, renewed and repaired.
(c) Except as the Ba-nk shall otherwise agree, none of the
Entities shall sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of its property or assets which shall be required for the
efficient operation of its business and undertaking, including the
Part of the Project for the carrying out of-which the Entity in
question is responsible.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. Each of the Entities shall take and cause to be
taken all action as shall be required to ensure that its opera-
tions, including the Part of the Project for the carrying out of
which such Entity is responsible, are carried out in conformity
with appropriate pollution control and ecological standards.
Section 3.04. Each of the Entities shall take out and main-
tain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satis-
factory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Each of the Entities shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. Each of the Entities shall: (i) have its
accounts, including the accounts referred to in Section 2.04 (b)
(i) of this Agreement, and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements and of
the accounts referred to in Section 2.04 (b) (i) of this Agree-
ment, for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of such Entity and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of each of the Entities thereunder shall terminate on
the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify the Entities
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ELECTROLIMA:
ELECTROLIMA, S.A.
Jir6n Lima 261
Lima 1
Lima, Perfi
Telex:
39420057


﻿For HIDRANDINA:
Energia Hidroelfctrica Andina
(HIDRANDINA S.A.)
Ave. Central 717, 8-o Piso - B
Lima 27
Lima, PerGi
Cable address:                     Telex:
HIDRANDINA                     20458 PE AJPANDIN
For CENTROMIN:
Empresa Minera del Centrol del Peri
Ave. Javier Prado Este - Cuadra 21 s/n
Casilla Correo No. 4547
Lima 1
Lda, PerG
Telex:
20009 PE CENTROMIN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ELECTROLIMA, or by ELECTROLIMA
on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken
or executed by the Board of Directors or such other person
or persons as the Board of Directors shall designate in writing,
and ELECTROLIMA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of HIDRANDINA, or by HIDRANDINA on behalf
of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed
by the Board of Directors or such other person or persons as


﻿-9-
the Board of Directors shall designate in writing, and HIDRANDINA
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.04. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of CENTROMIN, or by CENTROMIN on behalf
of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed
by the Executive President of the Board of Directors or such other
person or persons as the Executive President of the Board of
Directors shall designate in writing, and CENTROMIN shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.05. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
City of Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Senior Vice President
Operations
ELECTROLIMA S.A.
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
ENERGIA HIDROELECTRICA ANDINA (HIDRANDINA)
S.A.
By
Authorized Representative
EMPRESA MINERA DEL CENTRO DEL PERU S.A.
By
Authorized Representative


I N T E R N A T I O N A L   B A N K   F O R   R E C O N S T R U C T I O N   A N D   D E V E L O P M E N T 
C E R T I F I C A T E 
I   h e r e b y   c e r t i f y   t h a t   t h e   f o r e g o i n g   i s   a   t r u e 
c o p y   o f   t h e   o r i g i n a l   i n   t h e   a r c h i v e s   o f   t h e   I n t e r n a - 
t i o n a l   B a n k   f o r   R e c o n s t r u c t i o n   a n d   D e v e l o p - 
m e n t . 
I n   w i t n e s s   w h e r e o f   I   h a v e   s i g n e d   t h i s   C e r t i f i - 
c a t e   a n d   a f f i x e d   t h e   S e a l   o f   t h e   B a n k   t h e r e u n t o 
t h i s     /   ?           d a y   o f             ,   1 9 8   L . 
4 S E C R E T A R Y 


