OFFICIAL
DOCUNTS     LOAN NUMBER 2018 PE
Loan Agreement
(Power Engineering Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL RANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA ELECTRICIDAD DEL PERU S.A.
and
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO, S.A. - COFIDE
Dated            140       / ?    , 1981


﻿LOAN NU,EE 2018 PE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    I4                       , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and EMPRESA ELECTRICIDAD DEL PERU S.A. (herein-
after called the Borrower) and CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE
DESARROLLO, S.A. - COFIDE (hereinafter called COFIDE).
(A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) Parts A and E of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower or any successor thereto and Parts B, C and D of the
Project will be carried out by ELECTROLIMA S.A. or any succes-
sor thereto (hereinafter called ELECTROLIMA), by Energia Elictrica
Andina (HIDRANDINA) S.A. or any successor thereto (hereinafter
called HIDRANDINA), and by Empresa Minera del Centro del Peri
S.A. or any successor thereto (hereinafter called CENTROMIN),
respectively, with the Borrower's assistance; as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to ELECTROLIMA,
HIDRANDINA and CENTROMIN the proceeds of the Loan allocated for
purposes of the carrying out of Parts B, C and D of the Project,
respectively, as hereinafter provided;
(C) COFIDE has participated in the negotiation of this
Agreement and has discharged all of its other responsibilities as
financial agent of the Borrower pursuant to the Decreto Legis-
lativo No. 5 of the Republic of Peri published in El Peruano on
December 31, 1980; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and ELECTROLIMA
and HIDRANDINA and CENTROMIN;
NOW THEREFORE the partie3 hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and


﻿-2-
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preambles to this Agreement and to
the Project and Guarantee Agreements have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a) "ELECTROLIMA Subsidiary Loan Contract" means the con-
tract referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(b) "HIDRANDINA Subsidiary Loan Contract" means the contract
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(c) "CENTROMIN Subsidiary Loan Contract" means the contract
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Contract" means any one of the con-
tracts referred to in the preceding paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for under a
Subsidiary Loan Contract;
(e) "Borrower's Charter" means the Guarantor's Legislative
Decree No. 41, published in El Peruano on March 5, 1981, as
amended by the Guarantor's Legislative Decree No. 61, published
in El Peruano on March 25, 1981, and the term includes all legal
provisions mentioned or referred to in Article 5 of such Decree
No. 41 and such provisions of the Guarantor's Legislative Decree
No. 40, published in El Peruano on March 5, 1981, as are applic-
able to the Guarantor's electric power subsector, and Estatutos
means the public deed incorporating the Borrower as approved by
Decreto Supremo 007-EM/SG dated May 31, 1981, and published in
El Peruano on May 18, 1981;
(f) "ELECTROLIMA'S Charter" means the public deed No. 506,
dated August 24, 1906, incorporating the company, and the term
includes the estatutos thereof adopted under such public deed, as
amended by public deed No. 3393, dated December 6, 1976, and as
further amended thereafter solely to increase the capital social;
(g) "HIDRANDINA'S Charter" means the public deed No. 1417,
dated November 22, 1946, incorporating the company, and the term


﻿-3-
includes the estatutos thereof, adopted under such public deed, as
amended as of October 10, 1973, and as further amended thereafter
solely to increase the capital social;
(h) "CENTROMIN'S Charter" means the Guarantor's Decree-Law
No. 21117 published in El Peruano on March 15,1975, and the term
includes the company's estatutos as approved by the Guarantor's
Supreme Decree 026-80-EM/DGM published in El Peruano on July 14,
1980;
(i) "Master Plan" means the plan for future generation
and transmission additions in the north-central interconnected
electric power system of the Guarantor, prepared under Part B 1
(b) of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement
betweea the Guarantor and the Bank dated September 20, 1976, as
such plan has been amended, as of the date of this Agreement,
to include future generation and transmission additions to the
overall electric power system of the Guarantor and as it is to
be updated pursuant to Section 4.05 of this Agreement;
(j) "Entity" means any one of ELECTROLIMA, HIDRANDINA or
CENTROMIN;
(k) "Borrower" means the Borrower and any successor
thereto, "ELECTROLIMA" means ELECTROLIMA and any successor there-
to; "HIDRANDINA" means HIDRANDINA and any successor thereto and
"CENTROMIN" means CENTROMIN and any successor thereto; and
(1) "Subsidiary" means any company, including filiales and
subsidiarias, of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock
or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled
by the Borrower, and the term includes any company of which a
majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary
interest is owned or effectively controlled by any one or more
Subsidiaries or by the Borrower and one or more Subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
Section 2.03. Except is the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for Part E of the Project shall
be purchased through normal trade channels at the market price,
taking into account other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability of such goods and,
when applicable, availability of maintenance facilities, spare
parts and services therefor.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Board of Directors of ELECTROLIMA,
the Board of Directors of HIDRANDINA and the Executive President
of the Board of Directors of CENTROMIN, or the person or persons
aut'Trized by each of them, are designated as representatives
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02


﻿-5-
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, in
respect of Parts B, C and D of the Project, respectively.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and E
of the Project and cause ELECTROLIMA, HIDRANDINA and CENTROMIN
to carry out Parts B, C and D of the Project, respectively,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
(b) For purposes of the preceding paragraph the Borrower
shall enter with:
(i) ELECTROLIMA, into a Subsidiary Loan Contract
(hereinafter called the ELECTROLIMA Subsidiary Loan
Contract) whereby ELECTROLIMA will borrow from the
Borrower, for purposes of carrying out Part B of
the Project, the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Category (3) of the table set
forth in Part 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(hereinafter called the Table);
(ii) HIDRANDINA, into a      Subsidiary Loan Contract
(hereinafter called the HIDRANDINA Subsidiary Loan
Contract) whereby HIDRANDINA will borrow, from the
Borrower, for purposes of carrying out Part C of
the Project, the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Category (4) of the Table;
and
(iii) CENTROMIN, into a Subsidiary Loan Contract (herein-
after called the CENTROMIN Subsidiary Loan Con-
tract) whereby CENTROMIN will borrow from the
Borrower, for purposes of carrying out Part D of
the Project, the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to Category (5) of the Table.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the terms and
conditions of each Subsidiary Loan Contract shall be satisfactory
to the Bank, and shall include the following:


﻿-6-
(i) all provisions of this Agreement and the General
Conditions concerning repayment of principal of,
and payment of interest and other charges on, the
Loan, shall apply mutatis mutandis to the repayment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, each Subsidiary Loan;
(ii) each withdrawal from the Loan Account for purposes
of the carrying out of Parts B or C or D of the
Project made pursuant to Section 2.09 of this
Agreement sh&l be deemed a disbursement in respect
of the corresponding Subsidiary Loan under the
applicable Subsidiary Loan Contract; and
(iii) each payment to the Borrower under each Subsidiary
Loan Contract shall be made sufficiently in advance
of the applicable payment date under this Agree-
ment, so as to enable the Borrower to utilize the
proceeds of such payment to discharge in a timely
fashion its obligations under this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
ELECTROLIMA Subsidiary Loan Contract, the HIDRANDINA Subsidiary
Loan Contract and the CENTROMIN Subsidiary Loan Contract in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Guarantor, the Bank and
the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. Except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any of such Subsidiary Loan Contracts or
any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out Parts A and
E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ qualified and
experienced consultants acceptable to the Bank, under contracts,
including terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consultants
in the performance of their services for the Project and make
available to them all information relevant to the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause such consultants promptly
to furnish to the Bank copies of the documents prepared by
them for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof,
plans, designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates of
costs, in such number as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 7 -
(d) With respect to the evaluation and putting into effect
of the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the
documents referred to in the preceding paragraph:
(i) during the carrying out of Parts A and E of the
Project, the Borrower and the Bank shall from time
to time exchange views on said recommendations and
conclusions;
(ii) upon completion of Part A.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall consult with the Bank on the recom-
mendations and conclusions relating thereto and, in
agreement with the Bank, shall initiate the carry-
ing out of the project engineered under Part A.1 of
the Project in the light of such recommendations
and conclusions; and
(iii) upon completion of each component of Part A of the
Project, other than Part A.1, the Borrower shall
consult with the Bank on the recommendations and
conclusions related thereto.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part E of
the Project:
(i) take, until June 30, 1982, all such action as shall
be necessary on its part to cooperate with the
Guarantor's Direcci6n General de Electricidad so
as to enable the latter to exercise its powers and
discharge its responsibilities, both in respect of
electric power sub-sector planning;
(ii) take, by June 30, 1982, all such action as shall
be necessary on its part: (A) to establish the
planning unit, including such action as shall be
necessary to enable the Guarantor to comply with
its obligations under Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of the
Guarantee Agreement; (B) to agree with the Bank on
the equipment to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and required for the operation of the
Unit; and (C) to start the operation of such unit
with an organizational structure and under operat-
ing guidelines, both satisfactory to the Bank;
and


﻿- 8 -
(iii) by December 31, 1982, complete the purchase of the
equipment required for the operation of the unit,
other than equipment which may have been acquired
from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.02 (a)
(ii) of the Guarantee Agreement, and the staffing
of such unit, both in a fashion consistent with the
structure and guidelines referred to in (ii) (C)
above, and deliver to the Bank, for approval, a
training program for such unit's staff and, after
such approval is given, carry out the program as
approved.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards ricident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the reports, contract documents
and procurement schedules for Parts A and E of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures,
including separate accounts for each Part of the Project, adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Parts A and E of the Project
(including their cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from them), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in such
Parts of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
related to such Parts of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning such Parts of the Project, their cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from them, the


﻿-9-
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds and the Master Plan.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Parts A and E of the
Project, but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and, where
applicable, initial operation of Parts A and E of the Project,
their cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from them,
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations in accordance with the Borrower's
Charter and Estatutos and with appropriate administrative, busi-
ness, financial, engineering, and public utility practices under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times take all
steps necessary to maintain its legal existence and right to carry
on operations, including, without limitation, Parts A and E of the
Project, and shall, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, take
all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses,
consents, franchises or otler rights as may be necessary or useful
for its operations (including such Parts of the Project).


﻿- 10 -
(b) The Borrower shall take all such action, including the
provision of funds and resources, as shall be necessary to ensure
that its facilities, equipment and property, including the unit to
be established under Part E of the Project, are adequately oper-
ated and maintained, and where applicable, repaired and renewed.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking, including Parts A and
E of the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take and cause to be taken
all action as shall be required to ensure that its operations,
including Parts A and E of the Project, are carried out in confor-
mity with appropriate pollution control and ecological standards.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall update the Master Plan
not less frequently than semiannually until December 31, 1983 and
not less frequently than annually thereafter.
(b) Any updating of the Master Plan pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be made with due regard to all economic,
financial and technical aspects related thereto and, in parti-
cular, taking into account the findings, conclusions and recom-
mendations of all studies carried out under the Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause any Subsidiary it may
create or establish to observe and perform the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement to the extent to which such obliga-
tions shall or can be applicable thereto, as if such obligations
were binding upon such Subsidiary.
AATICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts,
including the accounts referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this
Agreement, and financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenses and related statements), and the
accounts and financial statements of the Subsidiaries for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements, the accounts referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of
this Agreement and the accounts and financial statements of the
Subsidiaries, for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on ary of its assets as
security for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on
any assets of the Borrower or a Subsidiary as security for any
debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan, and in the creation of any such lien express provision
will be made to that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and
(ii) if any staLatory lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower or of any Subsidiary as security for any debt, the
Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien
satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or ELECTROLIMA or HIDRANDINA or CENTROMIN
shall have failed to perform any of its respective obligations
under a Subsidiary Loan Contract;
(b) ELECTROLIMA or HIDRANDINA or CENTROMIN shall have failed
to perform any of its respective obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that any of ELECTROLIMA or HIDRANDINA or
CENTROMIN will be able to perform its respective obligations under
the Project Agreement;
(d) the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ELECTROLIMA or HIDRANDINA or CENTROMIN or for the suspen-
sion of its respective operations, or the Borrower or ELECTROLIMA
or HIDRANDINA or CENTROMIN shall have passed any resolution for
its respective dissolution or liquidation;
(e) any action or proceeding shall have been taken by an
Entity or by others whereby any of the assets of such Entity shall
or may be distributed among its creditors; and
(f) a change in (A) the Borrower's Charter or its Estatutos
or ELECTROLIMA's Charter or HIDRANDINA's Charter or CENTROMIN's
Charter or (B) the legislation of the Guarantor, shall have
occurred which shall materially and adversely affect the ability
of the Borrower or ELECTROLIMA or HIDRANDINA or CENTROMIN to carry
out its respective covenants, agreements and obligations set forth
in the Loan or Project Agreement, as the case may be.
For the purposes of this paragraph the term "change in
the legislation of the Guarantor" shall mean any change (includ-
ing, but without limitation, any amendment or repeal of, or
failure to carry out or enforce, any such legislation) in the
entire body of legislation of the Guarantor (including, but


﻿- 13 -
without limitation, all constitutional provisions, statutes, laws,
legislative decrees, decree-laws, executive decrees, including
Supreme Decrees, and regulations, and any other legal provisions
of a similar nature) directly or indirectly relating to the
carrying on of the business of the Borrower or of any of the
Entities and the determination and adjustment of the rates for the
sale of electricity of the Borrower or of any of the Entities.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) or
paragraph (f) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that this Agreement has been duly registered by
Direcci6n General de Credito Pfblico of the Guarantor's
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce;
(b) that the Project Agreement has been executed and
delivered on behalf of the Bank and ELECTROLIMA and HIDRANDINA and
CENTROMIN and that such execution and delivery have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate
action; and
(c) that the estatutos have been duly registered with the
Guarantor's Registro Mercantil de los Registros PGblicos de Lima
and that the execution and delivery of the Loan Agreement and
supplemental letters thereto have been ratified by an extra-
ordinary meeting of the Borrower's Shareholders within 90 days
following such registration.


﻿-14-
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that this Agreement has been registered by Direcci6n
General de Cr6dito Piblico of the Guarantor's Ministry of
Economy, Finance and Commerce;
(b) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, ELECTROLIMA,
HIDRANDINA and CENTROMIN, and is legally binding upon ELECTROLIMA,
HIDRANDINA and CENTROMIN in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the Borrower has been duly established as a corpo-
ration (Sociedad An6nima) under the laws of the Guarantor, that
the Estatutos have been duly registered with the Guarantor's
Registro Mercantil de los Registros PGiblicos de Lima and that
the meeting of shareholders referred to in Section7.02 (c) of
this Agreement has been legally held and has legally ratified the
execution and delivery of the Loan Agreement and the supplemental
letters thereto.
Section 7.03. The date s/    442 41/9        is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 15 -
For the Borrower:
ELECTROPERU
Paseo de la Repfiblica 144
Lima
Perd
Cable address:                      Telex:
ELECTROPERU                        25680 PE
Lima, Peri
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, and COFIDE in the
role described in the preamble to this Agreement, all acting
through their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the City of Lima, Perfi, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Senior Vice President
Operations
EMPRESA ELECTRICIDAD DEL PERU, S.A.
By
Authorized Representative
CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO, S.A.
- COFIDE
By
Authorized Representative
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Consultant services           13,700,000       100% of for-
for Parts A and E of                          eign expendi-
the Project and                               tures and 90%
training abroad under                         of local ex-
Part E of the Project                         penditures
(2) Goods and services               300,000       100% of for-
related thereto for                           eign expendi-
Part E of the Project                         tures
(3) Consultant services              700,000   )
for Part B of the                         )
Project                                   )
)    100% of for-
(4) Consultant services            2,000,000   )    eign expendi-
for Part C of the                         )    tures and 90%
Project                                   )    of local ex-
)    penditures
(5) Consultants services           2,500,000   )
for Part D of the                         )
Project
(6) Unallocated                    5,800,000
TOTAL         25,000,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
cr services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $2,200,000 may be made in respect of
any Category on account of payments made for expenditures for
purposes of the Project before that date but after December 31,
1980;
(b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Category 3
unless evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to the
Bank showing that the ELECTROLIMA Subsidiary Loan Contract has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and ELECTROLIMA including
an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of Counsel accep-
table to the Bank or, if the Bank shall so request, a certificate
satisfactory to the Bank of a competent official of the Borrower
showing, on behalf of the Borrower and ELECTROLIMA that the
ELECTROLIMA Subsidiary Loan Contract has been duly authorized and
ratified and executed on behalf of the Borrower and ELECTROLIMA,
and is legally binding thereupon in accordance with its terms;


﻿- 18 -
(c) payments made for expenditures in respect of Category 4
unless evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to the
Bank showing that the HIDRANDINA Subsidiary Loan Contract has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and HIDRANDINA including
an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of Counsel accep-
table to the Bank or, if the Bank shall so request, a certificate
satisfactory to the Bank of a competent official of the Borrower
showing, on behalf of the Borrower and HIDRANDINA that the
HIDRANDINA Subsidiary Loan Contract has been duly authorized and
ratified and executed on behalf of the Borrower and HIDRANDINA
and is legally binding thereupon in accordance with its terms;
and
(d) payments made for expenditures in respect of Category 5
unless evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to the
Bank showing that the CENTROMIN Subsidiary Loan Contract has
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and CENTROMIN including
an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of Counsel accep-
table to the Bank or, if the Bank shall so request, a certificate
satisfactory to the Bank of a competent official of the Borrower
showing, on behalf of the Borrower and CENTROMIN that the
CENTROMIN Subsidiary Loan Contract has been duly authorized and
ratified and executed on behalf of the Borrower and CENTROMIN
and is legally binding thereupon in accordance with its terms.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or


﻿- 19 -
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Studies to be prepared by the Borrower
1.   Expansion of existing feasiblity studies to determine
the generating capacity of, and final design and pre-
paration of tender documents for, a hydroelectric
project called El Chorro with a generating capacity of
about 200 to 300 MW.
2.   (i) Feasibility study of and (ii), if warranted, final
design and preparation of tender documents for, works on
the Rio Santa upstream of the existing Call6n del
Pato hydroelectric plant to provide improved water
storage and regulation facilities therefor.
3.   (i) Feasibility study of and (ii), if warranted, final
design and preparation of tender documents for, a hydro-
electric project called Quishuarani, with a generating
capacity of about 30 MW.
4.   Pre-feasibility studies of hydroelectric projects on
the Rio Huaura, with a generating capacity of, in the
aggregate, about 340 MW.
5.   Review of the existing feasibility study of the Olmos
power/irrigation project in order to confirm the
viability thereof.
6.   Feasibility study of a hydroelectric project called
Molloco, with a generating capacity of about 200 to
300 MW.
7.   Feasibility study of a hydroelectric project called
Platanal, with a generating capacity of about 80 MW.
8.   Feasibility study of works on the Rio Chili upstream of
the existing Charcani hydroelectric plant to provide
improved water storage and regulation facilities
therefor.


﻿- 21 -
9.   (i) Completion of studies in progress to determine the
feasibility of and (ii), if warranted, final design and
preparation of tender documents for, the Trujillo-
Chiclayo-Piura transmission line to complete the inter-
connection of the Guarantor's central-north electric
power system.
10.   (i) Feasibility study of and (ii), if warranted, final
design and preparation of tender documents for, a
thermal power station with a capacity of about 200 MW,
in a location yet to be determined, which will generate
power for the Guarantor's north-central interconnected
power system.
Part B:   Studies to be prepared by ELECTROLIMA
1.   (i) Completion of studies in progress to determine the
feasibility of and (ii), if warranted, preparation of
final design and tender documents for, adding hourly
water-storage capacity to the existing Matucana hydro-
electric plant.
2.   (i) Completion of studies in progress to determine the
feasibility of and (ii), if warranted, preparation of
final design and tender documents for, a reservoir at
Yuracmayo on the Rio Rimac upstream of the plant
referred to in B.1 above.
Part C:   Studies to be prepared by HIDRANDINA
1.   (i) Completion of studies in progress to determine the
feasibility of and (ii), if warranted, final design and
preparation of tender documents for, works on the Rio
Pativilca upstream of the existing Cahua hydroelectric
plant (Cahua I) to provide improved water storage and
regulation facilities therefor.
2.   Feasibility study of a hydroelectric project called
Cahua II, with a generating capacity of about 40 MW.
Part D:   Study to be prepared by CENTROMIN
Final design and preparation of tender documents for a
hydroelectric project called Yuncan, with a generating
capacity of about 120 MW.


﻿- 22 -
Part E:   Planning Unit within the Borrower
Establishment and operation of a planning unit within
the Borrower with full responsibility for electric power
subsector planning, including purchase and utilization
of equipment therefor, additional to the equipment to be
transferred to the Borrower under Section 3.02 of the
Guarantee Agreement, training of such unit's staff; and
provision of technical assistance thereto.
T  P                            *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1986
through  March 1, 1998                      960,000
On September 1, 1998                           1,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-24-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.70%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                     3.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     6.20%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                               8.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                     9.60%


﻿/I
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /       day of         198   .
*4    SECETARY


