Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6809
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
MWANZA/SHINYANGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 803-TA/LOAN 2-TAN (IFAD)
May 29, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
CCM      Chama cha Mapinduzi (the sole political party of Tanzania'
DADO     District Agricultural Development Officer
DDD      District Development Director
DUCDO    District Ujamaa and Cooperative Development Officer
IDA      International Development Association
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
LC       Livestock Development Center
NMC      National Milling Corporation
PCS      Project Coordinating Section
PMO      Prime Minister's Office
RADO     Regional Agricultural Development Officer
RDC      Regional Development Committee
RDD      Regional Development Director
REO      Regional Evaluation Officer
RHC      Rural Health Center
RPLO     Regional Planning Officer
TCA      Tanzania Cotton Authority
TLMC     Tanzania Livestock Marketing Company
TRDB     Tanzania Rural Development Bank
UPE      Universal Primary Education
VIC      Veterinary Investigation Center
VSHP     Village Self-Help Program
WUCDO    Ward Ujamaa and Cooperative Development Officer



pOR OFFCI4L W   CLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
04ke of Dret-Comtal
Opsoatuun frAmkatnn
May 29, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Tanzania Mwanza/Shinyanga
Rural Development Project (Credit 803-TA/Loan 2-TAN)(IFAD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Tanzania Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development
Project (Credit 803-TA/Loan 2-TAN) (IFAD)" prepared by the Eastern and
Southern Africa Regional Office. Further evaluation of this project by
the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
Ram K. Chopra
for Yves Rovani
This document has a resitric  distribution and may be use by roipionts only in the6woruc
of their offlcia duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be dbcbsed without World Bo   utJn



PROJECT COMPLZTION REPORT
TANZANIA
MWANZAISHINYANGA RURAL DEMVLOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 803-TAILoan 2-TAN (IFAD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface .......................                           i
Basic Data Sheet .............    ....................**.   ii
Evaluation S-u^ary .......... ...   ......... ...........   i
Overview  * .......................................    1
I.   Introduction ............................. 
II.   History and Outlook at Appraisal ...........    1
III.   Project Components      .........      .....    3
IV.   General Cnommentary.  o..... ........ ...........   11
VOLUME It MAIN REPORT
CHAPTER Is PROJECT FORMULATION AND APPRAISAL .......   14
Introduction ...........  ................   14
Project Origin        ......... .           14
The Project Area........................   15
Project Identification and Preparation .   15
Preparation ................ ............   16
Bank Appraisal .................... . .*.    18
Co-financing and Negotiations ...........   19
Approval and Effectiveness ..............    20
CHAPTER IIs  SUMMARY OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIONS ....   21
CHAPTER IIIt  INSTITUTIONAL PERORM NCE .............   28
Project Management and Organisation ....   28
Project Monitoring and Evaluation ......   30
The Central Evaluation Unit ...........   30
Government Performance    ................    31
Tanzania Rural Development Bank .......  32
Funding Agencies - World Bank and
IFAD Performance .............. .....    32
CHAPTER IVs ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE         .................  35
Introduction ...........................  35
Livestoek Component       ....................   37
Roads Component ..........................     Is
Forestry Component       .....................   39
Economic Analysis    66..-.*.* .6.6....   40



Pate No.
CHAPTER Vs CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........   41
Introduction ......................   41
Project Design ....... ......    ...........   41
Project Management and Organisation  ....  42
Procurement..............................e   43
Agriculture .......................           3
Extension and Training ............... ... 43
Cassava and Sweet Potato Research   ......  44
'VTllage Verification Trials ..... .......   44
Land Use Planning .......  ..............  .   45
Seeds Subcomponent ........0.............    45
Livestock Component       .....................   45
Forestry Component       .....................   46
Roads Component .*      ......................   47
The Village Self Help Program    ..........  47
Project Financing   ......................    48
VOLUME Il: EVALUATIOY BY COMPONENT
(Availabla upon request)
Annex I:  Comments from IFAD .....      ..................   54
Maps IBRD 13156 and 13157



TANZANIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MWANZAISHINYANGA RURAL DEMVLOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 803-TA/LOAN 2-TAN (IFAD)
PREFACE
i.       This   is   a   project   completion   report   on   the
Mwaaza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project, for which Credit 803-
TA for US$12.0 million was made by IDA, and Loan 2-TAN for
US$12.0 million by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD); both were approved in June 1978. IDA acted
as administrator of Loan-2 TAN on behalf of IFAD. The Credit and
Loan closed on schedule on December 31, 1984. Under Cr. 803,
US$9.1 million was disbursed and an amount of US$2.9 million
cancelled July 28, 1985.    Under  Loan 2-TAN, US$9.1 million was
disbursed and US$2.9 million cancelled.
ii.      The  PCR  consists  of  a  Project  Performance Overview
Memorandum propared by the Eastern and Southern Africa Projects
Department and a PCR prepared by the Borrower in 2 volumesl/,
dated November 1985.   The  Borrower's  PCR is generally fair and
objective.   The  Project  Overview Memorandum  is  based on the
Borrower's PCR; the Appraisal Report No. 1867a-TA dated May 1,
1978; the President's Report No. P2312-TA dated May 1, 1978; the
Credit Agreement dated June 14, 1978; IFAD's Loan Agreement dated
June 14, 1978;  the  supervision  reports; and the correspondence
files on the project.    It  also  reflects  the comments of Bank
staff who were associated with the Project.
iii.     The draft report was sent  to  the Borrower and IFAD for
comments on March 25, 1987.   No comments have been received from
the Borrower. Comments have been received from IFAD on May 8,
1987 which support the conclusions of the PrR. The comments are
reproduced as Annex I to the PCR.
This report has not been subjected to audit by OED.
1/ Volume II, Evaluation by Component, is not included in the
report but is available from OED on request.



- ii -
Tanzania
Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project
Cr. 803-TA/Loan 2-TAN (IFAD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet
Actual or     Actual as %
Appraisal     Estimated*   of Appraisal
Item                                 xpectation       Actual         Estimates
Total Project Cost                     30.0            23.0             772
Credit Amount                          12.0            12.0
Amount Disbursed                                        9.1 2/          76%
Amount Cancelled                                        2.9 11          24X
Cofinancing 1/                         12.0             9.1             762
Date Physical Component Completed    1984              1984
Proportion Completed by Above Date    100               60X
Economic Rate of Return (2)              21           negative
Institutional Performance                -         unsatisfactory
Other Project Data                   Original
First Mention in GOT Files                             2/75
First Mention in Bank Files                            3/76
Appraised                              7/77
Negotiations                           4/78            4/78
Board Approval                         5/78           5/23/78
Date of Credit Agreement               6/78           6/14/78
Date of Effectiveness                  9/78           3/5/79
Closing Date                        12/31/84         12/31/84
Borrower: United Republic of Tanzania
Executing Agency: Ministry of Agriculture
Fiscal Year of Borrower: July 1 - June 30
Follow on Project: None
Cumulative Disbursements
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
------U S.$ Million---…
Appraisal Estimates                    0.1    4.9    7.4    9.4   11.4   12.0
Actual                                 1.1    4.0    5.6    7.2    8.0    9.1
Actual as X of Estimates                -      82      75     78      70     76
1/  Co-financing of US$12.0 million provided by the International Fund for
Agriculture Development (IFAD), World Bank as Project Administrator.
2/ Date of final disbursement June 30, 1985.
'/ Cancelled July 28, 1985.



-~~ ii -
Number of
'ate of        Duration        Staff and                     Date of
Mission          Weeks      Specialization      Manweeks     Report
Supervision 1           9/78             3           3-AE, 0 1/           9        10/23/78
Supervision 2           3/79             2           5-., A, 0           8            5/79
Supervision 3           8/79             3           3-AE, 0              6        11/13/79
Supervision 4           5/80             2           3-AR, A, 0           6            6/80
Supervision 5           1/81             3           3-AE, A, 0           4         3/24/81
Supervision 6           7/81             2           5-AR, A, 0          10            9/81
Supervision 7           1/82              1          3-AE, 0              3         3/3C/82
Supervision 8          10/82             1           2-AE                 2        11/12/82
Supervision 9          11/82             2           4-AE, A, 0           8         4/%4/83
Supervision 10          5/83             2           3-AR, A, AG          6         6/28/83
Supervision 11         10/83             2           2-AR, A              4        11/18/83
Supervision 12          5/84             2           3-AE, 0              6            6/84
Supervision 13         10/84             2           1-AR                 1        11/14/84
Supervision 14          6/85             2           1-AR, A              1         6/28/85
Name of Currency: Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
Exchange Rates:    1978 (Appraisal)   UtS$1 - TSh 8.3
Intervening Years  ItS$1 - TSh 9.2
1985               tJSSl - TSh17.0
Staffweeks 1I Project and Sts
ktivity  (FY) 72    73    75    76    77    78    79    8)    81    82    83    84    85    86 1ML
Preapprai                  57.2  30.8  36.2   1.6                                                     125.8
Appbsal               1.1               33.7 109.1                                                    143.9
1blattan                                      11.9                                                     11.9
Super&Vf alm                                    .1  37.7  25.7  29.1  37.6  40.3  25.3  17.8   3.2 218.9
Other                             0.1   0.8   1.3                        5.3          0.5               8.1
"1S              1.1  57.2  31.0  70.7  126.0  37.7  25.8  29.1  42.8  40.3  25.8  17.8   3.2 508.7
1/  AE = Agricultural Econiomist, AC ,  Agronomist, A - Agriculturalist, 0   Other



- iv -
TANAIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MWANZAISHINYANGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 803-TA (IDA) AND LOAN 2-TAN (IFAD)
EVALUATION SUTIMARY
Introduction
1.       The project is  the  third  and  last  in  a  series  of IDA support to
Tanzania's rural development as the centerpiece of overall development strategy
stemming from the Arusha Declaration of 1967. The project was to be modelled on
the 1974 Kigoma Rural Development Project (Credit 508-TA), audited in PPAR No.
4858 dated December 28, 1983, and on the 1977 Tabora Rural Development Project
(Credit 703-TA), audited in PPAR No. 5197 dated June 29, 1984. The project was
intended to integrate the productive and social sectors in the Mwanza and
Shinyanga regions in northwest Tanzania in accordance with Tanzania's Develop-
ment Plan of 1975-1980.    The  International  Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) financed the project jointly with IDA after preparation efforts were
completed by Dutch and Swedish bilateral aid missions.
Objectives
2.       The project's overall objective  was  to  foster development in the two
regions by promoting increased productivity in agriculture, livestock and
forestry, and by social actions in rural roads, village water supply, health
centers and rural crafts. The project included 14 components on research, farm
trials, seed production in cotton, small grains and root crops, range and
pasture improvement, veterinary services, forestry research, shallow wells for
drinking water and road rehabilitation. The project was to be coordinated by a
section under the Regional Planning Officers who would command goods and
services from various regional and national departments. Total project costs
were estimated at US$30.5 million.    IDA  and IFAD each financed US$12 million,
the remaining 22% of project costs to be financed by Government and the bene-
ficiary villages.
Implementation Exaerience
3.       The project was hindered by  the drought experienced during an extended
period, by a macroeconomic and sectoral policy environment that discouraged farm
production and by weak  national  institutions.    Scarcity of foreign exchange,
shortages of inputs and stringency in the Government budget began in 1973. This
situation deteriorated further in 1979 with the country facing the combined
effects of the break up of the East Afric, community, the war with Uganda, and a



- v -
second round of oil  price  increases.    Nevertheless, the project's failure is
attributable to many of the same factors which beset the two earlier rural
development projects; namely the lack of administrative capacity, an overambi-
tious and much too complex project, end unrealistic development ambitions by
Government and IDA. Some success in a few components was experienced. Some 143
villages were surveyed and mapped; a nursery was established for pineapple in an
offshore island; field trials for cassava and sweet potato were completed; the
forestry component was largely implemented; about 50% of the roads were
improved; shallow wells were constructed benefitting 68,000 people; and class-
rooms and health dispensaries were built as envisaged. No discernible progress
was made in agriculture and livestock, either in developing a proven input
package or increase in yields.   The organizational arrangementc under which the
project was to be implemented were clearly ineffective. The project was treated
as though it was outside the normal government structure. Project staffing and
funding were considered extra-budgetary. For this reason Government and project
authorities found it difficult to integrate the project into the Government's
regular continuing activities. Actual project costs were 76% of the appraisal
estimates.   The  cost  underrun  results  from  the  non-implementation of some
elements of the components and the termination of some components at end-1982.
In fact, if the project had been done as planned, a large cost overrun would
have been experienced. At the closing of the credit, a total of US$9.1 million
or 76% of the IDA credit was disbursed, and US$2.9 million were cancelled.
Results
4.       The project failed  to  achieve  its  main  objective.  Agriculture and
livestock are much the  key  to  regional  growth.    At  best, a small positive
project impact may be felt in agricultural research and crop trials, and some of
the social investments  were  moderately  successful.    The  project ERR is now
estimated to be negative compared with 21% at appraisal.
Sustainability
5.       Because the  project  had  a  very  negligible  production impact, and,
consequently, regional incomes did not change significantly during the project
implementation period, the capacity to sustain what little had been achieved,
including the provision of certain social services, remained underdeveloped.
Findings and Lessons
6.       The completion of the  first  phase  of  the  project marked the end of
IDA's assistance to large scale integrated rural development projects in
Tanzania. Many lessons which might have been learned could be cited but would
largely repeat what has been said about the previous two rural development
projects, especially regarding the project's inherent coordination and manage-
ment difficulties and basic incompatability with policy and organizational
systems at the sector and national  levels.    The origin of failure lies in the



project's composition, design eud  orgenisation,  which made the mny difficul-
ties and limitations *eprienced during implementation largely inevitable. Also
had the project been much simpler, involving fever components, it Is concevable
that some of the difficulties could have been avoided. Unfortunately, implemen-
tation  of  the   iSgoa  and  Tabora   projects  was  finished voll  after  the
Mwanza/Shinyanga project started; consequently the project benefitted only
partly from their experience.



TANZANIA
PROJECT PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW MEMORANDUM
MWANZA/SHINYANGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 803-TA/LOAN 2-TAN (IFAD)
June 30, 1986
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects
Southern Agriculture Division



I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Borrower has provided a comprehensive PCR in two volumes:
Volume I - Main Report (40 pages)
Volume II - Evaluation by Component (230 pages)
It was prepared by the Planning & Evaluation Unit when the Project was
drawing to a close in 1984, and the outcome and history were clear. The
report seems, on the whole, fair and objective, though naturally it is
written from a Tanzanian perspective. It demonstrates a certain Tanzanian
frustration with the project and contains more than a few criticisms, which
in varying degrees appear justified.
2.        This Project Performance Overview Memorandum is intended to
supplement the Borrower's PCR by:
-    examining of the situation and prospects at appraisal;
-    providing a narrative summary of the highlights of project
implementation experience and the lessons that might be derived;
and
-    providing a general commentary
II. History and Outlook At Appraisal
3.        The Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project (Cr. 803-TA, ant,
companion loan of the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD), Loan 2-TAN, for the amount of US$12.0 million in each case, were
formulated and implemented as a single project and the PCR reviews their
performance on this basis. The objective of the Project was the rural
development of the Mwanza and Shinyanga regions of Tanzania on a
multi-sectoral basis (although it was not possible with the funding
available to include all the relevant sectors, e.g., health), with the
prime emphasis on food and rural income. The project was semi-pilot in
nature, as some of it was for demonstration purposes (e.g. afforestation),
while the seed component was expected to achieve a large impact on crop
production. Because of its multi-sectoral scope and the original
preparatory work, the project was known as RIDEP for regional integrated
development project, although it was never integrated as intended.
4.        Financed by the Bank's previous rural development project,
extensive project preparation work was carried out in 1976/77. The
preparation team made use of information from the Regional Integrated Rural
Development Plans (RIDEPs). These were prepared earlier under bilateral
assistance frow the Netherlands and Sweden. Project appraisal and
implementation were the responsibility of the Bank's Rural Development
Division (RDD) within the Agriculture and Rural Development Department of



-2-
what was then called Central Projects. RDD had been created some years
earlier as an independent operations division to carry out rural
development projects Bank-wide. RDD appraised the project and supervised
it during the first two years of implementation, when responsibility for
supervisioaL was transferred to the East African Regional Projects Division
in Washington beginning in 1980. In turn, the East Africa Regional
Projects staff stationed in Nairobi assumed supervision responsibility
beginning 1982, until its termination in 1984.
5.        Actual experience aside, the project as appraised appeared to be
a not unlikely candidate for failure. In the Bank, reservations and doubts
about the agricultural objectives and their definition were expressed. The
results of the ongoing two other rural development projects in East Africa
were informative but hardly encouraging (both projects were ultimately
failures). Finally, the objective settled on at appraisal was to increase
crop yields through input packages which were to be identified and proven
through trials, coupled with establishment of an appropriate extension
system. But it was very unlikely that this could be done in anything like
the time frame and efficiency stipulated in the project, specially given
the erratic climatic environment of the two regions and the previous lack
of any proven technical packages, among other things. The ERR of the
agricultural component was estimated at 51X and provided a basis for
stating that the projeci: would be self-supporting. The Borrower's PCR is
critical (and not without justification) of what it believes is the
unwarranted optimism of the Bank's appraisal assumptions (BPCR, Vol. II,
Chapter 5, para. 4).
6.        The project was much too complicated.  It included 14 components
and sub-components, some of which depeuded on the understanding,
cooperation and active assistance of a whole chain of Government and local
bodies. In the most favorable of circumstances, it would have been a very
difficult project to implement. The organizational arrangements under
which the project was to be implemented were clearly ineffective,
mirroring, in part, the situation at the national level. The Bank was to
deal with the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), which proved to be a useful
legal and policy channel at appraisal but which was not going to function
as an active project authority and coordinating office during project
implementation. A Project Coordinator was to be responsible for
coordination of activities in each region but had to act through the
respective Regional Commission. The Regional Commission (the top
Government body at regional level in Tanzania's decentralized system) was
to have overall responsibility for the project in its respective Region,
but the Bank should have known it was unable to function as such, given its
numerous regional responsibilities. The Ministry of Agriculture, said to
function as a national advisory body, had only an indirect link to project
organization, and there was the Party apparatus, which functioned at
national and regional level, and exercised decision-making authority. Much
faith was put in a Project Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) Committee to be
established in each region, receiving guidance from a Central Evaluation
Unit to be set up in the Prime Minister's office with the function of
evaluating progress and providing feedback to Government and Project
Management. Traditionally, M&E project activity has produced mixed results
and in any case M&E could certainly not be expected to compensate for the
problems arising from complex project design and weak project organization
and administrative capacity.



-3-
7.        The project was treated as though it was outside the normal
Government structure. Project staffing and funding were considered
extra-budgetary. For this reason Government and Project authorities found
it difficult to integrate the Project into the Government's regular
continuing activities. It is not suprising, therefore, that the Project
was delayed at least a year because Government officials did not realize
that they, and not someone in a project unit, should take the necessary
action. Evenutally a supervision mission had to explain how things were
intended to work.
III. PROJECT COMPONENTS
8.        In the interest of simplicity, the classification of the
components and order in which they are discussed in the following pages are
identical with that in the Borrower's PCR (Vol. II).
A. Agriculture
Seed
9.        The seed component was to provide most of the benefits of the
agricultural component through increased crop intensity, mainly by
improving the quality of seed. To accomplish this, foundation seed grown
by local seed farms was to be used and cleaning, dressing, and storage
facilities, and stores for distribution and marketing were to be provided.
The achievements were very limited.
10.       The seed component was intended as an interim program until
TANSEED, the quasi-public national seed company, could extend its
activities to the two regions.   TANSEED did in fact establish certain
facilities at the outset. Project activity was therefore limited to the
sale of maize and sorghum seed by TANSEED, its distribution and storage,
the production and dressing of homegrown seed (through the distribution of
seed dressers and chemicals) and to the establishment of a seed farm.
11.       In fact, sufficient seed to supply about 15Z of the villages in
the Mwanza and Shinyanga regions was distributed, but distribution under
the project was discontinued in 1982-83, because of TANSEED's failure to
provide the required quantities of improved seed in a timely manner. Seed
dressers were distributed, but apparently not utilized in the villages
because they were uninterested in growing that type of sorghum; moreover,
the failure to initiate the project Revolving Fund, which was to have been
established by Government, resulted in the unavailability of chemicals for
seed dressing. Some dressings were occasionally used at District centers.
An existing seed farm was used, and produced some seed, but was given up
after one season. Five seed stores were constructed. In Shinyanga, rice
seed was sold to the farmers at 50% of the price paid wholesale to TANSEED.
12.       Notwithstanding the poor project-sponsored seed effort, TANSEED's
subsequent performance beginning in 1982 was fairly substantial: about
1700 tons of maize, sorghum and barley seed were sold over the 1981/85
period, suggesting at least some positive response by the farmers to higher
quality seed. This amount would have planted about 5% of the cropped area
of the two regions.



-4-
Village Verification Trials
13.       Research recommendations for a variety of crops had never been
tested at farm level. The Village Verification Program, intended to
correct this situation, was initiated in 1978/79 but, due to drought and
its ambitious design, as well as a certain disorganization, produced few
useful results. Consequently, it was modified in 1982/83 to concentrate on
selected pilot areas. The results were useful and provided some guidance
on the most suitable crops to grow over the wide range of soil and rainfall
conditions found in the two regions, including application of fertilizer,
use of insecticide, crop spacing and the like. But the two year period
following redesign of this component, during which most of the planned
trials were carried out, was too short to provide full confidence in
verification. Consequently, Government has continued the trials for at
least another season. The difficulties experienced by village trial
workers in obtaining inputs during the first stage, were to some degree
overcome in the second one.
Extension and Training
14.       Adequate training and organization for the extension services
wereimportant if the farmers were to adopt recommended crop packages.
There was one extension worker for 500 farmers in Mwanza and an even
greater ratio in Shinyanga. It was envisaged to organize 15 groups of
farmers (with 10 farmers in each group), each with its own contact farmer.
About 50% of the Mwanza target of 45,000 farm families and about 40% of the
Shinyanga target of 40,000 farm families had been selected by mid-1983, but
with some modification of the plan: the Mwanza regions changed over to
contact villages, at 21 of which trial plots were laid out. In the
Shinyanga region, pilot divisions within each district were selected and an
extension expert recruited.
15.       In Mwanza the training of extension staff was largely ineffective
because there was neither a 'proven' technical package nor any results of
significance from the initial years of the verification trials with which
to train them. Moreover, extension was very poorly organirod. The
Training and Visit (T&V) program was designed in 1983, encompassing 6 pilot
divisions in all. The new system blossomed the first year but in 1984, the
last project year, it was beset again by the old problems: disorganization,
lack of direction and poor morale.
16.       Baseline yields of the principle crops grown had been measured
during project preparation. A December 1984 survey to assess end-project
levels of production provided results which were frequently inconsistent;
in some instances contact farmers showed a decline in yield, in others the
non-contact farmers had a larger increase in yield than the contact ones.
The trend, if anything, showed that contact farmers had a higher increase
in yield than non-contact ones, but the consensus was that contact farmers
had not been in the program long enough.
Land Use Planning
17.       To assist villages to participate in the planning and
implementation of infrastructure and services, including those provided
under the project, a Land Use Planning initiative was included in the
Project. This funded the operating costs of two land service units,



-5-
staffed by nationals, which would survey and prepare village inventory maps
to scale, including infrastructure and soil composition, needed for road
realignment, conservation activities and the like.
18.       The component went well and 143 villages were surveyed and
mapped. But virtually no use has been made of the maps, a situation the
Borrower's PCR is critical of, because of the lack of interface between the
land use units and forestry, roads and water supply bodits. While advice
was given to some villages on how to use the maps, lacking the funds and
equipment and even legal authority, the villages (as far as known), were
unable to make use of it. The land-use unit was instrumental in the
establishment of one satellite village and also advised on the lay out of
10 ha of small scale irrigation.
Offshore Islands
19.       The project included assistance for pineapples, citrus, and
coffee development in the offshore islands at the south end of Lake
Victoria, which have both the highest rainfall and largest population
density in the Mwanza region. A nursery to grow pineapple seedlings for
sale to farmers was successfully established on the site of an old citrus
nursery which had been found unsuitable for growing oranges. Subsequently,
the District went ahead with development of a new nursery for citrus. No
effort was made undbr the project to develop the coffee component produc-
tion. Coffee had been declining and is of small amount. The coffee
component was cancelled.
Crop Research
20.       The crop research program was conducted on cassava and sweet
potato and followed the usual pattern of research and trials to develop
improved varieties and agronomic packages, in particular, to increase
resistance to disease and raise yield, and to arrange multiplication of the
best varieties for distribution. It was carried out by nationals success-
fully, centering on the established research station at Ukiriguru: 12 ha
were planted per year for multiplication of clones, nine nurseries for
growing seed were established, and 22 agronomy trials were carried out.
The yield increase of the recommended varieties for cassava was 9 tons per
ha (increased from 16t to 25t) and sweet potato 6t (from 22 to 28t). This
component included funds for research on sorghum and millet, however
research on these crops was underway at the main research station at Llonga
and no research work was done on them with project funds. After project
completion, research work on cassava and sweet potato was continued at
Ukiriguru, but is now experiencing funding problems.
Rural Craft Center
21.        The Wigehe Rural Craft Center, located near Kahama, was
established in 1978, under jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, to
manufacture farm implements, mainly ox-carts. Not originally part of the
project, assistance to revive the craft center was incorporated in the
Project when it was redesigned in 1982. About 150 ox-carts were produced
and sold during 1983/4, but generally without wheels, the problem being the
supply of both axles and wheels. Wheels made by the Center have steel rims
made from steel metal shapes not intended for the purpose, necessitating
extensive, reshaping. The wheel bearings are made of wood. Lacking the
-necessary tools, workmanship is poor.



-6-
22,        The situation reflects the constraints on imported materials,
foreign exchange and otherwise. It was proposed to import prefabricated
parts, but this idea was discarded. In the circumstances, farmers
preferred to purchase an ox-cart without wheels and equip it wit.1 the
wheels of a junked car - but the old cars available are in great demand,
and very expensive. Equipped this way, an ox-cart costs US $600 (at the
official exchange rate) of which over 50% is for tires and axle, and is
very expensive for a farmer. The manufactured ox-carts require two oxen to
pull them, limiting their ownership to richer farmers with several oxen.
There is therefore some movement toward development of a one-oxen small
wagon. Evidently the Bank lacked a thorough knowledge of local conditions
when it agreed to fund local ox-cart manufacture, especially so late in the
Project.
Livestock
23.        The objective was to increase livestock productivity through
range and pasture improvement of ranch and communal grazing areas, improve
veterinary services and strengthen extension services. Twenty livestock
veterinary service centers were improved according to plan but had little
impact on the areas served since they were underutilized due to continuing
lack of drugs, vaccines and chemicals, long since on order, even at
end-1984. Moreover the staff of the centers did not follow an organized
extension program: measures to design and complement a viable extension
system were not taken. In the meantime, physical facilities for conducting
in-service livestock training were nearing completion at end-1984. A
proninent negative factor was the failure to recruit livestock experts - of
175 months of required expertise in extension, veterinary services,
economics, livestock research and range improvement, less than one-third
was actually used. Some 40 cattle dips were repaired, exceeding the target
of 28, but the number of them in use diminished to less than one-third by
end-1984 due to chemical shortages and drought difficulties. The area
covered by the renovated dips increased from 7% to 14% over a cattle
population of 400,000 head; the appraisal had targeted an increase of 15X
covering 210,000 cattle.
24.       The testing of improved range grasses and pilot programs oi
pasture establishment and grazing management were among the project
activities not initiated. A seed processing laboratory was established by
end-1984, but neither the laboratory equipment nor the seed processing
equipment itself had been ordered. Procurement problems were largely the
result of Government administrative weaknesses. A revolving fund to pay
for procurement of drugs and the like was to have been established under
the project, but the Treasury refused. Finally in 1983 a fund was set up
at national level, too late to accomplish its purpose during
implementation. Actual expenditure on the livestock component was TSh18.5
million compared with an estimated TSh22.5 million. The Borrower
calculated the economic rate of return based on a 20% reduction in the rate
of mortality, achieved by increased dipping coverage, leading to an
increase in off-take of 10.5% of the 400,000 head herd. The recalculated
ERR was negative.
25.        The Borrower's PCR remarks on this component are germane: (a)
management control was diffused and no one appeared to have exercir?d
management direction and control - the reason that key activities such as
extension were not carried out; (b) some assumptions of the World Bank were
highly questionable (e.g., a dipping coverage increase of 40% without



-7-
substantial investment in new dips); the Bank's appraisal showed livestock
component benefits to be highly sensitive and consequently it was
surprising that livestock was included at all; and (c) a better return on
capital might have been achieved by eliminating some of the speculative
elements (of which livestock was one).
B. Forestry
26.        Forestry was a fairly successful component despite its multi-
faceted composition. It was mounted as a pilot project in the face of the
virtually treeless state of the densely populated area of the two regions
to demonstrate what might be done to establish forests and regulate their
exploitation. Much as planned and generally meeting the targets set,
several plantations were established in selected areas. These plantations
served as demonstration areas, and supplied seeds, poles, firewood and
seedlings to farmers on a commercial basis.
27.        In the Mwanza region, 24 new or upgraded nurseries were
established and almost 5,000 seedlings grown; six regional plantations,
involving over 900 ha, were established; and school woodlots aggregating
about 200 ha (60% of target) and village woodlots totalling 400 ha were
planted. In the Shinyanga region where forest reserves exist, substantial
housing was provided for forest ranger staff resulting in a 30% increase in
stumpage revenue over 1980/4 compared with a like-period in the 1970's, and
enabling 320 kms of forest boundaries to be cleared, reducing the risk of
fires. Nearly 20,000 km of the forest were mapped but the Forestry
Department failed to inventory the trees in the reserves, which was the
idea.
28.       Unfortunately drought caused the nurseries severe casualties and
the majority of planted seedlings dried up. There was a severe shortage of
(imported) polythene tubing, delaying transplanting of seedlings. Fires
proved costly and the villagers' response to tree planting was at best
luke-warm. But the Forestry Department obtained an appreciation of the
possibilities and limitations of forestry development. The component
appears to have been fully staffed by nationals throughout implementation.
The cost of the component was twice the estimated TSh14.0 million.
29.       Forestry Research.  It was recognized that information on
species, provenance and afforestation techniques was inadequate, and a
major constraint to organized major tree planting programs. Forestry
research was intended to provide such information. The objective was to
conduct trials to confirm promising fast-growing species, including
provenance trials, screen large numbers of indigenous and exotic species of
trees showing promise, estimate yields of the more promising species
identified and ascertain whether their survival and yield were overly-
sensitive to nursery and planting operations, and to estimate costs. About
48 ha of trial areas were established at the research center in Malya by a
team of nationals. The appointment of the Forest Officer (head of team)
was delayed over a year, delaying the Project accordingly. However, the
research was carried out successfully and, indeed, on its own initiative
the Forestry Department had comprehensive soil tests conducted. Seedling
production of a large number of eucalyptus and non-eucalyptus species was
about 60% of target but very substantial elimination trials were made, five
trials of the eucalyptus species for provenance implemented, and several
yield trials made. The nursery and planting method trials were implemented
to the extent considered necessary.



-8-
30.       The exercise is considered a valuable step in afforestation.  The
need for extensive husbandry in growing the most productive exotic
eucalyptus species and their susceptibility to the harsh and dry environ-
ment were identified, but it was recognized as being the only species able
to provide wood in the necessary large quantities. Still it was thought
that local species, inured to the environment, should be given greater
attention in afforestation in the long run.
C. Roads
31.       The roads component was intended to complement the agricultural
component by improving selected roads in the two regions to enable the more
ready evacuation and marketing of crops and transport of inputs. The
component was costly and its impact limited in that the estimated cost of
TSh36.7 million was fully expended but only 50% of the targeted 798 Km of
road improvement was implemented and the village self-help repair of 160 km
of access roads barely done. Where the roads were improved the users
benefitted from the increased accessibility to market, and its impact on
their income.
32.       The reasons for the high cost and reduced length of improved
roads included: the severe shortage of fuel oil to operate road equipment,
which averaged less than 50% of need, general price rise during the period,
poor equipment utilization rates, due to lack of spare parts, uncoordinated
equipment activities and use of Project equipment sometimes on non-project
activities, unavailability of technical/supervisory staff (the posts were
filled less than half-the-time), procurement delays (in one case causing a
year's delay in the use of road equipment) and the ineffectiveness of labor
intensive technology, whose use the Bank had urged prior to delivery of
highway equipment. Labor intensive work was very poorly done and had to be
done over by equipment at high cost because of the large numbers of
laborers required, problems with oxcarts and wheel-barrows (frequent
replacement, high depreciation), long haulage distance, care of oxen, and
low output. The Borrower concluded that the Bank had been unwise to
recommend labor intensive road construction in view of the Borrower's very
limited experience in its use. Village road work was done only on 18 km of
the targeted amount mainly because the contribution of villages in the form
of labor (or money) under the village self-help program was not
forthcoming.
D. Water Supply
33.       About 18% of the population of the Mwanza Region had improved
water supply. The project's objective was to increase the supply of
improved water by serving an additional 230,000 people in 109 villages
through the provision of shallow wells, and in both regions, the
rehabilitation of piped water systems. There was already extensive water
supply coverage in Shinyanga, provided under bilateral assistance, and the
project there was limited to the rehabilitation of piped systems. None of
the piped systems rehabilitation was carried out in the two regions.
Although the 53 piped systems in the Mwanza Region delivered water at only
40% of design capacity, for this region, limited funds were available only
under the village self-help (VSH) component. One rehabilitation was
initiated but the villagers were unable to raise their share of TSh4O,000
(US$3,400) or 25% of the cost, and the work had to be completed with



-9-
Government funds. Because of this precedent, no further attempts were made
to rehabilitate piped schemes in either region. Consequently, the Project
in the end financed water supply only in the Mwanza Region.
34.       In the Mwanza Region water supply was improved in 200 villages
serving 68,000 people, compared with a target of 109 villages, but the
wider coverage was achieved only because one shallow-well was installed per
village, compared with a planned figure of at least four wells per village,
severely reducing the number served. About 225 wells were sunk, 50% of
target. Three quarters were ring wells and only 18 were tube wells, 10% of
target, because hand drilling of the latter proved unpopular, presumably
due to physical effort, and the motorized rig subsequently used was limited
to sites with substantial water recharge rates6 The ring wells were dug
with paid hand labor, rather than voluntary labor, paid by VSH
contribution. Use of voluntary labor proved impractical because different
people were sent to work each day, making it impossible to build up an
experienced labor force.
35.       The Project envisaged that after the first 50 wells had been
built, the remainder would be installed provided VHSP contributed 25% of
cost, but few villages requested wells and it was necessary to mount a
publicity campaign. In all, 92 villages finally contributed, less than
half. Other wells were installed free, the more historic practice. The
authorities thought that VHS should have been discussed at the village
level during appraisal. Experience to date with the wells is satisfactory,
hand pumps work well, and water supply is good although limited in the
driest period. But villages have not taken over well maintenance which is
limited to trouble shooting done by the Regional Water Authority. In any
case, most villages require at least four wells, but few villages have more
than one, at most two.
E. Village Self-Help (VSH)
(Participatory Financing)
36.       The objective of this component was to create a mechanism which
would encourage villages to identify their communal project needs and
enlist Government to providc the technical and financial assistance to
carry them out, subject to a substantial village contribution in
cash/kind. This would provide Government and villages with experience in
participatory financing at the village level, which in time might be
replicable on a wider scale. The organizational framework was elaborate,
including national, regional and local authorities, a Project Coordinating
Committee and Party representation in each region. It entailed
formulation and submission of the proposal by the village, and appraisal by
Regional representatives. This evolved quickly into a fairly simple and
manageable system, which worked well in Mwanza Region but rather poorly in
the Shinyanga Region, possibly owing to the latter's greater need, hence,
responsiveness to the program. In both regions, the complement of senior
staff to supervise the component was largely unfilled.
37.       The Mwanza villages submitted 747 applications of which 228 were
approved including 120 shallow wells, 26 classrooms, 10 houses for
truckers, new and upgraded dispensaries, woodlots and cattle dips and
access roads. The contribution of the villages averaged 36% of cost. Most
of the projects are operational, including dispensaries, classrooms, dips



-10-
and wells. The woodlots were disappointing, since in 9 villages where 24.5
ha were planted, seedling survival was only 60-80%. Further application
for woodlots was discontinued. Only 22 km of village access roads were
approved and 3 roads of a total length of 7 km were constructed. Roads
proved much more formidable than expected, requiring use of heavy
equipment. It became evident that village roads were not well suited to
self-help; villagers could hardly fund more than a 2km road, and the cost
of heavy equipment was prohibitive. Access roads projects were
consequently discontinued under VSH.
38.       In the Shinyanga region, 305 VSH proposals were requested by
villages, 169 approved and 96 implemented in 75 villages. While 53km of
access roads were approved, only some 13 km were implemented; 24
dispensaries were upgraded, 28 classrooms provided and 34 godowns, by far
the most popular item, were built. Many more godowns would have been
built, but the Bank decided that because these items are financially
self-supporting, they should be funded by the Tanzania Regional Development
Bank. The Government thought this a mistake. The two access roads started
were terminated because the villages were unable to make their
contributions.
39.       One of the problems experienced in the VSH program was the
difficulty in obtaining craftsmen in the villages and an adequate supply of
raw materials. Considering the small staff responsible for Mwanza, the
accomplishments were respectable. From the Borrower's standpoint, the VSH
component was impressive and substantial. The villagers demonstrated at
least to some extent that VSH is feasible, and may be worth a serious
attempt at replication on a broader scale. The Bank became impatient with
VSH, but some of the difficulties experienced were of the Bank's making.
It took the occasion of project redesign to terminate this component.
F. Village Self-Help Program (VSH)
(Self-Financing)
40.       Under the (completely) self-financing subcomponent of VSH,
villagers had to pay the full cost of what would be commercially
self-supporting projects by contributing 25% equity and paying the balance
over three years from project revenues. The Tanzania Rural Development
Bank was designated as the lending body and assumed coordinative,
appraisal, lending and collection functions through its regional and
district branches. This was similar to conventional agricultural
development banking, except that the amount of money entailed was small and
lending to villages, through their local councils, depended on some form of
village cooperative action. Government gave TRDB a line of credit to
bolster its resources for the purpose.
41.       The program was fairly successrul, financing 53 projects,
including 45 grain mills, eight lorries and a tractor, before it was
terminated at end-1982. A few fishery and auto bus projects were under
consideration at that time but generally the range of projects considered
suitable for financing was narrow; TRDB would not finance godowns however,
instead suggesting that commercial bank loans should be sought.
Maintenance of grain mills became a problem as spare parts were not
obtainable and it was difficult to find a mechanic to repair breakdowns at
remote villages; in fact TRDB had to provide their mechanic for this
purpose. TRDB's collections became difficult, especially from villages
distant from their branches, when the motorcycles used for the purpose



-11-
needed parts. Village equity contributions were 17% of cost for grain
mills and 27% for lorries. Because of price inflation, considerably fewer
projects were financed than expected.
42.       Credit recovery in the Mwanza Region was quite good but in
Shinyanga almost 50% of the loans experienced problems. The subproject
experience was moderately encouraging. The process seemed to fill a
gap--the lack of village access to finance for commercial ventures of a
community nature--and may have some potential in village development
although overhead, which was subsumed by TRDB in this trial project, is
high.
IV. GENERAL COMMENTARY
43.       To summarize, the project failed to achieve its main objective.
The performance by component is as follows:
Agriculture
Seed                              Unsuccessful
Village Verification Trials       Unsuccessful
Extension and Training            Unsuccessful
Land Use Planning                 Done, but no use made of results
Offshore Islands                  Partly done
Crop Research                     Party dora
Rural Craft Center                Unsuccessful
Livestock                         Unsuccessful
Forestry                          Fairly successful, but unlikely to be
sustained without follow-up
Roads                             About 50% done at twice unit cost
Water Supply                      Some success, but does not change
rural situation as impact confined to
a small population
VSH (Participatory Financing)      Moderately successful, but impact
limited
VSH (Self-Financing)               Moderately successful, but impact
limited
Agriculture is much the key and the project's failure in this respect
apparently marks the end of the Bank's three project initiative in rural
development in Tanzania. At best, a small positive project impact may he
felt in agricultural research and crop trials, and village self-help showed
signs of promise.
44.       The origin of failure lies in the project's composition, design
and organization, which made the many difficulties and limitations experi-
enced during implementation largely inevitable, given country circum-
stances. Had the project been much simpler so that the fewer elements
could have been better addressed (e.g., making crop intensification
contingent on the results of first stage verification trials, with



-12-
financing provided for inputs, over a larger area, and direct linkage to
financing of project area access roads, but without water supply and
afforestation), it would still have been difficult to implement but much
more manageable. In any case, the project experience largely replicated
that of its two predecessors, Kigoma and Tabora, both of which failed.
Unfortunately, implementation of these projects was finished well after the
Mwanza/Shinyana Project started; consequently the Project benefitted only
partly from their experience.
45.       From the Borrower's standpoint, the Project was particularly
disappointing. The Borrower's PCR expresses doubt that there was net
benefit even of an intangible nature, the ERR having b en negative, and
wonders whether there is anything to show for the credit and loan funds
borrowed (Vol. I, para. 40, BPCR).
46.       Some overall characteristics of the Project components warrant
comment. The Credit/Loan was not fully disbursed. Approximately
US$5.8 million of the US$24.0 million was cancelled. Likewise the
Borrower's PCR shows actual cost of US$23.0 million versus estimated cost
of US$30.0 million, The cost underrun results from the non-implementation
of some elements of the components and the termination of some components
at end-1982. In fact, had the project been done as planned, a large
overrun would have been experienced as unit costs were substantially higher
than estimated. In the Borrower's PCR, the ERR was re-calculated as
negative for the components that were quantifiable (Vol. I, Chapter 4,
BPCR). Some of the statistical information in these analyses is suspect
and there are many information gaps, but given the broad results observed,
there can be no doubt that the ERR was well below the opportunity cost of
capital, if not in fact, negative.
47.       Procurement was a chronic problem which caused serious delays in
some project elements (livestock drugs and chemicals among others), and
resulted mainly from Government's slowness in dealing with the contracts.
The Borrower's PCR notes that some project financed equipment was used for
other, non-project purposes. Government tardiness, irresolution or
disinterest in some aspects of the project were responsible for failure to
establish the Revolving Fund at the outset, failure to fill many of the
expertise posts established to carry out the project, and for other
lapses.
48.       The scale of training provided under the project was enlarged
during implementation, by additional training at overseas institutions.
The appraisal plan was to train five staff in VSH appraisal methodology and
provide three fellowships for M&E staff. In fact, 45 senior staff were
trained overseas for a period of 2 weeks to 5 months at universities and
the like, including a 30-day T&V tour in India for 11 regional agricultural
staff. Somt.- overseas training was also given to non-project staff.
Clearly the training program and funds should have been supervised more
carefullv.
49.       Both the PEU and M&E units functioned ineffectively.  At best
such units are difficult to organize, administer and utilize but the
attention given them by both the Government and the Bank was sporadic. The
most useful thing done by them was the Borrower's PCR. But it must also be
noted that failing to achieve some growth or development of crops and
trials, even an efficient well established M&E unit would necessarily have
had a limited role.



-13-
50.       The project ws Intensely supervised by Bank staff.  The project
was reorganized in 1982, so that In its lst two years, only the completion
of civil works, which had been underway, was continued along with
afforestation and research. But this change in project composition was for
the purpose of winding down the project with dinimum effort and may not
have justified the extensive paperwork and negotiations necessary to effect
it. It is surprising that the project, along with the other two RD
projects, were allvwed to linger to their conclusion after it was realized
early in iuplementation that they were leadequate projects with little or
no hope of salvage. Also surprising are the occasional references In the
file to the effect that the Project woo being carried out despite serious
sectoral anomalies. For example, one flds references in the file to the
effect that the redesign of the project should be contingent on the
Government reforning .atlonal agricultural policies on pricing and inputs,
or, that redesign should adopt the recoomendations of the Bank's (current)
agriculture sector report for the country). Nevertheless, the Project was
kept alive until its closlng date.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
OFFICE OF THE PRIME ?.INISTER AND FIRST VICE PRESIDENT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PWANZA / SHINYANGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT 803-TA AND Il'AD LOAN 2-TAN)
VOLUME I : MAIN REPORT
Plamqing and Evaluation Unit,
P. 0. Box 829,
MWANZA.                                                  Report No. 48
November, 1985.



- 14 -
CHAPTER ONE
PROJECT FORMULATION AND APPRAISAL
Introduction
1.      Since  the  Arusha  Declaration  (1967) Tanzania has designated
rural development as the centerpiece of overall development strategy.
In its endeavour to fulfil this objective the Government requested
some assistance from various international donors and agencies for
support of its innovative rural development program. The World Bank
became one of the major financiers as early as 1974 when it financed
the Kigoma Rural Development Project (Cr.508-TA approved in 1974) and
later in 1977 the Tabor- Rural Development Project. The third and
4ufortunately the last a, Jr rural development project is the Mwanza
and Shinyanga project which according to the Terms of Credit Agreement
and Appraisal report, the first phase was to be commenced on July 1,
1979 and be completed by June 30, 1984. The project was, however,
extended by one year.
2.      At the time of the project conception it was envisaged that the
project would integrate the productive, economic and social sectors so
as to ensure that all the basic developmental needs of the rural
population of Mwanza and Shinyanga regions would be acknowledged and
attended to. When the project reached the appraisal stage the World
Bank and the Government agreed that the project would directly support
and   finance  specific  activities  in  the  productive  and  economic
sectors. These would include activities in agriculture, livestock,
forestry and roads. Vith regard to the social sector, the project
would establish the Village Self Help Program through which the people
themselves   would   identify   projects   of  their  own  choice  e.g.
classrooms, dispensaries, clinics, shallow wells, maize mills etc. and
request some assistance (generally 75% of the project costs) from the
project manage'Aent. Although the project did not fulfil the original
expectations  of  an  integrated  development  prograt  it was later on
popularly  named  the hiwanza and Shinyanga Rural Integrated Development
Program (RIDEP).
3.      For  the  initial  five year period the project was allocated a
total  of  US  $  30.5 million which was to be contributed by the World
Bank,  the  International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the
Government and villagers.
Project Origin
4.      Plans  for  the  project  began  in 1975 after President Julius
Nyerere expressed his desire for the World Bank assistance for the
preparation of a rural development project in Mwanza and Shinyanga
regions. The project was to be modelled on the earlier iCigoma and
Tabora Rural Development Projects and would be in accordance with the
Government's guidelines for the 1975/80 National Development Plan.



- 15 -
5.      A  mission  from the Bank in March 1975 after consultation with
the Government confirmed that the Government genuinely appreciated
Bank involvement in the two regions which previously were economically
strong but had severely experiencad sharp decline ir. agricultural
production as evidenced by the fall in cotton production in 1975. At
that time Swedish and Dutch planning teams were already in the field
in   Iiwanza  and   Shinyanga  regions,  carrying  out  basic  resource
inv,ntories. It was agreed that a Bank Project Preparation Team (PPT),
be funded out of the ongoing Kigoma Credit and would complement the
Swedish and Dutch planning teams and prepare a project for possible
IDA funding.
The Project Area
6.      The project encompassed the Mwansa and Shinyanga regions at the
southern end of Lake Victoria, located in northwest Tanzania. The
regions cover 70,500 sq. km, or 7.9% of the National Territory of
which 4.6 million hectares are suitable for farming and grazing.
According to the 1978 population census the two regions had a
population of 2.8 million out of the national figure of 17.5 million.
7.      The  area experiences bimodal rainfall distribution which tends
graduallly to increase from less than 700mm in the southeast, to over
1300mm annually in the northwest. The topography of the area is
generally uniform and low vegetative growth covers much of it.
Project Identification and Preparation
8.      The  World Bank identification mission which visited the PPT in
December 1975 proposed a project with 8 components namely agriculture,
livestock,  forestry,  fisheries,  small  scale  industries, transport,
water supply and health. Initially 50 - 60% of the project funds was
earmarked for directly productive activities, whereas 15 - 20% was
reserved for rural roads and 15 - 20% for rural water supply. The
mission, however, highlighted a number of complex issues which had to
be considered during the preparation of the project. These included:
a) the lack of a technical package for the majority of soils in the
two regions, therefore considerable applied research was
required.
b) Livestock control as a means to avoid further depletion and
erosion of soils.
c) National policy regarding institutional arrangements was
ambiguous and had to be addressed.
d) Financial arrangements including unresolved issues such as the
question of beneficiaries' contributions to the operating costs
of basic social services at the village level, revenues for
primary cooperative societies through marketing levies,
emoluments of village level workers and provision of agricultural
inputs on a subsidized, credit or cash basis.



- 16 -
e) The project design and size. Decisions had to be made on the
intensity and coverage of project services taking into
consideration the financial resources available and the
implementation capacity of the relevant agencies.
9.      The  issues  raised  by the identification mission and the fact
that the Kigoma Project was already more than one year behind the
appraisal  schedule  mainly due to recruitment and procurement problems
gave  rise  to  concern  in the Bank. Options considered for proceeding
with the project included a modest pilot phase with substantial
resea2ih  components  or  funding two to three year slices of the rural
development program (with the entire project being prepared and
appraised). It was agreed that the Project formulation should proceed
cautiously and that a phased approach should be considered if there
was no technical package. It was also decided that the proposals for
the Mwanza and Shinyanga regions should be appraised simultaneously
and if possible also include aspects of Mara RD project.
Preparat--on
10.     In  early  1976  the  PPT was fully staffed with five permanent
team members including, one Bank staff, 3 expatriate consultants and
one Tanzanian economist. In addition, Dutch financed specialists and
short term consultants and a number of Bank consultants participated
in   the   project  identification  and  preparation.  A  total  of 78
man-months   were  planned  for  the  preparation  effort  and  project
appraisal was scheduled for June 1976.
11.     The  first  draft  preparation  report  by the PPT was ready in
October 1976. According to the draft report the project's general
objective of supporting the social and economic development of the
rural  population  of the people of Mwanza and Shinyanga regions was to
be achieved through the improved provision of inputs and services in
agriculture, livestock, forestry and small scale industry, better
economic   infrastructure  (feeder  roads,  marketing  facilities)  and
improved social services (water & health). The project investments
were to be channeled through:
(i) the regional authorities for agriculture, livestock development,
forestry, feeder roads construction and maintenance units,
shallow well construction units and small scale industry centers
(ii) a Village Development Fund for a combination of grant and credit
for projects initiated by villagers
(iii) collective and individual loans for small scale industries and
agricultural inputs and equipment
(iv) technical assistance
(v) Project monitoring and evaluation.



- 17 -
12.     The overal responsibility for Project management in the regions
would be with the respective regional administration. However, special
financial    controllers   would   be   assigned   to   each   regional
administration under the Project. The Tanzania Rural Development Bank
(TRDB) would be responsible for credit administered under the Project.
The Tanzania Livestock Marketing Corporation would be charged with
marketing of livestock and the parastatal marketing organisations
would have ultimate responsibility for marketing of the respective
crops. The Small Scale Industry Development Organisation (SIDO) would
be responsible for development of small scale industries.
13.     Although  some of the complex issues mentioned earlier had been
addressed and resolved by PPT, a number of remaining and new issues
still required clasification or elaboration. These included:
a) Project size and implementation capacity. Despite the fact that
the needs of the 2.8 million people in about 1000 villages in the
two regions were identified the implementation capacity of the
parties responsible would determine the Project size.
b) The Village Development Fund (VDF) was to encourage development
from the bottom-up by serving as financial channel responding to.
villagers' real needs and eliciting their full participation. It
was therefore seen to articulate as national policy the
principles of participatory development and self reliance.
c) Cost Recovery. The PPT was uncertain whether the self help
schemes proposed to alleviate the Government from the full burden
of meeting the investment and recurrent costs of its social
programs through VDF would obtain Government support and also
whether the people would be willing to contribute much self help.
d) Project organisation and staffing. There were problems such as
(i) whether to adopt an integrated or a separate Project
structure (ii) the availability of more than 30 additional senior
professional staff who were required (iii) possible friction
between central and regional administration.
14.     The  draft report was unexpectedly, turned down wholesale by an
Interministerial Review Committee but it was later clarified that the
full rejection only concerned the forestry department villages. The
Bank  preoappraisal  mission,  however,  observed that the rejection by
the Government of the first draft reflected (i) the lack of adequate
communication between PPT and the central ministries; (ii) that many
Review Committee Members had not thoroughly read the report; (iii)
that many proposals were new and did not immediately accommodate
Government   policy;   (iv)   constant modification  of  policies  and
positions. Deviation from Government policies were felt particularly
in the proposals for the VDF, the concept of satellite villages, the
high   number   of   expatriates,   the   forestry   villages  and  the
concentration of shallow wells for water supply. Most of these
proposals were later dropped or modified signifying the failure of the
Project's attempt to influence Government policies.
15.      The   revised   project  proposals  which  were  discussed  by
Government on January 6, 1977 and agreed upon,incorporated a number of
new or modified features namely:



- 18 -
- TRDB was to provide a line of credit for inputs, transport and
village enterprises e.g. ranches and block farms.
- Village based trials were given high priority, Free inputs were Lo
be provided for trials and pilot projects.
- The need for reorganisation of extension and research on a national
basis was realised.
- Resettlement of people was considered.
- Soil and water conservation was agreed to be an important component.
- The livestock proposal stressed the need for an increase in the
offtake.
- Rehabilitation of the existing water supply was added to the shallow
wells program.
- The fisheries component was dropped because of decreasing catches
and high capital costs.
i6.     The  Bank  still  expressed  strong reservations on a number of
issues. The agricultural component was considered to lack clarity, to
be superficial in its strategy and to be inappropriate in its
research. With regard to the livestock component there was no evidence
that   extension   would   induce   reduction  of  stock  numbers,  the
feasibility of intensive dipping to control East Coast Fever under
traditional systems was questionable and more field trials in pasture
improvement were recommended.
17.    Most  of  these  comments  proved  to  be relevant later during
Project implementation.
Bank Ap2raisal
18.     The project appraisal finally took place in June/July 1977. The
project estimated cost was US $ 56 million excluding contingencies.
19.     Attempting  to resolve some of the outstanding issues, the Bank
endorsed mission proposals; to finance a large number of vehicles, to
use the existing staff as much as possible, to support special
arrangements (expatriates, volunteers, additional Tanzanian senior
staff, special units for shallow wells and feeder roads components)
and to pay special attention to staff training.
20.     The  Bank  also accepted the proposal for the Village Self Help
Program (VSHP) to enable the villagers to participate fully in the
planning and implementation of projects meeting their most pressing
needs. The VSHP would comprise non self-financing projects e.g. feeder
roads, water supply, dispensaries etc. that would be eligible for
funding on a grant basis and also self-financing projects e.g. stores,
small scale industries etc. that would be eligible for term credit
from TRDB on prevailing terms and conditions.



- 19 -
21.     In  addition,  it  recommended  that  the project would finance
sorghum and millet research based on a national research station
within the region, to complement the envisaged national research
program.
22.     The  main  changes  in  the  draft appraisal report compared to
Project preparation proposals were:
- an overall reduction of the investment from $ 56 million to $ 30
million;
- elimination of health, resettlement, soil conservation and dam
construction components;
- exclusion of the Geita district;
- reduction of the livestock, forestry and land use planning
proposals;
- enlargement of the water component through inclusion of the
rehabilitation of existing water supply facilities and support to
operation and maintenance of shallow wells both in Mwanza and
Shinyanga;
- Placement of the Project Coordinators into the regional planning
office's;
- establishment of Project special funds;
- establishment of a Central Evaluation Unit under P1M0.
Co-financing axd Negotiations
23.     Although  in  late  1977 the Dutch and the Canadian governments
showed some interest in co-financing the Project the WB approached
IPAD in February 1978 which agreed to participate in funding the
Project on a parallel basis but only for the agricultural, livestock,
coordination, evaluation, land use planning, and parts of the VSHP
components.
24.     Negotiations  took place in Washington between March 27 and 30,
1978. The Tanzanian six man delegation headed by the Principal
Secretary to the Treasury clarified the issues raised by the Bank of
extension services and VSHP. It assured the Bank and IFAD that the
Government would provide the extension staff required for the proposed
project and that the VSHP subvote would not be used to finance ongoing
costs and a village would have to make some contribution to operation
and maintenance costs to qualify for VSHP financing.
25.     During the negotiations the IFAD loan was increased from $ 10 m
to $ 12 m, and the IDA credit reduced from $ 14 m. to 12 m.
Co-financing was changed from parallel to joint financing except for
vater and roads components which were solely supported from the IDA
Credit.   IDA   was   appointed   Cooperating   Institution   for   the
administration  of  the  IFAD  loan and Bank guidelines would apply for
all procurement.



- 20 -
Approval and Effectiveness
26.     The IFAD loan was approved by the IFAD Board on April 13, 1978.
The Government approved the Credit/Loan documents on May 3, 1978
whereas the IDA approval was given on May 16, 1978, under Special
Procedure without discussion and together with credits for the Second
Cashewnut Development and Tabacco Handling Projects in Tanzania. The
Development Credit and Joint Project Agreements were signed on June
14, 1978.
The conditions of effectiveness were:
a) the appointment of Project Coordinators and Financial Controllers,
b) the ratification by the Government of the Joint Project Agreement;
c) the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement;
d) Legal Opinions.
27.     After  postponing the effectiveness date five times, mainly due
to delays in producing legal opinion for the IFAD Loan, the Project
was eventually declared effective on March 5, 1979.
The final project outline included the following components:
(1) Agricultural Development consisting of Seed, Trials, Research,
Extension and Training, and Land Use Planning subcomponents
(2) Livestock Development
(3) Forestry Development
(4) Village Self Help Program
(5) Roads Improvement
(6) Water Supply
(7) Project Coordination and Evaluation.



- 21 -
CHAPTER TWO
SUMJAXY OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Component     IPlan per Working Papers'    Changes made and Achievements
Agriculture   I
1.Village       Carry out 15160 simple| Prior to the project redesign a total
Verificationli trials of cotton,     I of 1340 trials were carried out. From
Trials      , sorghum millet, paddy,i 1983/84 trials were limited to the
maize and cassava.      pilot divisions. Out of 364 trials
envisaged for 1983/84 234 were comple-
ted and analysed in the two regions. In
1984/85 out of a target of 308 trials,
238 were harvested and analysed.
2.Extension     Strengthen the           The Training and Visits System was
and Training, extension services of j applied after project redesign.
each region             Seventeen agricultural staff were
trained abroad and others were trained
X  locally through seminars, demonstrati:
I ions and short courses. The attendance
during training sessions and demonstr-
ations was poor.
3.Seeds         Support TANSEED in       The subcomponent was discontinued in
the distribution of     1982 but an input supply subcomponent
seeds to farmers,       was proposed. The quantity of seed
dressing homegrown      distributed in Mwanza was not
seeds retained by       available. In Shinyanga 480 tons were
farmers and in constr-  purchased and distributed. Although 150
ucting 9 seed stores    seed dressers were made in )wanza and
140 distributed none were used at
village level. In Shinyanga 20 dressers
were made and were used occassionally
at the district centres. Five seed
stores were constructed; one in Mwanza
j and four in Shinyanga.
4.Land Use    ! a) Produce physical      A target to survey and map 558 villages
Planning         inventory maps for   was made. In accordance with the
existing villages. I redesign proposals activities were to
No targets were      be focused on doing survey work and
given.               liasing with other components in the
t  pilot divisions. 318 villages were
surveyed out of which 185 were mapped.
Ib) Assist establishment, One satellite village was established
of new or satellite   in Nwanza and two in Shinyanga region.
villages



- 22 -
lc) Layout soil conser- 1 A topographical survey to demarcate
vation, irrigation    conservation measures was conducted in
and road allignment   one village in Kwimba but there was no
works on request.     follow up. Assistance for a layout of
1 10 hectares of land for small scale
irrigation scheme was given in Kahama.
In the S.E. Shinyanga contour bands and
tree lines were established to protect
about 60 hectares of land.
Id) Produce a small-      Tracings were done but the work was not
scale village map     completed because there were no
for Shinyanga region, pantograph.
e) Do prefeasibility   I This was done by Ecosystems of Nairobi
study on the agri-  I but most of the recommendations have
cultural Development, not been implemented due to inadequate
of the South East   f budgetary funds.
Shinyanga
5.Cassava,     a) Increase cassava       Cassava yield was increased by 9 tons-
Sweet potato,   yield from 46 tons  1 to 25 tons per hectare and sweet potato
millet and       to 18.2 tons of        y yield was increased by 5 tons to 30
sorghum          fresh cassava nots    tons per hectare.
research         per hectare and
potato yield from
25 tons to 27.2 tons;
per hectare.
1b) Research on millet    Not done at Ukiriguru but it is been
and sorghum           carried out at Ilonga.
Ic) Establish a researchT Two hectares of land were legally
substation at        , acquired and fenced. Experiments
U Usagara                 were carried out during the final year
of the project.
6.Offshore      To introduce improved   Improved pinapple cultivars were
Islands       pinapple cultivars,      introduced (62,888 suckers were sold to
increase production ofj farmers). A few farmers near the
5 citrus seedlings and    nursery got citrus seedlings. Nothing
promote coffee          was done on coffee promotion.
production in Ukerewe
and Ukara Islands
---------vVV--W- -------- ----- -------- ------------ - -------------



- 23 -
Livestock     I                       I
Development   l                       l
1.Improvement la) Renovate 21 LDCs    j Twenty LDCs were renovated but were
of Livestock,                       I underutilised because of lack of drugs,
Development                           chemicals and equipment which arrived
Centres     j                         after the component was phased out in
(LDCs)                                June 1984.
lb) Repair 28 dips        Forty dips were repaired and 37 were
, operational but later on due to drought
and lack of acararide very few remained
j  operational.
lc) Carry out a           Not carried out because it was found
Livestock Census      out later that the existing data on
1livestock was adequate.
1d) Improve animal        Not initiated because technical specia-
husbandry extension   lists were not recruited. Instead inse-
services.             rvice training courses were conducted.
2.Improvement   Carry out trials, test!i Activi;  s were carried out in Malya
of Range      improved  tarieties, do  only due to late recruitment of the
Management    seed multiplication   , Range Specialist who later proved
practices at  and carry out pilot     incapable. They included testing of
Malya, Lubaga  programmes of pasture   improved grass varieties and seed
a Ukiriguru    establishment and     j multiplication. 455 kilograms of seeds
improved grazing        were produced between 1980 and
management              June 1984.
3.Support for la) Construction of       T he construction was completed at the
Veterinary  I  training facilities   end of the project.
Investigation    at Mwanza and Lubagal
Centre -         in Shinyanga
Mwanza       I
lb) Carry out a disease   Conducted for one year only. Abandoned
control monitoring    after the officer in charge left in
survey                1982.
lc) Carry out Newcastle | Not initiated because the vaccine was
disease study.        not available.
~~~~~~~~ I____~  ___ _  ____________  _ _



-24 -
Forestry
Component      |
I.Assessment  § The Ministry of         | Surveyors from the Ministry took aerial
of forest     Natural Resources to    map of a total of 23,791 sq.km of
reserves      undertake an assess-    forest reserves in Mwanza and Shinyanga
ment of the forestry  I and their boundaries were defined.
resources of both        However, an inventory of the different
regions and produce      species was not carried out nor
maps.                    management plans drawn.
2.hood           To establish a total    Area planted : 1486 ha. of regional
Plantations j of 3000 ha.of Regional; plantations (50% of target) and 3343
plantations in each   ' ha. of school and village tree blocks
district; 2435 ha. of   (137%). Although during project
school and village       redesign emphasis was placed in
tree blocks and 750      increasing the number of trees planted
ha. of private           by individuals no calculation has been
planting.              , made on the total area planted.
3-lursery       To raise a total of   I A total of 13.' m. seedlings were
Production    15.1 m. seedlings for ' raised despite the shortage of
plantation and sale to, polythene tubes.
farmers for pole/fuel-,
wood supply.
Forestry                                t
Research at
Malya
Provision of  la) Confirmation of        a) A total of 237 species and
information        promising fast       ,  provenances were raised. Eucalyptus
for the        t  growing species and       species have been recommended on the
planning of        investigation of         merits of fast growth rates and
future wood        their potential in       suitability for poles and fuel.
production         provenance trials.
plantations.
lb) Screening indigenous' Nine trials were established.
and exotic species    Eucalyptus species and indigenous
which have             species were considered.
previously proved
successful elsewhere,
jc) Estimation of yield,j Five eucalyptus species were recomme-
mainly of wood and    nded for provenance trialst More time
other products from   is required to confirm the present
successful           , information on yields.
provenances.
I                        I



- 25 -
|d) Determination of the! No specific trials were undertaken on
effects of cultural , nursery techniques. Trials on planting
practices on nurseryl will assume greater importanoe in the
work and planting     future when there will be a need to
operations on       , test under different cultural practices
survival and yield  | those species which have been
and the approximate I identified as suitable for the
costs of these        environment.
operations.
I                       I----------------  ________________________
Water Supply
I.Constructioni Establishment of 3       A Shallow Wells Division was estab-
Units          Shallow well          t lished in the office of the Mwanza
construction units      Regional Water Engineer.
2.Shallow     j Construct 540 shallow   A total of 228 shallow wells were
wells       | wells in Mwanza        j constructed serving 68,400 people.
3.Rehabilitat t Rehabilitate 36        ! In Mwanza no water supply scheme was
tion of       existing water supply   rehabilitated. In Shinyanga 9 water
water supply1 schemes                  supply schemes were rehabilitated
schemes     |                          before 1981/82. No work was done
I thereafter under the project.
Roads
Component
1.Rehabilita-   To rehabilitate 401      In the redesign proposals the target of
tion of       and 398 kms of           80 kms a year was reduced to 45 km8 in
Regional      regional roads in        Nwanza and 72 in Shinyanga. 148 kms
Roads         Mwanza and Shinyanga    were rehabilitated in Mwanza (38%) and
respectively.          ' 200 kms (50%) in Shinyanga.
2.Village      ' Rehabilitate a total    18 kms of access roads were rehabilita-
Access        of 320 kms of village   ted in Mwanza and 12 kms in Shinyanga.
Roads         access roads (160 kms
in each region).



- 26 -
VSHP
A. Non Self   l
Financing
1.Classrooms  j wanza region approved 26 classrooms were constructed and Com-
construction of 26    1 pleted in Mwanza and 17 in Shinyanga.
classrooms and
1 Shinyanga 100 class-
roomso
2.Teachers    j Construction of 10       Eight were constructed and completed.
Houses      j teachers' houses in
!Mwanza
3.New           To construct 8 new       All were constructed and completed.
Dispensariesi dispensaries in ?Iwanza1
I 
4.Upgrading ofl Upgrade 12 dispensa-    In Mwanza 11 were completed and the
dispensariesl ries in Mwanza and    , remaining was 70% completed. Four
40 in Shinyanga         were completed in Shinyanga. The rest
are still under construction.
5.School        One school office to    It was constructed and completed.
office      I be constructed in '
Mwanza.
6.Village       Mwanza to plant 25 ha., 24.5 ha. were planted in Mwanza. None
Woodlots      and Shinyanga 128 ha."I in Shinyanga.
7.Cattle Dips | To build 2 dips in    ! The two dips were built.
Mwanza.
!                       I
8.Charco        To construct a charco   It was completed in 1983.
I in Mwanza.
9.Village       22 km to be constucted  The Village Access Roads Unit was
A.ccess Roads in Mwanza and 128 in    disbanded during the redesign. Mwanza
Shinyanga.              constructed 21 kms and Shinyanga
12 km.
10.Community  I Construct 2 in Mwanzas.  One was completed and the other is
Centre     j                          almost complete.
I                 I 
11.Shallow    I Construction of 540 in' 120 shallow wells were funded under
wells        Mwanza under Shallow    VS.HP programme but not all were
! Wells Programme.     I constructed.
12.Godowns    ! Construct 34 godowne    1 19 godowns were constructed and
! in Shinyanga          I completed in the first year of the
1 project. The WB dissapproved further
funding of godowns under VSHP non self
I financing.



-27 -
B- Selfl
Financing
1.Grain Mills   TRDB to consider         45 grain mills were loaned to villages,
approval of 36 grain    23 in kiwanzs and 22 in Shinyanga.
mills in Mwanza and
Shinyanga
2.Lorries       TRDB to consider         8 lorries were loaned to villages,
approval of 12          2 in Mwanza and 6 in Shinyanga.
requests for lorries
3.Tractors      TRDB to consider         One tractor was loaned in Mwanza.
approval of tractor
Project
Coordination
1.3taffing    i Recruitment of 14        Of the envisaged 14 expatriate staff
I expatriate staff and  1 12 were recruited. However, 3 addi-
72 senior additional  I tional expatriates were recruited.
local staff            | Most of the local staff were recruited.
I      .I
2.Staff         Train project staff   I Many staff from all components were
Training    f on the job, in local    trained on the job and in various local
institutions or         institutions. 45 senior staff were
and abroad.            I trained abroad.
3.Civil Works   Constr.action of 24    | Of the staff houses, 21 were completed
staff houses, offices   and are occupied. In Shinyanga constru-
and stores.            j ction of an office block and stores was
talso  ompleted. Kwanza constructed four
additional houses for junior staff.
4.Procurement   Procure from abroad      Procurement was very slow and this
and within materials, , adversely affected the effectiveness
equipment and others    of the project.
required by the
components.
5.Konitoring    Establish Regional       The Regional Monitoring and Evaluation
and           Monitoring and           Units and Central Evaluation Unit were
Evaluation    Evaluation Units in      established but were not as effective
both regions and a      as envisaged.
Central Evaluation
Unit.
~~~~~~~~~\vvvtW~---------------- --^__-------   ----- - -W_______



- 28 -
CHAPTER THREE
INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Project Management and Organisation
1.      According  to  the  Project  Staff Appraisal Report the project
management   was   the  overall  responsibility  of  the  two  regional
administrations. Policy matters were to be decided by the regional
development   committee   chaired   by   the   Regional   Commissioner.
Specifically, the project was to be coordinated, guided and monitored
by a project coordinating section (PCS) in each region under the
respective regional planning officer. Each section was to include a
project coordinator, financial controller, a monitoring and evaluation
unit and support staff. The project coordinator was to assist the
regional planning officer to coordinate the activities of the various
functional managers involved in the project and also to oversee the
day to day operations of the project. The financial controller was to
be responsible for the management and control of the project funds and
procurement. The day to day management of the project components fell
to   the   respective  functional  managers.  The  respective  regional
development directors were to administer a Project Special Fund (US $
0.18m) established in each region. The managerial functions of the
project as per the appraisal repcrt were therefore diffused.
2.      The Regional  Monitoring and Evaluation Units were established
to   collect,  coordinate  and  analyse  data  for  monitoring  project
progress   to  facilitate  managment  decisions  and  evaluate  project
impact.
3.      The  concept of integrating some of the existing organisational
structures   and   separate  project  identity  (Project  Coordinator's
Office) was adopted. This 'mixed' administration approach, however,
was poorly managed. The project coordinator's office in both regions
failed to effectively coordinate the varioue project activities. There
were no regular frequent meetings of component heads which would have
been an instrument of feedback information and forward planning. The
few meetings which were held were in most cases prompted by visits
from the World Bank. As a consequence there was no constant flow of
information between the coordinator and those responsible for the
activities being coordinated. Likewise, the coordinator's office was
incapable of seeing that project resources were used for project
purposes.  The  incapacity  of  the  coordinator's office was, however,
built into the project.
4.      The  ranking  of  the  project coordinator between the RPLO and
DPLO (and in effect, below the regional functional managers some of
whom were project component heads) weakened his staff relationship
with the component heads. According to the organisation structure the
project coordinator had no direct relation with those responsible for
implementing the project. In this situation it cannot be expected that
the project coordinator could be effective if not by force of personal
influence.



- 29 -
5.      As pointed out earlier the day to day management of the project
components and subcomponents was carried out by internationally or
locally recruited specialists working with the regional functional
managers (e.g. agricultural extension and training, trials etc.). The
recruitment of these specialists was slow. In Shinyanga, for example,
an effective agricultural extension specialist was recruited in August
1982 and a trials specialist in July 1983. However, both subcomponents
ran from the start of the project. It should be pointed out that a
few of the recruited specialist proved ineffective. The shallow wells
program was an exception. The specialists were recruited on time and
their terms of contract ended as described in the appraisal report.
The program was a success.
6.      In  the selection of staff to execute the project, no attention
was given to management qualities nor were those appointed given
training in management. However, they were expected to be both
technicians and managers as they were responsible for the effective
use of the project resources.
7.      With  regard  to  the  regional functional managers the project
activities were an added responsibility, although in some cases e.g.in
forestry and agriculture their only developmental activities were the
project   activities.  The  time  and  effort  they  spent  on  project
activities was, however, far less than the weight of the project
expenditure in their respective budgets.
8.      Though  it  was always stressed in the World Bank aide memoires
that it was essential and advisable to appoint counterparts to the
internationally recruited specialists to strengthen local management
capacity it was only effective in the shallow wells program. Given the
lack of managerial ability of some experts and at times their ulterior
motives   a   counterpart   could  be  misled.  However,  most  of  the
counterparts were appoi.nted by the government.
9.      In  addition  to  these  managerial  problems, there were rapid
turnover of project coordinators and other project ataff during the
project period. Furthermore, especially in the latter years of the
project, the shortage of fuel hampered the implementation of the
project. In most cases the project activities were treated as just one
more department to report to - although some useful resources came
with extra activities.
10.     According to a survey on institutional performance conducted by
PEU in July/August 1985, many of those interviewed (regional and
district functional managers and other staff) challenged the role of
PCS* of procuring project items and delivering them to the sites and at
times disbursing funds without the knowledge of district authorities.
This generated a feeling in some villages of a project funded and
implemented by World Bank staff thus eroding their committment to
participatory obligations. Control of the project resources at the
regional level could have contributed to misuse and misallocation of
resources on non project activities.
11.     The  above  managerial  and organisational problems confirm the
World Bank supervision missions' periodic assessments of the type of
problems facing the project (mission data). It was always stated that
project management was a persistent problem.



- 30 -
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
12.     Although  the  monitoring and evaluation units were established
in  both  regions for the purpose of providing management with analysed
information on project progress to facilitate management decisions,
they failed to perform their duties. This was mainly due to a compound
of general poor performance in components, unsuitable and rapid
turn.over of staff and lack of emphasis on management throughout the
project. If project management was emphasised more it would have
prompted the units to do something to improve it.
According to the TISCO report
"The   unit  role  was  limited  to  accepting  uncritically  spurious,
dubious, and/or irrelevant data from component heads and putting these
into a 'report' form. There was no analysis of the data, of deviations
from targets, of what may have been possible within the constraints
that existed and so on; the production of so called reports became an
end in itself and was counted as an "achievement" by the units".
13.     The monitoring and evaluation units in practice, therefore, did
not contribute to the effective management of the project.
The Central Evaluation Unit
14      A  Central  Evaluation  Unit  (CBU)  was  established under the
auspices of the Planning and Control Division of the Prime Minister's
Office in accordance with the project appraisal report. The Unit was
expected to guide, support and provide in service training for the
Regional Monitoring and Evaluation Units (RMEU8), to standardise the
monitoring and evaluation procedures among regions and to carry out
indepth analysis of crucial trends and problems in the development of
the project areas.
15      Despite the newness of the concept of monitoring and evaluation
of projects in Tanzania, the appraisal report stipulated that the
government would appoint a local Senior Economist to be responsible
for  the  running of the CEU. On establishment of the Unit, however, an
expatriate economist who was carrying out a farm management survey
(PMS) for the Lake regions was made in charge of the Unit. An
economist joined the CEU in April 1979 and an agricultural economist
was recruited in 1980. The CEU staff however, were engrossly involved
with the ongoing farm management survey and devoted very little time
on what the unit was established for. Nevertheless, an introductory
workshop on M & P was conducted in 1979 which was attended by
evaluation  officers from Kigoma, Tabora, Mwanza and Shinyanga regions.
Following the workshop the CEU staff made frequent visits to the RMBUs
and occasionally arranged meetings with the RMEUs.
16.     There  was  a  closer cooperation between the CPU and the RNEUs
after the discontinuation of the FMS and recruitment of a Chief
Evaluation Officer (CEO) in spite of the fact that be was specifically
recruited by the World Bank to analyse the FiS. The cooperation was
further enhanced by the recruitment of & Monitoring and Evaluation



- 31 -
Specialist. During the last 2 years of the project the CEU gave
guidance and support to RMEUs by:
(i) preparing 'Key Indicators' for all the components which were to
be adopted by the RMEUs when writing progress reports,
(ii) Reviewing their work programs and quarterly reports and gave
advice when necessary,
(iii) Organising local and overseas training for the RIMU and CEU
staff,
(iv) Writing a booklet on "Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation
of Development Projects in Tanzania".
17.      On   the  whole,  however,  the  CEU  failed  to  perform  its
obligations effectively. As a result the importance of incorporating
monitoring and evaluation in development projects was not realized.
Government Performance
18.     The  Tanzanian  government  fulfilled  most  of  the conditions
required for the successful implementation of the project. However,
its inability to act quickly in response to problems arising during
implementation adversely affected the project.
19.     The  ministry of Agriculture (KILINO) as a parent ministry, had
the ultimate responsibility for technical success of the agricultural
component. However, it was unable to deal effectively with the
project's activities due to several reasons among which was the
inadequate institutional capacity at all levels to either monitor,
supervise or implement the project. Before centralizing KILIMO, the
regional   and   district  authorities  (Kilimo  staff  included)  were
directly responsible to P140 and had unclear functional responsibility
to Kilimo. The ministry's role was supposed to be mainly technical and
advisory. This resulted in ambiguous if not conflicting relationship
with the ministry especially with regard to staffing. Regardless of
this situation the ministry assisted in resolving important issues and
participated   often   in   the  field  trips  and  discussions  auring
supervision missions.
20.     The  Prime  Minister's  office  being  the executing agency was
responsible for matters of staff recruitment motivation and training,
project plannling, implementation and supervision, decision making on
policy issuee and follow up actions. The ministry performed most of
the assignments as planned, although not without problems. The late
recruitment of personnel to key positions, frequent transfers of
project staff and lack of incentives to motivate them contributed
heavily to low performance of the project. Decisiou making on urgent
matters concerning the project was not as prompt as required, hence
even if the right decision was finally made, it became of little
importance given the time lag. One example of '"he inconvenience caused
by such a time lag concerned the issue of the project redesign.
Project redesign was first suggested in 1981 but was completed in
1983. Similarly follow up measures to decision making was often
delayed by bureaucratic procedures thus constituting a bottleneck to



- 32 -
smooth implementation e.g. the procurement of the computer.
21       The   ministries   of   Finance  and  Economic  Planning  were
responsible for controlling the expenditure of the pro 'ct through
tendering,   disbursing   and   reimbursing   funds,  scrutinising  the
implementation progress reports, approving the annual budgets and
releasing warrant of funds. They played their roles reasonably well by
providing the required services. Nevertheless, the tendering procedure
left much to be desired, because it took a very long time to procure
project materials from abroad thus inevitably slowing down project
implementation. The decision to establish a Revolving Fund as a
prerequisite for the establishment of the Input Supply Subcomponent as
outlined in the Redesign Proposals was never effected nor that of
amending the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and the
TRDB.
Tanzania Rural Development Bank
22.     The  only  financial institution in Tanzania which was directly
involved  in the project was the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
now   the  Cooperative  and  Rural  Development Bank  (CRDB).  It  was
responsible  for  advancing  loans  to  villages as part of the Village
Self Help Program.
23.     The  TRDB  fulfilled  its objective. Some of the villages which
submitted   their   requests   were   given   enough  funding  for  the
implementation of productive enterprises. TRDB was, however, not able
to meet all the requests for maize mills and lorries from villages
because of non availability of these items. Nonetheless, this was
outside their control. Despite the non availability of the items
required, the TRDB continued with the appraisal activities which
resulted in increased overheads.
24.     It  is  likely  that  the  subcomponent could have had greater
impact if the sub-loan had funded only the foreign exchange component
for the purchase of the items. Alternatively, the items could have
been procured directly from overseas by the Central Procurement
Office. In both cases more items could have been secured. The office
strengthening costs could have been met by local funding.
Funding Agencies - World Bank and IFAD Performance
25.     The  World  Bank  was deeply involved with the project from its
inception up to the closing date. During the project formulation the
Bank gave various admonitions on the problems which could hinder the
success of the project, some of which were considered during the
project write up but others were not due to several reasons including,
government policy on rural development e.g. the villagisation program.
As pointed out, earlier, some crucial issues such as the size of the
project and project management were not solved.



- 33 -
26.     In  addition  to designing and appraising the project, the Bank
continued to make decisions on project management and to monitor
implementation through frequent supervision missions and progress
reports. During the project period a total of 14 supervision missions
were made and in nearly all of them included, or was exclusively
carried out by the project officer directly responsible for the
project at the Bank. This was a positive change considering the fact
that for Tabora RIDEP none of the mission members was involved in more
than 3 consecutive supervision missions.
27.     In  spite  of  this,  different supervision missions especially
those    which   included   specialists   at   times   gave   different
recommendations to the respective component heads during the initial 3
years of the project. This led to confusion with regard to the
direction of implementation. The different recommendations on how to
conduct trials and planting eucalyptus species indiscriminately even
in dry areas of Mwanza were but a few examples observei. Also worth
mentioning is the fact that the missions were mostly comprised of
Agricultural Economist(s) and Agriculturalists (Mission Data, the
Specialization column). The components in the other disciplines were
deprived of appropriate recommendations e.g. the roads component.
28      The  Bank  was  responsible for the approval and appointment of
the internationally recruited staff after consultation with the Prime
Minister's Office. With regard to the local staff especially the
component heads, the Bank requested their curriculum vitae although
their appoitment was exclusively the responsibility of the government.
In this respect, the Bank was aware of the calibre of the staff
manning the project. It is, therefore, reasonable to say that the Bank
played a significant role in structuring the management of the project
because it was not only involved in the project design in which the
different   posts   were  described  but  also  participated  fully  in
recruitment of staff.
29.     According  to  supervision  missions'  views  the  project  was
plagued by the problem of management right from the beginning.
Although this problem was foreseen during the project write up, it was
not resolved during the appraisal stage. Despite this fact the Bank
did not initiate training courses on management for at least the
component heads and project administrators. Almost all of those who
attended management courses were not directly involved with the
project. In other words the managerial capability of project staff
(both local and international staff) was overlooked by the Bank as
well as the Government. It can therefore be conciuded that there was
no close follow up of the findings and recommendations of the
supervision missions.
30.     Although  the  contributions  of  the World Bank and IFAD were
equal (each contributing 39% of project costs) IAD played a very
small role comparatively on the management of the project. IAD
members   seldom  accompanied  the  World  Bank  supervision  missions.
However, when they joined the missions their recommendations or
suggestions   on  how  to  improve  project  implementation  were  very
substantial. Their views on the problems of implementation were at
times different from those of World Bank members.



- 34 -
31.     Both  agencies  fulfilled  their  respective  roles  of  direct
payments abroad amd reimbursement of funds. It is however noted that
despite the poor performance of the project and especially after the
Bank recommended that the project should be redesigned they continued
to reimburse the expenditures incurred. If the agencies were serious
enough they would have stopped reimbursing funds as early as 1981 and
not as late as July - October, 1982.



- 35 -
CHAPTER FOUR
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
Introduction
1.      In  the  appraisal  report an economic analysis was carried out
for  agriculture,  livestock,  forestry  and regional roads components.
Over a period of 25 years they would have generated the following
rates of return:
a) Agriculture         51%
b) Livestock           12%
c) Forestry            18%
d) Regional Roads      15%
The overall rate of return for the project was expected to be 21%.
2.      To  calculate  the economic rates of return for the project the
actual costs incurred during implementation were considered and actual
or projected benefits which would accrue from what was actually
achieved were calculated. It was more difficult to calculate the
benefits beeause no adequate monitoring was carried out in most
components.   An   economic   analysis   was   not  attempted  for  the
agricultural component due to the non availability of reliable data on
inputs purchased and distributed, the hectares planted and crop yields
in the project area. Estimation of the economic benefits of the social
infrastructures were not calculated due to the same reasons given in
the appraisal report.
1. AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT
35       The  economic  benefits  of  the  agriculture  component  were
expected to accrue from improvemeit of crop yields resulting from the
project's support of widespread dissemination of the proven technical
packages through (a) the production and distribution of improved seeds
for maize and sorghum (b) the dressing of maize and sorghum seed and
(c) multiplication of improved cassava varieties.
4.      It was estimated by full project development that improved seed
would apply to 33% and seed dressing to 40% of the maize and sorghum
cropped area and that improved planting material would cover 25% of
the cassava cropped area. The overall yield increase of improved
certified seed of maize and sorghum was estimated at 30% representing
the equivalent annual incremental yields of 140 kg/ha and 125 kg/ha
for maize and sorghum respectively.
5.      The  agricultural  component  which was comprised mainly of the
extension and training, village verfication trials, research, land use
planning, seeds and after the project was redesigned the Wigehe rural
craft centre subcomponents, spent a total of Tsh 30.9m. out of the
budgeted figure of Tsha 41.5m.



- 36 -
6.      The economic benefits resulting from the agricultural component
could be derived from the adoption rate of extension messages by the
farmers among which include application of improved seeds and good
crop husbandry. The amount of seed purchased by Mwanza and Shinyanga
regions from TANSEED (Table 1) suggest a positive response of farmers
towards the use of improved seeds. A total of 1704 tons of maize,
sorghum, paddy seeds were purchased over the period of five years.
Assuming that all the seed was planted according to specifications
about 209494 ha would have been planted representing 5% of the total
cropped area of the regions. A total of 187,172 ha. would have been
under maize and sorghum. The area is equivalent to 12% of the total
maize and sorghum cropped area in the two regions.
Table 1 Improved Seeds Purchased by year (kgs)
~--'r-#W----- F ----                     -  -  - -___~--..a  a .. …w_W ______
Type      79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85  Total Source
Mwanza Region
Maize
UCA       6014  10000    125   7000  24220  34654   82013 TANSEED
Katumani  1177  20000      -       -  21670  11281   54128 TANSEED
Serena    58041  72400 410000  21000  48687 128240  738368 TANSEED
Serere        -  72610  55147   6000   4702   7145  145604 TANSEED
Lulu          -      -       -      _    463      -      463 TANSEED
Paddy         -      _      _       -   1725 88578    90303 TANSEED
…            -…-------    -- - -----
Shinyanga Region
Maize
UCA          _      -  25000  10000       -   3034   38034 TANSEED
Serena        -  60000 150000 120500       -  48000  378500 TANSEED
Serere        -      -  50000  56000       -      -  106000 TANSEED
Lulu          -      -    500  36000       -      -   36500 TANSEED
Paddy         _      -  20000  13500       -    225   33725 TANSEED
V…eT ----------                                 -------
Project Funds   (Shinyanga)
Maize
UCA       8000  25000  25000       -      -      -   58000
Serena    16000 162000 111000       -      -      -  289000 PCR of seed
Serere     3000   8000  50000       -      _      -   61000 component
Lulu      10000      -  15000       -      _      -   25000
Paddy      5000  20000  20000       -      -      -   45000
Note. The data from TANSEED are aggregate figures of improved seeds
which were purchased by the regions for sales to individuals using
normal development and project funds. The only available records of
seed purchase by RIDEP funds are data for three years as shown above.



- 37 -
7.      Although  the  purchase of improved seed is a good indicator of
the available seed at the disposal of the farmers it would have been
better if the area actually planted was known and the yields.
Unfortunately, this information is not available. It cannot however be
said that this little achievement was entirely the outcome of the
project for perhaps most of the seed would have been purchased by the
regions without the project.
Seed dressing was not carried out by farmers and therefore this
activity was a failure.
Table 2. Annual Incremental Returns
Crop/          jAnnual Incremental         'Incremental ICost Beneftt;
technical                  ,                      o -eturs  1ratio
improvement     Cost  'YieldajGross Return1Tsh/man-day |Tsh/Tsh
iTsh/hasg/ha   s/ha 
Maize:         j                           j.
Improved seed  !  18    140|   126               32          1:7
Seed dressing       1    30        27            27          1:27
Sorghum      . |                           I            I             I
Improved seed  ,   4l 125    125                 25          1:31    1
Seed dressing       1'   30        30            30          1s30    1
Cassava
Improved plant             7      7              12
materials    I   -    407 1   740              1
Source: Staff Appraisal Report
Tanzania: Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project.
9.      It  has  not  been  easy to quantify the results in a manner as
shown above (Table 2) so as to compare the achievement against the
targets because of inadequate data of subcomponents. The production
figures of crops dealt with extension services were not available and
so resultant economic benefits in terms of increased incomes could not
be determined. Consequently it is not possible to compute the Internal
Rate of Return accurately.
LIVESTOCK COMPONENT
10.     The economic benefits of livestock component were to be derived
from   strengthening  the  extension  services  by  providing  improved
veterinary services and animal husbandry advice to livestock owners in
the neighborhood of 21 livestock development centers (LDCs) and by
improving range management and disease control. The effect of these
would be an increase of 10% per capita income of livestock owners. The
livestock owners would constitute 37% of all households and about
56,000 people would therefore benefit from the program. The target
coverage for each livestock center under the program would be 40% of
the cattle and 80% of the poultry population by year 5. This would
represent 6% of the total cattle and 11% of the total poultry
population of the two regions.



- 38 -
11.     When the benefits derived from 21 LDCs serving cattle alone and
cattle and poultry combined were compared with the costs of the total
livestock, the internal rate of returns of 8.4% for cattle alone and
11.8% for cattle combined with poultry were obtained in accordance
with the Working Paper C-4. The economic analysis for the component
revealed that the IERR is negative (Vol. II - Livestock Component).
The only tangible economic benefit was the increase in dipping
coverage.   The   dipping  records  which  were  supplied  by  District
Livestock Development Officers indicated that dipping coverage in the
area covered by dips which were renovated increased from 7% to 14%
over a cattle population of about 400,000. Nevertheless the increase
was below the targetted increase from 10% to 40% covering 211,000
cattle.
12.     The  economic  benefits  from  increased  dipping coverage were
estimated using the following assumptions
(1) Mortality of adults was reduced by 20% for animals affected by
improved dipping coverage
(2) This resulted in an increased offtak6 rate of 1.5% for affected
animals.
(3) Dipping coverage increased by 7% of a total of 400,000 cattle.
(4) The increased offtake is sold at an average price of Sh.2,500/a
per head (data from actual prices at Mwanza Market for March
1984)-t
(5) The increased sales result in a net benefit in areas covered by
improved dips of 400,000 head x 7% x 1.5% x Shs.2,500 - Shs.
1,050,000 per year.
(6) Incremental dipping costs were 400,000 head x 7% x Shs.14/- per
year S 3hs.392,O00/-.
(7) Improvements build up over the period 1979 to 1984 and have a life
of ten years.
(8) Total benefits from the increased dipping coverage for goats and
sheep were negligible compared to those for cattle and have been
disregarded.
ROADS COMPONENT
13.     The  total cost of the component amounted to Tshs 46.28 million
compared to the budget Tshs 36.253 million. The expenditure by year is
shown below.



- 39
Expenditure by year ( Tshs '000)
78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85   Total
Actual     107   4504  13623   9986   5039   5161   7862   46282
Budget       -    220  17379   6218   6218   6218        -   36253
Source: Financial Performance report.
14.     The  economic benefits were estimated on the basis of road user
cost savings resulting from improvement of rehabilitated roads and an
Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 15.2% was projected. The IRR was
computed on the assumption that traffic volume on the rehabilitated
roads of 798 km. would increase. On the contrary the traffic volume
deteriorated considerably as revealed by traffic counting which was
conducted in December 1984 by PEU on some roads namely Magu to Mahaha,
Misasi   to  Mbarika,  Busoka  to  Lunguya  and  Kahama  Ushetu  roads.
Furthermore hardly 50% of the target, was achieved. As the assamptions
underlying the estimation of IRR did not materialise, the economic
benefit consequently did not accrue as expected and IRR inevitably
became negative (appendix 1).
15.     In spite of the fact that the IRR is negative the importance of
each rehabilitated road is unquestionable. The rehabilitation has
greatly improved the movement of people, goods and services in the
respective areas. The Misasi to Nbarika road, for example, did
smoothen the haulage of crops particularly cotton from the villages to
ginneries. It was acknowledged by the manager of Manawa ginnery that
cotton collection was enhanced considerably as a result of the roads
rehabilitation in his zone.
FORESTRY COMPONENT
Introduction
16.     The  activities  under  this  component  which include regional
plantations, protection of forest reserves, school and village tree
blocks will generate economic benefits to participants after 8 years
i.e, 1986/87, when first year forest products will be ready for
harvest.
17.     The economic benefits however will not be achieved as envisaged
in   the   project  appraisal  report,  thereby  failing  to  meet  the
objectives. The target Internal Rate of Return (IRE) will not be
attained   partly   due   to  unrealistic  assumptions  underlying  its
calculation and implementation problems.



- 40 -
Economic Analysis
18.     The  economic  benefits  were  to  be derived from the sales of
trees after year 8 as firewood and poles. The IRR of regional
plantation was estimated at 29% and that of village afforestation was
to be 18% while the overall IRR would be 15%. The assumptions
underlying their calculation relate to growth rates, survival rates,
and target acreage.
19.     The  annual  increments per hectare would be 12.5 cu. metre and
10.0 cu. metre for regional plantation and village afforestation
respectively. Such a high uniform growth rate did not materialise.
Similarly the assumed average rate of 75% was not realized, in fact it
was quite low with a record of average survival rate of 56%, 35% and
28%   (Survey  reports  by  PEU)  for  schools  tree  blocks,  regional
plantations and village woodlots respectively. Also the target acreage
of plantation development was not achieved. The figures indicate a
shortfall of 1803 ha. out of 6185 the targetted ha. thus recording 70%
achievement.
20.     The achieved overall IRR of forestry program is negative if all
the plantation trees will be felled for firewood after year 8 which is
likely to be so given the increasing shortage of fuel energy in the
project area. However it would be positive by about 7% if the
seedlings that were offered to participants free are valued at cost
value of 1.50 each (Appendix 2). It would still be positive even if
those  seedlings  are  undervalued  at  Tsh  1.25 each (Appendix 3).The
program would then 'be economically justified and particularly so if
other social benefits like soil conservation; provision of shade and
wind   break;   improvement  of  ecology  and  so  on  are  taken  into
oonsideration both qualitatively and quantitatively. Furthermore even
without pricing the seedlings, the IRR will be positive about 6%
assumming that 65% of the trees are felled for firewood and 35% for
poles, (Appendix 4) compared to appraisal report figures of 50% for
firewood and 50% for poles.



- 41 -
CHAPTER FIVE
CONCLUSIONS AND RECON!ENDATIONS
Introduction
1.      The  completion  of  the  phase one of the kwanza and Shinynisa
Rural Development Project has marked the end of the long term rar'il
development program envisaged in the Staff Appraisal Report as well as
the end of the World Bank assistance to rural development projects of
such nature and magnitude in Tanzania. This was the World Bank's only
project after the termination of Kigoma and Tabora RIDEPs which were
mainly prepared and financed by the Bank. Both RIDEPs were also
discontinued at the end of their initial phase.
Project Design
2.      The  overall achievements  of  the  Nwanza and Shinyanga rural
Project are limited, given the fact that over Tahs 242.3 million was
spent during the project period. The main reason for the poor
performance of the project is that the project as originally designed
was unrealistic in scope, naive in its ambitions and inherently
contradictory in its implemention (TISCO report).
3.      The  project  design  stipulated  that  the project area would
encompass all the districts of Mwanza and Shinyanga regions. Given the
manpower   constraints,   limited   extension  packages,  communication
difficulties,   the   complexity   of  the  project  and  the  area  of
coverage,it   proved   to  be  too  vast  a  task  to  be  accomplished
successfully over a period of five years. The suggestion of a pilot
project given before the project preparation but adopted during
project   redesign   was  overlooked  during  the  project  design  and
appraisal.
4.      The  project  benefits  were  expected  to  be  generated  from
increased productivity in agriculture, forestry livestock and small
scale industries. The realization of these benefits per appraisal
report was too optimistic. To assume that accrual of benefits would
begin  in  year 2 in all the productive sectors and build up to a peak
in  project year 6 or 7 and sustained thereafter until the end of the
assessment  period  (project year  25) made the project to be naive in
its ambitions. Farmers are known all over the world as risk averse
especially  with  regard  to  new  technology.  Moreover, there were no
proven extension packages to extend to the farmers. To the Sukuma
cattle is wealth which he cannot be parted with easily. To assume such
high   adoption   rates  by  farmers  and  livestock  owners  was  very
unrealistic.
5.       The   project   dominance   over  other  regional  development
expenditures (70% of the Mwansa region's expenditure on development
(1979/80 - 1982/83) means that unless these expenditures generate se '
sustaining growth and a mechanism for taxing incomes of the target
population, the ability of the government to sustain the recurrent
expenditure associated with these development expenditures should be
questioned. As experienced in the Kigoma and Tabora RIDEPs many
activities were destined to cease with the end of the project.



- 42 -
6.      The project was contradictory in its implementation in that the
regional authorities who were responsible for implementing the project
were seen as under-utilised and needed proper training and supervision
according to the appraisal report. The project aimed at overcoming
this setback while at the same time the project expected the same
people having limited resources to effectively manage a project
involving such a huge expenditure of US $ 30.5 million over a five
year period.
7.      For  future  rural  development  projects  to be successtul the
above mistakes have to be rectified during project design. It is
therefore recommended that during project formulation a very close
examination of the capabilities of those who are to implement the
projects in terms of the following:
(1) their educational background
(2) managerial ability
(3) experience in the respective field
(4) the resources at their disposal
(5) their devotion to work - depending on whetber they are
motivated
(6) training opportunities.
8.      For  the  components  which  require  people's involvement, the
projects should be initiated by themselves and then firm committment
should be ascertained before project approval.
Project Management and Organisation
9.      The  organisational  structure of the project was not conducive
to   effective   management  of  the  project  resources.  The  project
coordinator who was to assist the regional planning officer was not
effective by virtue of his position according to the civil service
structure. He was neither directly linked with the component heads nor
capable of managing the scarce resources e.g. fuel. Furthermore, most
of the component heads on whom day to day management decisions fell,
were not assisted by the project to be competent managers. As earlier
mentioned, most of those who attended management courses were not
closely associated with the project.
10.     The management of the project was therefore, diffused, weak and
inconsistent. TISCO and the World Bank supervision mission of June 18,
1985 recognised the desperate situation of the PCS and consequently
recommended their abolishment. This was however done too late to have
had any impact. It is recommended that project management should be
clearly spelt out during project design. A single line of command is
required to ensure control over all project activities.
11.     Monitoring  and  evaluation  of project activities in practice,
preparation of reports containing data of questionable value did not
contribute   to  effective  management  of  the  components.  The  aide
memoires of the World Bank supervision missions provided a liturgy of
comments and recommendations but the Bank continued to fund unchanged
practices.



- 43 -
12.     Although  the monitoring and on going evaluation of the project
was not of any significance to the improvement of the management, it
still remains a fact that monitoring and evaluation is a good
management tool for a project of any size. A reliable periodic
information on what has been achieved or not achieved in terms of the
set targets and the reasons why (feedback) is a basic need for
management decision making. A good decision taken at the right time
can save a lot of project costs. Management, however, has to be aware
of the usefulness of this tool first. It is therefore recommended that
in future project planning, an element of monitoring and evaluation
should be incorporated and that the activities of M & E should
commence even before the take-off of the project if possible e.g.
during year zero of the project. The size of the unit will depend on
the size and the complexity of the project.
Procurement
13.     The established Government and Bank procurement procedures have
proved to be cumbersome and no changes have been made since the
initiation of the Kigoma RIDEP in spite of the continuous complaints
by project management and supervisory missions. It is recommended that
something has to be done by both parties to amend the present
procedures so that future projects can be implemented smoothly.
Agriculture
14.     With the exception of the cassava and sweet potato research and
to some extent the village verification trials subcomponents the
performance of the other subcomponents including seeds, land use
planning and extension and training was below expectations.
Extension and Training
15.     Before  the  project  was  redesigned it became evident in both
regions that unless drastic changes were made the extension and
training program would be a total failure. The area which had to be
covered by the village extension workers was too large. The contact
farmers selected in the first years were scattered in different
villages in all the districts of Shinyanga and Mwanza. Although
attempts  were  made  by  both  regioni  to  come  up with an effective
extension   and  training  program  no  viable  solution  was  reached.
Moreover, there were no proven extension packages and the VEWs were
not used to have a work program for all seasons.
16.     During  the  project redesign the area of operation was reduced
to two divisions in Mwanza and four divisions in Shinyanga region. The
main thrust of the extension and training program subcomponent was to
introduce on a pilot basis an effective extension methodology which
would result in increased agricultural productivity. Despite the
elaborate program and clearly defined extension packages for all the
major crops, and the recruitment of expatriate extension and training
specialists, the successes of the subcomponent for the two years after
redesign were limited. This was mainly due to low morale of the field
staff induced by poor basic training, non adherence to the scheme of



- 44 -
service, lack of reliable transport and field equipment for the
majority  of  field  workers,  lack  of  proper  actcovrodation  in  the
villages and the area of coverage was considered too large especially
for the VEWs in lwanza pilot area. Many of the problems facing the
VEWs are quite common for most of the agricultural staff.
17.     Agriculture  for many years to come will remain the backbone of
the economy of Tanzania. This implies that in order to improve the
standard of living of the people especially those in the rural areas
agricultural productivity has to be improved and enhanced. It is
apparent from the little experience gained after the project was
redesigned that a modified Training and Visits system of agricultural
extension based on the prevailing conditions but advocating efficiency
and ease of monitoring the activities of the staff at all levels
should be emphasised. This, however, should be carried out hand in
hand   with   improved   ways  of  motivating  the  agricultural  staff
especially the field extension workers. It should be borne in mind
that a non dedicated staff agricultural staff is not an asset but a
liability to the country.
Cassavh and sweet potato research
18.     The  achievements  of  the  cassava  and  sweet potato research
subcomponent are commended. The target to increase the yield of fresh
cassava roots by 2.2 tons from 16 tons per hectare and to increase
sweet potato tubers by 2.2 tons from 25 tons per hectare was
surpassed. The achievement over the target for cassava and sweet
potato were 137.4% and 110.3% respectively. This achievements need to
be encouraged and supported by the government. However, what is of
utmost   importance   is  to  multiply  enough  of  the  high  yielding
recommended cassava and sweet potato varieties for distribution to
extension agents and farmers. At the time of distribution, a package
of the recommended crop husbandry practices should be advocated to the
farmers by the extension staff. it is therefore the responsibility of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock development to ensure that
this is efficiently carried out.
Village Verification Trials
19.      The   village  verification  trials  subcomponent  was  better
orgaaised after the redesign proposals and the recruitment of the
trials specialist than before. The advocated three year trials program
should be accomplished to further confirm the crop packages a'.ready
proven under the farmers conditions. It is recommended that regular
discussions   between   crop   research  staff,   trials  officers  and
extension staff be organised. During these sessions the problems
experienced by farmera in earring out the proven packages should be
throughly reviewed by them to further explore ways to assist the
farmers to produce more efficienctly.



- 45 -
Land Use Planning
20.     Very  little was accomplished by this component in terms of the
targets that were set for implementation. Although many maps were
produced very few have ever been used. Moreover, the maps that were
produced indicated present land use and did not indicate future land
use. It is therefore very unlikely that any of the activities will
have any effect on the land use planning in the future.
21.     The  reasons for the failure of the component can be attributed
to lack of personnel or equipment to undertake land use activities.
The assumption by the project that staff would be available was never
realised and the lack of equipment was a result of the inefficient
procurement system. It is however important to note that there was no
coordination  among  different  components/subcomponents   which  would
have been a prerequisite for the succese of the component.
22.     Given  the increasing population pressure in both regions it is
imperative that land husbandry is improved and that people invest
labour in soil conservation measures. Also, appropriate cropping and
land use systems should be adopted without delay.
Seeds Subcomp6nent
23.     The  seeds subcomponent was only effective during the initial 3
years. The project withdrew the support for the subcomponent in 1981
mainly due to its failure to use the resources efficiently. The
subcomponent   lacked  appropriate  staff  to  manage  and  direct  its
activities.
24.     Supply  of  agricultural  inputs to fanmers including provision
improved seeds on tize, in sufficient amounts and at prices at which
farmers will be willing to buy is of utmost importance if we are to
increase    agricultural    production    significantly.    With    the
re-establishment of the cooperatives, it is recommended that the
government should ensure that they are adequately assisted to carry
out this function properly and efficiently.
Livestock Component
25.     The  poor  performance  of  the  livestock component was mainly
attributed to the following:
(1) late arrival of drugs, vaccines and equipment for the LDCs, and
the VIC.
(2) Unreasonable assumptions in the project write up especially with
regard to the offtake rate of cattle.
(3) Weak and diffused pro3ect management.
(4) Lack of committment of project staff especially with regard to
Livestock range management program and the Disease monitoring
survey.



- 46 -
26.    It is therefore recommended that for future livestock projects
(1) An attempt should be made to design a self-contained project
within which all activities are related to project goals. The VIC
which was basically research should have been considered as a
separate activity
(2) An overall extension strategy should be devised and used as a
basis for all activities.
(3) Procurement should have been carried out by the parent ministry.
If this would have been the case it is reasonably assumed that the
drugs and vaccines would have arrived much earlier.
(4) All the project staff should be directly under the project
management and should not be transferred haphazardly.
(5) The social values and attitudes of the target group have to be
throughly studied before assumptions are made.
Forestry Component
27.     The forestry component made an impact on the populations of the
two regions though not at the rate envisaged in the appraisal report.
According to the economic performance the component had an IRR of 6%
if the seedlings were costed at Ths 1.50 which was supposed to be the
situation. Despite the low survival rate of the village woodlots it is
anticipated that the villagers will or have already recognised the
benefits of trees for fuelwood and poles. The recognition of this fact
is by itself an achievement. It is therefore recommended that the
government should support and enhance village afforestation programs.
28.     The  forest  reserves  and the established regional plantations
have   at   times   been  burnt  indiscriminately.  It  should  be  the
responsibility of the regional forestry department to ensure that they
are protected and fire risks are put to a minimum. This can be done in
collaboration with village councils by enacting by-laws to safeguard
not only the forest reserves and regional plantations but also village
and school woodlote. Individuals should be encouraged to plant as many
trees as possible around their homesteads.
29.     The  forestry  research  at Talya was a success. The provenance
and species trials were implemented with a high degree of technical
competence under difficult conditions. However, nursery and planting
method trials were not fully implemented because they were not
considered to be a priority during such a short period of 5 years.
30.     The  main  objective of the trials program was the provision of
information for the planning of future wood production plantation. To
achieve this objective the program should be continued for 10 years or
more to confirm the findings.



- 47 -
Roads Components
31.     The  achievement  of  the  roads component was about 50% of the
original targets. The expenditure, by far exceeded the original
budget.  Reasons  given for such high costs included the use of project
resourses  for  non  project  use,  the  rise  in prices of the project
inputs higher than that envisaged, underutilisation of the road
construction  equipment,  poor  control  and supervision of road works,
and the late arrival of the roads equipment.
32.      From   what   has   been   experienced   during   the  project
implementation  it is recommended that the design of any future project
at micro level should incorporate trends involving macro issues namely
overall supply situation of the necessary local and external project
inputs and manpower. In addition to incorporating a well defined
management system in the project, the implementation of the project
should commence when all the resources and spare parts have been
provided.
33.     In  spite  of  the fact that very little was achieved, once the
roads are constructed they will need regular maintenance. It is
therefore recommended that a maintenance program for these roads And
others constructed elsewhere, be drawn up and implementated otherwise
in a a few years time the same roads would need total rehabilitation
in which case the benefits will be short lived.
The Village Self help Program
34.     The VSHP was a pilot program introduced in Mwanaa and Shinyanga
designed   to   encourage   village  self  reliance  and  participatory
development by supporting priority development projects identified by
the villagers themselves. The outcome of the program was a suc¢ess
given the life span of the project and the constraints which were
encountered by the implementors. Although the project failed to
mobilise the villagers as expected the villagers received the message
and reacted positively by submitting more applications than the
project could handle. This was the situation in both Mwanza and
Shinyanga.
35.      In   Mwanza   the   villagers  committed  themselves  to  full
participation   in   implementing   the   project   by   paying   their
contributions before the regional authorities gave their approval.
Both   the   villagers   and  the  government were  under  contractual
obligation to accomplish the projects once approved. This resulted in
a higher percentage of projects completed in Nwanza than was the case
in Shinyanga where no contractual obligation existed between the
villagers and the government nor were the projects approved after
collection of village contributions. However, it was disheartening for
the people of Shinyanga to be denied the opportunity to construct more
godowns which they identified as their priority and were anxious to
construct. Of the 171 godowna requests submitted, 19 were approved and
construction was completed in the first year. In the second year after
the regional approval of 15 more godowna, the World Bank refused to
approve their construction on the ground that they should come under
the portifolio of the TRDB. Due to the fact that in Shinyanga there
were   no  contractual  obligations  between  the  government  and  the



- 48 -
villagers and their contention thereafter that this was a World Bank
project, the villagers willingness to participate dwindled. As a
result the performance of the program was poor.
36.     In  spite  of  the  shortfalls of the program it is recommended
that the spirit of village participation in identification, planning
and   implementation  of  their  own  development  programs  should  be
encouraged. This will not only reduce the burden of government
spending on development projects but also the villagers would identify
more   closely   with  facilities  and  accept  the  responsibility  of
maintenance and servicing as belonging to them. This objective is
realisable in shallow wells.
37.     With  regard  to the Self Financing VSHP it is unfortunate that
TRDB had to depend on the availability of maize mills, lorries and
tractots  in  the  local  market. This was a factor which limited their
effectiveness because the items were very scarce and only a few could
be  secured.  It is hereby recommended that in future it will be better
for a project of this nature to make arrangements to procure directly
from abroad all project materials and equipment which are not readily
available in the local market.
Project Financing
38.     The World Bank and IFAD were each to finance 39% of the project
costs.  The  remaining  22% was to be contributed by the government and
respective villages. According to the agreement between the two
agencies and the government, the World Bank and IFAD were to make
direct payments for all project materials and equipment procured
abroad through international tender and personal emoluments for the
internationally recruited staff.
39.     Other  project costs including all local purchases, running and
maintenance of vehicles, salaries for local staff employed by the
project and other project expenses were reimbursed by the agencies (in
most cases it was 75% of the actual expenditure) after the expenditure
was incurred using local funds. The fact that the government had to
raise the money first before reimbursement implies that either the
monies which could have been used for other purposes had to be
diverted to be used by the project first or the government would be
forced   to   raise  the  money  through  higher  taxation  or  deficit
budgeting. Any of the last two methods if adopted by the government
would be inflationary. The first alternative would imply that someone
in the economy would be made worse off by the implementantion of the
project.
40      All  in  all,  the  fact that the project Costs paid for by the
World Bank and IFAD have to be repaid by the Tanzanians though with a
small interest rate, the question still lingers on whether in the long
run the accrued project benefits will enable the country to be better
off economically in the future or not.



- 49 -
(Appendix 1)
Economic Analysis of Regional Road Rehabilitation (Tshe '000')
Item   78/79   79/80    80/81    81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85- 94/95
Benefit    0       0    81368   401755  808595 1149323 1581591 1581591
Cost 147125 5946600 18731650 13730750 6928650 7096400 10810350 649500
N/B -147125 -5946600-18650282-13328995-6120055-5947077 -9228759 932091
IRR Negative.
Note. N/B stands for Net Benefit.
I. The benefit stream is computed as follows.
(a) Total Average Annual User Savings (excl. tax) due to road
improvement  (TSH.1,573,714) divided by No of rehabilitated Kms (311)
5,060.2 Average annual road user savings per Im.
(b) Cummulative number of rehabilitated kms by year.
Region     79/80  80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85
I4wanza        0     48      98    122    134    134
Shinyanga     16    31       61    104    177    177
Total         16     79    159    226    311    311
(c)  Length  of  improved  road by year multiply by Average Annual Road
User Savings per lom adjusted with foreign exchange cost savings of 67%
(as per appraisal figure) and shadow priced at 150%.
II. Costs. 75% of the actual costs is foreign and 25% is local. After
the project about one third of local cost for the fifth year is
assumed to continue maintaining the roads.



- 50 -
Economic Analysis of Forestry Component.
(Appendix 2)
Seedlings at cost value of Tsh 1.50.
78/79    79/80    80/81      81/82     82/83
FOREIGN COSTS          272940   2114220   1753060   1491014    966738
ADJ FOREIGN COSTS      409410   3171330   2629590   2236521   1450107
LOCAL COSTS            819060   3254780   2934040  2877770   1887710
TOTAL COSTS            1228470  6426110   5563630   5114291   3337817
ECONOMIC BENEFIT            0   1240000  3096622   3582622   3684622
ADJ BENEFIT                1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5       1.5
ADJ ECONOMIC BENEFIT        0   1860000  4644933   5373933   5526933
NET BENEFIT          -1228470  -4566110  -918642    259642   2189116
DISCOUNT RATE 7%        0.935     0.873     0.816     0.763     0.713
CASH FLOW           -1148619  -3986214 -7496556.8 198106.85 1560839.7
NPV                 354143.05
IRR                      7%
83/84    84/85     85/86     86/87     87/88     88/89     89/90
2484660   2036760        0         0         0         0         0
3726990  3055140         0         0         0         0         0
2754170   3290880   1280760   1280760   1280760   1280760   1280760
6481150   6346020   1280760   1280760   1280760   1280760   1280760
2724622    646689   1524000   2235345   8206804   6772174   4043014
1.5       1.5
4086933  970033.5  1524000   2235345   8206804   6772174  4043014
-2394217 -5375987    243240    954585   6926044   5491414  2762254
0.666     0.623    0.582     0.544     0.508     0.475     0.444
"1594549  13349240 141565.68 519294.24 3518430.4 2608421.7 1226440.8
90/91    91/92     92/93     93/94
O         0        0         0
0         0        0         0
1280760   1280760   1280760        0
1280760   1280760   1280760        0
2550924  3059462    937194    937194
l
2550924   3059462    937194    937194
1270164   1778702  -343566    937194
0.414    0.388     0.362     0.339
525847.9 690136.38 -124370.9 317708.77



- 51 -
(Appendix 3)
Seedlings valued at Tsh 1.25.
78/79     79/80     80/81     81/82     82/83
FOREIGN COSTS           272940   2114220   1753060   1491014    966738
ADJ FOREIGN COSTS       409410   3171330   2629590   2236521   1450107
LOCAL COSTS             819060   3254780   2934040   2877770   1887710
TOTAL COSTS            1228470   6426110   5563630   5114291   3337817
ECONOXiIC BENEFIT            0   1240000   3096622   3582622   3684622
ADJ BENEFIT               1.25      1.25      1.25      1.25       1.25
ADJ EC00NOMIC BENEFIT        0   1550000 3870777.5 4478277.5 4605777.5
NET BENEFIT           -1228470  -4876110  -1692853 -636013.5 1267960.5
DISCOUNT RATE 2%          0.98     0.961     0.942     0.923     0.906
CASH PLOW             -1203901  -4685942  -1594667 -587040.5 1148772.2
NPV                    1506330
IRR                       2.5%
83/84     84/85     85/86     86/87     87/88     88/89     89/90
2484660   2036760         0         0         0         0         0
3726990   3055140         0         0         0         0         Q
2754160   3290880   1280760   1280760   1280760   1280760   1280760
6481150   6346020   1280760   1280760   1280760   1280760   1280760
2724622    646689   1524000   2235345   8206804   6772174   4043014
1.25      1.25
3405777.5 808361.25   1524000   2235345   8206804   6772174   4043014
'3075373  -5537659    243240    954585   6926044   5491414   2762254
0.888      0.87     0.853     0.835      0.82     0.804     0.788
.2730931  -4817763 207483.72 797078.48 5679356.1 4415096.9 2176656.2
90/91     91/92     92/93     93/94
0         0         0         0
0         0         0         0
1280760   1280760   1280760         0
1280760   1280760   1280760         0
2550924   3059462    937194    937194
2550924   3059462    937194    937194
1270164   1778702  -343566    937194
0.757     0.743     0.728     0.714
961514.15 1321575.6  -250116 669156.52



- 52 -
Appendix 4
Without Pricing the Seedlings (Tahs '000').
Item    78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86
Benefit     0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0
Cost   1228.5  6426.1  5563.6  5114.3  3537.8  6481.2  6346.0  1280.8
_4HF+__----------____----  _--- r--------  ----rw-#----- W__
N/B   01228.5 -6426.1 -5563.6 r5114.3 -3337.8 -6481.2 .6346.0 -1280.8
--------…-----                                       --------
86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94
Benefit 3213.0  4709.0  1738.4  1424.1  8953.3  7856.2  6554.4  2033.5
costs   1280.8  1280.8  1280.8  1280.8  1280.8  1280.8  1280.8  1280.8
'{/B    1932.2  3428.2   457.6   143.3  7672.5  6575.4  5273.6   752.7
IRR 6%.
Note.
1. Costs: Mwanza and Shinyanga.
a. Foreign costs - Foreign cost were calculated using the following %
of actual costs as follows:
For regional plantations 40%; school and village tree blocks 50%;
Forest reserve 68%; Nursery and Administration 25%
b. Local Costs - were 25% of actual costs. After the 5th year about
one third costs of its are assumed to continue maintaining the
established plantations.
(Source: Investment proposal of Mwansa and Shinyanga RIDEP).
2. Benefits.
For Shinyanga:
a. Benefit derived from the calculations of data for total m3 by year
which were collected during the survey carried out by the forest
department for total m cu by year.
65% of the total standing cubic metre of wood at the time of harvest
which is estimated to be after 8 - 10 years would be harvested for
fuelwood and would be costed at 150/u assuming the current price
remains constant. 35% of total cubic metre which apparently represent
eucalyptus species, would be for poles and would be sold at 25/0 each
if the current price remains constant.



- 53 -
Mwanza:
Total cubic metres were derived from the calculation of number of
trees planted per ha x the survival rate x the actual average growth
rate per per ha (e.g 6.3 cu metre per ha. Source data survey of school
and village tree block survey carried out by PEU in Dec. 1983) x
number of years for harvest x the form factor of 0.5.
However the survival rates are assumed to remain the same from the
time of survey till harvest period.
Similarly 65% of total cu. m. would be felled for fuelwood to sell at
150% per cu. m. and 35% of total cu. m. would be for be for poles to
cost 25/- each.
The rate of 0.04 cu. m. being equivalent to a pole was used for
economic evaluation as applied in the working paper 5 and Investment
proposal document, Annex III.



- 54 -
Annex I
COMMENTS FROM IFAD
ZVl' 10)ST5426 JWS0502
OEtt)l EAPSA EA1SE
REE S TCP HC
* ** *** ** *
JW40502 ZJT61P IN OH/12100 Ol'l ()H/J205
61/ 496, XFADRMt 1
WORI D BANK
WASH[Nl; rN DC
USA
IFA)1/04610
FOR MR. GRAHAM 110NAI 11,0Jl  tlN  H:FF Ali41CUI TtlUl AND HOMAN RESOURCES
DIVIS[ON / (lOPY MR. Alli, EAP64A
RE TAN7ANIA COMPLETION RFPORT OF MWANZA ISHINYANUA RURAL
DEFVI.I)PMFNf PRO.JECr CRE:):IT f1 4) /.1)OAN 2- IAN 1FAtD
THANK YOU YOUR LFTFR 2 APRIL  19V7 RFCFTVFD TAD1) 2' APRIL TOGETHFR
WI1H BANK AND )OVERNMENT COMPI.ETION REPOR1ll  (At. EH()IlIJH V:ARLIFR
ERA-T FROM FAPSA HAD BEFN REFCFIVFEl)o  'IH1. TWO DOCUMENTS TCIOFIHFR
PROVttiD  A 80UtN ANALYSIS OF THE COUiRE OF THE PROJCTr.  IF WE
POINT OUT TWO SINAIF FACTORS OF MANY WHJt'H CIJNSTRAINTFII THf
PRO,JFCT, 11- WO1Jl.D BE THE EVIDENT LACK )F MANAOIEMENT CAPACITY (WITH
INCE.NTIVf  TO MANAGF) A  AL.l LVEFlS OF THE PROJEICI ANII SHCONDI Y A
REFIJSAL BY 0OVfRNMEN1r EARlIER ON XN PRf).Jf-.CT 1-T CARI-:FIJIJ.1Y ANDs
SYSTEMATICALtY SELECT A TFAM t* lIFCHNIVAL ASSISTANCE ARIF TO
STRENGTHEN MANAOIFMNT.  IN PI.ANNXNi 1HE PRO.JECT THF.RE WAS NO
APPARENT EFFORT TO ASSESS MANA4OFMFNI C:APACI:TY AND MANAFEMENT
MANPOWER AVAILTABILITY   CLEARLY LACK IN13 SII(;H CAPAC(' TY
(QlUANTITATIVFLY AND OUAI..ITTATVFlY) THF PRO,JEC:T WAS GRVATLY
Ov'R-:eX1N:o SAND OVER-LARG3E AND: THUS  lt-FIC:UL..T IN rHE
CIRCUMSTANCES TO SUPERVISF.  RELATFJI TO THtSF IWO Pt'INTS IS A
QIJESTrON OIE WHETHER THE WHOL.E: 4ANA4E:MENT COlN'I:PT OF THE RID)EP
MODEL WAS WFElL FOUNDED EVFN SLUPPOSINS THF PROJ.IFl'l l:(lUID HAVE BEEN
ADElJWATELY STAFFE:1.  THE ALTERNATIVE: WITIH PHASED IN  lJsPRo,JFCTS AT
DISTRICT LFVFL  MIGHT HAVE BFFN BETTER AND AlLOWFD TIMF FOR A BUILD
UP IN MANA*(F:MNT SKIL.LS AND THE TESTING AND AD.IIJSTMENT nF
COnPONFNTS BFFORF WIDFSPRFAD ADOPTION.
REUARDS.
OLOWUDEt. FOR DIRFCTOR AFRTCA DIIVISION
COI. CKP
=05081436
NNNN



32 00'                        32? 30'
UKEREWE        .
ISLANDi ..U  K/
./   "                                                            V
KOME ISLAND
Ml AISOME      Nyowbe                          \
\><Yd '9    \Kohu                  S E N G E R E M A   \MWANZA
!   \               ' JX~~~~~~~ ~          ~~Nyakoliro   1 
- 1;"                  Nah.rernbo          Bukkindo                                                  IM.anzo
KNmamg
T -              {g   0        ~~~~~~~~~~~~G  E   I 
*3o  00 x-f  IV
5'-'s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,'.  '-,-                                                    /   
Vil~~~~~~~~~~~~VI
"'K  A  H   A  'M-.A
(
M AWAN7A
Administrative B
2                                                                                  Y( \r
31' 30'                       2. 00                         32 30         .3'  00



IBRD ,3156
WUKAft I                      33' 10'                                  34'00'                                  34330'                                  o35       DECEMBER 1977
R EW E/
/1
\   #   <  tBsiir k / ,5 o "''t~~~xi
I N'''     Y A,  'G A                                                 _                           _'\'
A  V   '-,\I,B   I
Kdtubi ,.=
^ _/ V ' ./ \ l J/                                                                                x 
-"1"-' .. '\sl} i> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*/ ' ~~~~34'30'                                                                            35'00'
f A N Z A N I A                                        9 ; 9                      )   < s; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KeNYA
IX  N  YA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'GASIYAG
,A SHINYANGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                         liJXSIYNA                                       t
B)oundaries - Roods - Rainfall - Population Density - Agro Economic Zones                                       0                ARE A OF MIAP f    J          .    '
oulat,on Dens.ty per Squoor r omreter     -      Pr.mfory Roads                                                      \,      TANZIAN  IA                      rf_-
.'7 95 ond Abo,e                     -      Seco,dory Roads                                                                        X        
X  C'° t° 94                 -    ~~~~~Agrc Econom,c Zone Boondories         v\                               \    J         \(        
36 to 59                    ~~~~~~D Yvlsonol Boundeo.es_.                                           \                             , 
35 and  Below                          Dstrc                           .                          . t oudo 
Rpq,onral Bour,jortes Ft  >   r
lso,lYets 'n mm                                                                        r                              _
33-~ 30                             34-o00t                                                                                    M0r2.XAMSOMAltU
_    ,                    .              I     ,,               _                 ,  _   ,               ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~43



31 30                             3W 00'                                 I                 I                        u
UKEREWE
*3/                                               IISLAND       U K  E R
/"i
,./      \Ij,,,
KOME ISLAND r
MJAISOME
\     ,    :    ISLAND         Nyombebo
Q )     '\Ko'hudo_                   S E N G E R E M A    MWANZA
po0                                                                .. MWANZAf
\  Bukinoo<                                                              30
B    /ukundo          .!
V  \\                                   ',--.                                                           R 
1>I '.                                            \                     E  I T A
6!                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K A  HA  M  A
e ^           g   t @                                        2             ~~~~MWANZA/
PRO
:O V                                                                                                                   Roio
Ltyei
Rese
Fore
.r,~~~~~ ~~~~~ MIr1.rrgS![Flt w  ft>rl^.14z-s/,at-                1 ; Ie    20    33 0                                        For
t~.S ".kp 1*e  2r  a.3 1A S 'tdIs, Ih  4n rJ--i.n f o3k  8esIn ~S..-e 5  Ir0V    .. -.h--               -   -  --
4 :' s 'S 2 032' 30 ,                         31    ore'
1~~~~~~ .3 3.                                               _. .L. '



IBRD 13157
UKARA            r         3330'                                 34'00                                 34W30                                  35W00
ISLANDi
I EWE/
/
Le
\\\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ At Iy4                            A                         D I 
'          I
, A ! <&>njguM\gu
K   ' I M B A
NMadu ls,                                                                                                                                         3100'
/  5_/   Si     /\ o\                                                                     ;~~~~~~~~~~~~ z         3'30'-
L4ogoa                                       t
Shinyongo                                                                                            .J
$ H I N Y A NGA
Tinde
X   4   '   ,.   '   34'30'            35000'
6E  >f'     ~UGANDAV            r-rer.iInoe
tr..X\6~~~~~~~r _J -.)5 1->-N>;, _.I IKRNV
's   wf fSt4  F   <5r J  s s  ~~~~KeNYA
TANZAN  IA                                                                        PUNDr'7 5                     tr
/SHINYANGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                    .
Proposed Project Actions                                                                        .  A EAOF MAA 
IOJECT                                                                                                            T  A  N  Z IA  N/ I A
)ads to be Rehobilitoted                             Primory Roads
eesyock Centers to be Strengthened                   Secondary Roods                                            .  -_
search Stations to be Supported                      Roilwoy                                                       J,
rest Reserues to be Assessed and Manoged   -    -   Dstrict Boundaries           N                  _                                        /        -
,restry Regional Plontor,on to be Supported  -    -   Regionol Boundoriens                                                     '     2
restry Nursteres to be Upgraded                                                                        -.         -r
331 30                            34' oo
APRIL 1987



