IbflDVtb ts nv                 Document of
FILE COuPY                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2 312-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(MWANZA AND SHINYANGA)
May 1* 1978
This doument baa a restrie distbution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their officil duties. Its contents may net otherwise be disclosed without World Bfank authorIzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                         Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$ 1.00                              TSh 8.30
TSh 1.0                               US$ 0.12
(As Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at a fixed rate of
9.66 TSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling exchange
rate is subject to change. Conversions in this Report were
made at US$1.00 to TSh 8.30 which is close to the 1977  ave-
rage exchange rate.)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CCM          -      Chama Cha Mapinduzi
EAC          -      East African Community
IFAD         -      International Fund for
Agricultural Development
KILIMO       -      Ministry of Agriculture
LCs          -      Livestock Development Centers
NADP         -      National Agricultural
Development Program
PMO          -      Prime Minister's Office
TANU         -      Tanganyika African National Union
TRDB         -      Tanzania Rural Development Bank
VSHP         -      Village Self-Help Program
FISCAL YEAR
Government   -      July 1st to June 30th



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UJNZANIA: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(MWANZA AND SHINYANGA)
(REDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                 United Republic of Tanzania
BENEFICIARIES:            The Borrower and the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank (TRDB)
AMOUNT:                    $12 million
TERMS:                    Standard
COFINANCING:              The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) will jointly finance all project components
except for water supply and road improvement; pro-
viding $12 million for 50 years including 10 years of
grace with a 1% service charge per annum.
RELENDING TERMS':         Approximately $0.9 million equivalent (including con-
tingencies) of the Credit and IFAD Loan would be relent
to TRDB for 25 years including five years of grace at
4% interest per annum. These funds would be onlent to
project villages through the Village Self-Help Program
(VSHP) on standard TRDB terms.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:      The proposed project would constitute the initial
five years of a long-term development program to
improve the well-being of the rural populations of
Mwanza and Shinyanga regions. It will supplement
and complement ongoing investment in these two
regions, using the recently constituted villages as
the basic unit of investment. Specifically, the
*                                     project would include agricultural investments in
proven agriculture technical packages, research,
village verification trials, extension, livestock
and forestry; financing for land-use planning; a
village self-help program; road improvement invest-
ments; a water supply component; and funds for
project coordination and monitoring/evaluation.
The most significant risk facing the project is
whether the projected implementation schedule can
be maintained. Efforts have been taken to provide
the support needed to execute the project according
to schedule and modest assumptions have been made
with regard to implementation capacity.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- it -
ESTIMATED COST:
(US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
Agricultural Development               1.5        2.1         3.6
Livestock Development                   .9        1.1         2.0
Forestry Development                   1.3        0.7         2.0
Land Use Planning                      0.5        0.3         0.8
Village Self-Help Program              2.1        2.3         4.4
Road Improvement                       2.0        2.4         4.4
Water Supply                           0.9        1.2         2.1
Project Coordination,
Monitoring and Evaluation            1.7        1.0         2.7
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                     1n.9       11.1        22.0
Physical Contingencies                 0.9        0.9         1.8
Price Contingencies                    3.3        3.4         6.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      15.1       15.4        30.5
PROJECT COSTS NET OF TAXES AND DUTIES 14.1          15.4        29.5
FINANCING PLAN:
US$ million    %
IDA                                             12.0        39
IFAD                                            12.0        39
Tanzania Government                              4.8        16
Village Contributions to VSHP                    1.7         6
30.5       100
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS                                   US$ Million
(IDA  FY)                                 1980   1981    1982    1983    1984   1985
Annual             .5   4.4      2.5      2.0     2.0      .6
Cumulative         .5    4.9     7.4     9.4    11.4   12.0
RATE OF RETURN:           21%
APPRAISAL REPORT:         Report No. 1867a-TA,  dated May 1, 1978



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(MWANZA AND SHINYANGA)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent of US$12 million
on standard IDA terms to help finance a Rural Development Project in the re-
gions of Mwanza and Shinyanga. In addition, the International Fund for Agri-
cultural Development (IFAD) has committed $12.0 million to the project for 50
years including 10 years of grace with a service charge of 1 percent per annum.
About $0.9 million equivalent of the credit and IFAD funds would be relent to
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) for 25 years including 5 years of
grace at 4 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1'
Introduction
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976.  The
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
3.        Tanzania has experienced a degree of continuity and stability in
political structure, leadership and objectives which is unrivaled in Africa.
The TANUY/ party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has been the
unifying force in Tanzania's political evolution since the early 1950s. For
the past decade, following the Arusha Declaration in early 1967, Tanzania
has pursued the objectives of social equality, self-reliance, the eradication
of poverty and economic and social transformation. The Government has empha-
sized rural development, social ownership of the principal means of production,
and full participation of all regions and population groups in the development
process. Economic growth has been an important objective but the leadership
has been willing to forego short-term income gains for longer-term structural
change and more equitable distribution. In restructuring the political,
economic and social life of the country the leadership has introduced a
series of far-reaching institutional reforms: most large-scale units in
manufacturing, finance and wholesale trade have been nationalized; the
Government has sharply increased its share of revenue in GDP through pro-
gressive taxation; a significant portion of public sector expenditure control
1/ This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Tobacco Handling Project dated May 1, 1978.
2/ TANU (the mainland political party) was merged with the Zanzibar
political party (the Afro-Shirazi Party) in February 1977. The new
party is now called Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



- 2 -
has been delegated to the regions and districts and a massive campaign of
villagization has been initiated to join the rural population in viable
long-term development units.
4.        With an average capita income of $180, Tanzania is classified as
one of the least developed countries as defined by the United Nations (country
data are provided in Annex I). Between 1967 and 1973 Tanzania's GDP at
factor cost was growing at an annual rate of 4.5 percent. With population
growing at2.7 percent per year, per capita output was rising at only 1.ts
percent per year on average. Domestic savings reached 18 percent of GDP
while gross investment was sustained at between 20 to 25 percent of GDP,
extremely high rates for a country at Tanzania's low level of per capita
income. However, the growth rate in GDP was not commensurate with the
magnitude of the investment effort, in part because of the high proportion
of investment which was directed into slow-gestation infrastructure and
social services projects but also because of sluggish growth in the agri-
cultural sector and stagnant or declining productivity in parastatal enter-
prises. During this period Tanzania's overall balance of payments situation
was generally satisfactory, despite the disappointing performance in the
export sector. The rapid growth in imports was more than compensated by
increasing capital inflows, largely from bilateral sources on soft terms.
The overall balance of payments was in surplus in most years during 1969-73,
resulting in a modest buildup in net foreign exchange reserves to slightly
over $150 million at the end of 1973, the equivalent of almost four months'
imports.
The Economic Crisis of 1974 and the Government's Response
5.        In 1974 Tanzania was suddenly confronted with a severe economic
crisis. Failure of rains in late 1973 and early 1974 caused a massive
decline in production and marketing of the major foodgrains and the Govern-
ment was compelled to import large quantities of grain. Tanzania's main
export crops were also affected by the drought, and the resultant declines
in export volumes prevented Tanzania from taking advantage of the commodity
price boom of 1974. These agricultural problems were compounded by the disloca-
tion resulting from the rapid expansion of the villagization program (para 23).
On the import side, total cost of merchandise imports rose by over 50 percent
between 1973 and 1974, despite a slight decline in volume. As a result of
these factors the trade deficit widened from $158 million in 1973 to $340
million in 1974 while the overall balance of payments moved from a surplus
to a deficit of $140 million. This balance of payments gap was financed
largely through drawings from the IMF and a rapid depletion of reserves. Net
reserves fell to $60 million at the end of 1974, equivalent to only one month's
import requirements. Industrial production also stagnated in 1974 due to
shortages of imported raw materials and interruptions in power and water
supplies. While production declined, domestic demand increased rapidly because
of expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies. The imbalance between
domestic demand and supply, combined with the sharp escalation in import
prices, resulted in severe pressure on the domestic price level.



6.        Once the extent of the problems facing the country was realized,
the Government formulated a comprehensive package of policy actions to
bring the balance of payments under control while maintaining Lhe pace of
its development effort. The principal elements of the package included a
reallocation of investment in favor of directly productive sectors, measures
to raise agricultural output, and constraints on wages and on public and
private consumption. Government budget allocations to agriculture and
industry were substantially increased; significant increases were approved
in agricultural producer prices; tight import controls were implemented;
indirect taxes on consumer goods increased; user charges for water and
electricity were raised and an extremely restrictive wage and salary policy
was followed. This package was reviewed with the Bank at the time of
appraisal and negotiation of the Program Loan in late 1974, and approval
of that Loan was based on the Bank's agreement with and support of the policy
package. Approval of the subsequent Program Credit in 1977 was based in part on
the Government's overall performance in implementing the agreed upon program.
Economic Performance in 1975 and 1976
7.        The major macroeconomic indicators have generally improved since
1974, reflecting both improved weather conditions and the effects of the
policy measures introduced to deal with the crisis. Agricultural production
increased by 6.5 percent in 1975 compared to a decline of 3.3 percent in
1974, while total GDP grew by 4.6 percent compared with only 2.2 percent in
1974. This was despite the fact that during 1975 production of cotton and
some other cash crops still suffered from disorganization due to villagization.
In 1976 some of the problems of villagization were being rectified through
"operation correction," and since rains were once again favorable agricul-
tural production was generally good. Agricultural production increased by
about 4.5 percent in real terms in 1976, industrial production expanded 6.2
percent and GDP grew 5.2 percent. Preliminary estimates are that agriculture
and total production expanded by about 5 percent again in 1977.
8.        The goods and services account of the balance of payments continued
to deteriorate in 1975 due to continuing production difficulties, declines
in some agricultural export prices and the continuing need to import food
for part of the year. The trade deficit increased from $340 million in
1974 to $400 million in 1975. Even after allowing for a high level of
project-related capital inflows and a huge increase in grant assistance and
concessional food aid, there was a residual deficit of almost $75 million.
Whereas the 1974 residual deficit was filled almost entirely through a
combination of IMF assistance and reserve depletion, the 1975 deficit was
met through foreign assistance from a variety of sources, including the $30
million Program Loan from the World Bank (para 6). In 1976 the balance of
payments picture improved. The trade deficit declined due to strong export
performance, especially for coffee and cotton, and to a slight fall in the
value of imports occasioned by a greatly lessened need for foodgrain imports
and continuing tight restrictions on all other categories of imports. The
overall balance of payments surplus was about $35 million for the year and
continued in surplus throughout 1977. Gross foreign exchange reserves at the end



- 4 -
of 1977 totalled $280 million, or about four months imports. Because of the
very concessional terms on which aid has been given to Tanzania and the
Government's refusal to use higher cost commercial loans and suppliers'
credits   he overall debt service ratio has remained low.  Including a
notional 40 percent share of the debt of the East African Community Corpo-
rations, it was less than 8 percent in 1977. While the favorable terms of
much of Tanzania's foreign assistance (particularly the increasing proportion
of grants)significantly reduce the debt service burden they also increase
Bank Group exposure.  Debt service payments to the Bank Group  were   about
28.6 percent of Tanzaniats total debt service payments in 1977, and are
projected to rise to approximately 30 percent in 1980.
East African Community (EAC)
9.        The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977. Dr. Victor
Umbricht, the independent mediator recently appointed by the Partner States,
visited East Africa in February and has begun work on the questions involved
in appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC Corporations and making
recommendations on their allocation.   The de facto breakup of the Community
is expected to have some impact on Tanzania's budget as new national corpo-
rations take over the services formerly provided by the EAC Corporations.
While substantial initial investments are required (particularly in the
formation of the airways corporation and the rehabilitation of the railways),
the burden on the Government budget will hopefully be temporary as the new
corporations should become self-financing. A major development related to
the EAC difficutlies was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a
major trading partner of Tanzania and in the short run considerable adjust-
ments have had to be made in locating new suppliers for some items and
developing alternative outlets for some manufactured goods and agricultural
products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA 1/
10.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1962, 30 IDA credits, 13 Bank loans and two
Third Window loans amounting to $506.0 million have so far been approved
for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans
totalling $244.8 million which have been extended for the development of
the common serv*es and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community.
The only IFC investments in Tanzania to date, totalling $4.7 million,
were made to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company
encountered financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold
their interest in the Company to the Government. A proposal for an IFC invest-
ment in soap manufacturing is now under consideration. Annex II contains summary
statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Tanzania and the East African Com-
munity organizations as of March 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
1/ This section is essentially the same as that of the Tobacco Handling
Project dated May 1, 1978.



- 5 -
11.       In keeping with Tanzaniats overall development strategy, Bank
Group lendin6 operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector
and directly productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 14
loans and credits made individually to Tanzania had been for infrastructure.
The overwhelming majority of the operations approved since then have been
for directly productive projects. Furthermore, a number of Bank Group
supported infrastructure projects have been closely linked with specific
productive activities. For example, the Urban Water Supply Project
(Loan No. 1354-TA) approved in December 1976, will support the Bank Group
financed Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loan No. 1385-TA and 1385-T-TA).
The directly productive projects approved include the Kigoma Rural Develop-
ment Project (Credit No. 508-TA), the National Maize Project (Credit No.
606-TA), the Fisheries Development Project (Credit No. 658-TA), three
Tanzanian Investment Bank Projects (Credit No. 460-TA and Loan Nos. 1172-TA
and 1498-TA), the Mwanza Textile Project (Loan No. 1128-TA), and the Sao
Hill Forestry Project (Loan No. 1307-TA). A Trucking Industry Rehabilita-
tion and Improvement Project (Credit No. 743-TA) and a Second National Sites
and Services Project (Credit No. 732-TA) were also recently approved by the
Board. Projects which have been appraised include the Mufindi Pulp and
Paper Project, a Tourism Rehabilitation Project, a Second Textile Project,
and a Fifth Highway Project. A Rural Development Project in Mara, an
Agricultural Services Project, and a line of credit to the Tanzanian Rural
Development Bank are under preparation.
12.       Although the comparatively high proportion of undisbursed project
funds detailed in Annex II, (page 27) is in large part a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. The causes of
the difficulties in implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity
of suitably trained and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in
identifying agronomic input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder
farmers and others result from the strains associated with attempting a
"frontal attack" on poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent
and drastic administrative changes, which -- though potentially the source
of long-term benefits -- have certainly disrupted orderly execution of
projects and made parts of earlier project concepts obsolete. In general,
these difficulties have been most severe in agriculture, particularly in
areas involving smallholders. As our lending program has increasingly
concentrated on this sector, these problems have become correspondingly
more apparent and severe. By contrast, the "modern" sector projects have
tended to fare better: the Tanzania Investment Bank, Mwanza Textile,
and Cashewnut Processing Projects, for example, are proceeding well.
13.       As the Bank's lending program has expanded, increasing attention
has been given to measures designed to improve project implementation. A course
was held in Tanzania in 1973 and again this year on Bank Group procurement



- 6 -
policies and procedures with the relevant Government officials. A special
project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
nine ADS staff have been assigned to Bank projects. The need to establish
a close and continuous working level dialogue between responsible Tanzanian
officials and Bank staff on following-up implementation problems was one of
the prime reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two profess-
ionals in October 1976. In February 1977 a regular Government/Bank review
of project implementation was established. Discussions, chaired by the
Ministry of Finance and attended by Bank staff and officials from implementing
agencies, were held in Dar es Salaam on the entire Bank Group program.
Steps to strengthen this review procedure were taken in August 1977 when
review meetings were shifted to a monthly basis and the Government agreed
that periodically the reviews would be conducted on an "in-depth" basis
to discuss in detail individual problem projects and problems which are
affecting project implementation across a number of sectors. As a result
of these reviews a number of positive developments have been noted: most
of the actions agreed to during the reviews have been completed and the
reviews have significantly improved project coordination and communication
by providing an opportunity for project agencies to discuss their problems
with all ministries involved and with high level officials in Finance.
During the two in-depth reviews in October 1977 and January 1978 a series
of general implementation issues were discussed with senior Tanzanian officials
and follow-up actions or investigations agreed upon.
14.       The Government has become increasingly conscious of the need to improve
implementation. In addition to fully supporting the project implementation
review system, the Ministry of Finance decided to set-up an internal'
unit to oversee project performance. Furthermore, there have been more
consistent responses to Bank suggestions and a willingness to openly
discuss project problems raised by Bank staff. As a consequence, the
project disbursement record has improved somewhat over the last two years
and a recent analysis indicated that the Tanzanian disbursement performance
is about equal to the Bank-wide average. However, a wide range of serious
long-term bottlenecks remain. This is particularly true in the agriculture
and rural development sector where individual projects face a considerable
number of constraints in trying to increase the incomes of smallholders
(the lack of proven technical packages, a weak extension system, problems
in input distribution and output collection, etc.)
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Background
15.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest
single sector in the Tanzanian economy. About 94 percent of the
population lives in rural areas, and 90 percent of the economically active
population is engaged in agriculture. Roughly 40 percent of GDP is
derived from the sector, of which about half constitutes subsistence



production. In addition, agricultural exports (processed and unprocessed)
account forabout 8Q percent of total exports.  The major export commodities
are cotton, coffee, sisal, cashewnuts, tea and tobacco.
16.       Most agricultural production is from smallholdings using family
labor.  Large-scale agriculture is confined to a small number of private
estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, sugar, wheat, rice
and livestock. Estate production has diminished in importance since
independence and the state farm program remains small. Tanzania's
national livestock herd, the second largest in Africa, is grazed
extensively over the 40 percent of the country which is free from tsetse
fly infestation. It is largely managed along traditional lines.
17.       Recent performance of the agricultural sector has been
disappointing. The long-term growth rate of agricultural output between
1967 and 1976 was only 2.8 percent per annum -- about equal to population
growth. Moreover, food crop production has failed to keep pace with the
expanding population and Tanzania has become increasingly dependent on
imports of maize, rice and wheat. This deteriorating food balance
position was seriously aggravated by the poor drought-affected harvests
of 1973 and 1974 which necessitated large foodgrain imports. While real
agricultural production increased by 6.6 percent in 1975 and by a further
4.7 percent in 1976, these increases represent primarily recovery from
the drought and only return agricultural expansion to its long-term growth
path. Concern with increasing the historical long-term growth rate remains
central to the Bank Group's investment strategy in Tanzania.
Agricultural Development Strategy
18.       The Government has undertaken a comprehensive program to support
the development of productive activities in the agricultural sector in
conjunction with efforts to achieve balanced regional growth and more
equitable income distribution (para 3). While there has been a major
emphasis on improving the availability of social services (particularly
in health, water supply and education), in the aftermath of the drought
and its balance of payments difficulties the Government has made
increasing output the major focus of its investments in rural areas. In
particular the Government has given greater emphasis to its program of
self-sufficiency in food production, assisted by an IDA Credit of US$18.0
million for a National Maize Project (para. 11 above).
19.       Long term Bank Group support for the Government's focus on increasing
production was expected to be channeled through the National Agricultural
Development Program (NADP), a series of projects identified in the
Agricultural Sector Report (No. 541a-TA dated December 10, 1974). These
projects were expected to involve the development of nationwide programs
designed to concentrate and coordinate development efforts on the 40 or
so agro-economic zones of the highest potential. However, recent
developments in the sector, particularly in Bank-supported projects, have
raised serious questions as to the feasibility of this approach. While
nationwide projects oriented toward production were expected to be



consistent with Tanzania's decentralized Government structure (para. 20),
this has not been achieved, The regions have not in practice felt res-
ponsible for implementing "nationally" conceived and directed programs.
At the _.ie time the regions have complained that many of the central
services which they require (e.g., research, input delivery and marketing),
and clearly accept as national responsibilities, are not being efficiently
provided. As a result of these developments, a new Bank strategy in agri-
culture has emerged. In order to ensure regional responsibility and the
development of locally appropriate technical packages (particularly those
required by the more intensive cultivation practices in the new villages),
a number of regional projects, of which the proposed project is an example,
are being or have been prepared.  At the same time, an effort is being
made to increase the ability of central ministries to provide essential
services to regional "production units" through. agriculture services
projects directed at, for example, improving research, marketing, and
storage facilities. With this revised and consistent strategy, we expect
a basis will be established for improving the disappointing growth rate
in agriculture (para. 17).
Rural Organization and Services
20.       To carry the planning and implementation of its development
program to the rural population, the Government moved in 1972 to
decentralize its political and administrative structures to the level
of the country's 20 regions and 80 districts. Previous to that, the
Government retained the system in effect prior to Independence in 1961,
where almost all political authority rested at the national level and
Government services were provided through technical ministries whose
resources and programs were centrally administered. Under the new poli-
tical structure, regions and districts are granted primary responsibility
for the planning and implementation of development activities within their
jurisdictions, and given a high degree of administrative autonomy. In the
new administrative framework the Regional Commissioner is the political
head of the region and the Area Commissioner heads the district administration.
The regional and district civil services are headed respectively by Regional
Development Directors and District Development Directors. Both regional and
district administrations include functional managers responsible for executing
the development program in their respective sectors: agriculture (including
land-use planning), natural resources (including fisheries and forestry),
health, water, works, education, commerce, culture, and ujamaa and coopera-
tive development. All important decisions are made by the Regional
Development Committee and District Development and Planning Committee,
chaired by the Regional Commissioner and Area Commissioner respectively.
21.       Development plans are prepared annually for each district and
region for incorporation into the national program approved by the
Parliament in July of each year. Regional and district plans, in principle,
emanate from consultations at village level and require the approval of



- 9 -
regional and district administrations. These administrations are charged
with the finarc-ial management and control of all the funds they spend.
While the decentralization has improved communication between the Government
and the villages (as the civil servants operating at the district and regional
levels are directly involved in integrated rural development efforts), problems
of manpower and of ill-defined division of responsibility between the regions,
central ministries and parastatals persist.
22.       Subsequent to the decentralization the two most important ministries
in the rural sector are the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) and the Ministry
of Agriculture (Kilimo). PMO provides overall policy directions to the
regions as well as coordinating regional plans and budgets and assisting the
regions (as appropriate) in preparing their development programs. Kilimo is
responsible for the overall planning and monitoring of the agriculture sector
as well as coordinating agricultural research, formal training of extension
staff, pricing policy, seed multiplication and supervision of agricultural
parastatals. Other central ministries (Natural Resources, Health, Water,
etc.) also formulate overall policy in their sectors and provide technical
advice and services to assist the regions in implementing their rural develop-
ment programs. The critical financial intermediary in rural Tanzania is the
Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB). TRDB was established in 1971 to pro-
vide long- and medium-term finance and technical assistance for the promotion
of rural development. At its founding, it was stressed that it was intended
to be a sound financial institution and therefore would only extend credit
to economically viable activities. Because TRDB's largest borrowers were
traditionally the cooperative unions, the dissolution of cooperatives in
1975 produced a significant portfolio problem for TRDB. However, the Government
and TRDB are addressing this issue and with the villagization program it is
expected that TRDB's primary clients will be indiiidual villages.
23.       In order to facilitate the provision of infrastructure and services
to the rural population and to encourage self-reliance, the grouping of
farm families into villages, villagization, has emerged as a key element
of the Government's rural development strategy. The acceleration of the
Government's villagization program was given high priority in 1973-74 and
at present, over three-quarters of Tanzania's rural population are contained
in about 7,700 registered villages. In line with the decentralization effort
referred to above, considerable local autonomy has been given to individual
villages through the Villages and Ujamaa Villages Act of 1975. Under the
Act the Reginnal Development Director is  empowered  to  register  any
village of not less than 250 "kaya" (family units) which has clearly defined
boundaries. Each such village is to perform its functions as if it were a multi-
purpose cooperative society. Each is required to have a Village Council
of not more than 25 people whose principal function is to plan and
coordinate the agricultural and other activities of the village operating
through five or more committees to which it may delegate responsibilities.
The Village Council has power to allocate land and control its use; it
owns all heavy agricultural machinery and other capital goods (except for



- 10 -
livestock and small farm tools which remain the property of individuals);
it can borrow and is required to establish a capital fund, a reserve fund,
and a disposable fund; and it may be granted wide judicial and administrative
powers for the political, economic or social development of the village.
Thus the Village Council is expected to have complete control over the
operation of a village. While some of the immediate problems which resulted
from the rapid increase in villages have eased, it is too early to
judge how effectively the villages will be able to meet their ambitious
goals over the long run.
Previous Bank Group Projects in the Rural Sector
24.      Previous Bank Group assistance to the agricultural sector in
Tanzania has included IDA credits totalling US$133.3 million and IBRD
loans for US$37 million for thirteen agricultural and two rural develop-
ment projects. These projects include one for agricultural credit, three
for livestock, two for tobacco and one each for tea, sugar, cotton,
cashewnuts, fisheries, maize and forestry. The first rural development
project for the Kigoma region became effective in 1974, and a second, for
the Tabora region in November 1977.
25.      The Kigoma Rural Development Project illustrates well the
multiple constraints facing the country's development efforts in the rural
sector. The project, amounting to US$13.3 million in total costs, set as
its principal objectives the doubling of the per capita income in project
villages and the strengthening of the Government's and parastatals'
capacity to deliver effective support services to villages. While the
project has experienced mixed progress in attaining these objectives, it
has provided numerous lessons for Government's rural development program.
Physical progress is well behind appraisal estimates, as the project
continues to experience delays related to limited implementation capacity
and shortages of critical inputs. The agronomic response to the
agricultural improvements proposed under the project remains uncertain
for much of the project area and verification trials to be introduced in
villages and the Agricultural Trials and Training Center financed by
the project have not yet established satisfactory alternatives. Progress
has been disappointing on the minor project components of feeder roads,
fisheries, livestock and tsetse clearance. However substantial advances
have been made on many other aspects of the project. Some 57 villages
(80% of appraisal estimates) have fulfilled the eligibility criteria for
project support. The mobilization of village self-help for brick-making
and labor supply has been impressive and a system to service the village
infrastructure program has been developed, resulting in construction of an
average five structures in each of the 45 participating villages. Among the
main lessons from the Kigoma Project are the need for verification trials
of technical packages at village level; for training, technical assistarice and
institution building to strengthen limited implementation capacity; for modest
production targets; and for active village participation and mobilization.



- 11 -
26.       The recent approval of the Tabora Project limits any attempt at
an overall assessment of its accomplishments. However, to date project
implementation is on schedule.  Key staff have been assigned t. the project,
satisfactory progress is being made on construction of staff housing, pro-
curement of vehicles is in an advanced stage and the regional authorities are
actively engaged in preparing detailed work programs for each component. It
is felt that this performance reflects, to some extent, the incorporation of
lessons learned under the Kigoma Project; both the Tabora Project and the
proposed project draw heavily on the Kigoma experience.
Mwanza and Shinyanga Regions
27.       The proposed project encompasses two of the country's twenty admi-
nistrative regions at the southern end of Lake Victoria, in northwest Tanzania.
The regions cover 70,500 km2, or 7.9 percent of the national territory. The
regions' elevation varies from 1,000-1,200 meters, with gentle undulations
and flat plains interspersed with granitic outcrops. Low vegetative growth
covers much of the eastern half of the project area while woodlands, generally
tsetse infested, characterize much of the western areas. Mainly inhabited
by the Sukuma tribe (hence the name "Sukumaland"), the rate of population
growth in the vroject regions has averaged 2.9 percent since 1946. Population
densities in Mwanza and Shinyanga are presently 68 and 23 persons per km2
respectively--both above the national average of 17. As a result, pressures
have dramatically increased on available land, leading to a deterioration in
both the quantity and quality of cultivable land.
28.       The rate of economic development in Mwanza and Shinyanga regions
from 1966-74 was below the national average. Depending almost exclusively
on agriculture or related activities, the annual GDP growth rate at constant
1966 prices was 1.5 percent for Mwanza and 1.1 percent for Shinyanga, as
compared to 2.7 percent for Tanzania as a whole. The contribution to Tanzania's
GDP decreased over the period from 7.7 percent to 6.2 percent for Mwanza and
8.9 percent to 7.0 percent for Shinyanga. The productive sectors of agri-
culture, livestock and forestry all face important constraints brought on by
the deteriorating resource base. Agricultural production is adversely affected
by the erratic rainfall, and the population pressures cited above have created
a situation where formerly sufficient fallow periods have been reduced or
eliminated. This situation is complicated by the fact that no financially
viable technical package exists for the key cash crop in Sukumaland--cotton.
Land pressure is further exacerbated by the huge livestock herds in the
project regions. Livestock production accounts for about one-third of the
regions'farm income and approximately 22 percent of the national herd is
located in Mwanza and Shinyanga. Both regions contain extensive areas of
natural woodlands in the west, but in the central districts these are being
rapidly depleted by the local population for house construction and fuelwood
needs and in the eastern districts they have virtually disappeared. In other
sectors the regions also face significant constraints: there is little
industry except for cotton related activities in Mwanza; road coverage is
adequate but the quality is very poor because of the lack of maintenance;
about 80 percent of the rural popplation in the project areas still rely on



- 12 -
unprotected and unreliable sources of drinking water; parasitic and infectious
diseases are widespread; and adult literacy remains low in spite of the
Government's impressive national literacy program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       The Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project arose from a
request by the Government during discussions on the Kigoma Rural Development
Project (Credit No. 508-TA). In order to prepare this project a preparation
team was established under the Prime Minister's Office; this effort was
financed under the Kigoma Project. The appraisal mission for the Mwanza/
Shinyanga Project visited Tanzania in June/July, 1977 and a follow-up mission
completed the appraisal in October/November 1977. Negotiations were held
in Washington in March 1978 where the Tanzania delegation was led by Ernest
Mulokozi, the Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
A Staff Appraisal Report on the Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project
is being circulated separately. A credit and project summary is attached at
the front of this Report and Annex III provides supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
30.       The proposed project would constitute the initial five years of
a long-term development program designed to improve the social and economic
well'being of the rural population of Mwanza and Shinyanga regions. The
project would augment rural incomes by increasing productivity in agriculture,
forestry and livestock; contribute to social welfare by improving health,
education and water supply services; and improve supporting infrastructure.
It will supplement and complement ongoing investment in these two regions,
and use the recently constituted villages (para. 23) as the principal
vehicle for development. It would particularly focus on arresting the
deterioration of the natural resource base of the two regions (para. 27).
Specifically,the project would include:
- agricultural investments in proven technical packages,
village verification trials, research and extension;
livestock and forestry; land-use planning;
- a Village Self-Help Program;
-  road improvements;
- water supply; and
- project coordination and evaluation.
Project Details
31.       Agricultural Development ($3.6 million before contingencies).  The
project would support the widespread dissemination of the few proven technical
packages available to improve crop yields in Mwanza and Shinyanga. First,
the project would provide for the multiplication, dressing, certification
and distribution of improved maize and sorghum seed. This seed would be sold
to farmers in the two project regions (Schedule 1, Part A of the draft Joint



- 13 -
Project Agreement). Second, it is expected that the project would finance
the incremental costs of purchase, distribution and sale of chemical seed
dressing to {a mers to enable them to treat homegrown seed.  Third, the
project would promote the multiplication of improved cassava varieties at
the Ukiriguru Agricultural Research Institute and distribute the cuttings
through the agricultural extension service.
32.       To develop a technical base for longer term agricultural develop-
ment, the project would support an extensive program of village verification
trials to be carried out on farmers' fields under the close supervision of
the agricultural extension service. It would finance the transport, equipment,
staff and operating costs of annual trial programs drawn up jointly by national
research and regional agricultural staff. These trials would be complemented
by selected research activities. First, the project would finance research
on root crops, sorghum and millet. Second, it would provide for the estab-
lishment of a substation of the existing Ukiriguru Agricultural Research
Institute in the continuously cultivated and typically depleted hill-sand
zone to undertake work in fertilizer use and new cotton varieties. As a
condition of disbursement for this substation a suitable site, selected in
agreement with the Associatinn,would have to be acquired (Schedule 2, 4(c) of
the draft Joint Project Agreement). Third, funds would be included for
a prefeasibility study on the actions necessary to counter the serious
erosion affecting soils in Southeast Shinyanga. Fourth, the project
would finance testing of oxen farm equipment in order to increase labor pro-
ductivity. The project would also support the reorganization of the agri-
cultural extension service in both regions so as to enable the service
to supervise village trials and disseminate proven technical packages in
specific agro-economic zones. The extension agents would be provided with a
structured work program supervised and assisted by agricultural staff at the
ward, district and regional levels.  They would be  given   regular training
and the transport necessary to properly execute their responsibilities.
33.       Livestock Development ($2.0 million before contingencies).  The
project would upgrade on a pilot basis about one-third of the regions' 60
livestock development centers (LCs) to focus on improving production of sheep,
goats, cattle and village scavenger poultry. After the upgrading of the LCs
their impact on the nearby herds and grazing areas would be closely monitored
by the livestock extension staff. If this monitoring indicates that the LCs
are having a positive effect on commercial offtake without any deterioration
of land resources, this program could be rapidly expanded under subsequent
investments.  The project would also establish a range and pasture improvement
program in the project areas to test the feasibility and cost of the estab-
lishment of new fodder species; finance the multiplication of promising
species; conduct pilot programs of pasture development under modified communal
grazing management; and finance the strengthening of the Veterinary Inves-
tigation Center in Mwanza.
34.       Forestry Development ($2.0 million before contingencies).  The
project would finance a program involving development of about 5,400 ha
of fuelwood and pole plantations in the two regions. Three types of
plantations are envisaged: one or two regional plantations averaging 300 ha



- 14 -
in size would be supported in each district; school tree blocks (of 2 ha each)
would be financed; and village tree blocks (of 2 ha each) would be estab-
lish'ed with the support of the Village Self-Help Program (para. 36). The
forestry program would also support the upgrading of district nurseries
to supply seedlings; finance the assessment of approximately 700,000 ha of
forest reserves and public land forests through categorization and mapping;
strengthen the management capabilities of the regional forestry staff; and
establish a small research station to identify species and develop tree
planting methods appropriate for the drier areas of the two regions.
35.       Land Use Planning  ($0.8 million before contingencies).  The
project would finance establishment of a land-use planning unit in each
region. Each unit would produce village inventory maps with simple soil
classification and land-use overlay for village planning and management.
36.       Village Self-Help Program (VSHP - $4.4 million before contingencies).
Given the central role of the village in Tanzania's development strategy (para.
23), the project would provide for the establishment of a Village Self-Help
Program to support priority village projects in the two regions. A VSHP unit,
which would work in close collaboration with the Tanzania Rural Development
Bank (TRDB),would be set up in the Regional Planning Office of each region.
Self financing projects, e.g. storage and transport, would be eligible
for term credit from TRDB and non-self financing projects, e.g. roads, water
supplies, would be eligible for financing on a matching grant basis from a
special regional VSHP subvote. Through the VSHP the project would attempt
to develop mechanisms and procedures for fully involving villages in the
identification and execution of village projects; the program would provide
(i) the technical inputs needed to prepare and implement individual village
investment proposals and (ii) the funds needed to finance the proposals. A
primary focus of the VSHP would be the development of an effective "bottom
up" planning process: villages would be responsible for identifying their
priority needs and approaching TRDB or the regional VSHP unit for the technical
assistance and finance needed to bring their ideas to fruition (para. 43).
The second important focus would be to mobilize village contributions to meet
part of the costs of high priority investments. Financial support from VSHP
would be conditional on a specified level of village contribution (either in
the form of labor, materials or cash) to the particular village investment
being considered: in order to participate in the VSHP, villages would have
to contribute a minimum of 25 percent of the initial investment cost of the
investment and would have to finance appropriate ongoing operation and
maintenance costs (Schedule 1, Part F of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
In total it is projected that the VSHP would assist in the preparation and
financing of about 600 village projects.
37.       Road Improvement ($4.4 million before contingencies).  In each
region the project would establish a village access roads unit and a regional
roads unit under the Regional Road Enginaer, The village access roads units
would consist of the light equipment necessary to upgrade bad stretches of
village access roads identified by villages for financing under the VSHP.
Each village access roads unit would service about 80 villages over a five-
year period. The regional roads units would improve approximately 20 segments



- 15 -
of regional roads which have already been identified by regional authorities
as most critical to the local economy. Each reginnal roads unit would improve
approximately 80 km of roads per year, reshaping the road base, graveling
and installing culverts and bridges as required.
38.       Water Supply ($2.1 million before contingencies).  In the Mwanza
Region the project would establish three shallow well construction units
under the Rural Water Engineer (similar units are already being financed in
Shinyanga under bilateral aid). These units would implement village water
investments identified and financed under the VSHP, and would develop an
eventual capacity of 200 wells per year capable of providing systems to
approximately 30 villages each year. The project would also provide for the
rehabilitation of existing water supply schemes where required and requested
by villages in both regions. It is estimated that about 540 shallow wells
would be constructed in Mwanza Region, and 36 existing 7ater supply systems
would be rehabilitated in the two regions during the project period.
39.       Project Coordination and Evaluation ($2.7 million before contin-
gencies). To oversee project implementation a Project Coordinating Section
would be established within the Regional Planning Office of each region (para.
45 below). A monitoring and evaluation capacitv would be an important feature
of the Project Coordinating Sections (para. 47). The project would also
finance establishment of a Central Evaluation Unit within the Prime Minister's
Office, to coordinate and assist the evaluation activities in all regions
for which IDA is financing (or is expected to finance) rural development
projects. This Unit would provide the evaluation and monitoring work of each
region with methodological support, quality control, analytical assistance
and in-service training. In addition, a Project Special Fund of $180,000
would be established in each region, administered by the Regional Development
Director, to finance unforeseen expenses that arise during implementation.
Expenditures from the Special Funds in excess of $10,000 would be made in
consultation with the Association (Schedule 1, Part D(2) of the draft Joint
Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
40.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$30.5 million;
US$29.5 million net of identifiable taxes. The estimated foreign exchange
component is $15.4 million, approximately 50 percent of project costs.
Physical contingencies of 5 percent were included on technical assistance
costs; physical contingencies of 10 percent have been included on civil works,
vehicles and equipment; and physical contingencies of 15 percent were included
on materials and vehicle operation and maintenance. Price contingencies
totalling 30 percent of baseline costs were included: annual rates of 7.5
percent for 1978-79 and 7 percent from 1980 onward on equipment and foreign
salaries; 12 percent in 1978, 11 percent in 1979, 10 percent in 1980, 9 per-
cent in 1981 and 8 percent from 1982 onward on civil works, and 5 percent
throughout the project period on local staff costs. Project costs are summarized
in the credit and project summary at the beginning of this report.
41.       The proposed IFAD Loan of US$12 million would be administered
by IDA acting as Cooperative Institution under terms of the recently
approved Cooperative Agreement between IDA and IFAD. The proposed



- 16 -
IDA Credit of US$12 million and the proposed IFAD Loan would together
finance about 81 percent of total project costs: 100 percent of foreign
exchange expenditures and approximately 60 percent of local expenditures.
Local cost financing in Tanzania is justified since the local currency
requirement_ of its development program greatly exceed available local
resources, in spite of the Government's satisfactory savings performance.
The IFAD funds would be lent to the Government for 50 years including 10
years of grace with a service charge of 1 percent per annum and would
jointly finance with IDA all components except road improvement and water
supply. The IDA funds would finance the entire road improvement and water
supply components and jointly finance the remn.ining components on standard
IDA terms. The Governmentts contribution to total project costs would be $4.8
million, 16 percent of total project costs ($3.8 million excluding taxes and
duties) and the villagers' cash contributions to village investments, within
the framework of the VSHP, would total $1.7 million (6 percent of total project
costs).
Procurement and Disbursements
42.       Bank Group procurement procedures would apply to all project
components. Contracts of US$100,000 or more for purchase of vehicles
and equipment would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Contracts of less than
US$100,000 for vehicles and equipment purchases would be awarded on
the basis of normal government procedures, which are satisfactory; such
contracts would be limited to an aggregate of US$1 million equivalent.
Domestic manufacturers would be granted a preferential margin in bid eva-
lutation equal to the prevailing tariff or 15 percent of the c.i.f. cost of
imports, whichever is the lower. Civil works contracts totalling US$100,000
or more would be awarded after international competitive bidding; in eva-
luating bids,domestic contractors would be allowed a 7-1/2 percent preference.
As most of the project's civil works would involve small structures of varied
design which are geographically scattered, it is recommended that, as appro-
priate, these be completed by a combination of local competitive bidding,
force account and village self-help. These procurement arrangements are set
out in Schedule 3 of the draft Joint Project Agreement. Expenditures on
components jointly financed by IDA and IFAD would be disbursed at
a ratio of 30:70 (Section 2.04(a) of the draft Joint Project Agreement);
IDA funds alone would be disbursed on water supply and road improvment
expenditures (Section 2.04(b) of the draft Joint Project Agreement). IDA
and IFAD funds would be disbursed on the following basis: 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 85 percent of local expenditures for vehicles and
equipment (US$3.0 million before contingencies); 75 percent of total expend-
itures for operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment (US$4.1
million before contingencies): 100 Dercent of foreiRn expenditures and 75
percent of local expenditures for technical assistance, project staffing and
training (US$5.7 million before contingencies); 100 percent of foreign expend-
itures and 75 percent of local expenditures for civil works and materials
(US$5.7 million before contingencies); and 100 percent of the amount dis-
bursed on TRDB sub-loans (US$0.7 million before contingencies). These
percentages are set out in Schedule 2 of the draft Joint Project Agreement.



- 17 -
Project Implementation
43.       Project implementation would be through the existing Regional
administ -,ions with the Regional Development Directors having overall
responsibility for the project. The Regional Agricultural Development
Officers, the Livestock Development Officers, the Natural Resources
Officers (2orest Division), the Regional Road Engineers and the Regional
Water Engineers would have responsibility for implementing relevant parts
of the project. Regional VSHP Boards, consisting of the appropriate
regional party and administrative officials, would be set up by December 31,
1978 to oversee implementation of the VSHP component. In carrying out their
responsibilities these Boards would operate in accordance with policies
and procedures satisfactory to the Association. Projects identified under
the VSHP for financial support would fall into two general categories. Self-
financing projects, defined as those which fall within the portfolio of TRDB,
would be eligible for TRDB term credit. The regional offices of TRDB would be
strengthened to undertake this role and IDA and IFAD funds for this purpose
(about $0.9 million including contingencies) would be relent to TRDB at 4 per-
cent interest for 25 years including 5 years of grace. These funds would be
onlent to project villages at TRDB's standard rate of interest of 8-1/2 percent
(Schedule 1, Part F of the draft Joint Project Agreement). Disbursements
on the TRDB component would be conditional on the effectiveness of an accept-
able subsidiary loan agreement covering relending and onlending arrangements
between the Government and TRDB (Schedule 2, 4(b) of the draft Joint Project
Agreement). The remaining, non-self financing, investments would be processed
by the special VSHP units (para. 36 above). These units would include a
Senior Economist and three additional economists and work closely with the
relevant regional functional staff in preparing and appraising potential
investments. The resulting proposals would then be submitted to the region's
VSHP Board for review. If approved, the costs of these projects in excess
of village contributions would be financed by a grant from a regional VSIP
subvote set-ap in the development budget. The general arrangements for
the VSHP are set out in Schedule 1, Part F of the draft Joint Project
Agreement.
44.       The project would follow the existing organizational structure to
the fullest extent possible. It would support the institutional arrange-
ments introduced during Government decentralization in 1972, strengthening
the regional and district administrations in Mwanza and Shinyanga. Where
possible, the project would draw upon existing staff; about 80 percent of
the approximately 1,200 staff required by the project would be drawn from
the present cadres. Where it is not possible to use existing staff,
the project would support the additional staff required to ensure efficient
project implementation. Specifically, the project provides for the appoint-
ment of 14 internationally recruited specialists and 22 additional Tanzanians
for key senior staff positions. International recruitment is recommended
only for those specialties where suitably trained Tanzanians are typically
not available; the average cost per man-month for this staff is estimated



- 18 -
at $3900 and these individuals would be expected to assist in the training
of Tanzanian replacements. All senior staff would be appropriately
qualified and experienced.  Detailed job descriptions have be2. prepared
to assist in hiring; internationally recruited staff would be hired on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association; and a timetable for the appoint-
ment of key senior staff has been agreed with the Government (Schedule 1,
Parts A through H of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
45.       The project would be implemented and monitored in each region by
the Project Coordination Sections set up in the Regional Planning Office.
Close relations would be maintained between these Sections and PMO. The
Sections would include a Project Coordinator (who would be responsible for
overseeing the day-to-day operations of the project and coordinating the
activities of the various functional departments concerned), a Financial
Controller (who would manage and control project funds and be responsible
for procurement) and a Regional Evaluation Officer (para. 47 below). These
individuals are included in the total number of additional senior staff
noted above (para. 44). The appointment of qualified individuals, satis-
factory to IDA, to the posts of Project Coordinator and Financial Controller
in each region is a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(iii) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Accounts, Monitoring and Evaluation
46.       All project funds, except for TRDB loans would be administered
for the Regional Planning Office by the region's Project Coordination Section.
Each region's Financial Controller would maintain separate accounts for
project funds allocated to his region and would make allocations as necessary
to the regional functional managers and District Development Directors. The
Financial Controller would also be responsible for all accounting matters
related to the investments financed under the VSHP subvote. TRDB would main-
tain separate accounts for those funds utilized for self financing VSHP invest-
ments approved by TRDB. Both the regional and TRDB accounts of project funds
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and the accounts
and auditors' reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
close of each financial year (Section 4.02(b) and (c) of the draft Joint
Project Agreement). Because the vehicle capital and recurrent costs repre-
sent an important part of total project costs (20 percent), special accounting
would be instituted to ensure proper control of operation and maintenance
expenditures on project vehicles (Section 4.03 of the draft Joint Project
Agreement).
47.       Each Regional Evaluation Officer would institute and coordinate
an internal reporting system on progress by project component, in\itiate
special ad hoc surveys as required to serve the information needs of pro-
ject management and establish the mid-term data needed to undertake project
evaluation. In addition, the Government would submit a report to the



- 19 -
Association within six months of completion of disbursements analyzing the
implementation and impact of the project against the targets and objectives
set (Section 3.03(c) of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
Project Justification
48.       The project is designed to support the Government's rural develop-
ment strategy. It aims to strengthen the Government's regional and district
administrative structures in order to provide effective services to the rural
populations of the project area. It sets out to build-up the recently formed
villages as the principal vehicles for socio-economic development. It intends
to augment the incomes of the two regions' populations by supporting the few
proven productive improvements available for dissemination and by fostering
reaearch and testing of new improvements for future development. It would
improve the nutritional standards of the growing rural poor by increasing
the productivity of the regions' basic food crops without leading to a further
deterioration of soil resources. It aims to assist the Government' s social
programs by supporting health, education and water projects when requested
and supported by interested villages.
49.       Production benefits generated by the project would be about 75
percent from the agricultural component, 15 percent from livestock and 10
percent from forestry. The target beneficiaries for the agricultural component
would be primarily farm families earning per capita incomes of TSh 300 (about
US$35) or less, approximately half of the natinnal poverty level and the pro-
ject area's average per capita income. This group numbers approximately
540,000, or 25 percent of the two regions' population. The project would aim
to increase crops of the target beneficiaries by an average of approximately
one-quarter by full development, 6 to 10 years after project initiation.
While the livestock component of the project would place some emphasis on
improved poultry production (the benefits of which would be shared by small
and large farmers alike), the bulk of the benefits of this component would go
to the relatively more wealthy cattle owners. The forest component would
generate 140,000 m3 of the fuel wood and poles. Through the VSHP the project
would support the development of high priority socio-economic infrastructure
and services at village level--the projectts target would be to give half the
villages within the project area the opportunity to participate in a VSHP-
financed project.
50.       The economic analysis of the project included the following project
components: agriculture, livestock, forestry, roads, land-use planning and
project monitoring and coordination. The analysis excludes social service
costs and benefits--mainly the health education and water supply investments
projected for the VSHP components--for which adequate indicators of project
benefits are not available. The components, which were analyzed over a



- 20 -
25-year period, generated the following economic rates of return: 51 percent
in agriculture (16% of base costs); 12 percent in livestock (9% of base costs);
18 percent in forestry (9% of base costs); and 15 percent with respect to regional
roads (20% of base costs). The overall rate of return based on70 percent of base
costs (the components listed above, land-use planning and project coordination and
evaluation) is estimated at 21 percent. The high results obtained for the pro-
ject's agricultural activities reflect the fact that: (i) they rely heavily
on existing resources (particularly agricultural field staff) with small in-
cremental investments; and (ii) they lead to important increases in production
with only marginal increases in on-farm costs.
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
51.       The project aims to support development of basic economic and
social services in the two regions while minimizing the fiscal burden on
the Government. The direct attempt at accomplishing this is the VSHP
requirement that vill4gers make a significant contribution to project
supported investments. In addition, all productive inputs financed under
the project--improved seeds and seed dressing for agriculture, drugs and
supplies for livestock and seedlings for forestry--would be sold.
52.       The project would, during its five-year life, represent only a
modest additional fiscal burden to the Government. The average annual
project cost would be approximately 23 percent of the total FY79 budget
for the two regions. Since only 25 percent of this incremental cost would
be financed by the Government, the average annual incremental fiscal burden
to the Government would be only 6 percent of the total FY79 budget. The
incremental fiscal burden after completion of the project would be about
$3.6 million per year, 13 percent of the total FY79 budget or about $1.50
per beneficiary.
Risks
53.       The greatest risk facing the project would be the potential
inability of the two regional administrations to implement the proposed
project in a timely and efficient manner. A number of specific steps have
been taken to minimize this risk--significant technical assistance has been
provided to support regional implementation capacity; substantial training
would be financed to upgrade Tanzanian staff; needed transport would be
provided; extension services would be reorganized; and existing equipment
and material shortages would be addressed under various project components.
In addition, because of the experimental nature of the VSHP the impact
of that proposal is difficult to project. However, as the VSHP has the full
support of the Government and in view of its potential for significant
long-run benefits and broad application, it has been concluded that the
level of support proposed is justified.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Joint Project Agreement among
the United Republic of Tanzania, the Association and IFAD, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
55.       Special features of the draft Credit and Joint Project Agreements
are reflected in Annex III. Execution of the Joint Project Agreement,
effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement and the appointment of a Project
Coordinator and Financial Controller in each region would be conditions
of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Section 5.01(i), (ii) and (iii) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approved the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, DC
May 1, 1978



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
TANZANIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)            ---------------------___
---------------                   TANZANIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      945.1                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    508.3                         1960      1970   ESTIMATE           KENYA        KOREA REP. OF  MALAYSIA**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      50.0*/a  100.0*/a 180.0*/a              140.0*      280.0*      440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)             9.6/a    12.9/a   15.1/a                11.2        32.2        10.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       10.0       14.0       16.0               19.0       327.0        33.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        20.n       26.0       3n.0              113.0      137t.0       185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         S1.5       50.5       47.0               49.0        35.0         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          27.1       23.0       20.1               17.0         11.4       12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       190.0   160-165/b        ..                 ..          ..        40.8/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       36.7       41.8       44.5               49.1        65.0        56.7 -
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..       3.2        3.2                3.4         2.6         2.6/a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.3/a      3.0/a      2.7/a              3.1         2.3         2.9
URBAN                                 5.0        5.6       7.5/b               6.3         6.4         3.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           4.6        5.5/b    7.3                  9.9        41.2        26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.s/a,b 44.4/b         .48.4                        42.1        44.7/a
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55-5/a,b 53.0/b         ..               48.0        54.5        52.1 /a
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.01/a,   2.6/u                          3.6         3.4         3.2 /
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8/a,b    .g/b        ..                 1.1        0.8         0.9/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               I. /CSd  1.2/a,b    *-                   11./a        1.4        1.6/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..        ..         ..               66.1      4424.7       222.2/a
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..         ..                  ..       42.0         8.0/a
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         4900.0/d 5600.0/ab6300.0/C               5100.0/b  10200.0       3600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         96.0/d   9t.0/ab  83.1                   90-0/       50-.4/a     49.5
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..                 16.0/a d              ..         4.5 -       7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..      33.5         ..               20.2/c      17.1        28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..      63.3         *-               52.6/c      44.5        56.0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        2.3         *-                3 9/6       7.1         3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        7.0                          II 11.7 'c  "-'         1.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..         ..                  ..       28.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        ..         ..                  ..        2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            21750.Oae 21570.0/a  20760.0/a,e          7830.0/d   2110.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        9240.0aef 4890.0/ia  3180.0 /a           1470 0a    2170.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           570.0r/a  700.0/1        ..              770.0      1900.0       270.0/a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES I% OF REQUIREMENTS)         69.0     88.0         86.,              101.0       103.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              42.0       43.0      47.l                71.0        65.0        49  l/b
-OF MHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         22.0/j    23.0       20.0                29.0        19.0        20.0/b
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..        ..         ..                 1.9         ..         4.4
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       24.0       35.0      57.0                64.0       104.0        89.0 la
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      2.0        3.0        3.0                9-0 /e    41.0         34.0 /a
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0       13.0               13.0        12.0        13.0 /a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     23.0         ..         ..                2.0 /e    16.0          3.0 /a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 17.0        ..       490/C               30.0        87.0        55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 1.8 /h                                               2.7         2.31a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT               1   /
PIPED WATER (%)                                 30.0/bd    *0.0 /C    65.0/aLc
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                  /                                     8
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..        ..         ..                  ..       50.0        43.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..        ..         ..                  ..       30.0        30.0/a
CONSUMP ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           2.0       11.0      16.0                48.0       126.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THoU POP)            3 0        3 0       3 0                 9.0         2.0.       27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            16:0/a    31:0/a    43:0/a               Sa.o       307.0       382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.l/e      0.1       0.1                 0.5         3.5         4.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 23 -                                                             ItI
Untlessothorwige noted, date for 1960 refer to any year betw.. 1959 OAd 1961, for 1970 bot...n 1969 and 1971 and f-r the Moot A-.ot fEttita.t. betta-e
1973 and 1916.
o CM? per capite date are based on World lank Atlas usthidology (1956.76 bail.).
W&MaaIeL. has b..n selected a. &- obJective coatmry becaua* its Population La coiparsble ineilse and Its scmnOnI  doe-1op-et L. .everal sI                             p
ahead of Tenasuia.
TAItZANI1960    /Ia  Mainland tanasnia;    /b  195?, Africant population oil,;    /cI  Ratio of pOpulation under 15 and 65 and over to tot.l
labor fonca;       Id  1963;    /i  1962         I_f  Registered, net cil practicing in cte. co-try;              /I  1961-63;
/bI 1958, Z ...ibaf coly.
1970     /a  Mainland T-anzani;    /k  1967;   1l_  1965;    M~ Ac percentage of urban households.
NMs  ucgwr t_tfL(AUE:    lJ  Mainkland Tannione;    /b  1967-73;               4.c  1972;      /!!  Urban;    I.  Incl.dlng  -iset-it nedlea1
of ficers.
IMA             ~~~1970   /aKati. of popuaeti-on ane. 15 aid 65 aid evr to labor, for-e age 15-59 years;                     lb  Lab.r for-e  ge 15-59 y-sra
Ic  Urban;      /d  Registared, not all practicing in the. country;             /a  Total secondar  In-led,. teacher tteinlng
it the third level.
KOREA REP'. OF        1970    /a  As percentage of mnplosyest;            Lb  Registered, not all practicing ti the cant-t;               /tWate  piped tnside.
MALAYSIA              1970      Ia  Wast Malaysia;        lb  Relistered applicants for werk;           /c  1964-66;       Id  Piped .ater inside  -nly
R12.  April 7. 1978
ODtflMO5 Oil OCIAL rO1DICATOMRS
IadAa   thse2                                                                              Pepuleto   nr icrsine p-ste, . P.pletlini divided by meeb-  of pr-tictc F
oal-T.tot   aortaeC. area cpcisieg laid  rera  and Islaid -etara.                               _cl:,end feal  grdae  uis  "t-si-d" on ".rified" naaaed
uric. -Most recant satLnate of agric-lturaL arias .ed tanporarily en Paease-                       auliliary prennia  with training oraprin.
asandy foe c_op, p.eturia,  artat & Iilt,hon g.rd-n  or tc ut. fallow.                        Pi,Nulotian  ea  bacc   bed - papul.tian divided by  -tah- ithf            lc  beds
'yIlel .Is publie and pi-tci genies;1 aid speci.1ised hospitl. and
(M    e  csr   Us$) - cM? per capita atinati  at currant market Prices,                    -habailitation canteen; ..clud.. ices  g h-ni  and eibiict   o
ceclaek      b   ea   onisin   shd  as World Sank AtIMe (1973-75 besis);                          custodial and prav-tiv-  eare.
1960; 1970 aid 1975 data.                                                                     Pe    aiaern,o calories  ft of renelra-enta) - COep,ited fran enrgy
aqnvalniof  ntfood suppliaes a-vaibl. into--tr  per c-pita pee day.
peltien  an ita !!L     ii                                                                     chaioose.           n.ple   papnise d  1onaitin  .  fodeo. ipotd ea q npetst  .  an.d
pegultionfeid-ear  ILLoi      aofjuly fin t   if not availsble, average                       boesistock; ntsupisecd    nllfedsnd.qnitsocd
of tw  sod-ye-r -aitte;l.170 and 1975 data.                                                      in food pre...oLag and luas.s in dietrib.tio; req.irnv.ati  rer  estliatod
by PAO base.d an phyiiologica1 ..eed. f- e Ic activity and health -onid-
dowlton  dniy-etace      - Mid-year Populaltion per sqweer  kilonster                        arna ies,irousental tanporat.r., body weights, ace and ... di.trib.tivs of
(100 heoa~,re   of total ares.                                                                  pepulatio, and allowing lit f.r can to at heoth-ld leve.
Pao :to     delt     e   esr      reren ad - Coapuid as obon  for                        Pe    aiasly  o   eti fos    ceday) - Protein  --tt i  P., -apita
aricoturallaidonlY.                                                                         te supl  ofp fnpeda;etuppLy  f food is defined ii obeys; eqi
a                                                                       mi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-te for all centnias established by uJSIA E-oronic . inerob Sorvire
vgtei  statistics                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~prwvide fee a siellmi allowance of 60 Srao of tete1 proteIn per day. a-d
Coda  bit   ae  a                  "htisd *Virio  - Annual lIve bietba per tbooaad of              20 greanI of ankeal afid pulse protein, of uhivh I0 cron  ihoeld he -netl
aid-ye.r population; ta-year ...ittustic  avrg.esnading in 1960 sai  1070,                       Protein; tbeie standards  -r  lo-er than th.. of 75 gr-  of total protein
"andfie-ea saeage ending in 197  fee neat receot                                                 ..Ant.o  23 Seri of  .indl pret.in        --navrge for the enrld  . proosd by FP00
Crud   death  rt erthna. veae-Annul diathe Per thousand of uidnysav                                in the Third World Fend Isevy.
popusioN  ; con-yea  -ithbatic avraeseding ii 1960 aid 1970 and fivi-                                                                    an aiaineiace,fa    en)sd  cola. - Pntetin supply of toed
-er  vag  .idieg Ist 1975 far nesteso   elnata.                                           Pr"i     Z L: "
Inat otlr    ati  f/thou) - A-nel deatbs of infants tander one ye.r of  pg              Death  rte   fth-u)  a,, 1-4 - Anneal deathe per tho-s-d Ln age group 1.i.
p,r thua    ive birtha.                                                                          ysets  to chI1d... in this ega grop; suggested Ase  n dctro
Life  eceect.nCy_at hitch  fyrl-j  Averag  nisbr of yo.5c   of lifa rauaiinig at                   nainultriio.
birth; oual"  fiv--year               ..riaading in 1960, 1970 end 1975 for davalop-
InS coutrtes.                                                                                 Education
Crana   neeiduetion   at. - eveiga iteabroflv  daalbter  a ymna  sIll bear         Adlustad ...rollst ratio         r tiry  school - inrofLeont of ii ages ce Po-
in her  ena  reproductive period If sh   ealeaprecut age-pecifit                                 cotg  o        nayshool-a.ge  poplation; inoludo  eblhld-e  aged 6-li  -ra
fertility races; usually five-year sanraega  ending in 1960, 1970 end 197                        but adjuatd far different iengthi of prineri ed.,tio; f-e -otri.. -itO
for ds,avlopung coonri- sia ad 1                                                                               ..uction,  -nrol1-t nay ..c-d 10f". since s.-  poptle are he1u
po,,lation  grwhrt   t)-toti  - Canpo-ad alaul, growth rat"n of taid-yoar                          or  bove th. official echoel c-c.
popuatio  fo  19S-AS  196-70aid 1970-75.                                              Adjusted  erllet ratti.-eaton.d.-   sohool - C-tp,,t.d an ab-o  -eondn
Poewitlon   rowthraci  tl -  rban- optnd.like growth rot. of total                       educa tio rquir-  at least foer yer        -oLppoe  priar  inatruc n
powlton; dfent dal.iitin   of urban areas my affect cosparobility of                          pnvdsgnrl   Ottoa   rcshr teif,tgistuton   o  puple.
date  -Seg ce,criea.                                                                             of 1.I2 to .17 years of eg:   . rcorapond-. courses are genrai,  exc....ude,d.
tithen sovulaon  ft of total) - dec10 of orhan no  etal. pepulocmo; different                    _ap    fahoI,e      Lrvie    "ifo   cod  seod   jev1 _ -  ot1y             _rso
.EfinLtilwa  of urban arany affeut napar.btlity of data cang enutriaa.                           schooling; at ..toidary 1-1a, vctionaFli-instutl- nay be partil11  or
cospi.t.ly eunluded.
gee etrnrue    earont  -Children (0-14 liars).   nrking-age (15-64 year),                Voca ctnal  enrolnt  ft or aoeondary  - VocetionlInsiemn    nld
adretiendec (Alti p asnd  -vr) as percetage. of nd-yast population.                             reh.chta.1  ii trial or otter progr-n  which opra.te independentlyora
Alt.    sodoy   ai - R.tio of popl.ation under 15 and 65 and ovr is thece                          dp-eparei   of ..coad-ryiniuin.
ofae   1throgh 64.                                                                       Idul,    iia,tc    t   Lt.ir.te odelts (cbhet toread and write)  st
Ienat    .deedncy  rails - Ratio of Population under 15 aid 65 aid eve  to                      catg   f cotci edut population aged 15 yeara audovr
the labor focs  n9 ag  gop of I5-64yers
pail,   elannIne-a,,Ceter         cusace.   hu  - Ccitlaiv  -ibir of  ceonptoea                  R   tagf
of birch-eootro1 d-nloca aider .u.pi.n. of sational fanily Planning progra                     P.---n   mrc roa  furhb) - A-erage ncbr of peron  per roa  in ocepird
p=i      1 leni"%-usrs CX  if  earned wad      .- rntegas ef earned  mii  of                   strutresad unictepa  prs
nhfl d-bea ring ae(5-4  yPaea) she use birth-contIre  davioss to all earied                    OnCtoele   doli.ne  without  piped  watar CIL)- OccuPied  -onsci-Ia d-ellirce
wean  n se   agegroop.                                                                      in urba  an.d rura  scoas  ith.ur Inside orotide piped astr fclte
as percentag of all occupied duelling..
T.t.l  I.b-c fore (thoussedl                      - ennt 1- tv  peeson, inelading  -ad              alcrct   nlvn    e esa   ecn   f cocCi                                  .,l insinura  av,d
feroa end uniployed b.t  -edding haiia.stud.sti  itce.; ds.Ititosa                                utalaras
in narou  o.attrie are not c"nparabl.                                                          goratdunlilns   conneted to  alattri.it,  it) - Conputed is aboe for rtonI
Labo-  foent Ie "Irltl'tana  C%) - Agricutu_a  Liber forc  (is f-1.ing  forestey,                    vL.,g  only.
bMLtn   and fiabintg) as per_o_at S.f t-tI labor fIrts.
naivd fof  labor  f-col   U. feploped sausal  dlie               pesn  who.              C-nA-tptoe,
are 1' abZadwligt   ieajb  out efalb an La ivndy   aa d on                                        aie rainr    ea   hnPit - A11 typea of rcrve for  _ide  evdce
of a Iot, end seekig soo  foe a apeafl.d ni.L-t  period not  -nadl..              et  g-nrel pubitu pe  th-ousand or populatIo; otlde   mL   sdreevt
.ek  npnot he aparabla betw,-o citonric  dua to different defintios                            inc   -nre   and in       r pac s.we   .Rgise..... o- f e-di a sate was in atfac
of sapiopd and source of date.  ..g., seployeest affic  stetiati-. .-PI.                         data fo recant years  ap sat be    , . cipebia since coat cutisavi
survys. ccapulary u.,-pley-t Insuanice.                                                           Iie  onsin.
paaste    ar   fa  thre P-P)   Pasne -te   oPr(i.e *, r.cr  acetic
teu-     dItibto     - perentage  Pf I.-sc  Ionm   (bOth in n-b and kind)                           b:aa then sight person; ...ulude.    hii.            h-ars    end acllItsy
receIve  by  Sihnt  . rkebet 201. p-ooet 201  aid pooreat Ac0l of keace-                          vehieles.
holda.                                                                                         Z1,,ttl.dior  ftwh/rE  ow  ol-Anou1 CaiPti-,  of Industrial.   --aerLa
publie aid pri-ata s1-,rioire is kilowtt boon  per -aptt.. gense-ly
Etiseibaton   f  lnd   ettirhie - P eteess ef land onnid by isaltbisat 101                 be...d an Drouction d.to. .ithous aJowne  in  ase  in gids b.t allo-
aid  poorest lOt of laid  mice,,                                        ~~~~~Log for  eport. and enporta ofeetiiy
Poplaton ear ehylocs    ppul.ticn dividid by itser if preatinung
physict-ea  Iualfe   fra  5 edical cuboel at anlireity leve.



- 24 -                                                       ANNEX 1
MXL WtLOC? MV   ?
Ct1   64r......0 .,
ktl vf                                                       L                _ia                                     191-                     ,IV _,,
im    itis        D            1177        1lt         Ltip         ute         uos          up.         uz3         1111 e        tes 
Vs 4    .  1924.6 ht1..)
*.  "334.1                                                    244.4       2662.2       2121.6     1t14.,       3t24.4       2181.1      4107.2        :2319.        J,          4.6          s.a       lOec
I.  01.  6    b      . Tr. ()                       14.4       .41.7          4.6       164.0        2M.0        -4.1         41.2       .102.1      -16.2           .                        .         *21
2.  0.~              3.":II0.                                 1i1:*z      asa*         144.        204.6        3466.1      2610.1      4001.1       2143.11        *.*         s.'i. 
4.  bow                                            9oi.1        24.2        "12.0 a      43         7.7    .     0.1         631.?        944.4      1100.2          .I         4.6          2.2        u.s
S.  ebeq o     94I- V- 426.4                                   101.9        22.7        IS2. M       14.I     .    4.1       420.         244.S      2041.a         4.?          2.4         4.4       1j,*
4. Impect* * T? &d).ac4                            %44.9       434.1        141.2       44.'s       347.2       3A6.3        276.4        414.4 -      2S.0        4.1         -4A           3.2        uA
1. 2e.4e Goe   27 4 j.... d                        32J.31            11W.6  614.2        61.1       113.3       t232.2       20.2         310.0       312.2          .           .
*. t.1 Cl                                         23681.0     2174.1       1200.2      2243.4      281.4        214.4       2223.8       22.116      4244.6         1.1         4.2          4.1        *.
4.  -..*201.3                                                   19.0        3344         4 4-.4     001.0        034.1       677.6       603.2       1s1.0          6      .6    .           2.?        21.2
tt.  64tl.I U.1..6                                    3.2       t. 34.      214.4        II$.$       496          264.        53.0         664.1        404.41      .0.4        .1.4          2.1        21.0
It2.bow       610.                                                          212.3        413.2       411.6        431.3       414.1        363.        440.1        .o.7        -3.2 ).1                  S.s
U. I"44,,el         v                              23.         3223.0      214.6        321          M3.        4336.3       410104.1    6414.1       403.4
(11T#StGu at1174,-2, Pri...)
2.  vz ?                                            1.          14          12.0         24.         U.2         1.            7.2t      t1.2          2.0          6.0         1.7          Le
1.  As,h1.twe                                       3.           0.4        40.4         34.2          .4        31.          37.3        34.3          1.4         I A          1.2         3.2
2. St1..                                           4.           4.4         4.1         44.7         42.2        42.5         43.1         6.1         4.1           .   2.4      t          3.s
6.  lICSH  (104144   * 200)
2. teet tio  ..4... "6                                          g0. t      211.4        IS7.M       12.3         13u2.4      US.0       t17.          243.2          * * 14.2                4.4
S.  3446t        1.4..                              6s.1      1604.10      t104.7       11,4.4,     124.S        134.3       144.6        104.3       141.0          ..1                     7.2
2. to-   t Two4a 13.4.                             III2.#        4.2       143.3        61.?        104.0         46.0        43.1         67.1         4.           . ..
4. 0so  e.fl.t.r(USS0                               44.1       60.2         12.4        122.4        137.1       143.0       U3.0         214.        301.6          *          74           7.4
L  &weneee b04..c. me. (7  to 6s1i6.0e)            ?. Lo       1.414       8.321
wkWl 1'          24 -16             flo  e
3. MIro Drole^M
1. Tom                                               2.4         4.3         4.6          4.1
2.  b4t,  11f.ic1eol                                 1.1        .2.4         6.1          0.I
3. 4sr4g.        ttl .L.4.  I. y                    6.           a.7          4.4        14.4
*.  L*nroat tl         20-58* .gt. A.               13.1        lo..         17.4        UA
4. 10ri1l t    401C 1 I4.4. 66                       0.1        04.2        -0.
L.  1a.4tots.e 0                                    68.3        316.7       20.          22.9
4. 4.....  /,                                       U.?w         1.3.        e..         41..
S. trt                                                                    n
1. 1..f  ..                                                            8
A.2  t .1ter                                                          91.6
1.2 I-a" t.7                                                            4
1. owst 40....                                           14     42        tan          327         2013        34"         239I         416
2.6 1.  1*"  -                                      0         U34         lot          1U27        1601 t       161        3303         4663
L   oa e  t b"4t1.                                 m6y       16321         2i6 I       127l)       203         341         3716         4460
4.2 &...l   44."Ai.t.                              W4          133         164          240         944        6246         6117
L. 0..r           S.vl.t.                                       Ss y4                   124         23          -1*         20)          31
4. 4".4  e e                                        ..          .           2t           41         114          322          4         2410
A.bp .. 4.16043  h-r II1.14
1_*..sq     bnp dIrw._                       ..          S"           m6          394         423         34t2        tz4        s02e
6. t14.5.4t.1  .2-114 21.14                          
*.114 *( %t b e Dtitlel
l.440-1 1.d                                  42 134                              436          "67         I4
bul~~~~~~~~~~~1                                        22          269         244     U tU41*.          ..
Showeetia 11#rv-113                                     44 432                 211          12
*    1  64.6.4  4*                                 .. 400***8  .6t G*                              2U6          U2-          .           *
L146   o.t.m r                                                     It4         Its*3 21                  ne           ..          .-
_wI[ bo.rm40 *..8 *                                                                  U          al - --  
10041004, IMIZI:                 *9           11*    la-:                                                                                                                       CPS-Ak  2, 2016
btentl _z_^                                                                                                                      a.ew  j. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iva



_25_
ANNEX 1
&"CZ~ O! ?A9?VTS An~' IrnIAL ASSISIANc
.11111.. us 6)
m&    m1a    mat .m1t ma                                    ''               .   "*s 
.. 9*91U C! ILI9CI Of ?AIWI                                                                                                                                     -
a.  nette  (t.ct. Iris)                                    48.9        u0.7         05.5        759.?       142.?       747.6       637.3      1402.9      2320s9
erte (Lnrl.  is)                                          77.0        793.3       nr.9        62.6         970.3      1054.3      1213.U      2034.1      3429.2
o. MbaUS.. ul1.                                           -.13.1      .3m2.6       1123.4        93.0        1A.6       298.5      -7.2         833.7      .o0.3
4.  1t le1tte  Srnle. 21- 4.8                                           .10..    -24.6         .21.1        .6.?        -21.0       -27.3       -75.3      -143.6
1. Iat lnt.z.act tayete  t obl%k                       -13.        .-16.1        6.6        1.         .3.?         -18.0       -22.1       -45.3      -133.6
lutet eqt  eblk 11      LT                                  (            .1.        (.5          (.11.6)     (-20.2)     (.27.7)     (-79.1)    (-1 1.9)
2. Direct lwatwnt Ieee.                                  C           (                      ( C                           (                t
3. Workesemttane 01.:)                                  (4.8                   (-5.4        (.8.0       (-S.O       (-S.0       (-8.0      (-10.0      (-10.0
4. otwr Paat.t rSrveLhm    (Nt)                          (           (          (           (           (                                  (           C
S.          UA ff..r  (Not)                                 20.2         11.0,       27.9       2.2         110.4       129.4       147.9       235.6       362.5
O. Idleae go  nes At        t                             .291.       -272.1       .6.1        -19.2      -U1.1       -190.1       -255.1      -473.4      .669.6
P. rite Divest 1awemt                                       44.8        37.8         2.3        50.0        20.0         24.0        26.0        85.0        24.0
Ila  4 LT e
I0 Dbrmast 1it                                             148.1       m2          11.6        215.6       617.2       211.6        315.5       328.2       186.
13. _rt stL.       I/ I                                                                        .21.  1S  46.5  .27.3   -28.2       -41.4       -51 0        101.5
1G.let btebure_ta 1                                         1           I.2  i.      0          11T.3       1f.9        I434        T7Y4i       471.2       Ti7.2
MW r X 4L IT  an
D Kskeaeets 2                                   . 2U.2                   19.9        U.           U.2         4.           1,.2        0.          0.0         0.0
1U. heotlatt*  VI                        -4                              ;J          :.*         .4 a1 -l    .                        -a.3                     0.0
U. Mat 3teburseYu1   / V                                     1h;1          r                      *.j        . .4          .0         4 *3.                    0.0
U4.  Ue at DC  AweA    .                                     44.8        U.4         2.         -24.4        ..0        -39.0       -20.3          0.0         0.6
13.     t-tcm capital weaasativag                            14.1         0.e       -u1.9         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.6
13. b$tAl >a,a.2tA. a.m.t.                                  .81.4       .84.0       .31.2         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0
1I. O0g Sm l ms  - (-  las)                                  6.          2.?        .4.2       -165.6       '34.4       -34.3       -21.2       -33.5        .54.6
JLWS cvaClm
1. 0(1.6.  Ga                                              260.0       181.9 U23.
2. SUla Pu.ll. HM  LT 7J_                                  260.4        152.3       163.0
2.1  U3D                                                68.0        20.0        37.0
2.2  IDA                                                 1.2        10.0        52.0
3.3 Other lhltilaural                                    2.1        1U.0         8.0
9.4  OrS   nUts                                         127.1       94.3         77.)
of whtcb eastsally pleme. **mmle"o1              16.5         5.4
2.8  4,pplleta                                            -
3.4  Finauicil IastitutL.as                               -1.?
2.7  boaaaa                                                           - 
2.A 2lab  Uss. a.a                                        ..
d. e: U & LTI aa  (them ev.llable)W/                         8.6         2.9         40
.   oat Elmnt ot Total e.t_.t.s                             43.5       46.8         71.3
2. Av"tag. interest (prcent)                                 2.2          3.8        3.3
. verw  Watwity C^lags)                                     82          4*          36
-  5 1wd e fiactialg of ProjZeted balasCe of peaya  dtfisit (1917.-190) .c Wx llank/301, IDA terms.
Plabutn.m_nt and w.varext el Sank lWse for LAC projects el %Abjob tmasaa.' dh.av  toa a mttuel 40  ereaat.
Lost of 'Devai- an  ".byment by Pbrh.t".
Itrlwd* OCLA eejotcl*. Pleople's Ap.blle 01 elmsu. Maen get". Seeallat Sep*1. Ot fVtt*M.
i  apsieats a _etweaL 40 pase.t el &sek Los" doe UC pjeates.
Jo....,1 . 1976



- 26 -
DQT  MID CflItiWORThiNESS I/
Aic u'll
At197S       196
A. tIZDUW  AND LONG TERff DDT  (Disburesd Dnly)
1.  EUttl Debt Outotanding (DOD: End of PtezLd)/                    27.7        23.7       1030.7
2.  Including UndLsbursed                                          "..4       1385.6       1544. 6
3.  Public Debt Service                                             23.5        26.5         22;8
1.  Interest                                                   1.6        21.2        12.5
4. other 1 4 LT Debt Sorvice s/                                      8.1         *.2         12.4
1.  MOTBUROt4I/t
1. Debt Service RatLo                                                6.1         7.5          6.7
2. Debt tervice/CDP                                                  1A           1.4         1.5
3.  PubiLc Debt Service/Coverment lavo.                               4.5         6.          7.6
C.   S                                   '
1.  Intrest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                   2.1         1.9          1.8
2.  total Debt Service/Total DOD                                     4.9         4.0          3.9
D. DeWPNDEXCT MTIOS FOR 1 4 LT DEST 1/
3. Cress Disbursemente/Imports (inel. NFS)                          20.7        31.5         17.6
2. Yet rvansfer/laports (mc.l NFS)                                  16.S        22.2         10.5
3. Set Transfer/Cross Disbursente .                                  U.9        a9.6          3.3
&= SUR& jf
1.  3D.1D Disburemonts/Croes Total Disbursements                    10.3        21.0         14.7
2. Bank Croup Disbursements/Croet  Total Disburesmete               14.0        28.1         36.8
3.  IhAD DODITotal DOD                                              |2.0        15.3         15.3
A.  Isnk Croup DOD/Total DOD                                        22.0        24.0         25.9
S.  SAI Debt Service/Total Debt Service                             10.9        26.2         32.3
S. lar Croup Debt Service/Total Debt Servtce                       13.1         28.2         34.7
f!itst.nding Dee. 31. 1976
Amount      Percent
(uS I million)
r. TMFM    DU   (Disbursed Only)
_. 1RD                                                                          to.1          9.9
2.  Bank Croup                                                                 108.9         11.9
3. Otther   ultilateral                                                         18.1          2.0
4.  Owrr to                                                                    655.8         71.8
of titsich Centrally Plwnned tcomtoe s                                   292.5         32.0
5.  Swpplters                                                                   22.2          2.4
6. rinacial Isutitutions                                                         2.2          0.9
7.  loads                                                                        3.4          0.4
8.  Public Debt D.e.i.                                                           7.1          0.8
9. late] Public H & LT Debt                                                    913.8        100.0
10. Other K & LT Debt 1/                                                        116.9         12.8
11.  ToIal Public Dcbt (inml. Undieburbed)                                     1414.0        154.7
12.  Tbtal h 6 LT Debt (inci. Undisbursed) 1/                                  1544.6        169.0
J   l ncludes a notional 40 p4rcent share of loans to the LAC.
Represente a notionAl 40 perenlt share of debt service on lena to th  EUC.
Icludes C2U countries, fPoples Republic et Cbia. ICortb Jor", Socialist Republic of Vietnm.
LAW. CMl-A
Jcnuery S. 1976



- 27 -                        ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1978
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.        Year    Borrower            Purpose                    Bank1/ TW   IDA-I Undisbursed
Four loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                     70.2         90.8
586-TA     1969    Tanzania    Roads                               7.0         -         1.4
287-TA     1972    Tanzania    Smallholder Tea                                 10.8      2.0
371-TA     1973    Tanzania    Education                                       10.3      4.6
382-TA 2/  1973    Tanzania    Livestock                                       18.5      6.2
454-TA     1974    Tanzania    Cotton                                          17.5    13.3
-460-TA     1974    Tanzania    Tanzania Investment Bank                         6.0     1.2
1014-TA     1974    Tanzania    Cashewnut                          21.0                   8X2
495-TA     1974    Tanzania    Sites and Services                               8.5      3.4
507-TA     1974    Tanzania    Highway Maintenance                             10.2      5.7
508-TA     1974    Tanzania    Rural Development                               10.0      7.0
1041-TA     1974    Tanzania    Sugar                               9.0                   2.8
580-TA     1975    Tanzania    Dairy                                           10.0      7.7
1128-TA     1975    Tanzania    Textile                            15.0                   4.6
1172-TA     1975    TIB          Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                   6.5
601-TA     1976    Tanzania    Technical Assistance                             6.0      5.5
606-TA     1976    Tanzania    National Maize Program                          18.0    14.4
607-TA     1976    Tanzania    Education                                       11.0      9.7
1306T-TA     1976    Tanzania    Power                                     30.0           26.3
1307-TA     1976    Tanzania    Forestry                            7.0                   6.2
652-TA     1976    Tanzania    Fisheries                                        9.0      8.8
658-TA     1976    Tanzania    Tobacco Processing                               8.0      5.3
1354-TA     1977    Tanzania    Urban Water Supply                 15.0                  14.7
1385T-TA     1977    Tanzania    Morogoro Industrial Complex               11.5           10.9
1386-TA     1977    Tanzania    Morogoro Industrial Complex        11.5                  10.9
703-TA 3/  1977    Tanzania    Rural Development (Tabora)                       7.2      7.0
732-TA 4/  1977    Tanzania    Second Sites and Services                       12.0    12,0
743-TA 4/  1977    Tanzania    Trucking                                        15.0    15.0
1498-TA 4/  1977    TIB          Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                  15.0
TOTAL                                                 185.7  41.5 278.8   236.3
of which has been repaid                              3.2   -     6.8
Total now outstanding                                 182.5  41.5 272.0
Amount sold                       0.1
of which has been repaid        0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDAt                       182.5  41.5  272.0
Total undisbursed                                      68.9  37.2  130.2  236.3
I/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million has been disbursed
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   These projects became effective on April 3, 1978.



IwiutX 1 1
- 28 -
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMfON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MARCH 31, 1978
US$ Million
Loan                                                         Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year    Borrower      Purpose                       Bankl/           Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                                   93.4
638-EA   1969    EAHC          Harbours                      35.0                1.3
674-EA   1970    EARC          Railways                      42.4                3.8
865-EA   1972    EAHC          Harbours                      26.5                1.4
914-EA   1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications            32.5                5.6
1204-EA   1976    EADB          Development Finance           15.0               11.3
Total                                       244.8               23.4
of which has been repaid                   42.5
Total now outstanding                       202.3
Amount sold                   24.4
of which has been repaid   24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank l/                   202.3
Total undisbursed                            23.4               23.4
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 29 -                           ANNEX II
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 
(As of March 31, 1978)
There are currently 27 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: -$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and an improvement in
the control over field activities. However, the position with regard to
field staff will continue to be closely watched. Because of weak extension
and farm practices in the past, about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since
1971 must be infilled or rehabilitated, and yields have been lower than
anticipated. No additional planting has been carried out since June 1976
but effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in the
Bukoba area. Bank recommendations regarding crop yields, husbandry tech-
niques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are now
being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favorable
turn. Progress on the project is expected to continue to improve. The
closing date may require a further extension to allow sufficient time for
completion of the Mwakaleli factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976. Since the review, significant progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO). However, TPL needs to improve its overall efficiency,
and NARCO's financial situation is unsatisfactory. A financing proposal for
NARCO is currently being prepared for presentation to Treasury and the two
financing institutions (TRDB and NBC) in order to return NARCO to financial
viability. The village livestock development component continues to have
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-30 -                      ANNEX II
the same organizational problems evident during the review and the seriousness
of the situation has been recognized by the Prime Minister's Office. In
summary, significant progress has been made since the review but major problems
remain and require continued attention.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project is much improved since the appointment in October
1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure of the
crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project
rather than an agricultural production project. A major objective is
now to develop a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy.
The most significant progress has been in the trials program with about
50 well distributed and supervised trial sites. Recruitment of staff
has been more vigorously pursued since the Implementation Reviews began.
The major project problems remaining are: the lack of senior staff, the
shortage of extension staff, the inefficient use of tractors, and the
delay in producing accounts. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million L6an of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - Decer..ber 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is
proceeding in accordance with the revised completion schedule which is about
nine months behind the appraisal estimate. Processing plant and machinery has
been delivered for two factories, and is under shipment for the remaining
three factories. The Cashewnut Authority (CATA) take over of the industry
and the consolidation of its activities are proceeding slowly. Its
management capabilities are limited. Therefore, while the Government's
consultants have effectively supervised construction and the project
includes provision of technical assistance for factory operation, the
development of CATA is important to future progress and is receiving close
attention.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
The village infrastructure construction program has been retarded
by the reappearance of national shortages of key construction materials and
by problems relating to management of materials distribution within the region.



-31-                        ANNEX II
The level of credit repayment by farmers taking seasonal inputs from village
godowns stands at approximately 84%, despite poor yields of cotton (the main
cash crop) in many project villages during the past crop season.  Maize and
bean yields obtained in the past season were good and food crop purchases in
the region by the National Milling Corporation were more than double last
year's record levels. A good start has been made on the program of Agri-
cultural Training and Trials Center and village trials for this season, and
a review of the project's technical strategy is underway. A Joint-Mid-Term
Evaluation of the project is proposed for July-August 1978.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The development of estate cane plantations has been completed.
Kilombero Sugar Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers
continues and is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than
expected cane yields. The inability of the transport system to supply cane
to both factories is a serious constraint to sugar production. The operations
of the new management advisory agreement show some weaknesses, mainly because
Tanzanian senior staff could not be found to fill the line positions vacated
by expatriates. Draft accounts for FY77 are under preparation. After heavy
losses in 1977, mostly due to difficulties in starting operations of the new
factory, KSC is expected to break-even in the following season. The Sugar
Development Corporation has requested Finance to consider KSC's proposals as
to the debt-equity ratio under the project and the terms of the Government
loans. A decision on this matter is expected soon.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: $9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
With the change in TAFICO's management in August 1977, the project
appears to be progressing satisfactorily after the initial delay in imple-
mentation. All formalities with regard to the establishing of the commercial
centers both for the coastal fisheries and Lake Tanganyika have been completed,
and steps have been initiated for the construction of boats and procurement
of engines and fishing gear.  In addition, four Ujamaa villages have been
identified for investment under the Ujamaa Pilot Fisheries Program. It is
expected that active fishing operations in all cases should begin before the
end of 1978.



- 32 -                     ANNEX II
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: $18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with
regard to village participation, delivery of inputs, and concentration on
high potential maize regions, at its mid-term it is beset by a number of
problems which must be overcome if the project is to achieve its primary
objective. The project's extension services are seriously understaffed,
and the deficiencies of extension services and the Government's continued
indecision on its reorganization are constraints affecting project imple-
mentation. Motorcycles and landrovers delivered to the Regions have greatly
increased mobility of supervisory staff; however, other essential equipment
and aids will not be available before mid-1978 because of considerable pro-
curement and administrative delays. Farmers' contributions to the financing
of project inputs vary from Region to Region; in areas of high maize potential
about 80% of the inputs have been distributed in the agreed manner, but in
the remaining Regions contributions have ranged from 13% to 42%. A recent
decrease in the subsidy element from 75% to 50% for all inputs has doubled
the cost to the farmers of fertilizer. Many of the difficulties experienced
result from limited cooperation between the central ministry responsible
for the overall project and the regional authorities in charge of local
implementation. Proposals to improve project implementation by modifying
authority for input financing and by increasing regional responsibility for
assessing, ordering and distributing input requirements are under preparation.
Another problem is the tendency for villages to place undue emphasis on mono-
culture of maize production. A joint RMEA/Headquarters mission recently
reviewed the above difficulties and its recommendations have been submitted
to the Government for consideration.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
Development of the parastatal dairy farms continues to be ahead
of schedule and the loan security/occupancy rights problems have been
resolved for most farms. A shortage of suitable cattle and lack of milk
pasteurizing facilities at Mbeya are imminent problems.  The Ujamaa component
proceeds slowly and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank is actively investi-
gating alternative means of assisting village milk production and consumption.
The foot and mouth disease control investigation has commenced.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: $7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976,; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The project, which is a five-year slice of the Government pulpwood
plantation program of about 65,000 ha of Pine and Eucalyptus provides for the
planting of almost 16,000 ha, as well as the maintenance of 10,000 ha of
existing plantations, the developing of infrastructure, research, training



-33-                          ANNEX II
and studies. The project got off to a slow start and with serious management
problems. The Project Manager and several section chiefs had to be replaced
in July 1977, and the key post of Roads/Mechanical Engineer is still unfilled.
The first year. plantings mostly failed and practically all targets are behind
schedule. However, under new management the situation has improved considerably.
The nurseries are well stocked and maintained, and the current planting program
should be on schedule. The Engineer post is due to be filled shortly, and
the project should catch up with all arrears over the next year or two.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: $8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
February 15, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The completion of improvements to the existinig processing line is
expected by April 1978, one year behind schedule. The new processing line
is to be installed by October 1978 and commissioned in time for the 1979
season. After initial set-backs, construction of storage facilities in
Dar-es-Salaam and Morogoro is progressing satisfactorily. TAT's and TTPC's
liquidity is strained. Government is now providing local counterpart funds
for the project, rather than having TAT and TTPC prefinance capital expend-
itures as foreseen in the Appraisal Report. This greatly facilitates project
implementation. TAT's Financial Department has been further strengthened by
the recruitment of three expatriate senior accountants. An internationally
reputable auditing firm will study TAT's financial system, recommend changes
and assist in implementing them. An expatriate financial advisor will be
engaged to assist the Tanzanian Financial Manager for a number of years.
TAT's audit reports for 1975 and 1976 are being finalized, while TTPC's audit
report for 1977 is under preparation. The Tobacco Sector Study will commence
in the second half of 1978.
Credit No. 703-TA/Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Taboya Rural
Development Project:  $12.0 million Credits!  of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The project became effective on November 11, 1977. Key staff
have been assigned. Satisfactory progress is being made on construction of
staff housing and procurement of vehicles is in an advanced stage. The regional
authorities are actively engaged in preparing a detailed work program for
each component. Project implementation is on schedule.
l/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 ($4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of $7.2 million.



-34-                          ANNEX II
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The project is being implemented with assistance from DANIDA.
Projected estimates of project cost overruns have been reduced within
manageable limits as a result of curtailments of the project (deletion of
three secondary schools) and more favorable than anticipated bids on civil
works. Civil works contracts have been awarded on all project institutions
and construction is proceeding on 12 of 15 sites. Substantial improvements
have been achieved in program planning for Community Education Centers (the
experimental self-help construction project item), and two of these centers
are now in operation. Recruitment of technical assistance specialists in
health included in the project has been slow but arrangements have now been
made with WHO to recruit these specialists. Disbursements are now 50% of
appraisal estimates, and implementation is, in general, proceeding satis-
factorily. It is likely that the closing date will require a postponement
of one year.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The project made a good start with respect to the Village Manage-
ment Technicians (VMT) Training Program. However, some problems have emerged
with respect to the utilization of the VMTs. Five Rural Training Centers
have been rehabilitated, instructional staff have been trained, and courses
have commenced. Expansion of the capacity of 15 secondary schools is slightly
ahead of schedule. A contract has been signed with UNESCO to assist in
conducting a secondary school survey. Proposals for a survey of primary edu-
cation and a review of standards of accountancy training are being prepared.
Construction of housing is behind schedule, but total project costs are so
far within the original estimate and the project should be completed by the
closing date.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project:-/ $6.5
million Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The contract for the road construction component of this project
was signed in March 1974, two years later than scheduled and at a cost much
higher than estimated. The Bank reduced the primary road construction
I/ The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million. In 1975, surplus funds of US$1.9 million were allocated to
the Third Highway Project, and the Closing Date was extended to
December 31, 1978.



-35 -                            ANNEX II
component from 200 km to 82 km and transferred US$1.9 million balance from
the completed Second Highway Project (Loan 586-TA) to meet the higher costs.
The AfDB made a loan of 4 million units of account (US$4.8 mil24on equi-
valent) for the other 118 km. The 66 km of new construction on the primary
road is complete except for about 1/4 km of bridge approaches. Additional
investigatory work by the MOW on the remaining 16 km of existing sealed road
has confirmed the feasibility of undertaking minimum improvements and resealing
this section. The Mara betterment work hat been completed and the Geita work
is scheduled for completion in mid-1978.  Government has received the final
reports of the two preinvestment studies. Funds available under Credit 265-TA
have been fully disbursed, and only $1.4 million of the funds reallocated
from Loan 586-TA remain undisbursed.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
Orders have been placed and deliveries are well advanced for
about US$6 million worth of equipment and bids for a further US$0.5 million
worth will be called shortly. A contract for 634 man-months of technical
assistance has been signed and 17 of the 31 experts have commenced their
duties in the country. Construction of road camps, deployment of equipment
and training of maintenance personnel are in hand. Maintenance work has
commenced on several trunk roads.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: $15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
An initial supervision mission has just completed its discussions
with the Government on project start-up. The Project Coordinator has been
appointed and this should assist in initiating project execution.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project:
$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
Construction of all the sites and service areas has been completed
and the sites handed over, and upgrading works are nearing completion.
Overall progress and standards of work have been satisfactory. The take-up
rate of housing loans was initially poor, but the Government has now approved
more flexible lending criteria that are within the reach of the target popu-
lation and the situation is expected to improve. Lack of qualified personnel,
and shortcomings in the organization structure of the implementing unit have
led to difficulties in management of the project. Organizational changes
agreed for the Second National Sites and Services Project are aimed at
addressing these problems and some progress has been made on filling crucial
vacancies.



-36-                          ANNEX II
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: $12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date
of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
TIV's credit became effective on April 3, 1978. Satisfactory progress
is being made on detailed design and engineering for the upgrading sites and
planning for the surveyed sites.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: $15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2,
1977; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The implementation of the institutional arrangements in connection
with the project, which includes mainly the establishment and operation of
an Urban Water Supply Fund within the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
and an Urban Water Supply Unit in Morogoro, has been delayed by as much as
a year. Out of three senior advisors to be provided under the project, only
one is on duty. Out of five main contracts needed to construct the works in
Morogoro, one is practically completed, two are being awarded and the bidding
documents for the last two contracts are being finalized. Nine-month delays
in the physical construction of the work in Morogoro resulted mainly from
MWEM's poor administrative capability and difficulties due to the Tanzania/
Kenya border closure. Project implementation is expected to improve signi-
ficantly when the technical and financial advisors funded under the project
report for duty.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
$30 million Loan bn Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
All bids have been received and contracts awarded except for
engineering construction supervision (due to some tax problems which have
to be solved at the Government level). Consulting engineers are continuing
to perform their duties. The revised project cost prepared on the basis
of awarded contracts has shown that there would be a cost overrun of about
31% compared to the appraisal estimate. The revised total financing
requirement is US$117.2 million, of which US$78.7 million is in foreign
currency. The revised financing plan prepared on the basis of the loan
agreements (the agreement requires financing of 75% of civil works costs
which includes indirect foreign exchange costs) has shown that the total
foreign exchange gap of the IBRD/SIDA portion is US$14.1 million, of which
US$12.8 million is indirect foreign exchange costs. If additional financing
is not identified, it will be necessary for the Bank to reduce the



- 37 -                            ANNEX II
percentage disbursement against the civil works contracts (presently set
at 75%). All three civil contractors have essentially completed their
mobilization into the sites and construction has started.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
This Credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
February 20, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This Loan is fully committed.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill
and is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million
linear meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable.
According to present indications, the project is likely to be commissioned
July 1978, four months behind schedule. However, the revised project cost
is within the appraisal estimate. There has been a deterioration in the
operating performance of the existing Mwanza plant as well as some other
textile mills. The National Textile Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company
for state-owned textile mills, has agreed to institute immediately an action
program to improve the operating performance of existing mills.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
In the recent past this project has gained momentum. Up to the
end of 1977,- the TIB Loans Committee had approved a total of 31 proposals -
11 for the new project feasibility studies, 2 for capacity utilization
studies, 16 for overseas training programs for Tanzanians and 2 for locally
conducted training programs. This brings the total commitments made by
TIB under the credit to about $2.6 million. The project has now broken
ground on all activities envisaged under it in the appraisal report. The
first project leader left in July 1977 due to health reasons, but a new
leader is expected to arrive shortly.



- 38 -                             ANNEX II
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 13F6-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: $11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
$11.5 million Bank Loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Engineering design and procurement are proceeding on schedule and
at this time there is no reason to anticipate any significant slippage in
the projected dates for factory start-up (second half of 1979) and full
capacity production in 1982. The water drawing rights for the project have
been established.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3. 1978: Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This Loan became effective on April 3, 1978.
EAST AFRICAN COM94UNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community.11
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 2,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
1/ Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of separate
national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed balances for
each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29,
1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978, is given in this Annex.



- 39 -                        ANIEX II
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berthis aniv
a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and
a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed. Of the minor
project elements, only two are still under construction, namely tne improve-
ment of lighterage facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds in Mombasa.
Both are expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of shortage of funds
under both loans, the following minor project elements have not been submitted
for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the lighterage quay
and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization of the lighterage
quay and a training school for Mlombasa. Locally financed contracts have been
awarded for these project elements with the exception of the modernization
of the lighterage quay in Mombasa.  General cargo throughput has increased
above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling productivity
has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor productivity
has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has declined con-
siderably. The ports of Kenya and Tanzania are now functioning completely
independently of each other. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours
Authority has been enacted, and a Kenya Port Authority is expected to be
established soon. Management of ports in both countries is competent.
Some $33.7 million of Loan 638-EA and $25.1 million of Loan 865-EA has
already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at
October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                    (US$ million)
Kenya                                 0.7
Tanzania                              0.6
Total                           1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                 1.7
Tanzania                              0.3
Total                           2.0
The closing date for Loan No. 638-EA has passed. However, since
the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each partner state is clearly
identified under the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978
(referred to in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977-
R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



40.-                       ANNEX II
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative
and political problems within the Community. in November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their ownl Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                    2.0
Tanzania                 3.8
Uganda                   1.9
Total                    7.7
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system construction
have now been completed, despite initial delays caused by staffing and other
problems associated with the reallocation of the headquarters. Funds disbursed
to date total $26.9 million and a further amount of $0.6 million has been com-
mitted for cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and multiplex telex
A contract for the provision of the remaining microwve and associated multi-
plex equipment required for completion of the project is about to be awarded.
The remaining funds are expected to be used for these systems. Because of the
long lead time required for the microwave equipment, the project is expected to
be fully completed by mid-1979. The Closing Date has accordingly been postponed



- 41 -                   ATNEX II
to December 31, 1979. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at
October 1, 1977 among the countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                    2.4
Tanzania                 3.5
Uganda                   0.1
Total                    6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank:  $15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some deterioration
in the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio rising to
50% as of June 30, 1977. However, EADB has been able to retain nearly all
its staff who are both adequate in number and technically competent to continue
the operation of the institution and effect some recovery in the portfolio.
Some $3.7 million has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance
amounts to $3.3 million.



- 42 -                       ANNEX III
TANZANIA: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(MWANZA AND SHINYANGA)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
1. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare                   15 months
(b)  Preparation by                          Government (the PMO preparation team
financed under the Kigoma Project)
(c)  Initial Discussion with Bank            June 1975
(d)  First Bank Mission                      December 1975
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure             June 1977
(f)  Negotiations                            March 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness           August 1978
2. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
3. Special Conditions
(a)  Certified seeds produced under the project would be sold to farmers.
(para. 31);
(b)  Acquiring of a suitable site selected in agreement with the Associa-
tion for a sub-station at Ukiriguru Agricultural Research Institute
would be a condition of disbursement for that crop research component
(para. 32);
(c)  Regional Village Self-Help Program Boards would be established in
each region to formulate policy and approve village projects under
the VSHP by December 31, 1978. These Boards would operate according
to policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association. Villages
participating under the VSHP would be required to contribute at least
25% of the investment costs and appropriate ongoing operation and
maintenance costs to VSHP supported projects (paras. 36 and 43);
(d) Effectiveness of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and TRDB would be a condition of disbursement for the TRDB Credit
sub-component of the VSHP (para. 43);
(e) Effectiveness of the proposed credit would be conditional on the
appointment of qualified individuals satisfactory to IDA to the
posts of Project Coordinator and Financial Controller in each
region (para. 45) and
(f) Effectiveness of the Credit would be conditional on the execution of
the Joint Project Agreement and effectiveness of the IFAD Loan
Agreement (para. 55).



IRED 3156
0' 3     3:e3   ;                     ,   ,:J          3 3a0         :        ,        y                                                            3 000                          30' 30                          33;{  DECEMBOR Y77
/\~~~~~
Nyoromoe ~ ~~ -M  1 C-M
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XI                                                                                                              5          W   Ay      S    D,MkOf A  
V.    .-   A /1  A                                                 ..A                                                            NZAN                                                         .    X
~~~AR, ~ ~        ~       ~       ~       1
n; r < / ~~~~~~~~~~~MWANZA /SHINYANGA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 1_t<2<
X l ( ,- e/ d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Administrahtie Bounda1ries - Roaids - Rainfall - Populagtion Density - Agro Economic Zones i  A*r rr-
\  2  <_                                          Popu qt on Dens ty pel Squgre Kllamek3l    -  Primqry Roqds             >                 W        T A N Z A N/ I A ~~~~~~T AN Z A N  I 
'~~~~                                                                                  ~    ~ ~~~ ~~~ 95   -d  Ab . 0  4__od      ',y  Ro-ds               |         *'r                       -1r  "I   __        J   .
.-  ..36  tO57                   .....                           ...... DvoolBsdq/  -'-1  N> '/.,=
_ _3s -nd B- w- -Dsrr  ninalc_     
/w= r.  o o tA.SIA             KK- > i
,.,.2.b;;h.V,aS ,'&' ,,,,/  1. .....  "   1 5/  2)  33  z  nO(nmm-   Isosets   In   mm    4    -     95         <       >         3
)~~~~~1-r 



