CREDIT NUMBER 803 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 14, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 803 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of June 14, 1978, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the   Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of a rural development project by extend-
ing the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called
the Fund Loan Agreement), the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (the Fund) has agreed to make a loan (hereinafter
called the Fund Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to $12,000,000 to assist in financing the same
project on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
(C) the Borrower, the Association, and the Fund have entered
into an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the
Joint Project Agreement) providing for the description of the
p,oject to be financed by the Credit and Fund Loan and for certain
other matters of common interest in connection with the financing
and execution of the said project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and used for the Project in accordance
with the provisions of the Joint Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1988, and ending
March 15, 2028, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions set forth in the Joint Project Agreement as if they -are
fully set forth herein.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Tanzania Rural Development Bank shall have failed
to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Fund Loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursupnt to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof, namely, that any of the events specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿-4-
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions: (i) the execution and delivery on behalf of th-
Borrower of the Joint Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action; (ii) the Fund
Loan Agreement has become effective; and (iii) the Project Coordi-
nator and the Financial Controller referred to in paragraph D.1
of Schedule 1 to the Joint Project Agreement shall have been
appointed in each region.
Section 5.02. The date September 14, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U-i.ted States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W.A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


