CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2-TAN
Loan Agreement
(Mkwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 14, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2-TAN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of June 14, 1978, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the   Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Fund).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Fund to assist in
the financing of a rural development project by extending the Loan
as hereinafter provided; and
(B) by agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called
the IDA Credit Agreement), the International Development Associa-
tion (the Association) has agreed to make a development credit
(hereinafter called the IDA Credit) to the Borrower in an aggre-
gate principal amount equivalent to $12,000,000 to assist in
financing the same project on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
(C) the Borrower, the Association and the Fund have entered
into an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the
Joint Project Agreement) providing for the description of the
project to be financed by the Loan and the IDA Credit and for
certain other matters of common interest in connection with the
financing and execution of the said project;
WHEREAS the Fund has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions;
Cooperating Institution
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Fund, dated December 15, 1977, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the addition in Section 4.01 thereof of the
following new paragraph: "(d) in various currencies equivalent to
an amount in United States dollars" (said General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Fund being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth.
Section 1.03. The Association is appointed as the Cooperating
Institution for the administration of the Loan, with the responsi-
bilities set forth in Article V of the General Conditions, and the
Joint Project Agreement shall be the Loan Administration Agreement
defined in the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Fund agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agrezment set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and used for the Project in accordance with the
provisions of the Joint Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984,
or such later date as the Fund shall establish.    The Fund shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Fund a service
charge at the rate of one per cent (1.O) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.05. Except as the Fund and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, a charge at the rate of 0.5% per annum shall be
paid by the Borrower to the Fund on the principal amount outstand-
ing of any special commitment entered into by or on behalf of the
Fund, at the request of the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.02 of
the General Conditions.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in equal semiannual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 1988 and ending
March 15, 2028.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall punctually perform all
its obligations set forth in the Joint Project Agreement as if
they were fully set forth herein.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Fund
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 9.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (1) thereof:
(a) The Tanzania Rural Development Bank shall have failed
to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or
(B) such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity therefor.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof, namely, that, any of the events specified in


﻿-4-
paragraphs (a) and (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 10.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(i) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of the
Joint Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action; (ii) the execution and delivery
of the IDA Credit Agreement on behalf of the Borrower has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
and (iii) the Project Coordinator and the Financial Controller
referred to in pararaph D.1 of Schedule 1 to the Joint Project
Agreement shall have been appointed in each region.
Section 5.02. The date September 14, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 12.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P. 0. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam


﻿-5-
For the Fund:
International Fund for
Agricultural Development
Via del Serafico 107
EUR
Rome
Cable address:                     Telex:
IFAD                                65160 IFAD
Rome                                Rome
IN WITNESS'WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Rome, Italy,
as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
* By /s/ E. Mtei
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Sudeary
Authorized Representative


