Report No. PIC2079
Project Name                     Uzbekistan-Water Supply, Sanitation (@+)
and Health Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Infrastructure
Project ID                       UZPA9121
Borrower                         Republic of Uzbekistan
Implementing Agency              Goskomprognostat
Date this PID Prepared           April 22, 1997
Appraisal Date                   February 1997
Projected Board Date             May 13, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1       The Republic of Uzbekistan is a semi-arid country on the
steppes of Asia that borders on the four other ex-Soviet Central
Asian republics along with Afghanistan. It is a country the size of
California with a population of 23 million. Uzbekistan once had
large-scale heavy industry, but today agriculture is the dominant
economic activity. Only 10 percent of the land is cultivated, yet
Uzbekistan is still the world's third largest exporter of cotton.
Agriculture in Uzbekistan depends almost entirely on irrigation.
The Amu Darya and Syr Darya river systems provide 95 percent of the
water for irrigation.
2       In 1954 with the completion of the 1,300-km Kara Kum canal
system, the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers were diverted for
agriculture. From 1954 to 1985 almost no water flowed into the Aral
Sea from its two major tributaries. Diverting the two rivers
accelerated the decline of the Aral Sea. Thirty-five years ago, the
Aral Sea was the world's fourth largest inland body of water. It
had a fishing industry that employed 60,000 people and a thriving
tourist trade. Today the Aral Sea is biologically dead and has
shrunk by approximately 70 percent in volume and 50 percent in
area. Fishing town such as Muynak are now 60 kilometers inland. In
1995 an estimated three million hectares of desiccated seabed
surrounded the Aral Sea. Up to 70 million tons per year of salt
from the exposed seabed are blown over thousands of kilometers of
inhabited land.
3       By the mid 1960s, potable water quality and quantity in the
Aral Sea area had decreased to such an extent that alternative
water sources were needed. A dam was built about 400 km upstream
from the Aral Sea where the Amu Darya river flows through
Turkmenistan. The dam (Tuyamuyun) serves as a hydroelectric power
plant and has a reservoir of 2,340 million cubic meters which
provides water for irrigation and drinking. Two treatment plants
filter and chlorinate the water prior to pumping it to the
principal towns in the Uzbekistan Aral Sea basin. Pumping costs are
high (about 55 percent of total costs) given the long distance, the



lack of intermediate pumping stations, and the 310m increase in
altitude. About 85 percent of the potable water for the project
area comes from the Tuyamuyun reservoir.
4       Since independence in 1991, Uzbekistan has suffered less than
20 percent cumulative drop in GDP, but fiscal revenues have dropped
faster along with public expenditures. Spending from the state
budget declined from about half of GDP in 1990-93 to one-third of
GDP in 1996, with a drastic effect on services such as the
provision of potable water. The shortages of funds led to
inadequate maintenance and a lack of essential operating supplies
such as chlorine. Availability of water is limited to several hours
a day in many areas. In the larger distribution networks, system
pressures are roughly half the optimal pressure. The distribution
systems in the urban areas are old and corroded. Even at half
pressure, the major region of the project area had an average 6.1
breaks per km in 1995.
5       There are approximately 2.2 million inhabitants in the
project area of which about 59 percent have access to piped water
systems. In rural areas, the most common form of water supply is
the hand pump, but both coverage and quality are inadequate. A
recent Social Assessment Study found that an average of 59 people
share a single hand pump. The ground water in many areas is high in
salt. Several hundred rural areas have their own water
desalinization units but an increasing lack of spare parts and
training have hampered their utility.
6       In 1991 the infant mortality rate for all of Uzbekistan was
44 deaths per 1,000 births. In the Uzbek area of the Aral Sea
basin, the infant mortality rate was 51 in the same year. For
comparison, Russian has an infant mortality rate of 20, and
Germany, France and the United States all have infant mortality
rates of less than 10. The maternal mortality rates in the Aral Sea
area are roughly double those in the rest of Uzbekistan.
Respiratory ailments, hepatitis and acute intestinal diseases are
all prevalent in the project area.
7       In June 1994 an international donors' conference in Paris
agreed to support a program to address the most pressing problems
in the Aral Sea basin: potable water, basic sanitation, and
improved health care. The Central Asian Republics of Uzbekistan,
Turkmenistan, Kazakstan, Kyrgyz Republic, and Tajikistan formed the
Aral Sea Program. The Program was designed in cooperation with the
United Nations Development Program, the United Nations
Environmental Program, and the World Bank to improve environmental,
social and economic conditions in the region. At the Paris
conference, it was decided that the World Bank would take the lead
role in preparing a project focusing on the two regions of
Uzbekistan most severely affected by the Aral Sea crisis: the
Republic of Karakalpakstan (a sovereign republic within Uzbekistan
bordering on the Aral Sea) and the Khorezm Oblast (a province in
Uzbekistan to the south of the Aral Sea).
8       To facilitate the development of the proposed project and to
-2 -



identify the most urgent needs, a Pilot Water Supply Engineering
Project was approved in September 1996 (Ln. 4090-UZ). The
objectives of the Pilot Project are to generate the data and
engineering designs needed for the preparation of the larger
proposed project. The Pilot Project takes a "learning-by-doing"
approach and is testing various measures and components on a small
scale to determine the most effective means of addressing the
water, sanitation and health problems and the most efficient
implementation arrangements.
9       The water sector in the proposed project area of
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast is organized around two bulk
water providers, Tuyamuyan-Nukus and Tuyamuyan-Urgench. They supply
approximately 85 percent of the potable water for the project area
via four distribution companies. Two agencies (Vodokanals)
distribute water to the urban areas of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm
Oblast. Two separate agencies (Agrovodokanals) distribute water to
the rural areas of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast. The two bulk
water providers come under the purview of the Uzbek Ministry of
Communal Services. Urban water distribution in Karakalpakstan is
the responsibility of the Republic's Ministry of Communal Services,
and rural water distribution is the responsibility of the
Republic's Ministry of Agriculture. In Khorezm Oblast, urban
distribution is supervised by provincial authorities in cooperation
with the Uzbek Ministry of Communal Services. Rural distribution is
also supervised by provincial authorities but in cooperation with
the Uzbek Ministry of Agriculture. There were recent discussions on
the reorganization of the sector agencies in the project area. The
Government is considering one option whereby the sector agencies
would be reorganized into two regional agencies in charge of bulk
water operations, water distribution, and sewerage, with one in
charge of the installations in Khorezm Oblast and the other one in
the Republic of Karakalpakstan. The Government has agreed that it
will, for the purpose of consolidating responsibilities for water
production and distribution in the project area, by January 1,
1998, prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan for restructuring of
the water agencies, then implement the plan in accordance with a
time schedule agreed upon with the Bank.
10      Because of high pumping costs and a poor population, bulk
water supply in the project area is presently supported by large
government subsidies. The two bulk water suppliers, for example,
covered only 15 percent of their operating costs with tariff
revenues in 1995. The water distributing agencies, on the other
hand, more or less covered their cost of operation and to a limited
extent the cost of maintenance. It is doubtful, however, whether
tariff levels can be raised in the future to cover all operating
and maintenance costs as well as increases in the working capital
of the water agencies in the proposed project. Given the limited
payment capacity of the population, a reduction in government
subsidies by 2.5 percent per annum in real terms (after meeting the
full costs of operation and maintenance) is about the maximum
reduction of the subsidy that might be achieved.
11      Several alternatives projects were examined, and the proposed
- 3 -



project was found to be the least-cost option. Water demand
management and leakage reduction programs were chosen over the
alternative of increased water production. For rural sanitation,
improved on-site facilities were a more economic alternative than
creating or expanding centralized, water-borne sewerage systems
because of low population densities.
Project Objectives
12      The project has two objectives. The first is the provision of
safe drinking water along with improved hygiene education and
sanitation facilities for the Republic of Karakalpakstan and
Khorezm Oblast. Specifically, this objective would decrease the
incidence of water-borne diseases among the population,
particularly diarrheal diseases among children. The second
objective is to strengthen institutional capacity for management,
operation and financial performance of the regional water supply
and sanitation utilities as well as the regional Centers of Health
and the Sanitary Epidemiological Services.
Project Description
13      Project Components. The proposed project comprises four main
components: (a) water supply and distribution; (b) sanitation,
health and hygiene; (c) technical assistance; and (d) project
management, design and supervision.
14      Water Supply and Distribution Component (US$68.2 million or
68 percent of total base cost). This component has four main
subcomponents:
(a)     Main Pipeline Supply System (US$38.8 million). This
subcomponent would: (i) replace or rehabilitate where
appropriate sections of the distribution systems in
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast; (ii) rehabilitate
two water treatment plants; (iii) expand one water
treatment plant; (iv) rehabilitate five ground water
sources; (v) build additional trunk pipelines in
Karakalpakstan; and (vi) rehabilitate the rural
distribution centers in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm
Oblast.
(b)     Development of Local Water Supply and Distribution
Systems (US$21.0 million). The subcomponent would: (i)
provide spare parts for about 300 desalinization units
in Karakalpakstan as well as training for the operators
of the desalinization plants; (ii) rehabilitate and
develop ground water sources in Karakalpakstan and
Khorezm Oblast (including the Chalysh wellfield); and
(iii) expand demand-based rural water supplies in
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast.
(c)     Water Demand Management and Loss Reduction (US$3.3
million). Wastage of water is high, particularly in the
urban areas, due to a lack of incentives to conserve
- 4 -



water at the level of water users. The low water price
for domestic consumers and the absence of metering
encourage inefficient use of water. This subcomponent
would be implemented by a water utility with ample
experience in demand management. The subcomponent has
two items: (i) metering trials to test different
approaches to metering water usage along with a
consumer awareness program to provide practical advice
on means of reducing losses and optimizing water use;
and (ii) funds to implement the most economic means of
leakage reduction.
(d)     Equipment for Operation and Maintenance (US$5.2
million). The Vodokanals, Agrovodokanals and the bulk
water suppliers face severe difficulties in maintaining
the water supply systems due to a shortage of equipment
and materials. This subcomponent would address this by
providing equipment which would be identified by an
Institutional Strengthening Consultant and a Demand
Management Consultant. There are two items in this
subcomponent: (i) identification and purchase of small
equipment, tools and spares; and (ii) identification
and purchase of major equipment.
15      Sanitation, Health and Hygiene Component (US$11.2 million or
11 percent of the total base cost). This component has three
subcomponents:
(a)     Rural Sanitation (US$2.0 million). This component would
promote construction of improved latrines (elevated
ventilated latrines) through the participatory approach
developed during the Pilot Project, and installation of
hand washing facilities in selected households,
schools, primary health care services, canteens and
public places in selected collective farms. The
community-based Kolkhoze Committees would make
decisions about the identification, design,
implementation, operation and maintenance of the
sanitation schemes to be put in place. The subcomponent
would provide around 7,500 improved latrines and
handwashing facilities, covering about 5 percent of the
rural population in both regions.
(b)     Health Promotion and Hygiene Education (US$4.0
million). This subcomponent would cover health
promotion and hygiene education of the urban and rural
populations of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast. As
such, it complements the sanitation and hand pumps
subcomponents of the proposed project, and is an
integral element of the overall strategy for improving
health and hygiene among the population through
community-based approaches. Health specialists would
assist the Kolkhoze Committees in developing and
implementing the health promotion and education
activities. The subcomponent would also cover the costs
- 5 -



of an intersectoral committee that would aim at
reviewing and assisting project activities.
(c)     Water Quality Monitoring and Strengthening of Sanitary
Epidemiological Services (SES) (US$5.2 million). The
principal objective of this subcomponent is to improve
water quality monitoring, and sanitation and hygiene
inspection of households and communal facilities in
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast. Health specialists
would participate in community-based activities,
assisting the Kolkhoze Committees in improving water
supply, sanitation and health in rural communities. In
addition, the institutional and organizational
efficiency of the SES would be enhanced by improving
the quality of health and water quality data
collection, analysis and reporting, and integrating the
data reporting for the region into the Pilot Project's
Geographic Information System (GIS) on a demonstration
basis.
16      Technical Assistance Component (US$8.2 million or 8 percent
of total base cost). This component has three subcomponents:
(a)     Institutional Strengthening of Water Utilities and Bulk
Providers (US$6.7 million). This subcomponent would
address the present deficiencies in the six
organizations involved in providing water and sewerage
services to the project area. It is expected that in
the near future these agencies will be combined into
two regional organizations, which will improve the
situation. The item would consist of: (i) a program for
carrying out regularly preventive maintenance; (ii) a
program for monitoring and reducing operating costs;
(iii) a program for reduction and management of
accounts receivable; (iv) design and operation of a
utility accounting system, including cost accounting;
and (v) in-house and foreign training programs. These
programs include consultancy services and training of
trainers.
(b)     Tariff Study (US$0.6 million). This subcomponent would
finance a water and sewerage tariff study, which would
lay the foundation for the introduction of new water
and sewerage tariff rates for the various consumer
groups. It includes consultancy services for the
formulation and implementation of the new tariff
structure and office equipment.
(c)     Refinancing of Feasibility Study (US$0.8 million). This
subcomponent would refinance the Kuwait Fund's Project
Feasibility Study.
17      Project Management, Design and Supervision Component (US$8.4
million or 8 percent of total base cost). This component would
cover the costs of project management, project design, and
- 6 -



construction supervision by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
with advice and assistance from foreign consultants. Included in
this component are consultant services, staffing of the PIU,
including the Director in Tashkent, the regional representatives,
the GIS section, and support staff.
18      Refinancing of Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project
Component (US$5.0 million or 5 percent of total base cost). The
Pilot Project funded the construction of a self-managed water
supply scheme in the peri-urban areas of Nukus (the largest city in
Karakalpakstan) and the preparation of detail designs and bid
documents for the proposed project. The Pilot Project components
would be refinanced by the proposed project as agreed with the
Government of Uzbekistan (GoU) in the Pilot Project Loan Agreement.
Upon the effectiveness of the proposed project, the Bank would
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount
required for repayment of the Pilot Project Loan. The Pilot Project
Loan would then be canceled.
Cost Estimates
19      Project cost have been identified for the major components as
indicated in the table below.
Summary of Project Costs
(US$ million)
Local      Foreign     Total      W Foreign    W Total
Exch.     Base Cost
Water Supply and
Distribution            19.90       48.30      68.20        71            68
Sanitation, Health
and Hygiene              2.79        8.42      11.21        75            11
Technical Assistance     0.06        8.11        8.16       99             8
Project Manage. &
Supervision              0.10         8.32      8.42        99             8
Refinancing of Pilot
Project                  --           5.00      5.00        100            5
Total Base Cost          22.85        78.15      101.00     77            100
Physical Contingencies     2.38        6.68        9.06     74             9
Price Contingencies        1.61        5.33        6.94     77             7
Total Project Cost         26.84       90.16       117.0    77             116
20      A financing plan which includes possible financing from other
multi- and bilateral funding agencies is shown in the table.
-7 -



Financing Plan a/
(US$ million)
Local     Foreign        Total       W Total Cost
IBRD                       6.5        68.5         75.0             64.1w
Kuwait Fund                4.2        15.7          19.8            17.0t
KfW                        3.4         6.0           9.4             8.1-
GoU                        12.7        --           12.7             10.9t
Total                      26.8        90.2         117.0            100.0w
a/ Differences are due to rounding.
Implementation
21      Overall responsibility for project implementation would come
under the aegis of the Uzbek State Committee for Forecasting and
Statistics (Goskomprognostat). The PIU within Goskomprognostat
would be responsible for the coordination of project
implementation.
22      The PIU was established within Goskomprognostat in a
capacity-building effort during the preparation of the Pilot Water
Supply Engineering Project. A PIU is necessary because the project
involves a number of regional and local agencies, with little
experience in executing externally-funded projects. An Interagency
Project Working Group (IPWG), with representation from senior
officials from agencies participating in the project, was
established to advise the PIU on the coordination of project
implementation activities.
23      An integral part of the project is community participation in
selecting and implementing water supply improvements. Using a
demand-based approach, communities would select various options
(hand pumps, piped water supply, desalinization, etc.) based on
their willingness to pay for the improved water supply. Communities
would be expected to cover the full operations and maintenance cost
of the schemes which would be designed and costed with the
participation of the selected communities according to the level of
service they choose. Community Water User Associations would be
formed to represent the communities in negotiations with the
contractors for project implementation and operation. The
Associations would also be responsible for collecting water tariffs
and monitoring excessive water use and water losses. The experience
gained in implementing two pilot project for sanitation, health and
hygiene has been used in laying out the step-by-step community
involvement in the implementation of this component.
Project Sustainability
-8-



24      The proposed project would, through a program of technical
assistance, lead to substantial improvements in operations and
maintenance of the water agencies. This would increase the
sustainability of the water sector in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm
Oblast, provided that the technical assistance is well received and
incorporated into the mid- to long-term operations of the water
agencies. To what extent financial sustainability can be achieved
will remain to be seen. In many parts of the project area, up to 90
percent of household cash income is used to buy food. If the
proposed project raises water tariffs to say 3 percent of household
income, many poor families would be further marginalized. Moreover,
the political will to significantly increase water tariffs for
domestic customers is not yet present. Therefore it may take some
time until the current government practice of using tax revenues
(mainly from cotton exports) to fund the large operating deficit of
the water sector would give way to more sustainable operating
principles. Under the Pilot Project, a program was tested to
increase domestic tariffs on an area-by-area basis. The results
were that residents of Kizketken (a community of some 30,000)
agreed to an increase in water tariffs in exchange for improved
service and a larger say in the running of the local water utility.
Lessons from Past Bank Projects
25      The Bank has limited experience in Uzbekistan. Four projects
have been signed, with three currently under implementation: the
Institution Building and Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 3650-
UZ); the Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project (Ln. 4090-UZ); and
the Cotton Sub-Sector Improvement Project (Ln. 3894-UZ). The
regional department's FY94 Annual Report on Portfolio Performance
in Russia and Central Asia highlighted several lessons learned in
the region including: (a) the challenge of identifying a
counterpart team with sufficient authority to move the project
forward; (b) the difficulty of coordination among key government
agencies on critical issues; (c) the importance of setting up PIUs
early in the project cycle and the training of their staff in Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures; and (d) the importance of
involving local institutes in project design and preparation. A
review of lessons learned from water supply and sanitation projects
world-wide shows that, despite efforts at capacity building for the
public institutions concerned, few countries achieved acceptable
levels of performance for their public water and sewerage
utilities, and that the financial performance of these utilities
was dismal. Some of the reasons for these deficiencies include: (a)
lack of clear sector policies; (b) lack of management and financial
autonomy; (c) inexperience in project implementation; and (d) lack
of participation of users and other stakeholders in the decision-
making process.
26      To the extent possible, these lessons have been incorporated
into the preparation and design of the proposed project through:
(a) an extensive social needs assessment survey, which was
completed with the participation of local institutes, as well as a
follow-up survey of water usage and losses in piped distribution
systems to domestic, commercial and industrial consumers; (b)
-9-



implementation of community-based pilot projects for water supply
and distribution (see 1/) and for health, hygiene and sanitation, which
were carried out during project preparation; (c) an Interagency
Working Group was set-up to provide overall leadership for the
project; (d) a PIU has been established to supervise all project
preparation and implementation activities; and (e) the GoU executed
the Kuwait Fund-financed project preparation feasibility study and
the PHRD-funded pilot demonstration activities.
Poverty Category
27      The proposed project would be a Program of Targeted
Interventions. The beneficiaries of the proposed project would be
the inhabitants of the two poorest regions of Uzbekistan--itself
one of the poorer countries in the former Soviet Union. The
proposed project would help meet the local needs of safe drinking
water, adequate sanitation, and basic health care.
Environmental Aspects
28      The proposed project is classified as environmental category
B. The project is intended to implement a series of urgent
subprojects to improve the viability and operation of the water
supply and sanitation sectors. The overall impact would be a
substantial improvement in public health and quality of life while
maintaining or improving the quality of regional water resources.
The project activities involve primarily the rehabilitation of
existing pipelines and treatment plants by repairs, technical
assistance, training, and the replacement or provision of spare
parts and equipment. New constructions are limited to the
completion of suspended civil works, and development of alternative
water sources. Impacts on traffic flow and problems of noise and
dust from construction activities would be temporary, and suitable
mitigation measures would be taken to minimize these impacts.
Adverse environmental impacts of the project are therefore
insignificant when compared to the overall benefits.
Program Objective Category
29      The project meets the criteria for poverty reduction. It
would benefit the poorer communities in the most economically
depressed region of Uzbekistan by improving living conditions
through the provision of basic infrastructure and social services.
Benefits
30      The immediate impacts of the project would be a safe and
reliable water supply services for about 1.46 million people. The
project would also directly benefit about 25,000 inhabitants with
improved sanitation facilities.
31      Sensitivity analysis was performed on water losses, cost and
time savings, sales volume, cost overruns, and project delays.
Plausible changes in the key variables produced IERRs ranging from
11.9 percent to 18.2 percent. For the overall project, the IERR is
- 10 -



17.9 percent. The economic analysis' key assumptions are: (a) cost
savings of not having to buy water from vendors; (b) cost savings
of not having to spend time fetching water; (c) cost savings of not
having to boil water; and (d) the consumer surplus on the increased
quantity of water used.
Risks
32      Various categories of risks are associated with the
implementation of the project. These relate to the risk of: (a)
completing the construction of the facilities on time and at the
forecast cost; (b) building the required capacity of the
institutions to properly manage and maintain existing facilities
and those to be constructed under the project; (c) the benefiting
population lacking the capacity to pay for the improved services;
(d) achieving timely payment of water bills by large customers and
governments agencies; and (e) delays in the implementation of the
Government's reform program. Should all these risks occur
simultaneously, the adverse impact on the implementation of the
project could be severe. This, however, is unlikely to happen.
Considerable safeguards are built into the project for mitigating
the risks. First, the project cost estimates include adequate
provisions for price and physical contingencies. Second, strong
project management with the support of experienced consultants
would be in place at project start. Third, a comprehensive
technical assistance and corporate development program with
training, including twinning arrangements and the assistance of
experienced consultants, should ensure that staff and management
not only become familiar with modern utility management practices,
but more important, apply them. Fourth, implementation of water
conservation measures should diminish water waste in the future and
lead to a reduction in operating expenses. Fifth, careful planning
and execution of a comprehensive mid-term review should make it
possible to take corrective actions, if necessary; and finally, the
proposed set of monitoring indicators and strong supervision should
help realize the objectives of the proposed project.
1/ The German KfW is implementing a pilot operation of three small-scale
water supply and distribution projects in the more remote rural areas.
Contact Point:           Roger Batstone, Task Manager.
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-3116
Fax No.: (202) 477-3285
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 2, 1997.
- 11 -



Annex
Environmental
The proposed project is a category B. Minor disturbance from
construction of secondary and tertiary piped water distribution
systems, pumping stations, storage reservoirs and upgrading of
potable water treatment plants are foreseen. The project has a
sanitation component consistent with the water supply improvements
to handle any increase in sewage flow. The project includes an
environmental monitoring system which would perform bacteriological
and basic chemical analyses of surface and ground water in the
project area as well as collect health and sanitation data. This
monitoring data would be integrated into a computer-based
geographic information system (GIS) and made available to
government ministries and other projects. The GIS would allow
tracking the quality of surface and ground water on a longer-term
basis and help identify problem health areas. The project would
also create an inter-sectoral committee for Water, Sanitation and
Health comprised of representatives from the Ministry of
Environment, Ministry of Health, local NGOs, and members of the
Project Implementation Unit. The committee would act as a forum for
environmental and health concerns and coordinate the dissemination
of information regarding the health and environmental impact of the
project.
- 12 -



