Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15968-UZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
April 17, 1997
Infrastructure, Energy and Environment Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sum
I Sum = US$0.017
US$1 = 58.2 Sum
(as of March 1997)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Sum per US$1 (end of year)
1994           25.1
1995           35.5
1996           55.0
UZBEKISTAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AK-KK  - Agrovodokanal Karakalpakstan                  Mid      - Millions of liters a day
ASPERA-  Aral Sea Project for Environmental and        MCS    - Ministry of Communal Services
Regional Assistance                        MMR    - Maternal Mortality Ratio
ARI      - Acute Respiratory Infections                MoA      -  Ministry of Agriculture
CBO     -  Community-Based Organizations               NGO         Non Governrmental Organization
CWUA   - Community Water User Association              NS       - National Shopping
DD      -  Diarrheal Diseases                          O&M    - Operatt  .nd Maintenance
DTP     -  Diphtheria, Tetanus, Pertussis              OECF   - Overseas economic Cooperation Fund
ECOSAN-  Local environmental NGO                                   of Japan
EKOS   -  Electrodialysis water desalination plants    PED      - Planing and Engineering Design
EPOS   -  Local consulting firm                        PHRD   - Japanese Policy and Human Resource
FSU     - Former Soviet Union                                      Development grants
GDP    -  Gross Domestic Product                       PIU      - Project Implementation Unit
GIS      -  Geographic Information System              PMS    - Project Management and Supervision
g/il     -  Grams per liter                            SA       -  Special Account
GoJ     -  Government of Japan                         SES      - Sanitary Epidemiological Services
GoU     -  Govemment of Uzbekistan                     SOE      - Statement of Expenses
GTZ     -  Gesellschaft fir Technische                 STW      - Sewage Treatment Works
Zusammenarbeit                             TCMA   - Territorial Communal Services
IBRD    -  World Bank                                              Amalgamations
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding           TOR      - Terms of Reference
IERR    -  Internal Economic Rate of Return            UNDP   - United Nations Development Program
IMR     -  Infant Mortality Rate                       UNEP   - United Nations Environment Program
IPWG    -  Interagency Project Working Group           UNICEF - United Nations Children's Fund
IS      -  International Shopping                      USAID  - U.S. Agency for International
JICA    -  Japan International Cooperation                         Development
Agency                                     VK-KK  - Vodokanal Karakalpakstan
KfW     -  Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau              WHO    -  World Health Organization
KC      -  Kolkhoze Committee                          WTW    -  Water Treatment Works
lcd     -  Liters per capita per day
LIB     - Limited International Bidding
Mcm     -  Millions of cubic meters
Vice President:           Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director:                 Yukon Huang, EC3DR
Division Chief:           Jonathan C. Brown, EC3IV
Task Manager:             Roger Batstone, EC3IV



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION .........................................1
A. Country Context ...............................................1
B. Regional Context ..............................................                                                  2
C. Sectoral Context and Institutional Framework ...............................................5
D. Reform  Strategy ..............................................9
E. The Govenment's Objectives and Strategy ..............................................                          10
F. Bank's Role and Strategy .............................................. 11
G. The Bank's Experience in the Sector .............................................. 12
I{. Role of Other Donors .............................................. 13
II. PROJECT SETTING ........................................                                                                15
A. Background ..............................................                                                       15
B. Overview of Social Assessment ............................................... 20
C. Pilot Projects ..............................................                                                  24
D. Other Issues ..............................................                                                     28
III. THE PROJECT ........................................                                                                    31
A. Project Origin and Formulation .............................................. 31
B. Project Objectives and Description ..............................................                              32
C. Project Costs.                                 .............................................. 35
D. Project Financing ..............................................                                               36
e. Financial Analysis .............................................. 36
F. Economic Analysis ..............................................                                               41
G. Project Benefits .............................................. 45
H. Project Risks ..............................................                                                   45
I. Environmental Impact .............................................. 46
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION ........................................                                         47
A. Overall Organization ..............................................                                            47
B. Performance of Existing Organizations ..............................................                           47
C. Implementation of Components ............................................... 50
D. Procurement .............................................. 53
E. Disbursements ..............................................                                                    56
F. Special Account .............................................. 57
G. Project Monitoring .............................................. 58
H. Accounting, Auditing and Insurance ..............................................                               59
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .........................................                                                   60



VI. ANNEXES                                                  ...................................................................... 63
A. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COST ESTIMATES ........................................... 64
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......................................................................          72
C. ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT PLAN ........................................... 84
D. HEALTH DATA ......................................................................                     87
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS ...................                    ................................................... 89
F. WATER RESOURCES AND WATER QUALITY ...................................................................... 95
G. PROJECTED WATER DEMAND ......................                  ................................................ 101
H. SUPERVISION SCHEDULE AND PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS ........ 107
I. ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS OF EXISTING WATER PRODUCTION AND
DISTRIBUTION AGENCIES ......................              ................................................ 116
J. FINANCL4L ANALYSIS ......................................................................            131
K. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS: METHODOLOGICAL ASPECTS AND RESULTS ..................... 159
L. DOCUMENTS TO BE SENT TO THE PROJECT FILE ........................................................... 184
This report is based on the findings of an pre-appraisal mission which visited Uzbekistan during September and October 1996. The
mission comprised Messrs./Mme. Roger Batstone (Task Manager and Principal Environmental Engineer, EC3IV), Rita Cestti
(Economist, TWUWS), Joana Godinho (Public Heaith Specialist, EC3HR), Johanngeorg Renkewitz (Financial Analyst, consultant), Mike
Blackbum (Engineer, consultant), and Craig Leisher (Environmental Writer, consuitant). Messrs.lMme. Andrew Macoun (MN2NE), Mike
Gaam (TWnvS), and Julie Viloria (ASTHR) were the Peer Reviewers. Messrs. Jonathan Brown, Marc Blanc, and Yukon Huang are
respectively the managing Division Chief, Projects Adviser, and Department Director for the operation.



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Uzbekistan.
Implementing Agency:  State Committee for Forecasting and Statistics (Goskomprognostat)
Beneficiaries:         Goskomprognostat, the Ministry of Communal Services, and the
municipal  governments,  the  water  utilities,  the  Sanitary
Epidemiological Services, and the Centers of Health in the Republic
of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast.
Poverty:               Program of Targeted Interventions.
Amount:                US$75.0 mnillion.
Terms:                 Repayment in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard interest rate for variable LIBOR-based US Dollar single-
currency loans.
Commitment Fee:        0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:      Not applicable.
Financing Plan:        See para. 3.16.
Rate of Return:        17.9 percent IERR for 100 percent of the total project cost.
Staff Appraisal Report: 15968-UZ.
Maps:                 IBRD No. 28255 and 28256.
Project ID Number:    UZ-PA-9121.






REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Country Context
Geography, Population and Climate
1.1   The Republic of Uzbekistan is situated in the heart of Central Asia and has a land area of
447,000 km2. With a population of 22.2 million, it is the most populous of the five Central Asian
republics, and the only one to have common borders with all the others, but none with Russia.
Uzbeks account for 71 percent of the population, the other main ethnic groups being Russians (9
percent), Kazaks and Tajiks (4 percent each), Karakalpaks and Tatars (2 percent each), and
Turks, Persians and Koreans (1 percent each)'. The country's birth rate is high (3.5 percent), with
half the population being under 19 years of age and about 60 percent living in rural areas.
Uzbekistan consists of 12 provinces (Oblasts) and the Republic of Karakalpakstan.
1.2   Uzbekistan has a predominantly desert continental climate, with generally low annual
rainfall. About 60 percent of the Republic's surface consists of steppe, desert, and semi-arid land,
the rest being fertile valleys around major rivers. Only 10 percent of the land is cultivated, of
which 95 percent is irrigated by two major river systems, the Amu Darya and the Syr Darya, both
of which flow into the Aral Sea. Despite the land's semi-arid characteristics, agriculture is the
principal economic activity in Uzbekistan, with cotton accounting for 40 percent of all
agricultural production in 1992.
The Macroeconomic Setting
1.3   Uzbekistan has been a slow reformer amongst the FSU countries, achieving independence
in 1991 but not adopting a program of economic stabilization and reform that could be supported
by the World Bank and the IMF until late 1994. After severe deterioration of macroeconomic
balances in 1993 and into 1994, the Government initiated a program in 1995-supported by the
IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility (SDR100 million) and subsequently by a fifteen month
stand-by arrangement of SDR124.7 million and an IBRD Rehabilitation Loan (US$160
million)-to stabilize and liberalize the economy. Under this program, many prices were freed
and those which remained subject to control were adjusted; and state orders, except cotton and
grain, were eliminated. External trade was somewhat liberalized, with export and import licenses
and bans reduced. Privatization of small-scale enterprises, establishments and housing was
carried out. Subsidies were reduced, and budgetary transfers to state enterprises were eliminated.
1.4   As a result of tightened monetary and fiscal policies, 1995 and the first half of 1996
witnessed moderately successful stabilization performance; the budget deficit was reduced from
i     Population figures are based on the 1989 Census.



-2-
18 percent of GDP in 1993 to under 4 percent in 1995; inflation declined from almost 1,300
percent in 1994 to about 115 percent in 1995; and the current account strengthened from an 8
percent of GDP deficit in 1993 to a rough balance in 1995. GDP declined by just over 5 percent
cumulatively in 1994 and 1995 as the Government maintained firm control over the production
and financing decisions in the economy. This was facilitated by a production and export structure
that largely insulated the country from the collapse of FSU trade. Progress on the structural
reform agenda, however, was disappointing. Little progress was made on liberalization of cotton
trade, land reform, farm restructuring, and medium- and large-scale privatization.
1.5   During the last half of 1996, both stabilization and structural reform programs suffered
reversal as poor harvests of grain and cotton (which are the key import and export commodities
respectively) generated strong pressures on the exchange rate, foreign exchange reserves, and the
fiscal accounts. The Govermment responded by intensifying exchange and trade restrictions and
by expanding credit through the budget, leading to higher inflation and a widened fiscal deficit
for 1996, and forcing depreciation of the official exchange rate by over 25 percent. As a result,
the IMF's 15 month stand-by arrangement expired in March without the third review completed.
B. Regional Context
1.6   Since the 1960s, increasing use of the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for agriculture,
particularly cotton growing, has resulted in greatly reduced volumes of water entering the Aral
Sea and excessive contamination from leached salts and agricultural chemicals. The diversion of
water from the Aral Sea was an ecological disaster. In 1960 the Sea was the fourth largest inland
lake in the world. Since then it has shrunk to less than half its original size because of the greatly
reduced river inflow from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers as a result of heavy withdrawals
for irrigation. The desiccation of the Sea has resulted in the loss of its fishing, tourist, and
shipping industries, the destruction of the ecosystem of the Sea and deltas, the blowing of salts
from the exposed seabed, and a severe depression of the region's economy.
1.7   Aral Sea Program. The Central Asian Republics of Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan,
Kazakstan, Kyrgyz Republic, and Tajikistan are involved in the Aral Sea Program, which was
designed in cooperation with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), the United
Nations Environmental Program (UNEP), and the Bank to improve environmental, social, and
economic conditions in the region. The Bank has taken a leading role in the development and
implementation of the Program, including donor coordination, technical assistance to all projects,
and capacity building assistance to regional institutions.
1.8   At a meeting of the Heads of Governments ofthe five Aral Sea states in February 1994, it
was decided to include the Uzbekistan Water Supply, Sanitation and Health Project in the Aral
Sea Program presented to an international donor's conference held in Paris in June 1994. At this
conference, it was decided that the World Bank would take the lead in preparing a project
focusing on the two regions of Uzbekistan most severely affected by the Aral Sea crisis: the
Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezrn Oblast.



- 3 -
1.9   Water Supply, Sanitation and Health Projects. The Aral Sea Basin Program includes
the proposed Uzbekistan Water, Sanitation and Health project, as well as two other similar
projects in Turkmenistan and Kazakstan. The three projects aim at: (a) rapid provision of safe
water for drinking and household use; (b) rapid provision of appropriate sanitation facilities; and
(c) raising the population's awareness to the role that water and sanitation play in improving
health, thereby promoting proper use of facilities and insuring long-term sustainability. These
projects involve intersectoral cooperation and community participation strategies, were designed
to complement United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Japanese
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) and the Japan International Cooperation Agency
(JICA) activities in the area, and are coordinating closely with United Nations Children's Fund
(UNICEF). The projects focus on distribution systems, rural water supplies, and utility
management, while USAID funds water sources, water quality and treatment plants. During
preparation, the projects conducted needs assessments, followed up by focus groups discussions,
as well as feasibility studies and pilot projects.
1.10 Population. The Republic of Karakalpakstan accounts for 37 percent of Uzbekistan's
land area and has a population of 1.37 million, most of whom live in the Amu Darya delta area.
Approximately 50 percent live in very small rural communities associated with state and
collective farms. By contrast, Khorezm Oblast occupies only 1.4 percent of Uzbekistan's area,
but due to intensive cultivation and irrigation, it supports an almost similar size population of
1.17 million, of wvhom more than 75 percent live in very small rural communities. The ethnic
structure of the population in the two regions is also quite different, with Karakalpakstan having
almost equal numbers of Uzbeks, Karakalpaks, and Kazaks, while 95 percent of the population in
Khorezm Oblast are Uzbeks. The average family size in Karakalpakstan is 7.6, compared to 7.1
in Khorezm Oblast (both are above the national average of 6.9).
1.11  Socio-Economic Conditions. The pro ect area in the Aral Sea Basin has traditionally
been one of the poorest parts of Central Asia . The environmental crisis and recession suffered
by all these countries since the breakdown of the Soviet Union have only exacerbated that
poverty. Karakalpakstan is the poorest region of Uzbekistan, with a significant percentage of the
population living below the absolute poverty level. The most striking result of the recent needs
assessment survey of 951 households representing 100 rural communities in the region indicates
that 93 percent and 78 percent of the family budget is spent on food in Karakalpakstan and
Khorezm Oblast, respectively. Average monthly family income in November 1994 from all
sources, including garden plots and livestock, was 567 Sum (US$23) for Karakalpakstan and 695
Sum (US$28) for Khorezm Oblast. Another key finding of the needs assessment was that the
majority of households (about 65 percent) mentioned lack of food, particularly flour, as their most
important problem. About 59 percent considered the lack of money to buy food products to be their
second most important problem, and about 25 percent said that their third most important problem
was lack of water. Notwithstanding the poor economic conditions, only 4 percent of the households
surveyed expressed a desire to leave the area.
2     GDP per capita in Central Asia ranges from US$490 to US$1,680. For Uzbekistan as a whole it is US$850.



-4 -
1.12 Health Status. The health status of Karakalpakstan's and Khorezm Oblast's population
is poor, with birth and death rates generally worse than the national average. However, according
to the health authorities in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast (province), in the last five years
there has been a significant decline in the infant mortality rate (IMR) and the maternal mortality
ratio (MMR), as well as in acute intestinal diseases and hepatitis A. In Karakalpakstan, the
declines in IMR and MMR were attributed to a decline in the birth rate (about 30 percent in the
past five years), and to a family planning program implemented by the Ministry of Health.
1.13 Infant and Maternal Mortality Rates. The infant mortality in Karakalpakstan in 1995
was 30.8 per 1,000 live births, a decline of 40 percent over the past five years. In Khorezm
Oblast, it was 26 per 1,000 births, a 30 percent decline since 1991. The main causes of infant
mortality are acute respiratory infections, diarrheal diseases, and perinatal causes.
Karakalpakstan has the highest maternal mortality ratio in Uzbekistan at 53 per 10,000 live births
in 1995, while Khorezm Oblast's rate was 25.4 per 10,000 births. In the last five years, maternal
mortality in Karakalpakstan declined by about 50 percent, and in Khorezm Oblast by 46 percent.
Hemorrhaging, abortion, infections, and toxemia are the most frequent causes of death. Birth
intervals are usually shorter than two years, and 7 to 12 percent of newborns are low birth-weight
(less than 2,500g). Almost all deliveries take place in hospitals or maternity houses, and the
cesarean section rate is 16 percent in Karakalpakstan. Maternal mortality and morbidity can be
significantly reduced safe motherhood programs.
1.14  Incidence of Communicable Diseases. Acute respiratory infections (ARI), diarrheal and
parasitic diseases, tuberculosis, hepatitis A, typhoid and paratyphoid are important problems in
the project area. Karakalpakstan's incidence of tuberculosis is twice the national average. ARI
(mainly pneumonia) is the most serious health problem affecting 0-14 year-old children, while
diarrheal disease is the second most important cause of death among children in the area.
However, the incidence of acute intestinal disease has decreased over the last five years by about
40 percent in Karakalpakstan, and about 25 percent in Khorezm Oblast. The incidence of
hepatitis A has decreased by 46 percent in Karakalpakstan, and by 12 percent in Khorezm Oblast.
1.15  Significant outbreaks of diphtheria, polio, and measles have occurred since 1992 due to
the breakdown of immunization coverage. The United Nations International Children's Fund
(UNICEF) has been collaborating with the Uzbek Government to restore optimal levels of
immunization in the region. Still, Karakalpakstan has vaccination levels much less than optimal,
among other reasons due to the failure of the cold chain and shortage of diphtheria vaccines in
the area. In 1994, the immunization coverage for children one year of age was of 52 percent for
measles and 43 percent for Diphtheria, Tetanus and Pertussis (DTP).
1.16 Malnutrition, Anemia and Goiter. Malnutrition, anemia, and goiter are all significant
problems, with UNICEF reporting that about 10 percent of children suffer from mild or moderate
malnutrition. A study conducted in Muynak (in Karakalpakstan) found that 26 percent of
children suffer from stunted growth. According to Uzbekistan's Ministry of Health, 90 percent of



-  -
women in Karakalpakstan and 71 percent of children suffer from anemia3. These problems are
related to traditional dietary practices, as well as to poverty aggravated by the breakdown of the
Soviet Union. Malnutrition can be divided into general nutrition deficiencies attributable to
inadequate breast feeding and food consumption, and micronutrient deficiencies such as of iron
(causing anemia) and iodine (causing goiter). Breast feeding rates are rapidly declining. Iron
deficiencies are associated with low consumption of iron-rich foods, while recently rising iodine
deficiency is attributed to the unavailability of iodinated salt, which used to be subsidized from
the Soviet Union's central budget.
C. Sectoral Context and Institutional Framework
General
1.17 A number of different government agencies and ministries have responsibility for the
provision of water and sewerage services in Uzbekistan. At the national level, responsibility for
municipal potable water and sewerage services rests with the Ministry of Communal Services
(MCS). Two separate departments of this ministry, one for the municipal water and sewerage
agencies (Vodokanals) and one for the inter-regional trunk pipeline agencies, are in charge of
overall supervision and management, including sector planning and regulatory aspects. Water
and sewerage services in Uzbekistan's rural areas fall within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MoA), which oversees and coordinates the activities of the regional rural water
agencies (Agrovodokanals) through its department of Agrovodokanals. The setup is similar in
the Republic of Karakalpakstan, where its Ministries of Communal Services and of Agriculture
directly oversee the operations of the regional municipal water and sewerage agency (Vodokanal)
and the regional rural water agency (Agrovodokanal).
1.18  Before Uzbekistan became independent, the public water supply in urban areas was the
responsibility of a central organization under the Ministry of Housing and Public Services,
"UzVodokanal", and in rural areas of "Agrovodokanal" under the Ministry of Agriculture. Since
independence, the former Ministry of Housing and Public Utilities was reorganized as the
Ministry of Communal Services (MCS), and the functions and responsibilities of UzVodokanal
were delegated to the regional govermments and their local subordinate agencies. The parent
ministry of the Vodokanals became MCS. Since the reorganization, the main objectives and tasks
of MCS have been the development and implementation of state policy for urban water and
sanitation; the development of concepts, programs and strategies for the expansion of water
supply and sanitation systems; the assistance of enterprises and agencies of the MCS during the
transition to a market economy and the gradual transformation of these entities into joint-stock
and other forms of legal entities.
1.19  In the past, the central authorities in Uzbekistan's capital of Tashkent exercised strong
control over all activities associated with the production and distribution of water. Recently,
responsibility for overseeing the distribution of water was delegated to the provincial level, with
the central government still overseeing all aspects of the treatment and transport of surface water
3     The study conducted in Muynak found that 38 percent of 10 to 14 year-old and 65 percent of 15 to 29 year-
old females are anemic.



-6-
from large reservoirs, including its delivery to distributing agencies. Branch offices of the
Ministry of Communal Services of Uzbekistan are attached to provincial administrations
(Khakims), being referred to as the Territorial Communal Services Amalgamations (TCMA),
since they also cover gas distribution and urban transport. The deputy governor (Khakim),
together with the TCMA, oversees the regional municipal water and sewerage agencies, the
Vodokanals. In the Republic of Karakalpakstan, its Ministry of Communal Services directly
oversees the Vodokanal. Rural water agencies in Uzbekistan (the Agrovodokanals) are also
controlled by the provincial authority through the deputy governor, with assistance from the
MoA.
1.20  The inter-regional water supply pipeline systems are managed by separate entities under
MCS and in the project area serve both the Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast.
The respective names of these enterprises are "Enterprise for the Repair and Maintenance of the
Tuyamuyun-Nukus Inter-regional Water Pipeline" and "Entity for the Repair and Maintenance of
the Tuyamuyun-Urgench Inter-regional Water Pipeline." The two entities are responsible for
operating the main water supply pipelines and water treatment plants at the Tuyamuyun reservoir
and sell the piped water to the Vodokanals and Agrovodokanals, which distribute the water
through secondary and tertiary networks to domestic, industrial, and commercial consumers. The
Vodokanals also operate and maintain separate water supply and treatment facilities and
pumping stations. All capital construction for the main pipelines and for the distribution and
treatment facilities is provided from the central government budget, and the operation and
maintenance costs of the bulk water agencies are also highly subsidized by the central
government. The highly subsidized water supplied by the inter-regional pipeline entities (which
is a higher cost source than from local treatment plants) provides a perverse incentive for the
Vodokanals to source their water supply from these pipelines, rather than operating their own
local facilities, even though they could nomially produce water of an acceptable quality. The
Government recognizes this problem and has adopted a policy of gradually reducing the subsidy
and increasing consumer tariffs. However, it faces certain constraints because of the difficult
economic conditions in this region.
1.21  The following institutions listed below, with accounts separate from the Government
ones, would be involved in the project.
Khorezm Oblast
1.22 Tuyamuyun-Urgench is the bulk provider of water from the Tuyamuyun system to the
water distribution agencies, serving mainly Khorezm  Oblast (Khorezm  Vodokanal and
Agrovodokanal), as well as some small centers located on the left bank of the Amu Darya River
in the Republic of Karakalpakstan. Receiving subsidies from the government budget,
Tuyamuyun-Urgench is an organization within the Ministry of Communal Services.
1.23  Khorezm Vodokanal is responsible for water distribution in the urban areas of Khorezm
Oblast. It receives 70 percent of its water from the regional bulk supplier Tuyamuyun-Urgench,
and 30 percent from its own wells. The Khorezm Vodokanal is a government organization within
the portfolio of the Ministry of Communal Services. Its operations are grouped into 10 branch



-7-
offices serving the rayons (districts), and the head office serving the city of Urgench. All
accounting, billing/collection, and financial operations are centralized in the head office, with the
exception of the branch in Druzhba which performs all operations by itself and reports to the
head office.
1.24  Khorezm Agrovodokanal is in charge of the rural water system in Khorezm Oblast. It
receives about 96 percent of its water from the bulk supplier Tuyamuyun-Urgench and 4 percent
from its own sources. Khorezm Agrovodokanal is within the portfolio of the Ministry of
Agriculture, and its operations are grouped into 11 branch offices (including the head office)
responsible for daily operations, including billing, collecting, and accounting.
Republic of Karakalpakstan
1.25 Tuyamuyun-Nukus is the bulk producer and supplier of water from the Tuyamuyun
system to the water distribution agencies in the Republic of Karakalpakstan (Karakalpakstan
Vodokanal and Agrovodokanal). Tuyamuyun-Nukus receives subsidies from the government
budget and is an organization within portfolio of the Ministry of Communal Services of
Uzbekistan.
1.26  Karakalpakstan Vodokanal is the agency in charge of water distribution in the urban
areas of Karakalpakstan. About 55 percent of its water comes from the regional bulk supplier
Tuyamuyun-Nukus with 45 percent from its own wells and surface sources. Karakalpakstan
Vodokanal is a government organization within the portfolio of Karakalpakstan's Ministry of
Communal Services. Operations are organized into 17 branch offices in the rayons, with the head
office serving the city of Nukus. All accounting, billing/collection, and financial operations are
centralized in the head office.
1.27 Karakalpakstan Agrovodokanal is responsible for water distribution in the rural areas
of Karakalpakstan. It receives about 13 percent of its water from the bulk supplier Tuyamuyun-
Nukus and 87 percent from its own surface and ground sources, which include some 300
desalination plants. Water is distributed to collective farms, through metered connections, which
in turn redistribute the water to the population living on the farm, to government agencies,
commercial establishments, and some domestic house connections. Since Karakalpakstan
Agrovodokanal covers a part of its operating and maintenance expenses from government
subsidies, it is a budget organization within Karakalpakstan's Ministry of Agriculture.
Operations are grouped into 11 branch offices serving the 15 rayons, each responsible for its
daily operations (including billing).
Operational Constraints for Vodokanals and Agrovodokanals
1.28  The were recent discussions on the reorganization of the sector agencies in the project
area. The Government is considering one option whereby the sector agencies would be
reorganized into two regional agencies in charge of bulk water production and conveyance, water
distribution and sewerage, with one in charge of the installations in the Province of Khorezm and
the other one in the Republic of Karakalpakstan. Agreement with the Government was reached
at negotiations that it will, for the purpose of consolidating responsibilities for water production



-8 -
and distribution in the Project area: (a) by January 1, 1998 prepare andfurnish to the Bank, for
its review and comments, a plan for restructuring of the water agencies; and (b) implement such
plan, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon, in accordance with a time-schedule
agreed upon with the Bank.
1.29  Considerable constraints have affected the water agencies' performance in their transition
to a market-based economy. The constraints were in the following areas: (a) operational
independence; (b) financial performance; (c) operational control and management; and (d) lack
of a utility management system.
1.30 Operational Independence. Close supervision by the local authorities, combined with a
lack of funds for proper management of a water utility, have created a very difficult management
environment, not conducive to initiative or to achieving operational independence. The agencies
lack sufficient tariff autonomy, and the approval process requires approval by the governor and
the concurrence of the local representation of the Ministry of Communal Services and the
Ministry of Finance. Tariffs for domestic water supply are set by the governor, which, in an
effort to mitigate the impact of tariff increases on the family budget, has led to a widening
difference between the domestic tariff levels and those for other consumers. Although tariffs are
raised regularly for category II and III customers (commerce and government agencies, and
collective farms and industry) with the objective of generating sufficient revenues to cover
operation and maintenance expenses, the resulting income is insufficient for proper management
and maintenance.
1.31  Financial Performance. High levels of accounts receivable from the main customer
categories (collective farms, industry and government agencies) and the sporadic payment of
water bills caused by the harvesting cycle have led to a precarious financial situation that cannot
be sustained over a long period. Employee morale is adversely affected by the occasional non-
payment of wages for two months or more. Unable to collect due water bills in time, these
agencies are forced to carry high accounts payable, in particular to the power company.
1.32 Operational Control and Management. With depleted inventories and insufficient
funds, only the most urgent repairs and maintenance are being carried out. While critical plant
machinery is still functioning, a large part of the vehicle park and the specialized repair
equipment is inoperational. Telecommunications for the transfer of operational information often
have to rely on the public telephone system, with all its shortcomings. Radio
telecommunications, essential for operating and managing the facilities, are often out of order
due to a lack of adequate preventive maintenance. A lack and/or depletion of necessary
equipment, tools and spare parts, combined with poor organizational and operating methods,
have caused the systems to fall well below normal operating standards. Increasing numbers of
leaks, combined with faulty and broken-down bulk meters, prevent effective management of
operations.
1.33 Lack of a Utility Management System. The existing cash-based, manually-operated
accounting system cannot in its present form be used as a management tool. Basic accounting



- 9-
information, which goes beyond routine statements, is extremely difficult to extract, and the
results are often dubious. Although routine audits are undertaken by government inspectors,
these are concerned with the proper use of government funds and therefore lack the degree of
scrutiny required for a commercial undertaking.
D. Reform Strategy
1.34 The picture that arises from the assessment of the interactions of the various government
agencies and ministries in Uzbekistan's water and sewerage sector is one of institutions coping
with the demands caused by the transition process from a very centrally-controlled and managed
system to a more transparent one that will give the local authorities a greater share in water
resource planning and development, as well as make them fully responsible for operation. To
ensure that these functions are undertaken and that the water agencies become more efficient and
more responsive to satisfying the needs of customers, proper institutional and organizational
conditions will need to be created. This should be achieved through the following program: (a)
improving the demand management, investment strategy, and tariff policies; (b) designing an
environment conducive to reform; (c) creating an appropriate institutional framework; and (d)
establishing internal capability to manage reform.
1.35 Demand Management, Investment Strategy, and Tariff Policy. Considerable
investments were made in the past three decades to bring water in sufficient quantities and at a
reasonable quality level to the population living in the project area. The underlying investment
policy was primarily concerned with the quantitative aspects, i.e., to produce and convey large
quantities of water to the population without a proper analysis of the associated costs, assessment
of alternatives, and consideration of water demand management aspects. This led to enormous
investments both in production capacity and in the conveying system, and to excessively high
operating and maintenance costs requiring substantial subsidies for pumping water against a head
of up to 310m. Contributing to this development was the lack of a tariff policy based on
economic principles, inadequate metering of consumption, and investment decisions being
undertaken without the identifying least-cost solutions. Low prices discourage water
conservation and increase demand and investments.
1.36 There are already encouraging signs, both at the central government level and at the local
level, that indicate a shift away from the previous investment strategy and a move towards one
that bases investment decisions on the cost of developing and operating alternative sources of
supply. Such policies should in the future not only reduce the cost of constructing and operating
water and sewerage facilities, but also lead to better management of water resources. The
proposed project will be the first example in the water supply sector in Uzbekistan that has
applied, on a large scale, economic principles in selecting, designing and operating water supply
systems.
1.37  To ensure that future investment decisions are made by systematically evaluating the
economic cost of alternatives and that pricing policies are pursued on the basis of economic
efficiency considerations, a tariff study will need to be undertaken. The objectives of such a
study would be to: (a) outline the principles of water sector tariff setting policies; and (b) apply



- 10-
these principles in defining a tariff structure for the water and sewerage agencies in the project
area. Agreement was therefore reached at negotiations that the GoU would, through the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU): (a) undertake the tariff study referred to above under terms of
reference which shall have been agreed upon with the Bank and which shall provide, inter alia,
for the completion of said study by June 30, 1998; (b) furnish to the Bank, for its review and
comments, the findings and recommendations of said study, promptly upon the completion
thereof; and (c) prepare, by December 31, 1998, on the basis of said study and the Bank's
comments thereon, and put into effect, by December 31, 2000, a tarif structure for water and
sewerage services in the Project area which shall provide for the determination of said tariffs at
such levels as shall enable each water agency (or any successor thereto) to generate revenues
sufficient to cover its operation and maintenance expenses, working capital requirements and a
reasonable portion of the cost of its investment program.
1.38 Environment Conducive to Reform. The GoU's future role in the water and sewerage
sector should concentrate on coordinating, regulating, and overseeing functions, rather than on
direct involvement in the management and the operation of the water agencies. The recent
delegation to the local level of the function of supervising the operations of these agencies is the
first step in this direction. Furthermore, the GoU decision to phase out by the year 2000 all
operating subsidies has sent the right signals to the managers of the water utilities to manage and
control their operations properly, and also encouraged them to evaluate the costs of alternative
sources of supply. This will ultimately lead to a reorganization of the water and sewerage
entities, in which responsibility for operations rests with the local entities and where the
management environment provides incentives to managers to take charge and be held
accountable for the overall management and corporate planning processes of the utilities.
1.39 Establishing Internal Capability to Manage Reform. The transition from centrally-
controlled water supply operations to those managed at Oblast (provincial) level should be
considered as only the first step, with the ultimate objective of entrusting the management of the
water and sewerage activities to competent managers in charge of the operations of the existing
water and sewerage entities. The technical assistance program would provide funds to
implement: (a) in-house training; and (b) familiarization programs for senior staff.
E. The Government's Objectives and Strategy
1.40  In the late 1980s, Government authorities in Uzbekistan launched a program to improve
the social and productive infrastructure in rural communities, a major part of this being the
provision of safe drinking water. Because of the greater need for these public services and the
large adverse effects of the Aral Sea crisis in the Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm
Oblast, the Government has allocated approximately 30 percent of its piped water program
budget to this region, amounting to approximately US$130 million over five years. Good
progress has been made in achieving the Government's goals and Phase I of this three-phase
program is almost complete, although in the past two to three years the pace of construction has
slowed down considerably. Recent concern over widening inequities between urban and rural
areas has led the Government to seek ways of further accelerating the development of rural areas
through the provision of social and productive infrastructure. A resolution of the Council of



Ministers to this effect was passed in January 1994, and a special working group chaired by the
First Deputy Prime Minister was created to prepare a development program up to the year 2000.
1.41  This group's report, submitted to the Council of Ministers in November 1994, concludes
that while Uzbekistan as a whole ranks favorably among comparable middle/lower middle
income countries, there are large geographical disparities due to the previous urban bias, and in
the rush to meet overall targets, the tendency of planners was to concentrate on areas where it is
easier and less costly to provide infrastructure. This situation applied particularly to water supply
and sanitation services in the western part of the country, which includes the Republic of
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm, Bukhara, and Navoi Oblasts. The UNDP's Uzbekistan Human
Development Report independently identifies similar priorities for funding by international
donor agencies.
1.42 Health Sector Reforms. In the health sector, the Government's objective is to improve
the health status of the population, with a special emphasis upon maternal and child health. At
the same time, the health sector is, like the rest of the economy, under unprecedented pressure to
change its organization and financing. Key elements of reform include the decentralization of
management and financing, privatization of pharmacies, permitting physicians to establish
private practices, reducing the number of hospital beds, and shifting day care beds, where
appropriate. Recent achievements include reducing inefficient parts of the health sector and the
initiation of re-training of general practitioners. However, both the Sanitary-Epidemiology
Services, responsible for water quality monitoring and sanitation and hygiene surveillance, and
the Centers of Health, responsible for health promotion and education, have not been reformed so
far, maintaining the same structure and functions that they had previously
F. Bank's Role and Strategy
1.43  The proposed project was specifically included in the current World Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy.4 This strategy is designed to: (a) support macroeconomic stabilization along
with structural and sectoral reforms; (b) strengthen market incentives, particularly in agriculture
and energy; and (c) protect vulnerable groups through establishment of an effective safety net
and more efficient service delivery. In addition, the Bank's strategy is to provide support to
ensure or expand access to basic social services which are largely poverty alleviation focused.
Bank support also would be directed at strengthening the Government's institutional capacity
and acting as a catalyst for aid mobilization.
1.44 The Bank's role in the social infrastructure sector is to support Government efforts to
improve the health of rural populations in the western regions of the country, which are most
severely affected by the consequences of the Aral Sea crisis and which are the most poorly
served with regard to water supply, sanitation and hygiene. As a result of these considerations
and priorities, the Bank responded with a Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project (approved by
the Board in September 1996 and declared effective in February 1997), to be followed by the
4    See Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Uzbekistan, March 3, 1995. A new Country Assistance
Strategy will be issued in FY98.



-12-
full-scale Water Supply, Sanitation and Health Project, as agreed during the June 1994 donor
conference in Paris.
1.45  The Bank's role in the health sector in Uzbekistan is to support Government efforts to
improve the population's health, during a transition to a market-oriented economy. In November
1994, the Government requested that the World Bank prepare a lending operation to support
health sector reform.
G. The Bank's Experience in the Sector
1.46 Together with the Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project, this would be the first lending
operation in the social infrastructure sector in Uzbekistan. Two other Bank projects are under
implementation: the Institution Building Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 3560-UZ); and the
Cotton Sub-Sector Improvement Project (Ln. 3894-UZ). The cotton project implementation has
been delayed in this case because of delays in setting up the Project Implementation Units,
unfamiliarity with the requirements of internationally-financed projects, and the Government's
preoccupation with the transition process. Although the Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project
was declared effective several months late (in February 1997), the experiences gained under the
pilot project are being incorporated into the proposed project on an on-going basis and have
helped appreciably in areas such as building local expertise in procurement and project
management.
1.47 Lessons highlighted in the Bank's Europe and Central Asia Department 1994 Annual
Report on Portfolio Performance in Russia and Central Asia focus onI: (a) the challenge of
identifying a consistent counterpart team with sufficient authority to move the project forward;
(b) the difficulty of coordinating among key government agencies on critical issues; (c) the
importance of setting up PIUs early in the project cycle and the training of their staff in Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures and requirements; and (d) the importance of involving
local institutes in project design and preparation. Reviews of lessons learned from water supply
and sanitation projects world wide show that, despite efforts at capacity-building for the public
institutions concerned, few lower income countries achieved acceptable levels of performance for
their public water and sewerage utilities, and that the financial performance of these utilities was
equally poor. Some of the reasons for these deficiencies include: (a) lack of clear sector policies;
(b) lack of management and financial autonomy; (c) inexperience in project implementation; and
(d) lack of participation of users and other stakeholders in the decision-making process.
1.48  To the extent possible, these lessons have been incorporated into the preparation and
design of the project through: (a) an extensive social needs assessment survey, which was
completed with the participation of local institutes; (b) implementation of community-based pilot
projects for water supply and distribution and for health, hygiene and sanitation5, which will be
carried out during project preparation; (c) an Interagency Working Group has been set-up to
provide overall leadership of the project, while Goskomprognostat has been selected as the lead
Government agency; (d) a PIU established in the context of the Pilot Water Supply Engineering
5     A PHRD grant has been obtained to fmance two community-based sanitation, health and hygiene pilot
projects in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast, which are being carried out by a Swiss NGO consortium.



- 13 -
Project will supervise all project preparation and implementation activities; (e) through the PIU,
the Government has executed the Kuwait Fund-financed project preparation feasibility study and
is executing the PHRD-fimded pilot demonstration activity; and (f) local institutes and NGOs
will be contracted to assist in all these project preparation and design activities.
H. Role of Other Donors
1.49 National and international organizations are cooperating with the Government in
designing and implementing short- and long-term strategies aiming at improving the
environment and health in the Aral Sea zone. However, cooperation and coordination among
international agencies (UNDP, UNICEF, WHO, and the Bank), bilateral agencies (USAID,
JICA, OECF, KfW, GTZ) and NGOs (EPOS, ECOSAN) need to be improved.
1.50 UNICEF is implementing the Aral Sea Project for Environmental and Regional
Assistance (ASPERA), aiming at improving maternal and child health, nutrition and hygiene
education, primary education, water and sanitation, and special projects that include, for instance,
enhancing the capacity of the Uzbek NGO ECOSAN. ASPERA is a three million dollars
initiative developed between 1995 and 1999, and that among other things, provides a package of
cost-effective health interventions, such as immunization, and treatment of the sick child (ARI
and diarrheal diseases, DD) in Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Kazakstan. In 1995, ASPERA
provided: (a) basic medical supplies and equipment, school supplies, portable water testing
laboratories, vaccine cold-chain equipment; and (b) technical assistance for workshops on DD
and ARI in children, Baby Friendly Hospital Practices, appropriate distribution and correct use of
medical supplies and equipment down to the feldscher level, use of portable water testing
laboratories and development of strategies for their effective use to improve drinking water
quality, as well as translations on the use and treatmnent protocols for essential drugs supplied.
1.51  WHO  is assisting the Government of Uzbekistan in developing the National
Environmental and Health Action Plan. WHO is also seeking funds to open an office in Nukus
for water quality assessment, training of local authorities, and immediate and long-term research
activities on environmental factors.
1.52  Bilateral agencies are also active in the area. USAID has been developing activities
closely related with this proposed project, namely: (a) providing equipment for water quality
monitoring to Sanitary Epidemiological Services (SES) laboratories in Nukus and Urgench; (b)
training in health education, data handling, and geographical information systems; (c)
rehabilitating the Tuyamuyun reservoir and treatment plant; and (d) conducting demographic and
health studies by Center for Disease Control. The proposed project would involve health
professionals trained by the USAID program in project implementation.
1.53 GTZ and KfW, in cooperation with the Uzbek NGO EPOS, are also involved in training
health professionals, procurement of equipment and contraceptives, installation of operational
regional warehouses, intensifying and improving information, education and communications
and media activity concerning family planning and sexually transmitted diseases, monitoring,
and conducting knowledge, attitudes, and practices research. Until 1998, KfW will be



-14-
distributing contraceptives, pharmaceuticals, biotechnological equipment and spare parts to
public health facilities. Some countries are also financing small desalinization units, but their
effectiveness and sustainability have been questioned: they were not found to be cost-effective
and are prone to bacteriological contamination.



-15-
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
II. PROJECT SETTING
A. Background
2.1   Water Sources. The principal source of water for the project area has historically been
the Amu Darya River and its associated irrigation canals, augmented by groundwater in areas far
from the river. As the quality and quantity of the river water deteriorated in the 1960s, alternative
sources and offiake arrangements were developed to try to ensure both availability and
reasonable water quality, and these were inevitably more distant from the towns than the existing
water supply systems.
2.2   These concerns resulted in the development of the main source for both Karakalpakstan
and Khorezm Oblast on the Amu Darya river upstream of the Tuyamuyun barrage, some 220 km
upstream of Nukus, and 80 km upstream of Urgench. Major treatment and transmission facilities
have been developed to supply treated water from this point to the individual supply systems.
Recent improvements in raw water quality resulting from the reduction in use of pesticides and
fertilizers upstream have meant that the river downstream of the Tuyamuyun barrage is once
again a viable water source, and new treatment works have been constructed since the late 1980s
extracting water downstream of the barrage.
2.3   The Tuyamuyun main reservoir has a gross retained volume of 2,340 million cubic
meters (Mcm), and is used largely for irrigation purposes and for hydropower. The barrage
controls the irrigation systems supplying not only the Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm
Oblast, but also the Vilayet of Dashowuz in Turkmenistan. There are also three other reservoirs
with a gross storage volume of 5,460 Mcm linked to Tuyamuyun which form part of the same
system. These are at present primarily used for irrigation, although there are plans to use one of
the reservoirs, Kaparas, for potable use only. For comparison, the maximum possible annual raw
water requirement for potable use from Tuyamuyun is 580 Mcml, compared with the mean
annual river flow immediately upstream of Tuyamuyun of 32,600 Mcm. Being on opposite sides
of the Amu Darya river, both the Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast have separate
water supply intakes and treatment works at Tuyamuyun, with present capacities of 175 million
liters per day (Mld) each.
2.4   Groundwater sources provide approximately 25 percent of the piped water supply in
Karakalpakstan, and 3 percent of that for Khorezm Oblaste. The water is mainly obtained from
shallow aquifers adjacent to, and hydraulically linked to, either the river or irrigation canals.
Water quality is therefore highly dependent on the quality of the surface water, and there are
Assuming current design capacity of both Tuyamuyun-Nukus and Tuyamuyun-Urgench systems is
doubled.
2     Source: Tables 10.1.1 and 10.1.8 of the Binnie and Partners Final Report.



- 16 -
restrictions on extraction at certain times of year as a result. Deeper aquifers are also used in
more remote areas, but the salinity is noticeable, and desalination is uses for potable water.
2.5   Water Quality. Much of the irrigation water extracted from the river upstream is
returned as drainage water, containing pesticide and fertilizer residues and other contaminants.
The excessively high usage of pesticides in the period prior to 1989 had a significant adverse
effect on water quality, which could not be addressed by conventional water treatment.
Following the marked reduction in use of fertilizers and pesticides after 1989, raw water quality
has improved considerably, although salinity is higher than WHO recommended limits during
March and April. This cannot be reduced by conventional water treatment plants, but has no
impact on health as confirmed by recent studies. Other parameters are acceptable or within the
levels that can be treated by normal water treatment processes.
2.6   Water from the shallow aquifers can be of good quality, and as a result of the natural
filtration provided by the aquifer, requires no treatment apart from disinfecting. However,
because the aquifers are linked to surface waters, when surface water quality is poor,
groundwater extraction is restricted to avoid deterioration in quality. This limits the usefulness of
groundwater as a base supply. Because surface water quality is best in the months of July and
August, ground water is particularly suitable as a means of meeting peak summer demands.
2.7   The salinity of the water from the deeper aquifers west of the Amu Darya varies between
23 and 132 grams per liter (g/l), and this is seldom used as a water source. To the east of the
river, the salinity range is 1 to 30 g/l, with the majority being below 4 g/l, and this is used to
supply a population of 57,000 in collective and state farms after desalination.
2.8   The Tuyamuyun-Nukus System. The Tuyamuyun-Nukus system supplies treated water
from the Tuyamuyun reservoir to urban and rural areas on the east bank of the Amu Darya as far
north as Takhtakupyr. The treatment plant is located on the north bank of the Amu Darya, and
treats up to 175 Mld. The process used is pre-sedimentation, followed by coagulation and
flocculation, rapid gravity filtration, and disinfection. Provision has been made for dosing alum
to aid coagulation, but chronic shortages of chemicals result in ineffective settlement and carry
over of suspended solids to the filters, thereby reducing the performance of the filters, and
leading to turbid filtered water. This then requires excessive doses of chlorine to guarantee
disinfection. Chlorine is also often in short supply, with the result that the final treated water is
often inadequately disinfected.
2.9   The 220 km treated water pumping main to Nukus is 1,400 mm in diamneter and made
from bitumen coated, unlined steel pipes. The pipeline has been operational since 1989, and it is
reported that no bursts have occurred. There are no intermediate pumping stations, and the single
pumping station at the treatment works operates at 32 bar pressure to deliver the design flow to
Nukus, resulting in very large energy costs. Any increase in capacity will require booster
pumping, and construction of two stations commenced several years ago but is halted for lack of
funds.
2.10 The pumping main discharges into ground level balancing reservoirs at Nukus South and
North distribution centers. The water is blended with water from the Nukus treatment works at
the southern distribution center.



-17 -
2.11  The Nukus water treatment plant takes water from the Kizketken Canal close to the
control structure on the Amu Darya river. The treatment process is similar to that of the
Tuyamuyun plants, and it suffers from the same problems. In addition, recently it has been
impossible to obtain correctly graded filter sand, with the result that the sand is often washed out
of the filters, rendering the filtration process useless and thus reducing the effectiveness of the
chlorinating process. The plant has a capacity of 65 Mld, and supplies water to the Nukus
distribution system, after blending with water from the Tuyamuyun system.
2.12 The northern distribution center supplies Tuyamuyun water to the Nukus distribution
system, and also to urban and rural areas north of Karakalpakstan through a transmission main
system comprising 113 km of steel pipelines between 1,000 mm and 530 mm in diameter. The
demands of central Karakalpakstan take priority over the northern towns, with the pumping being
controlled by the southern distribution center. The transmission system delivers water to a
number of distribution centers, which consist of a receiving reservoir, a pumping station to pump
into the individual town or settlement distribution systems, and chlorinating facilities.
2.13  UzTransGaz Systems. There are two water treatment plants at Takhiatasch and Kungrad
on the west bank of the Amu Darya owned and operated by UzTransGaz. These plants provide
water for cooling and sealing the booster pumps on the gas pipeline to Kazakstan, and also
supply water to Vodokanal and Agrovodokanal for domestic use. The plants are linked by a
transmission main, but are not connected to the east bank system. The treatment facilities, whilst
similar to those elsewhere, are better constructed, operated and maintained, possibly as a result of
the easier access to chemicals and spare parts that the finances of UzTransGaz permits.
2.14  The treatment plant at Takhiatasch was constructed in 1989 and has a current capacity of
60 Mld. An extension is under construction which will increase the capacity to 240 Mvld. This
work is 90 percent complete, and is expected to be commissioned shortly. The current output of
the treatment works is sold to Vodokanal Karakalpakstan for use in Khodjeili and Takhiatasch.
The future increase in output will be used by UzTransGaz or part will be available to the
Vodokanals, depending on the outcome of on-going negotiations.
2.15 The Kungrad plant has a capacity of 70 Mld and uses the Amu Darya as a source. An
unusual feature of the plant is that the intake pumping station, located 3 km from the river on an
irrigation canal, pumps into a 20 km long approach channel to the works, which operates as a
settlement basin. The treatment process then includes filtration and disinfection only. The filter
beds operate as upflow units, rather than conventional downflow units, but nonetheless, the
performance appears satisfactory, unlike at other plants with rapid sand filters. Approximately 30
percent of the output is sold to Vodokanal Karakalpakstan and Agrovodokanal Karakalpakstan,
at a rate of 10.55 Sum/m3 (mid 1996), the balance being used by UzTransGaz for the gas
pipeline.
2.16  The Tuyamuyun-Urgench System. The intake for this system is located on the south
bank of the Tuyamuyun reservoir, and pumps to the treatment plant some 10 km away. The plant
is of a similar design to that serving Nukus, with the same capacity (175 Mld of treated water),
although records suggest that the Urgench plant is operated at a consistently higher output than
the Nukus plant. Treated water is pumped from the treatment plant to the distribution center in
Urgench through a 1,200 mm diameter steel main 80 km long. There is a major offtake



- 18-
approximately midway to Urgench, which supplies water to the rayons of Bagat, Yangiaryk and
Khiva.
2.17 The water source for the Urgench treatment plant is the Shavat Canal, the main irrigation
canal for Khorezm Oblast. It has a current capacity of 50 Mld, but due to a number of process
problems (inadequate settlement in sedimentation basins, lack of proper filter sand) the quality of
the treated water is unsatisfactory. An extension has been partially constructed, but work has
been at a standstill for the past five years due to lack of finance.
2.18 After blending the Tuyamuyun water with the local supply at Urgench, the water is
pumped to the Urgench distribution system and also through trunk mains south west to Khiva,
and north west to Yangibazar, Gurlen and Mangit.
2.19 Other Surface Water Sources. There are a number of other smaller treatment plants that
use the irrigation canals as sources, but in general these are small works, with only basic
treatment (settlement, with no chemical dosing, filtration or chlorination). These supply only
local communities and are being abandoned once supplies are available from the Tuyamuyun
systems.
2.20 Groundwater Sources. The shallow groundwater systems require only chlorination
before being used for potable use. However, owing to the restrictions on extraction to maintain
quality, and political pressure to utilize the costly Tuyamuyun system, surface water sources are
usually used in preference to groundwater. At present the estimates of available groundwater
resources vary significantly, and further studies are required to accurately assess the resource and
draw up operating rules to optimize its use.
2.21  Deeper aquifers, containing brackish water (salinity up to 30 g/l) are used in areas where
other sources are not available. The water is treated using Russian-made EKOS electrodialysis
package plants, operated by a collective or state farm, and supplied to consumers for a few hours
per day. A total of 319 units were installed, commencing in 1989. Although most units are still
operational, spare parts are scarce, and thus the efficiency and output of the units is reduced.
2.22 Distribution Systems. The transmission main systems described above deliver bulk
water to distribution centers, operated either by Vodokanal, where the center supplies an urban
area, or Agrovodokanal where the center supplies a state or collective farm. The primary function
of the distribution center is to pump the treated water into distribution, and to rechlorinate the
water. The former function is carried out reasonably successfully given the difficulty in obtaining
spare parts, but chlorination is rarely carried out, either because of a shortage of chlorine or
because of equipment failure or both.
2.23  There are 935 km  of urban and 2,530 km  of rural distribution pipework in
Karakalpakstan, and 807 km and 2,150 km in Khorezm Oblast. These figures include secondary
transmission mains (downstream of the distribution centers) but exclude house connection
pipework. The condition of the urban networks is poor, with many of the systems being unable
to withstand even 4 bar pressure (up to 50 bursts per day are reported in Nukus if the pressure
reaches this level), which restricts the amount of water that can be pumped into the systems, and



-19-
therefore affects levels of service. Pressures are in general insufficient to provide water above the
ground floor level in blocks of flats.
2.24 The rural networks appear to be in generally better condition, which may be due to less
aggressive groundwater. The cast iron pipe, which comprises the majority of the rural systems, is
expected to have a life of 48 years, and the locally-produced steel pipe, primarily used in the
tertiary distribution system, is expected to have a useful life of only 8 years, requiring periodic
replacement. The operators have expressed dissatisfaction with asbestos cement and plastic
pipework, but failures of these pipes are probably due to inappropriate pipe laying practice rather
than material deficiencies.
2.25  Storage capacity within the systems is extremely limited. In urban systems there is
usually no storage apart from the balancing reservoirs provided at the distribution centers, and all
water is pumped into the systems. The rural systems often have small elevated storage tanks in
the system, but this usually serves to limit pumping pressures only, and provides no useful
storage to balance diurnal demand variations or cover interruptions in supply.
2.26  Service Levels. Urban and rural service levels of piped water supply are given in Tables
2.1 and 2.2. The service levels include those who have access to the piped water systems, either
through full house connections, yard taps, or access to standpipes.
2.27  Neither  urban  nor  rural       Table 2.1: Urban Water Supply Coverage
domestic consumers are metered,                         Karakalpakstan  Khorezm
water charges being levied on the  Population              632,000       363,000
basis of house/plot sizes, number of  Population served    483,700       312,000
animals owned, and the type of  Percentage served           76.5%        85.9%
connection. The charge is derived  Number of connections    63,600        53,200
from a consumption "norm" for the
level of water using appliances and a  Table 2.2: Rural Water Supply Coverage
fixed rate per cubic meter. Industrial                  K
and  commercial consumers  are         Populatio           722,000       900,
metered and charged at much higher   Population s29,000                  457,000
ratethandometic onsuers.Population served         298,000       457,000
Percentage served       41.3%        50.8%
2.28  Deficiencies in the levels of service are widespread and include:
(a)   low pressures in urban areas, which means that occupants of blocks of flats above
the ground floor often have no access to water within the flat, and outlying areas
receive limited supplies, particularly in summer;
(b)   the low pressures, combined with frequent bursts, give a significant risk of
contamination of the piped supplies by groundwater. The low levels of
chlorination are insufficient to safeguard water quality; and
(c)   intermittent supplies are common in urban areas.



-20 -
2.29 Unaccounted-for Water. Indirect methods have been used to estimate the level of losses
in the urban distribution systems as 30 percent3, which, whilst high, is not excessive for this type
of location. However, because the systems are operated intermittently at very low pressures,
leakage levels at more normal pressures would be excessive, and a significant amount of system
rehabilitation would be required before pumping pressures could be increased to a level which
would provide a normal minimum of 1.5 bar in the distribution system.
2.30 As a result of the intermittent system operation, consumers often leave taps on in order to
maximize the amount of water they receive. Leakage from pipework within houses and blocks of
flats is also thought to be high, but there is no firm data available to support this. Moreover, due
to inadequate insulation of cold-water pipes, taps are kept open during the winter time to prevent
pipes from freezing. Because billing is based on a flat rate according to the category of user,
there is no incentive for consumers to reduce wastage or leakage within their properties.
2.31  Metering has been considered and is favored by the operating authorities in
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast. However, at the present time the cost of installing meters
and setting up organizations to read and maintain the meters, together with the difficulties in
setting up and operating billing and collection systems, require further study to either confirm the
economics of metering or to design another system of demand management. This has been
included as a component of the proposed project. Metering is not practical if water supplies are
intermittent. As tariffs are increased to more realistic levels, metering will become more viable,
and possibly welcomed by consumers, since it will give them control over their expenditure.
B. Overview of Social Assessment
2.32  This project is the first in the water and sanitation sector in Uzbekistan to use social
assessments and community participation activities during preparation to identify priorities from
the perspective of the main beneficiaries and stakeholders and thereby influence the design of the
project and its implementation. Five social assessments were carried out during the course of
project preparation starting with: (a) a social needs assessment of households in rural areas of
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast in communities with populations of less than 20,000
people, which was followed by; (b) an urban area social assessment focusing on the two main
urban centers of Nukus and Urgench; (c) a water vendor and willingness-to pay survey; (d) a
salinity taste tolerance assessment and survey of household water sources and water quality; and
(e) a hand pump user survey and water quality assessment. In addition, two community
participation activities were initiated. The first was to prepare community-managed water supply
pilot projects, which are being funded by KfW and the World Bank-financed Pilot Water Supply
Engineering Project. The second was the Community Based Sanitation, Health and Hygiene Pilot
Project, funded under two PHRD grants and being implemented by the Swiss NGO consortium
Helvetas/Swiss Red Cross/SKAT.
2.33 The main findings of the social assessments that have important implications for project
design and implementation are as follows:
*     The surveys indicate that the first priority of households in rural as well as in urban areas
is food or money to purchase food. After satisfying this need the next highest priority is
3     JICA Final Report, October 1996.



-21 -
improved water supply. A key finding of the rural social needs assessment is that rural
households in Karakalpakstan spend on average about 90 percent of their monthly
household income on food, while in Khorezm Oblast with a slightly higher income level
of living the corresponding amount is about 80 percent;
*      The four main sources of household water for communities in the project area are: (a)
treated piped water to stand pipes, yard or household connections; (b) hand pumps; (c)
hand dug wells; and (d) untreated open water sources such as rivers, irrigation canals and
lakes. Table 2.3 summarizes the results of surveys of household water sources for major
urban, rural and peri-urban areas in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast. There are very
marked differences among urban areas, rural villages, and peri-urban areas served by
vendors. Many consumers use more than one source of water so total percentages can
exceed 100. Urban areas in both regions have a high level of access to piped water even if
they are in rural settings, whereas rural villages rely very heavily on hand pumps and
hand dug wells. In Karakalpakstan there is also a greater dependence on untreated sources
in rural villages mainly provided by water vendors. This suggests that the highest
priorities for improved water supply under the proposed project are: (a) areas served by
water vendors; and (b) rural villages extracting untreated water from open sources.
These are mainly located in Karakalpakstan, but consumers there are the least able to
affordpiped water.
Table 2.3: Water Supply Sources
(in percent)
Karakalpakstan                       Khorezm Oblast
Pipeline  Hand   Hand-    Open   Pipeline  Hand   Hand-    Open
pump  dug well sources               pump  dug well sources
Urbana                    98.7       0       1.2       0       97.4     5.9         0        0
Urban b                   94.5       0       1.0      1.9      99.4     2.7       1.0        0
Rural Towns C             84.8     3.6       7.1    23.5       88.2    19.6       7.9      4.0
Rural Townsd              78.6     7.1       3.6    17.8        100    32.7      12.2      2.0
Rural Villagese           19.7    36.4     32.1    35.9        43.9    37.0      27.7      3.6
Rural Villagesf           10.1    56.3     22.7    13.4        22.0    54.5      25.8        0
Peri-urban (vendors) g     5.0       0        0      95.0g      n.a.    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.
Note: Percentages may add up to more than 100 because residents usually use more than one water source.
a.  From the Salinity Taste Tolerance Assessment (1995), which included large urban areas as well as rural towns and villages in its scope.
b. From the Urban Areas Social Assessment (1995), which included only Nukus and Urgench.
c.  From the Needs Assessment, (1994); rural towns with populations less than 20,000.
d. From the Salinity Taste Tolerance Assessment, (1995).
e. From the Needs Assessment, (1994).
f.  From the Salinity Taste Tolerance Assessment, (1995).
g.  Source of vendor delivered water.
h.  Includes people who do not know where the delivered water comes from.
*      The survey results also show a large variation in the level of service for piped water
supplies between major urban areas and rural towns and villages. On average piped water
is available in rural towns and villages in Karakalpakstan for approximately 3 hours a
day, and for approximately 4.8 hours a day in Khorezm Oblast. In major urban areas
approximately 70 percent of households have running piped water 24 hours a day in
summer, increasing to 85 percent in winter. However, the main problem is in apartment
buildings on floors higher than the second floor, where less than 40 percent have access



- 22 -
to a 24 hr per day piped water supply in the summer months. The situation is worse in
Urgench than in Nukus. In focus group meetings, domestic piped water consumers in
peri-urban and rural areas were demanding a higher level of service, but indicated little
confidence that the water utilities could provide an improved level of service. Consumers
are mainly coping with interuptions by storing water in household containers. Even in
the major urban areas household storage is practiced by 90 percent of households in
Nukus and 75 percent in Urgench. Consumers in rural areas also access other sources of
water to supplement their piped water supplies. Evidence from the surveys and other
investigations indicate that the water pressures in the secondary and tertiary pipeline
distribution systems have to be restricted because of the need: (a) for rehabilitation of the
existing networks due to lack of maintenance; (b) for additional investmnents to link
sections of the network to additional pumping capacity; and (c) for improved means of
controlling freezing of tertiary distribution pipes during the cold winter months, including
street stand pipes, as well as yard and household connections.
All of the surveys, focus group meetings and the stakeholder's meeting confirmed that
consumers are very concerned about the quality of the water they are using for drinking
and cooking purposes. The main complaints are the water quality parameters that affect
the taste and aesthetic qualities of the water, although participants at the stakeholder's
meeting frequently raised concerns about contamination from agricultural chemicals. The
most frequently noted complaints were salinity (salty taste), suspended solids (muddy
appearance) and the smell (indicating bacteriological action). There are more frequent
complaints of suspended solids and smell in the summer months, while complaints
regarding salty taste are more or less constant throughout the year. This is consistent with
raw water quality which is more turbid in summer. Analysis of household water quality
and water supply sources carried out during the surveys and by the Japanese International
Cooperation  Agency  (JICA) consultants show  that pathogenic  bacteriological
contamination is of most concern from a health perspective. Due to the high level of
suspended solids in the piped water supplies (often at a much higher level than in hand
pump and hand dug well samples) chlorination of this water is often ineffective, thus
allowing the transmission of pathogenic bacteria. The hand pump survey also recorded
pathogenic bacteria in samples from this source. The JICA consultant surveys showed no
evidence of contamination from agricultural chemicals.
*     The majority of the respondents in Nukus and Urgench (90 percent in Nukus and 73
percent in Urgench), almost all of whom are using piped water, treat their drinking and
cooking water by using various methods such as settling, filtering and boiling. These are
the simplest methods, which do not require the use of additional water treatment devices.
Such simple methods of treatment are practical since householders cannot afford to buy
more sophisticated devices. The water quality results indicate that the Nukus piped water
is of better quality than Urgench water. Sixty-seven percent of the respondents in Nukus
and 61 percent in Urgench boil their water, while 85 percent in Nukus and 52 percent in
Urgench settle their water prior to use. This difference in the use of settling could be due
to the fact that a greater percentage of Nukus residents are storing water. The storage
vessels act as settling tanks to reduce the suspended solids in the water. Filtering is not



- 23 -
common in either city; 5 percent in Nukus and 9 percent in Urgench filter their water
before using it.
*      As Table 2.4 shows, there is a much higher level of satisfaction with the quality of water
from hand pumps and hand dug wells (on average about 75 percent satisfied), than the
"treated" water from the piped water system (about 50 percent satisfied). Since the
salinity of water from the hand pumps and hand dug wells is higher than in the piped
water supplies, the consumers are mainly dissatisfied with the high suspended solids
content in the piped water supplies, particularly during the summer months. An important
focus of the project would, therefore, be to solve the maintenance and operational
problems in the water treatment plants that are impairing the effectiveness of the
treatment process which is causing high suspended solids concentrations in the treated
piped water. The surveys also show a high level of satisfaction with hand pumps and
hand dug wells. There will be many rural villages in the project area, where it will be
more appropriate to increase the access to these water supply sources than to supply piped
water at much higher investment and operating cost.
Table 2.4: Level of Satisfaction with Water Supply Sources
(in percent)
Karakalpakstan                    Khorezm Oblast
Urban   Salinity Taste    Water   Urban   Salinity Taste    Water
Areas      Tolerance    Vendors   Areas    Tolerance    Vendors
Source      Surveya      Survey      Surveyb  Survey       Survey       Survey
Pipeline         60             41         71        49          54          n.a.
Hand pump        n.a.           81         n.a.       0          67          n.a.
Hand-dug well   n.a.            70         n.a.      n.a.        83          n.a.
Open sources     n.a.           67         20        n.a.       n.a.         n.a.
a.     Gives the satisfaction with the quality of water, not the overall satisfaction. Also, percentages for water sources
other than the pipeline are not given because of the low number of respondents using those sources.
b.     Percentages here are given according to the source of the water delivered by vendors.
c.     Because of the small sample size, percentages are not given.
d.     Here, sample size is small, so this percentage must be approached carefully.
*      At the time of the salinity taste tolerance survey in November 1995 the salinity of the
piped water supply was at an intermediate level in the typical range of 0.6-1.5 g/14
between summer and winter conditions, while the average salinity of water from hand
pumps and hand dug wells was higher in the range 1.5-2 g/l. However, the salinity of the
shallow ground waters down to 10 m, that are the source of water for the hand pumps and
hand dug wells is relatively constant throughout the year. Thus while consumers of piped
water and of hand pump water have similar levels of complaints about the salinity of their
water sources, the hand pump consumers are willing to tolerate a higher level of salinity,
because it is more or less constant throughout the year and they become accustom to the
taste.
4      Salinity is measured as the dry residue content in the water sample - i.e., as the total dissolved solids.



- 24 -
Table 2.5: Average Salinity
(grams/liter)
Karakalpakstan            Khorezm Oblast
Salinity Taste  Hand Pump   Salinity Taste   Hand Pump
Tolerance    Monitoring   Tolerance    Monitoring
Source         Survey       Survey        Survey        Survey
Pipeline            0.92          n.a.         0.93          n.a.
Hand pump           1.52         2.00          1.48          1.70
Hand dug well       1.48          n.a.         1.44          n.a.
a
Other sources       0.99          n.a.         1.50          n.a.
a  Includes open sources such as rivers, irrigation canals and such. However, the low number of households using
these sources prevent obtaining statistically representative results.
The current Uzbekistan Water Quality Standard for salinity is 1.0 g/l, while the WHO
guideline limit for drinking water is 1.5 g/l. However, there is no evidence of health
effects of drinking water with the salinities typically found in surface and ground waters
in the project region. The limit should be based, therefore, on consumer taste tolerances.
A salinity taste tolerance survey was carried out in 642 urban and rural households in
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm  Oblast to determine a tolerable level of salinity to
consumers in the project area. The tolerable limit that the majority of consumers would
accept was found to be approximately 2.0 g/l. On the basis of these results it would be
appropriate to adopt a limit of 2.0 g/l for hand pump and hand dug well water sources and
1.5 g/l for piped water supplies, which may be subject to larger variations in salinity
throughout the year. These are the design water quality limits for salinity that have been
adopted for the project.
C. Pilot Projects
2.34 The Social Needs Assessment and focus/roundtable discussions conducted between
November 1994 and May 1995 identified the need to develop and test small-scale pilot projects
with community-based approaches for achieving improved access to good quality water supply
services.
2.35   Water Supply and Distribution Pilot Project. Between July and September 1995, nine
projects were identified, ranking from water supply developments and tertiary distribution
systems to irrigation systems to replace piped drinking water. These pilot projects will benefit
about 40,000 people in rural and peri-urban areas of the Republic of Karakalpakstan and
Khorezm Oblast. Last year, KfW approved a grant of DM1.5 million to implement some of these
projects, arLd the Bank management has agreed to finance another of them through the Pilot
Water Supply Engineering Project (Ln. 4090-UZ).
2.36   The primary justifications for the execution of small-scale water supply projects are: (a)
to improve the design and implementation arrangements of the full-scale project through a
"learning-by-doing" piloting approach and by incorporating community participation into the
planning and implementation process for water supply and distribution; and (b) to develop and
test joint financing schemes to improve the financial viability of the formal water utilities and the
sustainability of their investments.



-25 -
2.37  The key lessons derived so far during the preparation phase of these pilot projects can be
summarized as follows:
*     Consulted households are demanding more reliable level of services as well as water of
consistently high quality, and have expressed their willingness to pay for it at levels much
higher than currently perceived by local authorities. Those who rely on water vendors
(often of poor quality) and are paying high prices have agreed to even pay more for
higher quality water.
*     Local authorities are becoming less apprehensive and more supportive of the new
demand-driven approach introduced by the pilot projects since it demonstrates the need
and willingness of people to pay for the service, making future water price increases more
acceptable and easier to undertake. Local authorities have recognized the advantages of
the new approach in terms of removing the myth among the population that the provision
of clean water is a government's responsibility and shall be provided at highly subsidized
prices.
*     iThe community consultation approach, a first-time experience for the formal water utility
in the Republic of Karakalpakstan, has facilitated the water utility and the community to
work together, and has helped to achieve the most beneficial solution to the water
problems of the Kizketken community. In initial meetings with the community on the
design options for the pilot project, community members expressed a strong preference
for a self-managed water supply scheme, because they believed the water utility would
provide a poor level of service if it was to install and manage the scheme. However, when
the community was provided with information on the advantages and disadvantages and
the costs of the various schemes, they finally agreed with the option to link the
community with the main water supply pipeline based on the huge cost savings and the
new image projected by Vodokanal. The initially hostile reaction from the community
and much apprehension from the Vodokanal perspective appears to be turning into a
trustworthy partnership.
*     Community participation in the design of the pilot projects is putting pressure on local
authorities responsible for the water supply sector to give greater attention to the scale
and cost of projects. When communities were asked to bear part or all of the cost of
providing water supply services, they immediately started questioning current design
criteria, aiming to find ways to cut costs. In one pilot project, the community has decided
to lower the design parameter of 350 liters per capita per day used by the formal water
utility to only 150 liter per capita per day, based on their perceived water needs. In
another pilot project, the community has influenced the lowering of the minimum
diameter of the tertiary distribution network from 150-175 mm to 100 mm.
*     Consulted communities welcome the idea of presenting a menu of technical options and
levels of services, and allow them to make well-informed decisions. Their decisions are
largely motivated by their perception of benefits in relation to costs. For example, one
community has favored yard connections over standpipes and house connections.



- 26 -
Households consulted in the survey appeared to be willing and fully committed to
participate in the financing of the pilot project investments through community in-kind
labor contribution such as voluntary labor for earth-moving works and laying of
distribution networks pipes equivalent to 3-5 percent of project cost, or in-cash at-front
contribution equivalent to 50-100 percent of their monthly income, or both. Communities
are also ready to spend up to 3-4 percent of their monthly income to cover the operation
and maintenance costs of the provision of water supply services, which is three times the
current water charge.
2.38  Pilot Community-Based Sanitation and Health Projects. Project identification in
October 1994 led to the formulation of community-based sanitation and health pilot projects
serving to develop and test methodologies and define investment requirements to improve health,
hygiene and sanitation in rural communities in Karakalpakstan and in Khorezm Oblast. The
results of the pilot projects form the basis of the low-cost rural sanitation and health component.
The objective of the pilot projects is to test improved low-cost latrine designs and community-
based approaches to promote the demand for better sanitation and hygiene practices.
2.39 The Government of Uzbekistan selected the Swiss NGO Helvetas/Swiss Red Cross to
carry out the community-based sanitation, health and hygiene pilot projects. The first phase of
the pilot projects started in March 1996. The pilot rural community sanitation projects have
identified the lack of well-designed and maintained sanitary facilities and good hygiene practices
as the most pressing threats to the population health. The pilot projects have combined the
construction of improved on-site sanitary facilities with a campaign to inform and educate the
population about the proper use and maintenance of those facilities, as well as general hygiene
education. New latrines of different designs, which are a major improvement over existing,
unsanitary units, have been installed in the communities for demonstration purposes, while local
artisans have been trained to construct such facilities using locally-available materials at a low
cost. In addition, simple handwashing facilities have been installed adjacent to the improved
toilets, which are a simple yet effective means of conducting basic hygiene.
2.40  Helvetas/Red Cross developed the first rural sanitation projects in two communities,
Keigili in Karakalpakstan and Shavat in Khorezm. In each community, stakeholder groups were
selected, and workshops were conducted to discuss options for community organization. Under
the first phase of the pilot projects, the following activities were carried out: (a) construction of
four types of improved on-site latrines and installation of hand washing basins; (b) training of
local artisans in the construction of the latrine substructure, including the concrete slab; (c)
training of local community health workers and school teachers in the provision of health
education to individual householders, students and children; (d) offer of grants to participating
households to cover up to 60 percent of the total construction cost of the latrine, including the
costs of superstructure; and (e) set up and test a voucher scheme for providing direct subsidies to
the beneficiaries.
2.41  Ten model latrines were developed during this phase, and schemes for implementation
were tested at the collective farmn level. While the construction of latrines and installation of
handwashing facilities are relatively inexpensive means of providing the rural population of
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm with sanitary facilities, and households in the pilot project areas



- 27 -
have expressed their willingness to take part in the financing of such facilities, their cost is still
above the means of most households in the area. The grant financing scheme has been devised by
Helvetas to assist households in financing the improved latrines and handwashing facilities,
which will also provide employment to local artisans.
2.42 The second phase of the community-based pilot projects started in August 1996 and
ended in February 1997. The second phase extends the pilot projects to a total of six
communities, representing a wider variety of socio-economic situations that allowed for testing
more water, sanitation and hygiene alternatives. About 160 improved latrines were constructed
during this phase, and implementation arrangements are being further tested and developed at the
local level. The construction of improved latrines and installation of handwashing facilities in the
rural and urban communities is not restricted to individual households or groups of households,
but has been extended to public facilities such as schools, primary community health care centers
(rural polyclinics and hospitals), canteens, and public places (e.g., markets). Under the pilots,
Helvetas is testing various ways of ensuring that these facilities are continually maintained and
kept in a sanitary condition. The pilot projects are concentrating on disseminating the experience
to neighboring communities and communities in other rayons, using the most appropriate and
effective means of communication, including the mass media.
2.43 The third phase, for which funding is now being sought, would start in May 1997, and
would be concluded four months later. During this phase, the pilot projects would aim at: (a)
fulfilling about 50 percent of the demand for low-cost sanitation facilities in the six communities
where the projects are being developed; (b) rehabilitating pilot public baths; (c) test project
implementation arrangements at the district level; and (d) further testing the dissemination
strategy to neighboring collective farms and districts.
2.44  The pilot projects have been testing the applicability of the latest concepts and lessons
learned from community-based rural hygiene, sanitation and health activities elsewhere in the
world for incorporation into the project. The pilots are necessarily small scale and test
particularly those elements of project design and implementation in which stakeholder
participation is most needed. The principal points of departure in project demonstration are:
community initiative, full beneficiary involvement, small scale intervention, maximum impact,
nominal cost-recovery, maximum local professional and other staff input, and private enterprise
development.
2.45   Some of the lessons learned during implementation of the pilot projects were the
following: first, there is a high willingness among the rural population to improve their current
sanitation practices; second, households are willing to make substantial financial contributions
for the construction of the improved latrines; third, the low-cost technology options being
promoted under the pilot projects are now being recognized by local specialists working on
sewage treatment as alternatives to high-cost central treatment systems.
2.46 Additional lessons learned thus far from the pilot projects include: (a) Karakalpakstan and
Khorezm Oblast are different socially and economically, and different strategies need to be
followed in each region; (b) the pilot projects identified the need for capacity building of health
services, namely SES and Centers of Health, and for coordination of relevant sectors (health,
water and sanitation). The existing structures should be reinforced, while parallel structures such



-28 -
as those created by the project (PIUs) should be kept small; (c) health education materials and
methods are generally very poor and need to be improved, and community health workers also
need to be trained in participatory methods; (d) public buildings need proper sanitation
infrastructures. The pilot projects raised awareness among public officials about the relevance of
improved sanitation and hygiene and willingness to co-finance low-cost sanitation technologies.
Therefore, the rural sanitation component should cover sanitation in public buildings (schools,
health services) as well as households; (e) public baths also need to be rehabilitated, but should
be privately operated; (f) the ventilated-elevated latrine model is the most popular of the four that
were tested during the pilot projects, and therefore, it is the one expected to be mass produced
during implementation; (g) the pilot projects are testing and will make recommendations
concerning quality control, as well as the administration of a land coupon system to subsidize
rural sanitation; (h) the pilot projects identified the need for legislation that will promote small
enterprises (e.g., the workshops where the latrine slabs are produced) as well as for local training
in planning and management.
D. Other Issues
Riparian Issues
2.47 The international waterway involved here is the Amu Darya river. Catchments feeding
into the river are located in four republics: Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Afghanistan and
Uzbekistan. The river flows along the border of Afghanistan into Turkmenistan and then
Uzbekistan where it discharges into the Aral Sea. Thus, riparians on the Amu Darya are:
Tajikistan, Kyrgyz Republic, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan. The Tuyamuyum
Reservoir on the Amu Darya river (the main source of water supply for the project) is located in
Turkmenistan.
2.48 In 1992 and 1993, the riparians of the Amu Darya river (excluding Afghanistan but
including Kazakstan which, although not a riparian on that river, is contiguous to the Aral Sea
and shares other water resources with countries in the Region) entered into international
agreements which established the legal and institutional framework for addressing the Aral Sea
Crisis. An Action Plan of investments to improve the ecological situation in the Aral Sea region
was formulated and accepted by all Central Asian states in a meeting in Nukus in January 1994.
The present project was developed in fulfillment of said Action Plan and as a component of it.
2.49 The agreements concluded within the framework of the Aral Sea program, provide an
adequate framework for the parties (which include all riparians on the Amu Darya, in addition to
Kazakstan, but excluding Afghanistan) to exchange information and views and to cooperate on
matters concerning their common water resources. Each of the riparians is represented on the
regional bodies established to oversee and implement the Aral Sea Program.
2.50 As all riparians (excluding Afghanistan) have been involved in the preparation and
implementation of the Aral Sea Program and were informed of and had consented to the Action
Plan referred to above, of which the project is a component, no further action of formal
notification is required.
2.51  Regarding Afghanistan, it should be noted that the chaotic political situation in that
country accounts for its non-inclusion in the agreements establishing the regional institutional set



- 29 -
up in 1992 and 1993. Notification of Afghanistan has proved problematic as a result of the
present collapse of the governmental system and the lack of a government exercising effective
control in the country. Uzbek officials indicated that their attempts to engage Afghanistan in
discussions of matters of common interest, including water issues, have elicited no response
because of the political situation there. They confirmed during negotiations of the proposed loan
their intention to bring Afghanistan into discussions of water issues, once a functioning
government there is restored and welcome any efforts by the Bank in this direction. In response,
the Bank is currently attempting, in the larger context of the Aral Sea Program, to seek formal
communications channels through which information on water investment related to that
program and of interest to Afghanistan may be officially conveyed to it. It should be added that,
although Afghanistan is not currently a member of the regional arrangements set-up in 1992 and
1993 on water, the proposed project is not expected to have any adverse impact on its position
vis-a-vis other riparians of the Amu Darya river, given: (a) the minimal amount of additional
water required from the Amu Darya for operation of project facilities; and (b) the position of
Afghanistan as an upper riparian on the Amu Darya in relation to Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan.
2.52 Immediately related to the project are the arrangements concluded between Uzbekistan
and Turkmenistan. These consist of two agreements: the first dates January 16, 1996, and
primarily provides for: (a) ownership by Uzbekistan, for compensatory payments to be agreed
upon, of water facilities located in Turkmenistan, including the Tuyamuyun reservoir and related
canals; (b) allocation on equal basis between Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan of the Amu Darya
flows, measured from a certain point; (c) a commitment by both parties to make joint
investments to increase the amount and improve the quality of water flow into the Aral Sea (e.g.,
land reclamation, rehabilitation of river bed, construction of collectors); and (d) a commitment
by the parties to settle their differences through conciliation and negotiations. The second
agreement is dated April 17, 1996, and is of technical nature and intended to implement the first
agreement. Thus, it includes a schedule of the quarterly payments to be made by Uzbekistan to
Turkmenistan in compensation for use by the former of water facilities located in the latter and
requires the maintenance of Working Commissions to settle issues of water/land uses.
2.53  The arrangements referred to above between Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, the parties
materially affected by the project, have been reviewed by the Bank's Legal Department and
found to be adequate. In sum, Turkmenistan is not only informed and consenting to the project
but has also standing contractual arrangements with Uzbekistan to deal with allocation of water
and use and operation of common water facilities.
Dam Safety
2.54 Water to be delivered under the project is extracted from the Tuyamuyun Hydro System.
A preliminary study has been completed by an independent international expert who inspected
the reservoir system and found it well constructed and safe. The dam and related structures are
the critical features on which the availability of water of the project depends. Therefore during
negotiations agreement from the Government of Uzbekistan was reached that it will ensure that:
(a) the dam of the Tuyamuyun Hydro System is inspected annually in accordance with sound
engineering practice by independent expert(s) in dam safety approved by the Bank; (ii) the report
and recommendations of such expert(s) is forwarded to the Bank for its review and comment



- 30 -
within three months of each annual review; and (iii) any appropriate remedial action
recommended by such expert(s) is promptly taken.



- 31 -
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
3.1   Background. This proposed project forms Component 5.1 of the Aral Sea Program,
drawn up to address the environmental impacts of the Aral Sea crisis. The project was
specifically intended to improve the health of the population in the region affected by the crisis
by investing in water and sanitation infrastructure. Prior to the identification mission in October
1994, the perceived problems were excessive concentrations of pesticides and fertilizers in the
raw water, together with other health hazards (such as airborne dust from the exposed bed of the
Sea), and a lack of adequate sanitation.
3.2   Project Preparation. Project identification in October 1994 led to the formulation of two
concurrent project preparation activities: an overall project feasibility study; and rural sanitation,
health and hygiene pilot projects serving to develop and test low-cost latrine designs and
participatory methodologies and define investment requirements to improve health, hygiene and
sanitation in rural communities of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast. The results of the pilot
projects form the basis of the low-cost water supply and rural sanitation subcomponent of the
proposed project as well as the urban and rural health and hygiene subcomponent.
3.3   The existing water supply infrastructure, including the large centralized schemes, were
developed for reasons that were considered to be valid at the time, but in the present climate are
not as appropriate. The poor condition of the infrastructure accentuates the problem facing the
operating organizations, in that operating costs of the schemes are very high, and tariffs are
maintained at artificially low levels. Cost recovery is low, and there is a continual decline in the
infrastructure condition. In order to fully address these issues, a long-term investment in excess
of US$1,000 million would be required. It was concluded that: (a) the cost of this program would
exceed all available resources for a single lending operation; and (b) the current weak
performance of the organizations involved, including poor maintenance practices, low tariff
levels and lack of clear organization and direction, would preclude consideration of such a large
program without partial institutional restructuring and financial reforms. A phased development
program was therefore preferred, with this project focusing on the immediate needs.
3.4   A JICA-sponsored consultant team carried out a detailed study of the water supply
investment needs of six major cities in the project area to the year 2015. The findings of the JICA
study were used extensively in the proposed project's feasibility studies.
3.5   Participatory Approach. The Project would incorporate results from the five social
assessments that were carried out during project preparation, as well as the participatory
approaches developed and tested by the community-based water supply and distribution pilot
projects and the sanitation and health pilot projects. Project implementation participatory
activities would further contribute to: (a) increase ownership of beneficiaries of the new and
improved facilities and services that are provided; (b) introduce government agencies responsible



-32 -
for the provision of water supply, sanitation and health services to the benefits of stakeholder
consultation and participation in decision making concerning improvements and expansions of
these services; and (c) gain a better understanding of cultural, social, socio-economic and
community organizational factors that will lead to the selection of the most appropriate and
sustainable interventions in the sector.
3.6   Specifically, the Sanitation, Health and Hygiene component would be demand-driven.
Through the community-based rural committees, decisions would be made about the
identification, design, implementation, operation and maintenance of the low-cost alternative
rural water supply and sanitation schemes. Stakeholders (rural communities, community-based
organizations, local and regional governments, and water, sanitation and health services, as well
as national government agencies and other institutions that were involved in project preparation)
would be involved in participatory implementation activities such as health promotion and
education activities, and the intersectoral committee that would assist project development.
Water User Association will be set up in the urban areas to facilitate water loss reduction and
conservation and to negotiate and collect water tariffs from domestic consumers. The Water
Supply Engineering Pilot Project's Kizketken component will test and refine this approach prior
to its full scale implementation in the two regions. Further details are given in Section IV.
3.7   The Project. Whilst both water supply and sanitation are in need of major investments
over the long term, the first priority of the Government is to improve the water supply service. It
recognizes that improved sanitation, in the form of waterborne sewerage systems is desirable, but
also that this is a costly process, and must in any event follow on from the provision of safe and
reliable water supplies. It also recognizes that local water sources and supply systems are an
acceptable and economic means of addressing local problems, and can be complementary to the
large centralized systems previously favored. Given the size of needed water and sanitation
improvements, the strategy adopted was to divide the improvements into two distinct operations
with the first one concentrating on urgent rehabilitation measures for existing water supply and
sewerage services, capacity building efforts, institutional reform, and the implementation of a
program of sanitation and health measures. The follow-up operation would then build on the
experience of this operation and deepen institutional reform while at the same time providing
financing towards supply and sewerage system expansion.
B. Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3.8   A project to improve the water supply, sanitation and health of the population of
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast was identified as part of a wide-ranging package of projects
prepared by the donor community in support of the Aral Sea disaster zone. The project has two
objectives. The first is the provision of safe drinking water along with improved hygiene
education and sanitation facilities for the Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast.
Specifically, this objective would decrease the incidence of water-borne diseases among the
population, particularly diarrheal diseases among children. The second objective is to strengthen
institutional capacity for management, operation and financial performance of the regional water
supply and sanitation utilities as well as the regional Centers of Health and the Sanitary
Epidemiology Stations.



- 33 -
Project Description
3.9   Project Components. The proposed project comprises four main components: (a) water
supply and distribution; (b) sanitation, health and hygiene; (c) technical assistance; (d) project
management, design and supervision; and (e) refinancing of the Pilot Water Supply Engineering
Project. The cost given below include contingencies.
3.10 Water Supply and Distribution (US$68.2 million or 68 percent of total base cost). This
component has four main subcomponents:
(a)   Main Pipeline Supply System (US$38.8 million). This item would: (i) replace or
rehabilitate where appropriate, sections of the distribution systems in
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast; (ii) rehabilitate two water treatment plants;
(iii) expand one water treatment plant; (iv) rehabilitate five ground water sources;
(v) build additional trunk pipelines in Karakalpakstan; and (vi) rehabilitate the rural
distribution centers in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast.
(b)   Development of Local Water Supply and Distribution Systems (US$21.0 million).
The subcomponent would: (i) provide spare parts for about 300 desalinization units
in Karakalpakstan as well as training for the operators of the desalinization plants;
(ii) rehabilitate and develop ground water sources in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm
Oblast (including the Chalysh wellfield); and (iii) expand demand-based rural water
supplies in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast.
(c)   Water Demand Management and Loss Reduction (US$3.3 million). Wastage of
water is high, particularly in the urban areas, due to a lack of incentives to conserve
water at the level of water users. The low water price for domestic consumers and
the absence of metering encourage inefficient use of water. This subcomponent
would be implemented by a water utility with ample experience in demand
management. The subcomponent has two items: (i) metering trials to test different
approaches to metering water usage along with a consumer awareness program to
provide practical advice on means of reducing losses and optimizing water use; and
(ii) funds to define and implement the most economic means of leakage reduction.
(d)   Equipment for Operation and Maintenance (US$5.2 million). The Vodokanals,
Agrovodokanals and the bulk water suppliers face severe difficulties in maintaining
the water supply systems due to a shortage of equipment and materials. This
subcomponent would address this by providing equipment which would be
identified by the Institutional Strengthening Consultant and the Demand
Management Consultant. There are two items in this subcomponent: (i)
identification and purchase of small equipment, tools and spares; and (ii)
identification and purchase of major equipment.
3.11 Sanitation, Health and Hygiene Component (US$11.2 million or 11 percent of the
total base cost). This component has three subcomponents:
(a)   Rural Sanitation (US$2.0 million). This component would promote construction of
improved latrines (elevated ventilated latrines) through the participatory approach
developed during the pilot project, and installation of hand washing facilities in



- 34 -
selected households, schools, primary health care services (feldscher stations, and
rural polyclinics), canteens and public places in selected collective farms. The
community-based kolkhos committees would make decisions about the
identification, design, implementation, operation and maintenance of the sanitation
schemes to be put in place The subcomponent would provide around 7,500
improved latrines and handwashing facilities, covering about 5 percent of the rural
population in both regions. The subcomponent would cover about 80 percent of the
construction costs, and beneficiaries would cover the remainder. The subcomponent
would include training of district managers who would supervise the
implementation of the component. This subcomponent would also provide
equipment, transportation, consultant services and training, namely of collective
farm committee members and other staff in management and low-cost sanitation.
(b)   Health Promotion and Hygiene Education (US$4.0 million). This subcomponent
would cover health promotion and hygiene education of the urban and rural
populations of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast. As such, it complements the
sanitation and hand pumps subcomponents of the proposed project, and is an
integral element of the overall strategy for improving health and hygiene among the
population through community-based approaches. Health specialists would assist
the kolkhos committees in developing and implementing the health promotion and
education activities. The subcomponent would also cover the costs of an
intersectoral committee that would aim at reviewing and assisting project activities.
(c)   Water Quality Monitoring and Strengthening of SES (US$5.2 million). The
principal objective of this subcomponent is to improve water quality monitoring,
and sanitation and hygiene inspection of households and communal facilities in
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast. Health specialists would participate in
community-based activities, assisting the kolkhoz committees in improving water
supply, sanitation, and health in rural communities. In addition, the institutional and
organizational efficiency of the Sanitary Epidemiological Services (SES) would be
enhanced by improving the quality of health and water quality data collection,
analysis and reporting, and integrating the data reporting for the region into the
project's Geographic Information System (GIS) on a demonstration basis.
3.12 Technical Assistance Component (US$8.2 million or 8 percent of total base cost). This
component has three subcomponents:
(a)   Institutional Strengthening of Water Utilities and Bulk Providers (US$6.7 million).
This subcomponent would address the present deficiencies in the six organizations
involved in providing water and sewerage services to the project area. It is expected
that in the near future these will be combined into two regional organizations, which
will improve the situation, but even so, significant assistance will be needed. The
item would consist of: (i) a program for carrying out regularly preventive
maintenance; (ii) a program for monitoring and reducing operating costs; (iii) a
program for reduction and management of accounts receivable; (iv) design and
operation of a utility accounting system, including cost accounting; and (v) in-house



-35 -
and foreign training programs. The program includes consultancy services and
training of trainers.
(b)   Tariff Study (US$0.6 million). This subcomponent would finance a water and
sewerage tariff study, which would lay the foundation for the introduction of new
water and sewerage tariff rates for the various consumers groups. It includes
consultancy services for the formulation and implementation of the new tariff
structure and office equipment.
(c)   Refinancing of Feasibility Study (US$ 0.8 million). This subcomponent would
refinance the Kuwait Fund's Project Feasibility Study.
3.13  Project Management, Design and Supervision Component (US$8.4 million or 8
percent of total base cost). This component would cover the costs of project management, project
design, and construction supervision by the Project Implementation Unit, with advice and
assistance from foreign consultants. Included in this component are consultant services, staffing
of the PIU including the Director in Tashkent, the regional representatives, the GIS section and
support staff.
3.14 Refinancing of Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project Component (US$5.0 million
or 5 percent of total base cost). The pilot project components would be refinanced by the
proposed project as agreed with the GoU in the Pilot project. Upon the effective date of the
proposed project, the Bank would withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself all amounts
required for repayment of the principal amount of the pilot project loan withdrawn and
outstanding and all interest and other charges due thereon. Thereupon the pilot project loan
would be canceled. The Pilot project funded the construction of a self-managed water supply
scheme in the peri-urban areas of Nukus and the preparation of detail designs and bid documents
by foreign consultants.
C. Project Costs
3.15  The total cost of          Table 3.1: Summary of Project Cost Estimates
the project, including an                       (US$ million)
allowance for physical                            Local Foreign  Total % Foreign  % Total
and price contingencies                                              Exch.  Base Cost
of US$16.0 million, is Water Supply and Distribution   19.90  48.30 68.20   71  68
estimated at US$117.0  Sanitation, Health and Hygiene   2.79   8.42 11.21   75  11
million, of which about Technical Assistance       0.06   8.11  8.16   99       8
US$90.2 million or 77  Project Manage. & Supervision   0.10   8.32  8.42   99   8
percent represents the Refinancing of Pilot Project  --  5.00  5.00   100       5
foreign      exchange   Total Base Cost           22.85  78.15 101.00   77     100
component. The cost
estimates were prepared Physical Contingencies     2.38   6.68  9.06   74       9
by   consultants  and  Price Contingencies         1.61   5.33  6.94   77       7
reviewed  during  pre-   Total Project Cost       26.84  90.16 117.0   77      116
appraisal based on a survey of construction costs undertaken during project preparation. These
costs were then compared with the cost estimates in the October 1996 JICA consultant study
were found to be similar. The estimated cost per component is summarized in Table 3.1. Price



- 36 -
contingencies on the foreign exchange rate are based on an average estimated inflation rate of 3.0
per year during the duration of the project. It is also assumed that the exchange rate will on
average maintain purchasing power parity during the project implementation period. Price
contingencies on the local cost (expressed in US$) are based on the same foreign inflation rate.
Physical contingencies of 5 percent for consultancy services and 10 percent for civil works and
equipment were included. Base costs are expressed in February 1997 prices.
D. Project Financing
3.16  Table 3.2 sets out the project          Table 3.2: Financing Plan
financing plan. An IBRD  loan of                   (US$ million)
US$75.0 million is recommended for                 (Uca   milion)
the proposed  project. This would                L
provide about 64 percent of total project IBRD     6.5   68.5  75.0       64.1%
costs including applicable VAT taxes.    Fud       4.2   15.7  19.8        17.0%
The  oan   ouldbe mde t  th  Kuwait Fund   4.2   15.7  19.8       17.0%
The loan would be made to the KW34                         60    9481
Government of Uzbekistan under the KfW             3.4    6.0   9.4        8.1%
standard terms for a US  Dollar- GoU              2.7    9-   12.7        10.9%
denominated single currency loan and   T          2       90.  1          100.0
would provide for a maturity of 20 years including 5 years of grace. Additional funding would be
provided under their respective lending terms by the Kuwait Fund for Social and Economic
Development, and the Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (KfW). While not included in this
financing plan, it is possible that other donors such as the Japanese OECF and the Swiss
Government would finance other high priority investments that were identified in the project
feasibility study. They could not be included as co-financing partners in this project as definite
commitments had not been made at the time of loan negotiations. Given the need to go ahead as
soon as possible with project implementation for improving the water, health and sanitation of
the affected population, and in view of the different locations of the components to be financed
by the co-financing agencies, there is no justification for foreseeing a condition of cross
effectiveness for the availability of financing from the different agencies. The Government
contribution would cover applicable taxes and duties, which represents VAT payable at the time
of payment for goods and services.
E. Financial Analysis
3.17 Insufficient income and high levels of accounts receivable prevented the water utilities in
the project area from operating at the desired level of efficiency, maintaining the installations,
and providing water of reasonable quality at the required pressure. The stated tariff-setting policy
of covering operating and maintenance cost including depreciation should over the past three
years have achieved the covering of all cost of the two Vodokanals (Khorezm Oblast and
Karakalpakstan) and Agrovodokanals (Khorezm Oblast and Karakalpakstan). This did not,
however, take place. With the exception of the Karakalpakstan Agrovodokanal, where the
Government contributed an operating subsidy equal to about 28 percent of the operating and
maintenance cost, only the operating costs of the other three water-distributing agencies were
covered, with insufficient funds left for covering the full cost of regular maintenance. Because of
past inflation and the low book value of assets, nominal depreciation did not reach replacement
values. Maintenance, if performed at all, was sporadic and addressed only the most urgent
operational requirements, in order to ensure that the systems did not collapse. The situation was



-37 -
no better at the Tuyamuyun-Nukus and Tuyamuyun-Urgench bulk water suppliers. While the
government provided these two agencies with substantial operating subsidies (about 80 percent),
insufficient funds meant maintenance was reduced to the basic minimum to ensure continued
operations.
3.18  Specifically, the water production and distributing agencies achieved the following levels
of cost recovery, and received the following subsidies as detailed in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: Cost Recovery and Government Subsidies
Cost Recovery
Bulk Supplier               1993        1994        1995        1996a
Tuyamuyun-Nukus                            n.a.       17%        14%        21%
Tuyamuyun-Urgench                         43%         14%        10%         18%
Government Subsidies (in '000 Sum)
Tuyamuyun-Urgench                     690,000      7,065      69,300     44,000
Tuyamuyun-Nukus                          986       10,063     71,200     21,200
Agrovodokanal- Karakalpakstan         194,000       1,598     26,622      6,567
Total                  884,968     18,726     167,122     71,767
w First quarter.
3.19  The table above shows that the two bulk water suppliers (Tuyamuyun-Nukus and
Tuyamuyun-Urgench) covered only a fraction of their costs. In comparison to previous years,
when the amount and percentage of the government subsidy increased, a turnaround occurred in
the first quarter of 1996. To what extent this can be sustained remains to be seen. Given the high
levels of subsidy (between 83 percent and 90 percent in the years 1994 and 1995), it is doubtful
that the stated government policy of eliminating all operating subsidies to the potable water
sector can be achieved by the year 2000.
3.20  The tight cash situation of the water utilities resulted in an almost total depletion of
stocks. Only minimum levels of operating supplies are left, and with the exception of some
pumps that were acquired long ago, not many spare parts can be found. Bank overdrafts or credit
facilities are not being used, because the high interest rate (100 percent p.a.) makes any
borrowing prohibitively expensive. The severity of the cash squeeze forced some of the water
utilities not to pay wages for two months or longer. Furthermore, the suppliers of the utilities,
primarily the power company, are being paid late with delays of up to six months.
3.21  The main cost element of the two bulk suppliers over the past four years has been the cost
of power, representing more than 55 percent of total cost, with materials/chemicals as the next
important cost item for Tuyamuyun-Urgench, and wages for Tuyamuyun-Nukus. Given the
design of the system, it is unlikely that the power cost would change much in the future. The
major cost element for the water distributing agencies in Khorezm Oblast was fuel (again due to
the cost of pumping), followed by wages. The water distributor Vodokanal in Karakalpakstan
had the highest personnel cost, followed by the cost of chemicals/materials. Allocations to the
repair fund were high in relative terms for all water-distributing agencies, but the level of repairs
and maintenance performed was insufficient for normal operations, as determined by the
mission. The main reasons for the frequency of repairs and its high cost is the lack of regular
preventive maintenance.



-38 -
Bifing and Collection
3.22 Large-volume consumers of all water-supplying agencies are billed monthly based on
meter reading. As a number of meters are either faulty or out of order, the water consumption is
measured by alternative means such as hours of pumping and pipe diameter. Each year, the water
agencies negotiate with these customers a water sales contract, which specifies the volume of
water to be supplied, the tariff, and (in some cases) payment arrangements. In case of non-
payment of the consumer's water bill, these arrangements provide for the direct payment by the
consumer's bank to the water agency (provided the bank account has a sufficiently high balance,
which is not always the case).
3.23  Water supplied to domestic customers is not metered. The monthly water consumption is
assessed on the water usage profile of the customer, which includes the number of people, water-
using appliances, area of plot, type and number of animals, etc. The assessed water consumption
determines the monthly tariff and is registered in each customer's water book, which contains
monthly payment coupons. Customers then settle their water bill by paying the monthly coupon
at the agency's offices. All operations are performed manually, and only Khorezrn Vodokanal
has recently started to use a computer, but only for some limited analyses of water bills. In view
of the need for a constant water supply to the large farms, industry and vital communal services,
only the supply to domestic customer's is cut off in case of non-payment.
3.24  Accounts receivable are high,    Table 3.4: Accounts Receivable by Agency
as indicated in the Table 3.4. As the Days of Outstanding Water Bills 1993 1994 1995 1996 
bulk water suppliers provide watere                                      
mostly to the two Vodokanals and the Tuyamu-Urgench             6  59   15    43
two Agrovodokanals, their accounts Khorezm Vodokanal          168  141  153   254
receivable (as measured in the days of Khorezm Agrovodokanal  308 244  216   682
outstanding  water  bills)  would Tuyamuyun-Nukus               0  139  113    77
normally be very small in comparison  Karakalpakstan Vodokanal  15  163  146   505
to the distributing agencies, who serve
a muh lager nd vriedcustmerKarakalpakstan Agrovodokanal   0  92   88   166
.a much larger and varied customer    't'              "'                6     M
base. Nevertheless, their accounts  First quarter.
receivable was high in the past, reflecting their inability to collect the water bills from the
distributing agencies, since they themselves have serious difficulties in receiving timely
payments from their customers-not so much from the small, individual water users, who pay
promptly, but from the large farms and associated processing industries. This structural problem
stems from the region's economic structure, whereby the large farms and associated processing
industries are closely linked to the harvesting cycle, with receipt of cash only at the time of the
sale of the harvest and of the processed products. The limited finances of the entities' and their
limited experience in financial management would require an adaptation process over a number
of years, until water services are paid on a regular basis. Finally, government agencies' water
bills are also not paid promptly, increasing the accounts receivable and hence the cash shortage
of the agencies.
Tariff Structure
3.25  While domestic (category I) consumers pay only a part of the full cost of the service
(varying from 10 percent to 62 percent), the tariff for category II and III customers (commerce,



-39 -
government agencies, industry, and farms) is set at three times the Vodokanals' water production
cost. This tariff policy, in particular the practice of increasing the water tariffs to category II and
III substantially more than those of category I, thus enlarging the cross-subsidy, has already
resulted in decreased water sales to industry and service. There are at present no incentives that
would lead to water conservation on the part of the highly-subsidized domestic consumers.
Details of tariffs and cost recovery can be found in Table Jl of Annex J.
3.26 An abnormality exists presently in the tariff for water supplied by the Uzbekistan Gas
Pipeline Company (UzTransGaz) to the Vodokanal and Agrovodokanal in Kungrad, situated on
the left bank of the Amu Darya River in Karakalpakstan. This tariff of 10.55 Sum/m3 is based on
the average cost for supplying technical water for its own operations at very high pressure (up to
45 bar), while the water supplied to the public utilities would require only a pressure of 6 bar. As
energy costs are approximately 80 percent of UzTransGaz's total operating costs for water
supply, the water companies are presently negotiating a tariff with UzTransGaz that reflects the
real cost of supplying water to the utilities.
Future Financial Performance
3.27 The future financial performance of the utilities would depend to a large degree on the
combined efforts in: (a) reducing water waste by the consumers through water demand
management measures; (b) reduction of system losses though a leak detection and repair
program; (c) timely collection of water bills; (d) control and reduction of operating expenses; and
(e) developing less costly sources of water supply than those operated under the Tuyamuyun bulk
water transfer scheme. This program can best be implemented with a change in the corporate
policy of the water agencies, for which the implementation of the technical assistance program
would be instrumental.
3.28   Financial projections were prepared by extrapolating the limited data base over the next
ten years and assuming reduction in accounts receivable, increases in water sales by about 3
percent per annum, containment of operating expenses, gradual build up of inventories, and
execution of a regular maintenance program. This analysis concluded that even with a program
of maintaining present bulk water production levels, cost containment, and tariff adjustments in
compensation for inflation, Government operating subsidies would be required at the level
indicated below.
Table 3.5: Assessment of Operating Subsidies Payable to Tuyamuyun-Urgench & Tuyamuyun-
Nukus
('000 sum)
1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  200)  2002  2003  2004  2005   2006
Government Subsidy         304,796 444,918 559,237 682,537 808,663 953,045 1,105,709 1,314,770 1,488,024 1,691,930 1,949,683
Reduction of Gov. Subsidy   91,037 384,662 517,281 625,264 718,231 755,553 828,092 706,790 752,367 818,740 817,672
Total Gov. Subsidy less Payments by  213,759  60,256 41,956 57,273  90,432 197,492 277,616 607,980 735,657 873,190 1,132,011
Vodokanals and Agrovodokanals
Total Gov. Subsidy less Payments by   81%   14%   7%   8%   10%/o  19%   23%   43%   47%   49%   55%
Vodokanals and Agrovodokanals in %
of cash operating cost



-40 -
Tariffs
3.29  Should the reorganization of the six water agencies into two regional ones in charge of
water production, distribution and sewerage (para. 1.29) take place in the near future, the
resulting economic setup should ensure that the least cost sources of water production would be
used.
3.30 The financial assessment carried out so far of the two Vodokanals and the two
Agrovodokanals concluded that continuation of the present financial policies would not achieve
any degree of sustainability in the near future. Although some data indicates that present tariff
levels at the distribution level cover operating and maintenance expenses as well as limited
depreciation, the recent mission found that regular maintenance does not take place because of
insufficient funds, that stocks have been depleted to levels incompatible with proper operations,
and that depreciation is calculated on non revalued assets, which because of past inflation is low.
Furthermore, substantial arrears have resulted in such cash shortages that employees were not
paid for two months or more. Given this background and considering the poverty level of the
population, which spends between 70 percent and 90 percent of its income for food purchases,
following Bank guidelines that would foresee full cost recovery would not be the right approach.
Instead, sufficient flexibility should be built in to the design of the covenants. Therefore it is
proposed to foresee that initially tariffs should be set at such levels that would permit covering:
(a) from the beginning, the full cost of operations, and changes in working capital requirements
(including those resulting from the build up of inventories); and (b) an increased proportions over
time of the cost of maintenance (established according to a maintenance plan to be designed by
consultants).
3.31  Future tariff adjustments would have to be practical and equitable. Therefore a tariff
policy study should be undertaken, which would have as objectives to: (a) lay down the
principles of a practical and equitable tariff structure; (b) define the parameters for achieving the
financial viability of the entities tariffs; (c) outline efficiency pricing principles; and (d) prepare
such a structure. Given the importance of the applied tariff policy, agreement was reached at
negotiations that until the implementation of the tariff structure referred to in paragraph 1.37,
the Government would: (a) cause each water agency for water distribution (or any successor
thereto) to set tariffs at levels that would enable the water agency to generate revenues sufficient
to cover its operation expenses, working capital requirements and a progressively increasing
proportion of its maintenance cost; and (b) cause each water agency for water production to set
tarifs at levels that would enable it to generate revenue sufficient, when added to subsidies
provided to cover the pumping costs, its operation expenses, working capital requirements and a
progressively increasing proportion of its maintenance cost.



-41 -
3.32  Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable are forecast to go    Table 3.6: Projected
gradually from a high 150 days of outstanding average daily billings  Average of
down to 60 days by the year 2002 as Table 3.6 indicates.      Outstanding Water
3.33  As the water distributing agencies can only pay the bulk water  Brofec  Avg D  of
suppliers upon payment of their water bills, this linkage would not    Outstanding Water Bills
permit much improvement in the accounts receivable of the bulk  1996        150
water suppliers. With the payment of water bills by the large farms  1997   135
and the industries linked to the harvesting cycle, reducing the
accounts receivable can only be achieved over time and would    1998        120
depend to a large extent on diversification of the economic activity  1999  105
and the access to affordable credit facilities. In order to ensure the  2000  90
financial viability of the water utilities, it is essential that accounts
receivable be reduced to acceptable limits.                     2001         75
3.34  While in the past no great difficulties were experienced with  2002 _ 60
payment of due water bills by domestic customers, this was, however, not the case for the large
farms, industry and government agencies. To ensure in the future timely payment of water bills
by these customer groups, agreement with the Government was reached at negotiations that it
would cause the water agencies to adopt and enforce procedures for the gradual reduction of
their accounts receivable for water supplies to farms and industrial establishments, including the
use of contractual provisions in the annual contracts with such consumers requiring monthly
payment for services supported by a bank guarantee, so that accounts receivable for water
supply to farms and industrial establishments would not exceed, on average, the equivalent of:
135 days of billing by the end of the year 1997, 120 days of billing by the end of the year 1998,
105 days of billing by the end of the year 1999, 90 days of billing by the end of the year 2000, 75
days of billing by the end of the year 2001, and 60 days of billing by the end of the year 2002 and
each subsequent year. To meet this requirement, appropriate amounts would have to be included
in the budget of each agency. Therefore agreement was reached at negotiations that the
Government would ensure that: (a) each water agency prepare a draft budget for each year, and
a forecast of its projected water sales to each institutional consumer for the following calendar
year, together with a statement of the total outstanding water bill of such institutional consumer;
and (b) the draft annual budget for each institutional consumer would include allocations
adequate to cover the amounts forecast and outstanding for water sales.
F. Economic Analysis
3.35  Beneficiaries of the Project The immediate impacts of the project would be a safe and
reliable water supply services for about 1.53 million people. The project would also directly
benefit about 50,000 inhabitants with improved sanitation facilities. Table 3.7 presents a
breakdown by region of the population that would benefit from the implementation of the
project.



- 42 -
Table 3.7: Beneficiaries of the Project
(in thousand inhabitants)
Rehabilitation NewAccess to NewAccess to
Area                       of Existing   Safe Water   Improved
Water Supply    Supply    Sanitation
Karakalpakstan Republic
Urban Population
Kizketken peri-urban settlement - main pipeline   25.0          7.0
Nukus except Kizketken - main pipeline           176.0
Beruni and Turtkul - main pipeline                            65.3
Rural Population
Beruni and Turtkul - main pipeline                            64.3
Other rural areas - main pipeline                233.8
Populations with desalination units-local water sources  56.9
Other rural areas - local water sources          108.5       160.0
On-site sanitation - rural and peri-urban population                      25.0
Subtotal                      600.2        296.6        25.0
Khorezm Oblast
Urban Population
Urgench - main pipeline                          136.0
Rural Population
Rural areas - main pipeline                      457.2
Rural areas - local water sources                             42.0
On-site sanitation - rural and peri-urban population                      25.0
Subtotal                      593.2         42.0        25.0
Total Beneficiaries              1,193.4       338.6        50.0
3.36 Apart from above impacts, the water supply component would also provide additional
water supply to serve industrial, institutional and commercial users. The additional volume of
piped water to be sold to these consumers by the year 2002 has been estimated at 6.2 million
cubic meters, representing 22 percent of incremental sales volume.
3.37  Furthermore, the project would help to strength the institutional capacity of the various
agencies working in the sector aiming to optimize the use of existing infrastructure and local
water sources, improve planning and project design capacity, increase productivity and
efficiency, and reduce water losses and waste. For example, it is expected that the project would
be able to satisfy an incremental demand of 28.8 million cubic meters of water by year 2005,
with an increment in production capacity of only 13.1 million cubic meters. Some economies of
scale are also expected to be gained by the integration of the various agencies into a single unit.
Through the implementation of the demand management component, the proposed project would
encourage water conservation on domestic consumers.
3.38 Least-Cost Solution. The project has selected the most economic alternatives to improve
the overall provision of safe water and the environment conditions of urban and rural
populations. Demand management and leakage reduction programs were selected over other
alternatives to increase production capacity. Development of local sources (e.g., groundwater
lenses and irrigation canals) for water 'production would allow to reduce the excessive



- 43 -
operational costs of having to pump water from the Tuyamuyun reservoir. Improved on-site
sanitation facilities were preferred over centralized waterbome sewerage systems in rural areas.
3.39 Economic Costs. The economic analysis was conducted using the average market rate of
exchange applicable in February 1996, i.e., US$1.00 = Sum 36. Because the total investment
costs of the proposed project are expected to be incurred in foreign exchange (e.g., dollars), no
conversion factors were used for local financial costs. Similarly, no conversion factors were used
for foreign financial costs. It was considered inappropriate to use a shadow exchange rate
different from the market rate. Value added taxes, estimated at 17 percent of project costs, were
excluded from total costs. Physical contingencies estimated at 5 percent (technical assistance)
and 10 percent (non-technical assistance) of project costs were included in the economic costs.
3.40  Operating costs were estimated on the basis of current production costs per cubic meter of
water, with adjustments to reflect economies of scale in administration and labor costs due to the
consolidation of the sector and the economic cost of power (US$0.07 per KwH). Average
variable costs per cubic meter of water produced were assumed as follows: US$0.19 for piped
water supply in both urban and rural areas, US$0.67 for potable water from existing desalination
units in the "without project" scenario and $0.56 in the "with project" scenario, and US$0.03 for
water from hand pumps. The average variable cost of piped water reflects the use of local
sources, which would be blended with Tuyamuyun water to satisfy incremental demand.
3.41  Economic Benefits. Benefits were assessed for each type of beneficiary. The starting
point for estimating benefits was the "Willingness to Pay" survey carried out under the Social
Needs Assessment in November 1994. This was complemented by the "Water Vendors" survey,
the "Taste Tolerance Survey," and the "Hand Pump" survey carried out during the preparation
phase of the project. Data availability allowed a detailed estimation of benefits for different
beneficiaries.
3.42 Economic Rates of Return. The analysis assumed an average project economic life of
30 years after construction. The replacement costs of those components with a shorter life span
such as the pumps and motors for the pumping stations, and the filters and the pumps for the
hand pumps, were included in the cost strearn. Although the life span of the pipelines and
distribution networks is about 40 years, no residual values were included in the calculation. Cost
and benefit streams were calculated for the "without project" situation and the "with project"
situation.
3.43  The various subcomponents of the proposed project including the technical assistance
were packaged together to define 10 individual schemes, 6 water schemes in Karakalpakstan, 3
individual schemes in Khorezm and 1 sanitation scheme in both regions. Table 3.8 summaries
the net direct economic benefits for the various types of beneficiaries used in the base case
scenario.



-44 -
Table 3.8: Net Direct Economic Benefits by Beneficiary
(in US$ February 1996 prices per month)
Cost Savings by Not Having to:
Beneficiary                Fetch   Buyfrom    Boil   Consumer   Total
Water   Vendors   Water   Surplus   Benefits
Urban household with new piped supplies   0.25     0.23      0.16      1.66     2.31
Urban households with improved piped supplies    --  --      0.16      0.49     0.64
Rural households with new piped supplies  0.48      --       0.16      2.01     2.62
Rural households with improved piped supplies    --  --      0.16      0.93      1.09
Rural households with new desalination    0.39      --       0.16      0.17     0.78
Rural households with improved desalination  0.05    --      --        0.33     0.38
Rural households with new hand pumps      0.08       --      --        0.36     0.44
Rural households with improved hand pumps  0.12     --       --        0.11     0.23
3.44 Sensitivity Analysis. Several risks that would jeopardize the successful implementation
of the project and effect its economic return were identified. They included: (b) reduction in
benefits because waste and losses would not reduce to the levels proposed under this project,
reduction in production costs do no materialize, assumptions regarding cost savings of not
having to boil water and not having to buy water from vendors are over-optimistic, and time
savings of not having to fetch water are less than expected; (b) increase in costs because of
unexpected expenditures, and higher operations and maintenance (O&M) costs; and (c) a lag in
benefits because of construction delays.
3.45  Two sensitivity analyses were carried out for the proposed project. The first one is a
deterministic one, and assess the impacts on the economic rate of return of: (a) an increase in
investment costs of 15 percent above contingencies already included in the base case; (b) a
decrease in benefits of 15 percent; and (c) a one-year delay in beginning the implementing the
project. The second analysis is a risk-based sensitivity analysis. Given the high degree of
uncertainty surrounding the data used in the evaluation, it was considered appropriate to carry
out a risk-based sensitive analysis using the @RISK simulation packages, which uses a
Montecarlo probabilistic approach. The results of the analysis are summarized in Table 3.9 and
Table 3. 10.
Table 3.9: Results of a Deterministic Sensitivity Analysis
Scenario                       Internal Economic Rate of Return
Karakalpakstan      Khorezm            Both
Base Case                             17.6%            18.2%            17.9%
Costs increase by 15%                 15.2%            16.2%            15.7%
Benefits decrease by 15%              10.9%           12.9%             11.9%
Project delays by one year            15.4%            16.1%            15.7%



-45 -
Table 3.10: Results of the Risk-Based Analysis
Subproject                          Min       Mean       Max
Rural sanitation, Karakalpakstan and Khorezm             2.4%        2.7%       3.1%
Rehabilitation of Urgench piped water supply, Khorezm     5.7%      10.2%      13.8%
Rehabilitation of rural desalination units, Karakalpakstan  4.1%    10.8%      17.4%
Expansion in rural areas with local water sources, Khorezm  6.9%    11.0%      15.4%
Expansion in rural areas with local water sources, Karakalpakstan    5.9%  12.0%  16.7%
Kizketken piped water supply, Karakalpakstan              7.2%      12.3%      17.8%
Rehabilitation of Nukus piped water supply, Karakalpakstan  7.4%    12.6%      16.9%
Beruni and Turtkul piped water supply, Karakalpakstan    10.0%      17.7%      26.1%
Rehabilitation of rural piped water supply, Khorezm      18.6%      25.3%      33.9%
Rehabilitation of rural piped water, Karakalpakstan     21.5%       32.6%      46.1%
All water schemes in Karakalpakstan                      11.8%      17.5%      24.4%
All water schemes in Khorezm                             12.8%      18.2%      24.5%
All schemes in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm                12.3%      17.8%      24.5%
G. Project Benefits
3.46 The main benefits of the project would be more access to improved, adequate, safe and
reliable water supply services for about 1.12 million people living in rural areas and 0.41 million
people living in urban areas The project would also directly benefit about 50,000 inhabitants in
rural and peri-urban areas with improved sanitation facilities. The project would improve the
health and productivity of these populations.
H. Project Risks
3.47 Various categories of risks are associated with the implementation of the project. These
relate to the risk of: (a) completing the construction of the facilities on time and at the forecast
cost; (b) building up the required capacity of the institutions to properly manage and maintain
existing facilities and those to be constructed under the project; (c) lacking the capacity to pay by
the benefiting population for the improved services; (d) achieving timely payment of water bills
by large customers and governments agencies; and (e) the Government's reluctance to continue
with the implementation of reforms. Should all these risks occur simultaneously, the adverse
impact on the implementation of the project could be severe. This, however, is unlikely to
happen. Considerable safeguards are built into the project for mitigating the risks. First, the
project cost estimates include adequate provisions for price and physical contingencies. Second,
strong project management with the support of experienced consultants would be in place at
project start. Third, a _omprehensive technical assistance and corporate development program
with training, to be implemented through a twinning arrangement and with the assistance of
experienced consultants, should ensure that staff and management not only become familiar with
modem utility management practices, but more important, apply these. Fourth, implementation
of water conservation measures should diminish water waste in the future and lead to a reduction
in operating expenses. Fifth, reinforcement of existing budgetary regulations should lead to the
timely payment of water bills. Sixth, an annual project review would make it possible to take



- 46 -
corrective actions, if necessary; and finally the proposed set of monitoring indicators and strong
supervision should help realize the objectives of the proposed project.
I. Environmental Impact
3.48 Environmental Assessment. Preparation of the project has included environmental
studies consistent with the applicable procedures of the Government of Uzbekistan and the
provisions of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment." In
accordance with these procedures the consultants have prepared an environmental analysis,
complying with the requirements of a category B project (see Annex E). The project is intended
to implement a series of urgent schemes to improve the viability and operation of the water
supply and sanitation sectors. The overall impact would be a substantial improvement in public
health and quality of life while maintaining or improving the quality of regional water resources.
3.49  The project activities involve primarily rehabilitation of the existing pipelines and
treatment plants by repairs, replacement or provision of spare parts and equipment. New
constructions are limited to the completion of suspended civil works, development of alternative
water sources, and modest expansions of the water mains and distribution networks. Impacts on
traffic flow and problems of noise and dust from construction activities would be temporary and
suitable mitigation measures would be taken to minimize these impacts. The project has a
sewerage component consistent with the water supply schemes to handle any increases in sewage
flow. The project also has a sanitation component integrated with a health and hygiene education
program to enable maximum improvements in public health. Adverse environmental impacts of
the project are therefore insignificant as compared to the overall benefits.



- 47 -
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION
A. Overall Organization
4.1   At present six organizations are responsible for management and operation of water
supply systems in the project area. These comprise the bulk water suppliers (Tuyamuyun-Nukus
and Tuyamuyun-Urgench), the Vodokanals, and the Agrovodokanals in each region. The GoU
have recently initiated discussions with the concerned parties to reorganize the water agencies in
each region. During negotiation it was agreed that a restructuring plan for these agencies would
be produced for the Bank by January 1998.
4.2   The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the State Committee for Forecasting and
Statistics (Goskomprognostat) would be responsible for the overall coordination of project
implementation. It would administer the loan agreements negotiated with project cofinanciers,
and would support the execution of the respective project components by the unified water
utilities. It would be assisted by foreign consultants (the Project Management and Supervision
(PMS) consultants) in the management and supervision of construction of the project
components, and by the Planning and Engineering Design (PED) consultants for detailed
engineering design and bid document preparation.
4.3   The PIU was established within Goskomprognostat in a capacity building effort during
the preparation of the Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project, with funding from the Dutch
Consultants Trust Fund, and is now fully operational. Goskomprognostat has a central
coordinating role between the different ministries and other Government organizations, and this
role makes it an ideal location for the PIU, to facilitate the coordination between the various
regional and local agencies affected by this project, which have had no prior involvement in
externally-funded projects. In addition, an Interagency Project Working Group (IPWG), with
representation from senior officials from agencies participating in the project, has been advising
Goskomprognostat throughout the preparation of the project and will continue to assist it
throughout implementation.
4.4  In addition to overall coordination, the PIU would be responsible for common
implementation functions such as project accounting, procurement, disbursements, consolidation
of quarterly and annual progress reports, annual work programs and budgets. The PIU has
appointed directors and established regional offices in Nukus, Karakalpakstan and Urgench,
Khorezm which would act as local coordination agencies and facilitate the coordination between
different Government agencies at the local level for all components.
B. Performance of Existing Organizations
Existing Structure
4.5   Overall Responsibility. The existing structure for project identification, design,
implementation and operation in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast is highly complex, with
different organizations having apparently overlapping responsibilities. Organization charts are
included in Annex B. There are three main organizations with overall responsibility for water



- 48 -
supply and sewerage, which are: (a) the Khakimiat (Council of Ministers in Karakalpakstan),
with responsibility for water supplies in the urban and rural centers; (b) the Ministry of
Agriculture, which is responsible for rural water supplies; and (c) the Ministry of Communal
Services, which has some responsibility for water supplies in the urban and rural centers, and full
responsibility for the development of the regional water supply systems.
4.6   Project Planning. Project implementation is based on the master plan prepared for the
region some years ago, which aims to provide the whole population with piped water at an
estimated cost of over US$1 billion. Project planning is carried out annually, based on this plan
and the amount of funds likely to be available for each calendar year, by three separate offices in
each region. For Karakalpakstan these are: (a) the Vodokanal for urban and rural centers; (b) the
Directorate of Priaralye for rural water supplies; and (c) the Managing Office for Operations and
Development of Regional Water Treatment Systems for the Tuyamuyun-Nukus pipeline system.
The organizations in Khorezm Oblast are broadly similar except for the planning organization for
urban and rural centers, which is the Managing Office for Capital Construction, rather than the
Vodokanal. These organizations then commission designs, usually from the same design institute
for each organization, and supervise construction. There is little or no consultation with the
majority of the water supply operators during this process, the exception being Vodokanal
Karakalpakstan, which plans and manages its own projects. This is the only organization which
appears to carry out the majority of the functions expected of an implementing agency.
4.7   Construction. Construction is carried out by a limited number of governmental
organizations, who usually operate in a particular area only, such as rural water supplies or urban
water supplies. These organizations are usually state-owned enterprises that were formerly
construction departments of various ministries such as the Ministry of Construction. Contracts
are awarded based on the designer's cost estimate in 1991 rubles; there is no tendering process,
and construction agencies are paid according to the cost estimates, with labor costs indexed to
take account of inflation, and material costs paid at actual cost. Materials are usually provided by
the client, and there is often difficulty in obtaining imported materials such as pipes, resulting in
lengthy project delays. Problems often arise because the clients frequently exhaust their annual
budget by September, and the construction organizations are often not paid until the following
year's budget allocation becomes available, between February and April.
4.8   High rates of activity are often reported: Karakalpakstan Priaralye had an annual pipe
laying program of 500 km up to 1993. Since then the rate has fallen to 150 km each year, but
even this figure is misleading: in 1996 126 km of pipeline have been laid, but this is mainly
relaying of pipelines which have been installed some years ago but never used, and now are
deemed to require rehabilitation/relaying. Around 80 percent of the pipes can be reused during
rehabilitation, so the Priaralye achieves its annual targets despite the fact that there is a shortage
of pipes.
4.9   Construction Supervision. Supervision is carried out by the management organizations,
but these usually have very few supervisory staff and typically one staff member supervises
between 5 and 20 projects. These supervisors are also responsible for measurement of the works
completed each month for payment purposes, so although the organizations claim that they are
responsible for quality control, and check that the work complies with the design, it is apparent
that the actual level of quality control is minimal. The capability within these organizations for
supervision of construction of the components of this project, without external assistance, is



- 49 -
clearly extremely limited. In addition, these organizations have no experience of working with
international contractors or contract conditions, and competitive bidding by contractors is a new
concept to them. It is difficult to visualize these organizations playing a significant role in
implementation of the proposed project without training. At handover of projects there is usually
a representative of the operator and the managing organization present to witness final testing of
pipelines.
4.10 Operations. Operation is the responsibility of three agencies in each area: (a)
Tuyamuyun-Nukus and Tuyamuyun-Urgench for the bulk water supply systems; (b) the
Vodokanals for the urban and rural centers; and (c) the Agrovodokanals for the rural areas. The
performance of these organizations over the past several years has been impaired by insufficient
and inadequate equipment, a lack of funds, a shortage of supplies, ever-rising power costs, and to
some degree over-staffing. The capital works program has been dictated by a centrally developed
plan, which does not consider the needs of the region, or the ability of the regional organizations
to finance, operate or maintain the systems provided. Moreover, the separation between the
planning, design and execution of capital schemes means that the operators are often provided
with schemes which cannot be operated, for example distribution systems in rural settlements
where the trunk main linking the distribution system to the main pipeline has not been completed
because materials are not available. This is particularly marked in the case of the
Agrovodokanals: in Karakalpakstan it was reported by the Directorate of Priaralye that 600 km
of distribution pipelines had been laid, but could not be commissioned because the associated
trunk mains had not been completed.
4.11  Water tariffs are set at a very low level, partly because they are dictated by political
expediency and the perceived ability of the population to pay, rather than the financial
requirements of the operators. This fiuther hinders the operating organizations, and the
combination of low tariffs and lack of resources to maintain the large scale projects provided for
the regions, means that the condition of the systems is in a state of continual decline.
Nonetheless, these organizations, or the combined organizations after the proposed
reorganization, would be responsible for operating and maintaining the new systems.
4.12 Obi Hayet. This organization is a joint stock company in which the GoU at present holds
a majority stake. Obi Hayet is predominantly a contracting organization, with a design capability,
but are moving into the operations field. Obi Hayet has been appointed the implementing agency,
and eventual operator for the Pilot Water Supply projects funded through Kreditanstalt fir
Wiederaufbau (KfW) and have also been given the authority by the GoU to install and operate
rural water supply schemes in other Oblasts of Uzbekistan. Their contracting arm is strong and
has more commercial ability than the other contracting organizations, although at present they
have little experience of operating water supply systems.
Proposed Technical Assistance
4.13  Given these serious deficiencies in the local organizations, technical assistance has been
included in the project, first to ensure that the project is sustainable in the longer tern, and
second to ensure that project implementation is carried out in accordance with the Bank's and
other cofinancier's requirements. The proposed organization of the Technical Assistance
components related to the contract packages to be implemented is shown in the Project
Implementation Plan.



- 50 -
4.14 The first requirement would be fulfilled primarily by the PMS consultants, who would
provide the international expertise required by the implementing organizations at the regional
level. They would utilize largely local staff to carry out the construction supervision for the
majority of the Water Supply component, and would be responsible for organizing and carrying
out training programs for the local staff to provide familiarity with international contract
procedures prior to commencement of implementation. They would also assist the PIU to
monitor and coordinate other consultancy assignments. The Sanitation and Health Consultant
would be responsible to the PIU/PMS consultants for the implementation of the Sanitation and
Health component, including developing technical specifications for procurement of goods under
the individual subcomponents.
4.15  In order to assist the operating agencies in the longer term, three consultancies are
planned: an Institutional Strengthening program; a Demand Management and Loss Reduction
program; and a Tariff Study. In addition, the role of the Sanitation and Health Consultants would
include institutional strengthening and capacity building in this sector. Draft Terms of Reference
were discussed and agreed with the GoU during the pre-appraisal mission in October 1996.
C. Implementation of Components
4.16  Overall Management of Implementation. Annex B shows the proposed organization
for implementation of the project. The PIU would be responsible to Goskomprognostat for the
project implementation, and they would be assisted by the PMS consultants and the PED
consultant. The PIU would coordinate the consultants responsible for the Sanitation, Health and
Hygiene component, the Institutional Strengthening Program, and the Demand Management
Program. Specifications for procurement for works, goods and services under these contracts
would be provided by the consultants, assisted by the PED consultants.
4.17 The PED consultants would overlap with the detailed engineering designs for the full
scale project funded under the Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project and assist the PIU in
contract bidding and supervising works for the pilot project. They would also be responsible for
supervising, inspecting and monitoring the quality of the construction of works and the
installation of equipment to ensure compliaice with drawings and specifications.
4.18 The PMS consultants would assist the PIU to manage the tender process, carry out bid
evaluations, and finalize the contracts for the subsequent goods and works packages including
obtaining approvals or no objections from the Bank and other cofinanciers. Most of the contracts
would be fully engineered by the PED consultant prior to bidding and award. The Project
Implementation Plan indicates where the other consultants would have an involvement in the
procurement process, generally in specifying the goods or works to be provided and preparing
the necessary technical specifications, but with the actual procurement process being handled by
the PIU and PMS consultants. A step-by-step outline for procurement of International
Competitive Bid works is included in Annex B.
4.19 A project launch workshop would be held soon after the loan becomes effective, with the
participation of the PIU staff and key officials of the different Government agencies, to provide a
sound understanding of the project, proposed implementation arrangements and Bank's and other
cofmancier's procedures and practices.
4.20 Water Supply Component. Bank experience and practice encourages implementation of
the project components by the ultimate operators, so as to foster ownership and ensure that



- 51 -
training is being provided during the construction and installation phase. Supervision and
management of the works contracts would be carried out largely by the PMS consultants, but
with the active participation of the regional Vodokanals. The PMS consultants would be
encouraged to recruit local staff (on secondment) jointly with the PIU from the current
construction supervisory organizations as far as is possible, for the duration of the project. The
secondment of staff would build up ownership of the new installations by these agencies, train
staff during project implementation, and eventually lead to the building up of a capital works
division within each of the water utilities. In accordance with existing practice, upon completion
of the works, they would be turned over to the water utilities and included in their asset base.
This arrangement is considered to be the most effective one for project implementation, since it
would utilize existing experience, be only slightly different from existing procedures, and build
up ownership.
4.21  In order to improve the level of service, increase cost recovery, and reduce water losses,
urban and rural communities would be encouraged to form Community Water User Associations
(CWUAs). The scheme is being introduced and tested initially in the Kizketken settlement under
the Pilot Water Supply Engineering project. The 30,000 residents of this community have
selected a committee of eight members with two women representatives to negotiate with the
Vodokanal on all aspects of project design, implementation and operation, as well as the setting
and collection of tariffs. Bulk metering is being introduced on a trial basis and the CWUA will
be responsible for collecting tariffs and monitoring excessive water usage and water losses in the
system. They will represent the community in pressing the Vodokanal to provide the level of
service commensurate with the higher level of tariffs that they have negotiated with this agency.
Experience gained in this community would be applied to extend the scheme to communities
throughout the region.
4.22 Demand-based Rural Water Supplies. In Khorezm Oblast this component would be
financed by the German aid agency KfW and implemented by Obi Hayet, which would also
operate the schemes on behalf of the communities. Rural communities would be selected based
on their willingness to pay for the improved water supply. They would be expected to cover the
full O&M cost of the schemes which would be designed and costed with the full participation of
the selected communities according to the level of service that they specify. As in the case of the
urban areas, the rural communities would form CWUAs to represent them in negotiations with
Obi Hayet for project implementation and operation. They would also be responsible for
collecting water tariffs and monitoring excessive water use and water losses. The Republic of
Karakalpakstan rural water supply component would be managed by the Sanitation, Health and
Hygiene component consultant in close coordination with their other activities. The detailed
implementation arrangements would be similar in the two regions and are spelled out in more
detail in Annex B.
4.23 Sanitation, Health and Hygiene Component. This component would cover the rural
portion of the project area and be demand-driven. Results of the five social assessments and of
the sanitation, health and hygiene pilot projects developed during project preparation, and from
Bank-financed projects developed elsewhere, such as the Nepal Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project, the Peru Social Investment and Compensation Fund Project, and the India
Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply form the basis of the design of this component. Participatory
activities would aim at: (a) increasing ownership of the new and improved facilities and services



- 52 -
that are provided by involving rural communities in planning, designing, implementing,
operating and maintaining low-cost water supply, and sanitation and hygiene schemes; (b)
introducing government agencies responsible for the provision of water supply, sanitation and
health services to the benefits of stakeholder consultation and participation in decision making
concerning improvements and expansions of these services; and (c) gaining a better
understanding of cultural, social, socio-economic and community organizational factors that
would lead to the selection of the most appropriate and sustainable interventions in the sector.
4.24  The Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast are divided into 15 and 11 rayons
(or districts) respectively, which are governed by local administrations known as Hokimiats.
Within each rayon are a number of state or collective farms called Kolkhozes, and within each
Kolkhoze there are distinct communities known as Auls. The numbers of each vary from rayon
to rayon, for example, in Kegeyli Rayon (Karakalpakstan) there are 6 Kolkhozes and 131 Auls,
while in Shavat Rayon (Khorezm Oblast) there are 12 Kolkhozes and 80 Auls. The Kolkhozes
form separate administration units responsible not only for agricultural production, but also for
the social and economic welfare of its communities. In each Kolkhoze participating in the
project, a Kolkhoze Committee (KC) would be formed consisting of the Director (Reis), chief
doctor, Aksekal (Aul community leader), and other community representatives. The KC would
approve and coordinate project activities in each Kolkhoze and selects and advises the Kolkhoze
Operational Group, composed of a senior nurse, chief of the construction brigade, a school
teacher or nurse, and if possible a representative of SES. The Kolkhoze Operational Group
assists construction teams, Aul nurses involved in health promotion and education, and school
teachers and nurses to develop project activities in each Kolkhoze.
4.25  The KC liaises with the Hokimiats of the rayon to promote the project activities proposed
in their Kolkhoze and to arrange project financing. A Rayon Project Manager in each Hokimiat
would coordinate and oversee the project activities in the respective rayon. Both the KC and
Rayon Project Manager would be assisted by an Interregional Project Management Unit (IPMU)
consisting of the Sanitation, Health and Hygiene component consultant and up to ten local
consultants.
4.26 Through the Kolkhoze Committees, rural communities would make decisions about the
identification, design, implementation, operation and maintenance of the low-cost alternative
rural water supply and sanitation schemes. Stakeholders (rural communities, community-based
and other non-governmental organizations, local and regional governments, and water, sanitation
and health services, as well as national government agencies and other institutions that were
involved in project preparation) would be involved in participatory implementation activities
such as health promotion and education activities, and the intersectoral committee that would
assist project development.
4.27 The Kolkhoze Committees, who run the rural collective farms in the project area, would
prepare, participate in the implementation, operate and maintain subprojects to improve water
supply, sanitation and hygiene in their communities. The community-based water supply,
sanitation and hygiene subprojects would have the following stages:
(a)   Preparation. The component would finance subprojects to install hand pumps,
and other low-cost water supplies, latrines and handwashing basins, and health
promotion activities, as well as to develop micro-enterprises which could produce



- 53 -
inputs for the project. The Kolkhoze Committees would identify and prepare the
subprojects, and would submit them to the Hokimiats. Preparation costs can be
financed retroactively by the component, up to 10 percent of the total cost of the
subproject.
(b)   Appraisal and Selection of Subprojects. Subprojects would be appraised and
selected on a competitive basis by the Hokimiat, assisted by one representative
from each Kolkhoze Committee, on the basis of transparent eligibility and
selection criteria. Such criteria are included in the Project Operational Manual that
will be prepared by the Sanitation, Health and Hygiene Consultant, and include:
(i) type of proponent; (ii) type of project; (iii) budget; and (iv) time frame. The
selection criteria include: (i) technical quality of the proposal; (ii) proportion of
community co-financing; (iii) community participation in operation and
maintenance arrangements; and (iv) sustainability of the subproject.
(c)   Financing. Each Hokimiat would be allowed to approve subprojects up to an
annual financial allocation established on the basis of a formula described in the
Project Operational Manual.
(d)   Implementation.  Subprojects  would  be  executed  by  community-based
organizations (CBOs), other non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and local
private contractors. Payments would be made directly from the PIU to the
contractors on the basis of authorizations from the Hokimiats.
(e)   Technical Assistance. The PIU would retain the services of a consulting firm (the
Sanitation, Health and Hygiene Consultant) that would assist KCs and Hokimiats
in preparation, appraisal and selection, financing, and implementation of the
subprojects.
(f)   Monitoring and Evaluation. The PIU would retain the services of an independent
consultant to carry out an ex-post evaluation of a sample of subprojects. Such
evaluation would use a mix of beneficiary assessment and economic analysis.
4.28  Technical Assistance Components. The technical assistance to water agencies would be
implemented directly by the water agencies, in close coordination with the PIU. This would
foster a sense of ownership of the proposed project within the agencies themselves and is
essential if the technical assistance is to be successful. During negotiation it was agreed that by
October 1, 1997 the Borrower would: (a) tender, negotiate, and sign the consultancy assignments
for Institutional Strengthening, and Sanitation, Health and Hygiene components; (b) issue the
invitation for bids for the Tariff Study; and (c) complete the bidding documents for the first year
investments to be financed under the loan.
D. Procurement
4.29 General. The majority of the project construction packages would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). International and National Shopping (IS/NS) or three
written quotations would be used to procure small items of equipment or civil works
respectively. All IBRD-financed components, including consultants' services, would be procured
in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits published in January 1995 and revised in August 1996, and the Guidelines for the



- 54 -
Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997. Standard Bidding
Documents and Standard Contracts for consultants and other documents issued by the Bank
would be used as appropriate for civil works, goods and services to be procured. A general
procurement notice was published in Development Business on March 16, 1997 advising
contractors and consultants of the likely contracts to be awarded under the project. Procurement
of the non-Bank-financed portions of the project would be done under the guidelines and
procedures of the cofinanciers.
4.30 The procurement arrangements for the project components are described below, and are
summarized in Table 4.1. Detailed procurement arrangements indicating the number of
procurement packages, their value, and the method are presented in Annex C.
Table 4.1: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million) "
Project Element          ICB      NCB    Other"' N.B.Fh'  Total
Works                            53.23     1.67     9.06     9.42   73.38
(27.95)   (1.43)   (7.74)   --    (37.12)
Goods                             4.29    --        7.04    --      11.33
(3.66)   --      (6.04)   --      (9.70)
Consultancy Services and Training    --   --       26.46     0.83   27.29
(23.18)   --    (23.18)
Refinancing of the Pilot Project  --      --        5.00    --       5.00
(5.00)   --     (5.00)
Total               57.52     1.67    47.56    10.25  117.00
(31.61)   (1.43)  (41.96)   --    (75.00)
a! Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts financed by the IBRD.
b/ N.B.F. = Not Bank Financed.
sf Other = short list, national and international shopping, simnplified NCB, and linited intenational bidding.
4.31  Civil Works. The majority of the civil works contracts proposed would have a value in
excess of US$1 million and would be procured through ICB procedures. The rehabilitation of
existing desalination units (US$1.2 million) would be procured by Limited International Bidding
(LIB) since there are only a few firms with the requisite experience and expertise. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) would be used for works contracts estimated to cost less than US$1
million per contract up to an aggregated amount not to exceed US$5 million.
4.32 Minor works for community-based rural water supply, sanitation and health promotion
activities, estimated to cost less than US$200,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$10 million,
would be procured through quotations from local contractors or community-based societies
under fixed-price contracts awarded following the soliciting and evaluation, under standard
simplified national competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank, in response to a
written invitation.
4.33 Goods. Procurement of goods would be either through ICB, IS or NS, the method of
procurement being dependent on the value of the package and the type of goods to be purchased.



- 55 -
For contracts for goods, to be awarded on the basis of ICB, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference of 15 percent or the amount of applicable customs duties, whichever is lower, to
qualified domestic manufactures of goods in accordance with the IBRD procurement guidelines
dated January 1995 and revised August 1996. Because of the limited availability of the particular
equipment in Uzbekistan, the majority of the goods are expected the be sourced internationally.
4.34 ICB procedures would be used for goods estimated to cost US$300,000 or more. IS
would be used for procurement of goods between US$300,000 and US$50,000, up to an
aggregate level of US$6.0 million, and would require quotations from at least three suppliers
from at least two eligible countries. NS procedures for contracts up to US$50,000 each would be
used for locally available, off-the-shelf equipment and furniture items of small value and
standard specifications up to an aggregate total amount of US$900,000.
4.35  Consultant Services. Five consultant services for the Bank-financed portions of the
project would be selected through short lists of experienced international firms, in accordance
with IBRD Guidelines for use of consultants, Guidelines for Selection of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers published by the World Bank in January 1997.
4.36 IBRD Prior Review. Prior review would be required for all civil works and goods
contracts procured through ICB or LIB. Prior review would also be required for the first two
NCB and simplified NCB works contracts and the first two IS and NS procured contracts for
goods, and all consultancy contracts over US$100,000 for firns and US$50,000 for individuals.
Letters of invitation, evaluation reports, proposals and negotiated contracts for these consultancy
contracts would be pre-reviewed by the Bank. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-
award review.
4.37 Reporting. The PIU would collect procurement information and report to the IBRD and
other cofinanciers as appropriate for each contract award. In addition, information on the status
of procurement under the project would be reported quarterly.



- 56 -
Table 4.2: Procurement Thresholds
(US$ thousand)
Description           Type of Procurement        Prior Review        Contract Value
Works                      ICB                     All                 >1,000
NCB                First two contracts    200 to 1,000
Simplified NCB         First two contracts       <200
Goods                      ICB                     All                 >300
IS               First two contracts      50 to 300
NS                First two contracts       <50
Consulting Services
Finns                                              All                 >100
Firms                                           TOR only             up to 100
Individuals                                          All                 >50
Individuals                                       TOR only              up to 50
E. Disbursements
4.38   The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of eight years, from mid-1997 to
mid-2005, with an anticipated completion date of June 30, 2005. A closing date of December 31,
2005 is proposed. The disbursement profile was established using the Bank's past experience in
the execution of similar projects. Forecast disbursements are shown in Annex C. Disbursements
would follow normal World Bank and cofinancier's procedures and would be made against
eligible categories of project expenditures by: (a) special commitments in support of letters of
credit issued by the Borrower's bank in favor of foreign suppliers of goods; (b) direct payment to
suppliers; and (c) reimbursement of eligible expenditures for payment already made by
government agencies.
4.39 The Bank loan would be disbursed against the categories shown in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: Disbursement Categories
(US$ million)
Category                Amount          Expenditures to be Financed
Civil Works                             42.0                   - 83%
Equipment and Material                  10.0   100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
83% of other items procured locally
Consultant Services                     9.0                     100%
Refinancing of the Pilot                5.0                     100%
Unallocated                             9.0
Total                   75.0



- 57 -
4.40 Disbursement
would   be   fully                Table 4.4 Estimated Disbursements
documented, except                  (US$ million, IBRD fiscal year)
that Statements  of            FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY04 FY05
Expenditures would Annual       1.50  5.00  6.00  13.00 18.00 17.00 10.00  4.50
be  used  for:  (a) Cumulative  1.50  6.50  12.50 25.50 43.50 60.50 70.50 75.00
contracts for civil works, and equipment, costing less than US$300,000 equivalent; and (b)
contracts for individual consultants and training programs costing less than US$50,000
equivalent and for consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent. All other
disbursements would be fully documented. Full documentation in support of SOE would be
retained by the PIU for at least two years after loan closing. This information would be available
for review by Bank missions during project supervision and by auditors. The minimum
application size for payments directly from the loan account or for issuance of Special
Commitments is 20 percent of the special account authorization. Minimum application size until
aggregate disbursements reach US$10.0 million would be US$200,000 and thereafter
US$600,000.
F. Special Account
4.41  In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account (SA) would be established by the
PIU in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The selected bank
should have: (a) significant foreign correspondence network covering all currencies; (b)
reasonable capacity and experience for issuing letters of credit, for making direct foreign
payments and other international transactions; (c) the capacity to perform a wide range of
banking services at local branches, including cash payments, transfers to other domestic banks,
issuance of debit notes, application of conversion rates from foreign currencies; (d) the capacity
to maintain adequate accounts for the SA as required by the World Bank and provide monthly
bank statements to the PIU; (e) willingness to issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts
deposited in the SA would not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to
a commercial bank by the Borrower; and (f) willingness to charge competitive rates for their
services and provide reasonable interest income on the balances held. During early stages of the
project, the initial allocation of the Special Account would be limited to US$1.0 million.
However, when the aggregate disbursements under the loan have reached the level of US$10
million, the initial allocation may be increases up to the authorized allocation of US$3 million by
submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be
submitted at least every three months and must include reconciled bank statements as well as
other appropriate supporting documents. To facilitate disbursements, a Project Account would be
established not later than October 1, 1997 in the currency of the Borrower, and maintained until
project completion. The Project Account would be drawn upon to meet payments required in said
currency in respect of contracts under the project. The Borrower would insure regular
replenishment of the Project Account so that the balance of the amount in deposit therein shall
be maintained on average at the equivalent of not less than US$300, 000.



-58 -
G. Project Monitoring
Mid-Term Review
4.42 The project would involve a number of Uzbek agencies, who so far have had limited
experience with the implementation of internationally-funded projects and have not been
exposed to the construction of large capital works. The risks inherent in the scope of the project
and its location are substantial. In order to mitigate this risk, strong supervision would be
required. As supervision tends to be more focused on specific aspects, there is the need to foresee
a comprehensive mid-term review. This review would be conducted jointly by the Borrower and
its agencies as well as the Bank and would include: (a) assessing the progress and success in
implementing the project in relation to the planned targets; (b) reviewing the progress made in
achieving the planned institutional modifications; (c) examining the improvements in overall
operational performance in terms of water production, sales, maintenance, and staffing; (d)
assessing the financial situation of the benefiting agencies, including tariff levels, cost recovery,
accounts receivable, and inventory management; and (e) reviewing billing and collection,
improvements in the accounting system, including applicable procedures. In view of the
importance of the review, agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government would:
(a) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, andffurnish to the Bank, on or
about April 15, 2000, a report integrating the results of the agreed monitoring and evaluation
activities, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the periodfollowing such
date; and (b) review with the Bank, by June 15, 2000, or such later date as the Bank shall
request, the report referred to above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
Supervision and Monitoring
4.43  Implementation of the project would rest with the PIU. Unfamiliarity with the procedures
of international lending agencies and the complexity and dispersion of the project would require
considerable supervision efforts. Table 1 in Annex H sets out the supervision activities, which
would require a total of 117 staff weeks until project completion.
4.44 With the completion of the execution of each component, management and operational
responsibility would shift to the bulk water suppliers, the Vodokanals, and the Agrovodokanals.
The technical assistance consultants would be required to draw up an operational action plan that
would specify activities, training needs, responsibilities, outputs, time-lines, and performance
measuring indicators which should help to ensure that the facilities would be operated according
to acceptable standards. This operational action plan would be updated quarterly and would be
included in the quarterly progress reports.
4.45 Success in project implementation would be measured against physical and financial
performance targets as shown in Annex H. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the
Government would ensure that: (a) the PIU and the agencies covered under the project would
compare at stated intervals the actual performance for each of the target indicators against the
appraisal estimate; (b) this comparison be included in the project progress report to be
forwarded to the Bank on a quarterly basis; and (c) remedial actions be outlined if there is



-59-
significant difference between the target andforecast values and a timetable be preparedfor the
implementation of these actions.
H. Accounting, Auditing and Insurance
4.46 Accounting. The water utilities are presently using a double entry cash-based accounting
system that does not avail itself as a tool for proper utility management. Parallel to this
accounting system, another system of records exists, which has its origins in the requirement of a
planned economy with its objective to provide data on the actual performance in comparison to
the planned values. As these systems are inadequate for sound financial and operational
management, there is a need to design, implement, and operate an accounting system that would
meet these requirements. Agreement was therefore reached at negotiations that the government
would cause: (a) each water agency to contract consultants for the design and implementation of
a utility accounting system under terms of reference to be agreed with the Bank which would
provide, inter alia, that the system design be completed by December 31, 1998; and (b) the water
agencies (or any successors thereto) could operate their respective utility accounting systems not
later than July 1, 1999.
4.47 Auditing. Existing agreements related to the Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project
stipulate that the PIU within Goskomprognostat have its accounts (including the project's
accounts, the operations of the special account, and the use of statements of expenditures)
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and forward the audited
accounts, together with the auditors' statement, to the Bank not later than six months after the
end of its fiscal year. This agreement is restated in the proposed lending arrangements. As the
project would cover the bulk water supplier Tuyamuyun-Urgench, Khorezm Vodokanal, and
Khorezm Agrovodokanal in Khorezm Oblast, and the bulk water supplier Tuyamuyun-Nukus,
Karakalpakstan Vodokanal, Karakalpakstan Agrovodokanal, and the Public Health Unit in the
Republic of Karakalpakstan, agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government would
ensure that each of those agencies would: (a) engage independent auditors acceptable to the
Bankfor the annual audit of its financial statements, the project's accounts; and (b) forward the
audited accounts, together with the auditors' statement, to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of its fiscal year.
4.48 Considering that the water agencies have so far not been audited by non-government
auditors, it is essential that they become familiar early on with the audit requirements, so that the
audit can be completed in the foreseen time limit.
4.49 Insurance. With the exception of third-party liability insurance, none of the water and
sewerage agencies covered under the project carries any other insurance policy, as Government
agencies have so far covered the risks as self-insurers. Workers' compensation is arranged partly
through the state-run pension system, and partly through the unions' social program to which
every worker belongs. In the absence of an established insurance market in Uzbekistan, it is at
present impossible to obtain insurance coverage for a variety of risks at reasonable premiums.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Borrower would cause each water agency to: (a)
complete and review with the Bank; by October 15, 1998, an assessment of its requirements for
insurance; (b) prepare, on the basis of such review, a plan for insurance of its assets and
operations against such risks and in such amount as shall be consistent with appropriate
practices; and (c) implement such plan commencing January 1, 1999.






-60 -
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1   During negotiations agreement was reached:
(a) that the GoU would:
(i)   for the purpose of consolidating responsibilities for water production and
distribution in the Project area: (a) by January 1, 1998 prepare and furnish to
the Bank, for its review and comments, a plan for restructuring of the water
agencies; and (b) implement such plan, taking into account the Bank's
comments thereon, in accordance with a time-schedule agreed upon with the
Bank (para. 1.29);
(ii)  (a) undertake the tariff study referred to in paragraph 1.38 under terms of
reference which shall have been agreed upon with the Bank and which shall
provide, inter alia, for the completion of said study by June 30, 1998; (b)
fiurnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, the findings and
recommendations of said study, promptly upon the completion thereof; and (c)
prepare, by December 31, 1998, on the basis of said study and the Bank's
comments thereon, and put into effect, by December 31, 2000, a tariff
structure for water and sewerage services in the Project area which shall
provide for the determination of said tariffs at such levels as shall enable each
water agency (or any successor thereto) to generate revenues sufficient to
cover its operation and maintenance expenses, working capital requirements
and a reasonable portion of the cost of its investment program (para. 1.38);
(iii)  ensure that: (a) the dam of the Tuyamuyun Hydro System is inspected
annually in accordance with sound engineering practice by independent
expert(s) in dam safety approved by the Bank; (b) the report and
recommendations of such expert(s) is forwarded to the Bank for its review and
comment within three months of each annual review; and (c) any appropriate
remedial action recommended by such expert(s) is promptly taken (para.
2.55);
(iv)  establish a Project Account not later than October 1, 1997 in the currency of
the Borrower, and maintained until project completion. The Project Account
would be drawn upon to meet payments required in said currency in respect of
contracts under the project. The Borrower would insure regular replenishment
of the Project Account so that the balance of the amount in deposit therein
shall be maintained on average at the equivalent of not less than US$300,000
(para. 4.41).



- 61 -
(v)   by October 1, 1997: (a) tender, negotiate, and sign the consultancy assignments
for Institutional Strengthening, and Sanitation, Health and Hygiene
components; (b) issue the invitation for bids for the Tariff Study; and (c)
complete the bidding documents for the first year investments to be financed
under the loan (para. 4.28);
(vi)  have the PIU accounts (including the project's accounts, the operations of the
special account, and the use of statements of expenditures) audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and forward the audited
accounts, together with the auditors' statement, to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of its fiscal year (para. 4.47); and
(vii)  (a) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to
the Bank, on or about April 15, 2000, a report integrating the results of the
agreed monitoring and evaluation activities, on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the project during the period preceding the date of said report
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out
of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period
following such date; and (b) review with the Bank, by June 15, 2000, or such
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to above, and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on
the matter (para. 4.42).
(b)  the GoUwould ensure the water agencies (or their successor organizations) would:
(i)   (a) cause each water agency for water distribution to set tariffs at such levels
as would enable said water agency to generate revenues sufficient to cover its
operation expenses, working capital requirements and a progressively
increasing proportion of its maintenance cost; and (b) cause each water agency
for water production to set such tariffs at such levels as shall enable it to
generate revenue sufficient, when added to subsidies provided to cover the
pumping costs, its operation expenses, working capital requirements and a
progressively increasing proportion of its maintenance cost (para. 3.31);
(ii)   along with the Public Health Unit in the Republic of Karakalpakstan,: (a)
engage independent auditors acceptable to the Bank for the annual audit of
their respective financial statements, as well as the project accounts; and (b)
forward the audited accounts, together with the auditors' statement, to the
Bank not later than six months after the end of its fiscal year (para. 4.47);
(iii)  adopt and enforce procedures for the gradual reduction of water agencies
accounts receivable for water supplies to farms and industrial establishments,
including the use of contractual provisions in the annual contracts with such
consumers requiring monthly payment for services supported by a bank



- 62 -
guarantee, so that accounts receivable for water supply to farns and industrial
establishments shall not exceed, on average, the equivalent of: 135 days of
billing by the end of the year 1997, 120 days of billing by the end of the year
1998, 105 days of billing by the end of the year 1999, 90 days of billing by the
end of the year 2000, 75 days of billing by the end of the year 2001, and 60
days of billing by the end of the year 2002 and each subsequent year (para.
3.34);
(iv)  (a) prepare a draft budget for each year, and a forecast of its projected water
sales to each institutional consumer for the following calendar year, together
with a statement of the total outstanding water bill of such institutional
consumer; and (b) the draft annual budget for each institutional consumer
would include allocations adequate to cover the amounts forecast and
outstanding for water sales (para. 3.34);
(v)   (a) prepare a utility accounting system, referred to above, under terms of
reference to be agreed with the Bank which provide, inter alia, for completion
of said preparation by December 31, 1998; and (b) the adoption and operation
by the water agencies (or any successors thereto) of their respective utility
accounting systems not later than July 1, 1999 (para. 4.46); and
(vi)  (a) complete and review with the Bank, by October 15, 1998, an assessment of
its requirements for insurance; (b) prepare, on the basis of such review, a plan
for insurance of its assets and operations against such risks and in such
amount as shall be consistent with appropriate practices; and (c) implement
such plan commencing January 1, 1999 (para. 4.49).
5.2   Recommendation. With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$75.0 million to the Republic of Uzbekistan.






VI. ANNEXES






-64 -                             ANNEX A
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX A
A. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COST ESTIMATES
A. Project Description
1.    Project Components. The proposed project comprises five main components: (a) water
supply and distribution; (b) sanitation, health and hygiene; (c) technical assistance; (d) project
management and supervision; and (e) refinancing of the Pilot Water Supply Engineering Loan.
All costs shown below include contingencies.
2.    Water Supply and Distribution (US$68.2 million or 68 percent of total base cost). This
component has four main subcomponents:
(a) Main Pipeline Supply System (US$38.8 million).
(i) Rehabilitation of Piped Water Systems in Urban and Rural Centers in
Karakalpakstan (US$6.1 million). This item would replace, or rehabilitate where
appropriate, the sections of the urban distribution systems in Karakalpakstan,
which are prone to failure or have excessive leakage. It would include the
replacement of pipelines ranging from 150 mm to 400 mm and rehabilitation of
13 existing water distribution centers, in particular chlorination facilities. This
item would allow reduction of losses and maintenance costs, and improve water
quality by reducing the risk of groundwater inflow to the system. In addition,
higher pressures within the distribution system would be achieved, which in turn
would allow continuous water supplies to more consumers.
(ii) Rehabilitation of Piped Water Systems in Urban and Rural Centers in
Khorezm Oblast (US$4.6 million). This item would replace, or rehabilitate where
appropriate, the sections of the urban distribution systems in Khorezm Oblast,
which are prone to failure or have excessive leakage. It would include the
replacement of pipelines ranging from 150 mm to 400 mm and rehabilitation of
14 existing distribution centers, in particular chlorination facilities. As in the
previous item, this subcomponent would allow reduction of losses and
maintenance costs, and improve water quality by reducing the risk of groundwater
inflow to the system. In addition, higher pressures within the distribution systems
would be achieved, which in turn would allow continuous water supplies to more
consumers.
(iii) Rehabilitation of Nukus Water Treatment Works (WTW (US$3.1 million).
The existing water treatment work has a capacity of 65 Mld, but cannot produce
water of satisfactory quality. This item would improve the performance of the
filtration stage in particular, to provide water of a quality sinilar to the
Tuyamuyun pipeline water, allowing blending of both waters at the treatment



ANNEX A                                -65 -
works. The resulting reduction of turbidity would allow effective chlorination of
the treated water pumped into the Nukus distribution networks'.
(iv) Rehabilitation of Urgench WTW (US$3.1 million). The existing water
treatment work has a capacity of 50 Mld, but at present because of the ineffective
settlement and lack of suitable filter sand, the treated water if of poor quality. This
item would allow for the rehabilitation of the treatment works, and provision of
spare parts and chemicals to permit continued satisfactory operation of the plant.
(v) Expansion of Urgench WTW (US$10.2 million). This expansion would
increase the capacity of the water treatment works from 50 mld to 100 mld.
(vi) Provision of Additional Trunk Pipelines in Karakalpakstan (US$8.5
million). This item would link the towns and small rural communities of Beruni,
and Turtkul Rayons to the main Tuyamuyun piped supply system. It would
involve the supply and laying of 26 km of 400 mm diameter pipelines. The item
also includes the installation of 12.0 km of 800 mm diameter pipeline to link the
North and the South water distribution centers in Nukus. This link would allow
transfer and blending of Tuyamuyun water and surface water after rehabilitation
of the Nukus WTW, increasing the utilization of the lower cost local source.
(vii) Rehabilitation of Rural Distribution Centers in Karakalpakstan (US$1.9
million). Fourteen existing distribution centers would be rehabilitated, through
installation of new pumps, generators and chlorination facilities (where
necessary).
(viii) Rehabilitation of Rural Distribution Centers in Khorezm Oblast (US$1.3
million). Ten existing water distribution centers would be rehabilitated, through
the installation of new plant and equipment, including chlorination facilities.
(b)     Development of Local Water Supply and Distribution Systems
(UJS$21.0 million).
(i) Rehabilitation of Existing Desalination Units in Karakalpakstan (US$1.0
million). The approximately 300 EKOS electrodialysis units installed in
Karakalpakstan would be provided with a supply of spare parts including
membranes, pumps, control panels and other equipment. This subcomponent
would also include a technical assistance element to cover operation and
maintenance of the units. The plants would supply 15 percent of the rural
population.            I
(ii) Rehabilitation of Chalysh Groundwater Intake in Khorezm Oblast (US$3.5
million). The current output of this source is 13.4 Mld, which is partially pumped
into the Urgench distribution center. The potential capacity of the groundwater
lenses has been recently estimated at 70 Mld. This item would maximize the
High turbidities greatly reduce the effectiveness of chlorination, which presents a health hazard to
consumers. In addition it makes the water much less palatable and causes staining of clothes during
washing.



-66-                              ANNEX A
potential usage and bring the total capacity to 60 Mld through the installation of
30 additional production wells as well as pumping and chlorination facilities to
allow the source to deliver to the Khorezm trunk distribution system.
(iii) Rehabilitation and Development of Groundwater Sources in
Karakalpakstan (US$3.0 million). This item would rehabilitate groundwater
intakes at four locations, Chimbay, Kegeily, Turtkul and Beruni. It would bring
their total capacity to 5 Mld, 1 Mld, 8 Mld, and 6 Mid, respectively. This would
allow an increase water supply to these rayons of 20 Mld, and would allow the
lower cost groundwater to be used in place of Tuyamuyun water.
(iv) Expansion of Demand-based Rural Water Supply in Karakalpakstan and
Khorezm (US$13.5 million). This item would provide appropriate water supply
systems in rural areas, generally using local sources, and requiring a significant
element of cost recovery from the participating community and their full
involvement in project design implementation and operation through Kolkhoze
Committees. It would include an element of consultancy to determine the
communities to be served, and carry out design and supervision work. The
Kolkhoze Committees would make decisions about the identification,
imnplementation, operation and maintenance of the alternative water supplies.
(c)     Water Demand Management and Loss Reduction (US$3.3 million). The
objective of this subcomponent is to reduce leakage, wastage and other losses to
economically acceptable levels. This would reduce the operating costs of the water
utilities and improve levels of service to all consumers. Wastage of water is high,
particularly in the urban areas, due to a lack of incentives to conserve water at the level
of water users. The low water price for domestic consumers and the absence of
metering encourage an inefficient use of water. This subcomponent would be
implemented with the assistance of a water utility with ample experience in demand
management. The component has two items:
(i) Demand Management. Various methods of demand management would be
developed in conjunction with the Vodokanals, Agrovodokanals and consumers,
and tested by field trials to determine their effectiveness and economic and
financial feasibility. Methods would include metering, including metering of
blocks of flats, and selected residential areas with either individual or communal
meters. The results of these trials would allow a decision to be made on whether
or not a metered-based tariff system is viable in the near future. Consumer
education and awareness programs would be developed and tested, and other
approaches, such as replacing defective internal plumbing fittings in selected areas
would be investigated. Physical work would be carried out by the Vodokanals and
Agrovodokanals, with materials and equipment provided through this
subcomponent. The results of the work would be combined to form a demand
management program which would be implemented by the Vodokanals and
Agrovodokanals.



ANNEX A                               -67 -
(ii) Leakage Reduction. Leakage in the distribution systems is at present kept
under control by restricting pressures, and reducing hours of supply. As supply
hours are increased, and system rehabilitation carried out, a rational leakage
control strategy would need to be implemented. This item would define the most
economic policy, and assist the Vodokanals and Agrovodokanals to implement
this.
(d)     Equipment for Operation and Maintenance (US$5.2 million). The
Vodokanals and Agrovodokanals and the bulk water suppliers face severe difficulties
in maintaining the water supply systems due to a shortage of equipment and materials.
This subcomponent would address this by providing equipment which would be
identified by the Institutional Strengthening Consultant and the Demand Management
Consultant. There are two items in this subcomponent:
(i) Small Equipment, Tools and Spares (US$1.5 million). These would be
identified by the Demand Management consultant, and would comprise
equipment and materials required for the demand management subcomponent as
well as for the general operation of the distribution systems. The requirements
would be confirmed following inventory checks of existing stocks, and stocks to
be provided under other components of the project.
(ii) Major Equipment (US$3.7 million). This would be identified by the
Institutional Strengthening consultant, and would include major items of operating
and maintenance equipment (cranes, hydraulic excavators, pipeline cleaning
vehicles) and also mechanical and electrical equipment to complete the control
center for the Tuyamuyun-Nukus pipeline.
3.    Sanitation, Health and Hygiene Component (US$11.2 million or 11 percent of total
base cost). This component would improve sanitation, health and hygiene in Phase 1 through the
installation of low-cost rural water supplies (in the form of hand pumps), household latrines and
improved toilets in schools and markets, as well as through health promotion and hygiene
education. The capabilities of the Sanitary Epidemiological Services (SES) would be improved,
allowing better monitoring of drinking water quality and sanitation and hygiene practices and
facilities. The subcomponent would build on the participatory approach developed and tested by
Helvetas/Red Cross during project preparation and would be implemented through a consultant.
Phase 2 would include improvements to urban sewerage systems, as well as continuation of the
Phase 1 activities.
(a)     Rural Sanitation (US$2.0 million). This would promote construction of
improved latrines (elevated ventilated latrines) developed through the participatory
approach during the pilot project, and installation of hand washing facilities in selected
households, schools, primary health care services (feldscher stations, and rural
polyclinics), canteens and public places in selected collective farns. The kolkhos
committees would make decisions about the identification, design, implementation,
operation and maintenance of the sanitation schemes to be put in place. The
subcomponent would provide around 7,500 improved latrines and handwashing
facilities, covering about 5 percent of the rural population in both regions. The



-68 -                            ANNEX A
subcomponent would cover about 80 percent of the construction costs, and
beneficiaries would cover the remainder. The subcomponent would include training of
district managers who would supervise the implementation of the component. This
subcomponent would also provide equipment, transportation, consultant services and
training, namely of collective farm committee members and other staff in management
and low-cost sanitation.
(b)     Health Promotion and Hygiene Education (US$4.0 million). This
subcomponent would cover health promotion and hygiene education of the urban and
rural populations of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast. As such, it complements the
sanitation and hand pumps subcomponents of the proposed project, and is an integral
element of the overall strategy for improving health and hygiene among the population
through community-based approaches. Health specialists would assist the kolkhos
committees developing and implementing the health promotion and education
activities. The subcomponent would also cover the costs of an intersectoral committee
that would aim at reviewing and assisting project activities. This subcomponent would
includc:
(i) Institutional Strengthening of Regional Health Centers. To promote healthy
sanitation and hygiene practices in the project area, it would be necessary to
strengthen the Centers of Health in Nukus and Urgench through training,
improved communication and information systems, and outreach capabilities.
Tlheir role is particularly significant in the promotion of breast feeding and early
diagnosis of water related diseases, as well as safe drinking water, hygiene, and
health practices. The item includes rehabilitation of the Center of Health buildings
in Nukus and Urgench, provision of equipment, furniture and vehicles, training of
trainers, and a study tour to Estonia Health Promotion Services.
(ii) Training of Community Health Workers. The Centers of Health in Nukus
and Urgench would have an important role in training and supervising the
community health workers who would be the primary contacts with individuals
and community organizations for promoting the installation of improved latrines,
and in health and hygiene education.
(iii) Health Education Activities. The Regional Health Centers would be
involved in managing a grant fund to promote on a competitive basis the provision
of health education activities by NGOs and private organizations. The Centers
would also manage funds to cover publication and communication costs (e.g.,
leaflets, newsletters, newspaper space, and radio and TV time).
(iv) Study of Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices Related to Water, Sanitation
And Health The subcomponent would also cover the study of knowledge,
attitudes and practices in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm, which would contribute to
monitoring project progress and impact in both regions.
(v) Intersectoral Committee for Water, Sanitation and Health. This
subcomponent would cover the costs of an intersectoral committee that would aim
at reviewing and assisting project activities. The PIU in Tashkent would be



ANNEX A                               -69-
responsible for the secretariat of this committee, which would meet at least twice a
year.
(c)     Water Quality Monitoring and Strengthening of SES (US$5.2 million).
The principal objective of this subcomponent is to improve water quality monitoring,
and sanitation and hygiene inspection of households and communal facilities in
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast. In addition, the institutional and organizational
efficiency of the Sanitary Epidemiological Services (SES) would be enhanced by
improving the quality of health and water quality data collection, analysis and
reporting, and integrating the data reporting for the region into the project Geographic
Information System (GIS) on a demonstration basis. This subcomponent would
involve the following activities:
(i) Improving Water Quality Monitoring and Sanitation and Hygiene
Surveillance (US$1.4 million). This item would include reviewing standards for
water quality monitoring, and adopting modem monitoring programs. It would
also review sanitation and hygiene rules, namely rules for sanitary inspection and
chlorination of rural water supply, rules for food preparation and handling
(restaurants, canteens), rules for emptying latrine pits, and for safe disposal or
composting of pit contents, as well as for safe disposal of garbage. It would
include the provision of vehicles to each district SES, equipment and supplies,
consultant services, and training.
(ii) Upgrade SES laboratories (US$3.1 million). This would include civil works
to rehabilitate the regional and district (24) laboratories, provision of furniture and
laboratory equipment, water testing equipment (including portable testing kits and
equipment for testing by the membrane filtration method), local and foreign
consultancy services, and training in water quality monitoring.
(iii) Improving Health Data Collection, Analysis and Reporting (US$0.7
million). This includes selection of reliable and valid indicators for monitoring the
water, sanitation and health situation in Karakalpakstan and Khorezrn Oblast and
measurement of project inputs, outputs and outcomes; and creating an updated
health infornation system in the two regions. Part of the item would involve the
setting up of a Geographic Information System (GIS) for health data, which would
involve: (i) agreeing on water, sanitation and health indicators to be included in
the GIS; (ii) electronic transmission of data from Nukus and Urgench (SES) to
Tashkent (SES and Goskomprognostat); and (iii) reporting and dissemination.
This item would provide computers, communication equipment, software,
consultant services, and training. Epidemiological studies on the impact of water
and sanitation on health would also be funded under this item.
4.    Technical Assistance Component (US$8.2 million or 8 percent of total base cost). This
component has three subcomponents:
(a)     Institutional Strengthening of Water Utilities and Bulk Providers
(US$6.7 million). This subcomponent would address the present deficiencies in the six
organizations involved in providing water and sewerage services to the project area. It



- 70-                            ANNEX A
is expected that in the near future these would be combined into two regional
organizations, which would improve the situation, but even so, significant assistance
would be needed. The item would consist of: (i) a program for carrying out regularly
preventive maintenance; (ii) a program for monitoring and reducing operating costs;
(iii) a program for reduction and management of accounts receivable; (iv) design and
operation of a utility accounting system, including cost accounting; and (v) in-house
and foreign training programs. The program includes consultancy services, training of
trainers (six topics with six participants each).
(b) Tariff Study (US$0.6 million). This subcomponent would finance a water and
sewerage tariff study, which would lay the foundation for the introduction of new water
and sewerage tariff rates for the various consumers groups. It includes consultancy
services for the formulation and implementation of the new tariff structure and office
equipment (four computers and software).
(c) Refinancing of the Feasibility Study (US$0.8 million). Refinancing of the Kuwait
Fund-financed project feasibility study.
5.    Project Management, Design and Supervision (US$8.4 million or 8 percent of total
base cost). This component would cover the costs of project management, project design, and
construction supervision by the Project Implementation Unit, with advice and assistance from
foreign consultants. Included in this component are consultant services, staffing of the PIU
including the Director in Tashkent, the regional representatives, the GIS section and support
staff.
6.    Refinancing of Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project Component (US$5.0 million
or 5 percent of total base cost). The pilot project components would be refinanced by the
proposed project as agreed with the GoU in the Pilot project. Upon the effective date of the
proposed project, the Bank would withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself all amounts
required for repayment of the principal amount of the pilot project loan withdrawn and
outstanding and all interest and other charges due thereon. Thereupon the pilot project loan
would be canceled. The Pilot project funded the construction of a self-managed water supply
scheme in the peri-urban areas of Nukus and the preparation of detail designs and bid documents
by foreign consultants.



ANNEX A                                      -71-
Table Al: Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Base  Including Contingencies   %     %
Cost Foreign Local  Total Foreign Total Cost
WATER SUPPLY
Main Pipeline to Urban and Rural Areas
Rehabilitation of Nukus water supply system         6.12   5.33   1.94   7.27  73.3%      6.2%
Rehabilitation of Urgench water supply system       4.59   4.00   1.45   5.46  73.3%      4.7%
Rehabilitation of Nukus WTW                         3.06   2.67   0.97   3.64  73.3%      3.1%
Rehabilitation of Urgench WTW                       3.06   2.67   0.97   3.64  73.3%      3.1%
Expansion of Urgench WTW                           10.20   6.92   4.99  11.91  58.1%    10.2%
Additional tunk mains, Karakalpakstan               8.47   6.13   3.84   9.97  61.5%      8.5%
Rehabilitation of rural distribution centers, Karakalpakstan    1.94   1.49   0.77   2.26  66.0%  1.9%
Rehabilitation of rural distribution centers, Khorezm  1.33   0.96   0.58   1.55  62.3%   1.3%
Subtotal                                          38.76  30.18  15.51  45.69  66.1%    39.1%
Local Sources Water Supply
Rehabilitation of desalination units                1.02   0.85   0.34   1.19  71.8%      1.0%
Rehabilitation and expansion of Chalysh groundwater-KF  1.53   1.42   0.39   1.82  78.3%  1.6%
Rehabilitation and Expansion of Chalysh groundwater-WB  1.94   1.59   0.67   2.26  70.4%  1.9%
Rehab. & Development of groundwater in Karakalpakstan  2.96   2.35   1.09   2.46  68.0%   2.9%
Expansion of rural water supply, Karakalpakstan-WB  5.53   5.56   0.94   6.50  85.5%      5.6%
Expansion of rural water supply, Khorezm-KfW        8.00   5.96   3.46   9.42  63.3%      8.1%
Subtotal                                         20.98  17.75   6.90  24.64  72.0%    21.1%
Demand Management and Loss Reduction-WB             2.02   2.21   0.11   2.33  95.1%      2.0%
Demand Management and Loss Reduction-KF             1.24   1.50   0.00   1.50 100.0%      1.3%
Equipmentfor Maintenance and Operation
Minor Equipment                                     1.53   1.53   0.26   1.79  85.5%      1.5%
Major Equipment                                     3.67   3.66   0.62   4.29  85.5%      3.7%
Subtotal                                           5.20   5.19   0.88   6.07  85.5%     5.2%
SANITATION, HEALTH AND HYGIENE
Rural Sanitation                                    1.98   1.05   1.27   2.33  45.3%      2.0%
Health Promotion and Hygiene                        4.01   3.76   0.82   4.58  82.0%      3.9%
Improving Water Quality Monitoring                  1.38   1.51   0.07   1.58  95.3%      1.4%
Upgrading SES Laboratories                          3.12   2.53    1.06   3.59  70.5%     3.1%
Improving Data Collection, Analysis and Reporting   0.72   0.81   0.02   0.83  97.9%      0.7%
Subtotal                                          11.21   9.66   3.25  12.91  74.8%    11.0%
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Institutional Strengthening Program                 6.72   7.55   0.06   7.61  99.2%      6.5%
Refinancing of Feasibility Study-KF                 0.83   0.83   0.00   0.83 100.0%      0.7%
Tariff Study                                        0.61   0.72   0.00   0.72 100.0%      0.6%
Subtotal                                           8.16   9.10   0.06   9.16  99.3%     7.8%
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION-WB    6.36   7.09   0.12   7.21  98.3%                 6.2%
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION- KF    2.06   2.48   0.00   2.48 100.0%                2.1%
REFINANCING OF PILOT PROJECT                        5.00   5.00   0.00   5.00 100.0%      4.3%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                101.00  90.16  26.83 116.99  77.1%   100.0%



-72 -                             ANNEX B
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX B
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Outline Procedure for Processing ICB Contracts
(Kizketken Pilot Project as an example)
Contract Negotiations
. World Bank (WB) publishes a Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) for the proposed contract
in Business Development.
2. Planning and Engineering Design Consultant (PED) prepares the tender design and standard
bidding documents to WB requirements.
3. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) prepares a list of bidders which have responded
positively to the SPN and sends the bidding documents and list of bidders to the WB for its
"no objection" (NO).
4. The WB notifies the PIU of its NO or its conditional NO subject to recommended revisions
to the bidding documents.
5. The PIU makes the revisions and sends the bidding documents to the list of bidders.
6. On the specific date of bid opening, all bids that have been receive are opened by the PIU
according to the procedures outlined in the WB Procurement Guidelines.
7. The PIU arranges for the bids to be evaluated by a Bid Evaluation Committee consisting of
representatives of Goskomprognostat, Ministry of Communal Services, Govermment of
Karakalpakstan, Karakalpakstan Vodokanal (the "Owner") and the PED.
8. The Evaluation Committee makes its evaluation and selects the successful bidder, and the
PIU prepares the evaluation report and sends it to the WB with the proposal from the
successful bidder for its NO.
9. The WB reviews the evaluation report and proposal from the successful bidder and issues its
NO or asks for more information if not satisfied.
10. Once the PIU receives the Bank's NO, it notifies the bidders of the outcome of its evaluation
and invites the successful bidder to begin negotiations on a specific date.
ii. A small negotiation team consisting of Goskomprognostat, Ministry of Communal Services,
Karakalpakstan Vodokanal, and the PED will negotiate the final contract with the successful
bidder. The contract is initiated by Goskomprognostat, the Ministry of Communal Services,
and the Karakalpakstan Vodokanal and signed by the successful bidder.
12. The PIU sends the final contract to the WB for its NO.
13. After the WB NO is received by the PIU, it is signed by Goskomprognostat, the Ministry of
Communal Services and the Karakalpakstan Vodokanal and becomes effective.
14. Copies of the signed contract are submitted by the PIU to the successful bidder, WB,
Goskomprognostat, the Ministry of Communal Services and Karakalpakstan.



ANNEX B                               -73 -
Contract Supervision
1. The contract will be supervised by a small construction supervision team consisting of the
Project Management and Supervision Consulting Engineer (PMS) as head of the team, a
Vodokanal construction supervisor, and Karakalpakstan Government construction
supervision representative. The team will evaluate the quality of construction according to
the specified standards and norms and construction process in confirmation of construction
progress payments. The PMS Engineer will be responsible for resolving any minor disputes
between the contractor and the Owner (Karakalpakstan Vodokanal).
2. The team will carry out regular inspections as specified in the contract and will submit
reports in the PIU on contract implementation. The contractor will submit invoices to the PIU
as specified in the contract. It will be the responsibility of the PIU to verify that the
construction supervision team has approved the quality and quantity of the work performed
by the contractor according to the terms of the contract. If it is satisfied, it will prepare a
disbursement application (along with verification signed by the construction supervision
team) for signature by Goskomprognostat and will forward the disbursement application to
the WB's Loan Disbursement Department through the Resident Mission in Tashkent.
3. When the WB receives the disbursement request, it checks the information against the
contract and if satisfied, transfers the funds to the contractor's bank account as specified in
the disbursement application.



- 74 -                            ANNEX B
B. Proposed'Implementation Arrangements for the Demand-Based Rural Water Supplies
1.    Application or Initial Proposal or Request. Applications, proposals or requests may
come in from different sources: the local administration (e.g., Kolkhoze administration,,
grassroots initiative, implementing agencies, or government administration. The application s
may come in on a 'walk-in basis' or in batches. Registration of the application has to take place in
order to allow for follow-up and monitoring. Also, a confirmation has to be given to the source
of the application.
2.    Check Competence of the Project Owner. Is the application rehabilitation or a new
system?
3.    Check with Eventual Implementing Agencies. A check should be made whether the
location is already soinewhere on the agenda of another agency which have the same or related
fields of work (water supply, sanitation, hygiene education). Forces may be joined or, in the case
of another agency already addressing the project, a decision is to be taken who will take care of
the location. Additionally, a check should be made whether other development efforts are under
way which are not related to water supply. Too much attention from different sources for the
same location should be avoided as it may be confusing and putting too much stress on the
population. This check may lead to the rejection of the project.
4.    Check Water Supply Master Plan. Collect information about the medium and long-
term planning regarding water supply for that location; what kind of water resources are
indicated, main pipeline, ground water, etc.?
5.    Field Visit 1: Reconnaissance Visit made by the Project Team. It is essential to build
up a small, reliable and sufficiently representative bridge head within the project location.
Therefore, it is proposed to establish a Water Users Association (WUA). This WUA needs to be
actively involved from the start. It will represent the community but may also be the local partner
of the project in communications with the community and execution of local assignments. Its
activities would include:
(a)   check application or proposal realism;
(b)   re-check project's competence, based on field situation;
(c)   determine current water use practices and existing supply systems;
(d)   determine the range of technical possibilities; and
(e)   organize and establish a WUA (as the local steering committee).
6.    Collect Additional Required Information. Collect information on the topography,
demographics, health situation, and geo-hydrology.
7.    Decide Whether Reconnaissance Visit is Sufficiently Successful. Outcomes would be,
positive, go ahead with the next steps and activities, rejection of the project, or additional
information or measures are required, decision pending and redo previous steps.
8.    Field Visit 2: Outlining Made by the Project Team. Discuss with groups of men,
women and local leaders water needs, affordability, contributions from the community,
community organization. Offer, discuss and test acceptance of various technical possibilities,
levels of service, cost of these, organizational consequences and measures. Establish a good idea
about the future operating agency (who can in principle become the operator, also alternative
organizational set-ups).



ANNEX B                                -75 -
9.    Generate Variants. Based on the findings of the outlitiing visit, a set of variants should
be drawn-up: a low variant, an intermediate variant, and a high variant (different service
levels/technologies and hence different levels and arrangements of resources and organizations).
The purpose is to generate and elaborate the variants on the technical, economic, social ad
organizational main aspects, arriving at a so called 'functional design.' The functional design
would give the participants in the project a reasonable idea of what they may expect and enable
further decision making. Generating these variants is the primary task of the project team,
assisted by for exatnple the envisioned operator if so required. Indicate or outline of each variant:
(a)   service levels (what type of supply, volume, quality);
(b)   technical systems (hardware);
(c)   investment, operational cost, total cost, least cost;
(d)   organizational setup and measures for operations;
(e)   further activities and work plan for implementation; and
(f)   tasks and responsibilities of the involved parties.
10.   Field Visit 3: Discuss Variants. The variants (function designs) have been discussed
with the representation of the beneficiaries target group as well as the eventual operator(s). This
would include, seeking understanding on the variants, seeking consensus, and deciding whether
(a) there is sufficient consensus and ground to continue elaboration of a variant or alternatively,
(b) to redo the variants step with additional information or (c ) aborting the project
11.   Formal Agreement on the Functional Design. In case of consensus, the plan,
responsibilities and arrangements concerning the preferred variant have been formalized. This
formal agreement is to be drawn up among the project, the target community representatives and
the operator. This formal agreement is to be seen as a joint plan which needs further approval to
proceed with a detailed design.
12.   Seeking Approval with Competent Authorities (Regional Government, Water Utilities,
Goskomprognostat). Does this functional design fit in the whole project framework (financing,
implementing agencies, consultant support, approach, type of technology, etc.)? Is sufficient
financing available for investment and eventual operation? Is there sufficient organizational
capacity to implement this? Negative responses of the competent authorities may require re-
doing certain steps or alternatively, abandoning the project.
13.   Preparation of Detailed Design. Once formal approval has been given for the functional
design, a detailed design can be made. This detailed design would consist of:
(a)    Technical. The traditional technical design and preparation for construction
activities and results that is among other things:
(i)    drawings;
(ii)   bills of quantities;
(iii)  construction and manufacturing instructions;
(iv)   work planning; and
(v)   tender documents.



-76-                             ANNEX B
(b)   Operator's Organization. Setting up and preparation of e organization of the
operator would include:
(i)   organizational design;
(ii)  human resources development (training);
(iii)  budget and budget control systems; and
(iv)  institutional development work plan.
(c)   Community Organization. Activities in order to prepare and organize the
community:
(i)   work plan for community organization (determines who will do what,
when and how);
(ii)  details on information campaign concerning service level, proper use of
water;
(iii)  details on information campaign concerning paying for water, billing and
revenue collection;
(iv)  details on public tap organization (user groups, caretaking arrangements);
and
(v)   details on community contribution during construction (material, labors).
14.   Discussion of Detailed Design. The detailed design has to be discussed with the involved
parties (project, community, operator, authorities) and where necessary, adjusted.
15.   Approval of Detailed Design. Once the whole detailed design package has been
approved, the project would move to the next phase, implementation. The carious technical and
organizational work plans can be elaborated and implemented. The detailed design approval can
be laid down in an agreement among the project implementing agency (and/or operator), the
community, and the competent authorities.
16.   Construction Phase. The activities and sequence during the construction phase would be
determined during the planning phase. Construction phase is not limited to technical activities
regarding the technical infrastructure but would also include organizational and social activities.
The contents of the activities would heavily depend on the outcome of the planning process. It is
therefore not opportune to give a step-by-step process for the construction phase.



---                                         --     m m                                                                 m                           U                                                                                                                                                    '-^' 
.......... .. t....          E  _... _   ..                      .....-.... qU
_-rn-rn----- =--                                                           -   - =  =  =  =  =-                                                                                                                                                                                    l
ISE 10b1 80t OfZO "1 660t 66D2 6601 S0                                                                                                                                         S6                    91
-----------   -o.lequamaldulI ----Jd :141                                                                                                                                                                                               II
...   . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .     . .. .. .. .   .. .. .     . ..   ..   . ..   .   . .. .. .   ..   .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..   ...
L                                                                                           -~~~~~~~~~~~q~f~.P---O                             Li~~3
...     .................      .........   ........ ..   ..   ......    .. ...   ...... -   .....    . ..............
wwa -.w4i&Na                               93
u...d...3  ~~~~~~d.h~~~g ~~4'M ...........
.........    .................  ......    ........  .............                                    .... ....     1l
J0~~W    IObT  OObP    000    000?    0001    660P    6601'   660?   6601    360P    960%    36   ?   Soor    L6OP    L60%    L60?    L601    960P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_______ ......._......... _  ..............._      .............._.._._._......._._.__......_._.......                      i
~ ~~~jnp~~~~~~~~~~~~~q~~~~~~~~~~~ uo!;t4u ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~     ~     ..............................  ........d............. ...p.......o............ .......... .......... ..........u..e



-    -    - -    - -    - -    --4
_ _ _ ........................ ...... ,,, ,,,,,,,,, ,, ,,,.,,,,,,,,,, ,a,{,,,a,_Vb aqpqp -U|s aqnX ................................................  . ..... . .
-   -    -  - - - - -  -                                                                        ix~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p~~Uq-v -!-"
-  -   - - - -   - - -   -   -   ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~m.~~~~.dIqu..,I 1'qiu.j p.. APS.'A.. q..u~~~~~~~~~~. ..... ................... ............... 
63,
_ _ _ _ ..... . . ....... wdlqx ... n P . m - J.,, ..... ,,,,,,,,,, . , .,,, q . ,,,, ., ,, ,, ,, ................ ,... . . 'll"I"  ........ ... .. .
. s..   ............  
7v                                                                      . .. ..I.... A  [0:  :  -i-q   4 
1 s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ...........                          ..... . ...... .. ..-,,lwnnisu , ~=l 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                           ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. .. .. ..D<adBlow
-   -  - - - - -  -    -    -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~  on.ispq.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p~~~~ Wu..~~......                             t
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ W aq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .,,,.,,,,,,,., ....................................................................................... . ............. .........................,,,.. ..........
- T  TT T---  - -1                                                                                                                 ..It' -                               I,- -v--
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ! - - . ....... ,,,,,,,,,,,,,, qn a! aol. SS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....... ....
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~ _ _ _ : ...... . ......... ..... ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,., ..... ,,,, , 5nuatazaop.,a,qaq"ar. .........  .... ....  ... ......  ..........IZS
_  _  _  _  _                                     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" 41n  wsl!v~ q_FN                       PII          OZ
eDz    - _- - - _    _   oo-           -6bl   -6bl   -6bt  s6bf-s6bz-                                                       I"..- -!. P-            0-a             9
-panupuo) -lupavS -o---uamaldulI -alola -l& --qe-
di           .     ... ..... ..  .   ~~~~~~~......u)   q   ~ r u.I.. VP
- - -  - - - -  - -   -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pu.S.~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~. ~~~~~~ uw..x~~~~~........                   ..C-E
- - - r n - r n - - - -   -      -    -   -    -     I                             ,,-  sp.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d~~~    ..1.I.. p.-   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~q-I.Th ~~.. .......  ....... ... ... .     ...
___b       ___t  ___* I oo            66bC 1 6Z  66b11 36bP 360C  86b?  36?)! L6?)PI L6W)  L60b   11 . 16?n, 1t %?ml                                             OUNN INL   I1
(panuquoa) alnpaipS umlamlw pa4oa :jg o1qsjL



Table B1: Project Implementation Schedule (Continued)
ID    Task Name                                                                                                         3Q96 4Q96 iQ7 2Q97 3IW  Q97    2Q9                                   S 29  Q98 1Q99 3Q99 3Q   4i  IQ99K                                   2     3QdO 4Q00  1Q01
54                       Tad.&-t.p amt 
.                                             ... ... ... ... ... ........................... ,,,, , ,,,,,, ,,.,,,,, ,,,,,,,.,. I...... ...... ...   _. ..._._
......... ................................ ................................          ..................................
56                       Ec~w..fId.np
57                                                           ,M. SSk of owI   wst J ._   y
.................................................................... ......   .. - ....... ................  .......................... ............................................................  ..........................._
,1.,..,.,  .... ..                                                 ., ,., .,,, ,   , ...........                                                                                      r      
59                       TmdaE _o.~t                                                                                                                  _        _ti
e~~~~~~~~~.. .....                     .......---.-   .........   .......... ...   ... ............ ......  ..............._ 
................... ,                      ,             ,      ,      ,      ,     ,     ,         ,
61            F          emokwos*,        
62        Dd  Mamg~~~~~~.m      .......sd1...... .................
Q        .._ .R .  ......                                                  ._. ...
. ......   ......                                               ....... .......
72  q-hty -.m    -                                                                                                                                     -       -        -        -       -
65                        Soplyagofoa_p_    _                                                                                                                                                       _        _
66                       FxmOaul od    _  aepm                                                                                                                                    _        _                 _         _                 _        _ 
67 ~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                                                                                         -e, -f,s|z| dhaH__======= = =
...7 . ,       . ..... S.o................... ... .ii................. H. , _ _-
68                           l. rnd So  ,O yCoAn        d       pd_
................................................... ............. ....... .............................    ..... .............
69                       Call for paqoa., *el ton of conoldt.otat ri  wroctsa o
............ ... ...........   ......  ...................  ...............  ..   .......................  ....... .. ,,,,   ....   ........    _._____
71                         N tp.ot.o.ad hyb4e dlaoinL _                                                                                                                                    _        _        _        _        ___
72                        Lspmgtst.qnfy ao4                                                                                                                                       _        _    _                      __    _                             _
73                       Upgdng SESCa___
74 9olleibonyandoopoatiog
75               0fmC_qSe                                                                                                                       .                                 _ S_!_                                                                                                       _
76                       TaoisT d      _.   a p.q.so!_                                                                                                       _
77                       Call for bodb, .fotasa cwdl nod sign   _ ontrn_                                                                                                                  
7   d                     --                       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                                  < *      - 1  -  m  m  m  m  -  -
79                        Toasfilt-r ady_ =    



I-d        k.f-(dd.s                101
FI -------I 
I W!,b-up A-dd.9                     001
l L : =:- 1 2 :::: - w - m w w z D
dnb~o!{rddog           96
)'andou.uuo;  pp- - o!1W,.jp }p!qt &oj   d                L:
~~S'~~ q3111 p  ~~~~~1   ~q 1 I'M           S6
.Io~~~~~~oi~~~~ 'PR od,q ii-a                16
.. ...... .. .
,.Uww'd q-                              OS-
lObT  1O~~~~~~1  0O~~~~N'  OOb%' OOOZ  OObi  66~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 66~~~  66~~~T  66~~~~1  l6~~~~P  16?~~~~  I6t~~~~Z  16~~~~1   L6~~~~4 L6bf  L6b~~~~~~~ 6b1   96bP... ........C.... .. .....3.......
(pnu!$uo~~~~~~~~~~~~~)  ~~~~~jup~~~~~~Ips  uo~~~~~~~~~~$u$u~~~~~~~~nu~~~~qdw~~~~~~~ p4o~~~~~~~j  :jfl. .. ......               .....i...



Ministry of Foreign                                            Goskomprognozstat                                         Cabinet of Ministers  1
and Economic Affairs
-                               ~~~~~~~~Project Implem entation Unit                                                                     . 
(Tashkent)                               Ministry of            Ministry of                             ..
- Sbl    .   'Planning and Engineering>                                         _              |    Health               Comm SvCt  o
(Project Imp1.         Design Consultants            '     Project Management                        !.               |f
and operation)        Binlie& Pjartnjerts and        DConsultant                                                     C     cilof             Kha miat
Uzbek .nattute             _____________________                                         |Ministers Kk              Khorezmi|
Local Project Management
Units
nwMProject Management           Instit tional                                                       Sanitation and
Consultant (Slte              StrengtheninnManagement                                                Health
Study             SupervisIon);;                consiultant:                              Consultant                 Consultant
~~~~~~~~~RpbIcX1 of
|   arakalpakstan                   Ob Wlast      ||                          
*   grovodokanal            Arovodokanal     *|                
l             | |       ~~~~~~~~Vodokanal  H      vdokanal        -  II                            
l            | -  Tuyamuyu~~~~n- rgench        uauu-uu                
ILOCAL WAT  .RSUPPLIES I MAIN PIPELINE SUPPLY SYSTEM                                                                                                                           I  SPL   FOEAINAD||IAIAINHAT      YIN  
DLemenar-baSed water     | Rehab of urban distribution systems     l              MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT                          K  Iural Sanitation              ]            ]
|supplies to rural areas  | Expansion of urb an distribution systems    t          Major        ISmall equipment, t              Health & Hygiene Promotion       |            U
|                 | |~~~~~~~Rehabilitationof Nuk us WTW     l              Equipment   |tools and spares Ilawtruatyoiofnec  
|                 | |~~~~~~Rehabillitatlon of Urgench W TW  j                                                             Handpump InstallationI 
|   (KfW)           | New trunk mains                                                                                       || 
I          i~~~Rehabilitation of rural distrfibution centers                                                                                                  r     a
I  ,       I~~LOCAL WATER SUPPLIES                                 Suple            Suple                               er           ontractor I 
Contracto~r        |Muynak water suppl                                       upir| [Sple  g|Sple                                           Cnrc le
FC o            |Rehabilitatin of desslinatlon units                                                                    UPPI,                  
Cntrctorl          Expansion of GWin Karakalpakstan       |                Supplier       |Supplier J                      upplier |      Iotatr 
I  |       I~~Expansion of Chalesh Wellfield| 
tnCtr c   r                                                                                               Legend                               -        1            6
I                  |            |        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Critcal                                   Proposed Now           
| upplier   |     Contrctor     |    tractor| | ontractor           |         Important                                      GoemntWtrAecs_| 
*      |                I           |         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Support     Consultant             Project Components                     J
[ ontrctor     Cntractor     Cnrco                            Liaison 
FC 0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-82 -                                     ANNEX B
Chart B2: Water Supply and Sewerage Services in Khorezm Oblast
A                              B                                   C
MinistryqofAgricultureo           Khokimiat
1          GoU                 It Khakim                           M , . ., .,tinistry of Communal Services
2 _ . ( 6~~~~~~~~~Tfftrialnion oft
3                            ~~~~~~~~~~~Communal Operations
3   1 1 1                  3~~~~~~~~~~~~.........
4                                         Technical Supplies
OffiCe Of Territorial
Union Khorezmn
 . 1 2 | e - t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of Regional Water Transferr 
8 ._
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ae Trnse System
LEGEND
Agrovodokanal                  PU Vodokanal                _        Direct Dependence
Khofezm       *  . . . _     (PU Suvokava)                        Coordination
Commercial Link
J,                            jJ                         @     Construction
Opertion/Maintenance
WATER SUPPLY AND               WATER SUPPLY AND                        OrI
SEWERAGE SERVICES              SEWERAGE SERVICES
RURAL CONSUMERS                URBAN CONSUMERS



ANNEX B                                                            83-
Chart B3: Water Supply and Sewerage Services in the Republic of Karakalpakstan
A                                     B                                          C
1       (  Ministry of Agriculture             eCouncil ofMinisters of |
2Ministry of Agriculture       -
3
AlServices of the Rep. of                      MaaigO     fcefo
Karakalpakstan                              Opeaton a
2 Watr Transfer Systems
Technical Supply Offi-ce
l~~~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Tehia Suple O.fce
I    Mnsr of Cnual   MangigOfieor|
6                                                                     i
7
8
9: 
1 I I                               - UZ Agrovodokanal                                Management of Operation
*    Tuyamuyun-Nukus Water
*    I* '      WtrTransfer System
11    | |  I                             | TechnicalPU Suukava
(Vodokanal-       -
Karakalpakstan)
12             1- PromI
PU Agrovodokanal                                                                         LEG:ED
Kaaapasa                               Oprtin 11 .IsIon
____Direct dependence
......Coordinates
-1Commercial Link
Construction
WATIER SUPPLY AND                  WATER SUPPLY AND I                                 Operation/Maintenance
SEWERAGE SERVICES                  SEWERAGE SERVICES
RURAL CONSUMERS                    URBAN CONSUMERS_____________



-84-                            ANNEX C
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX C
C. ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT PLAN
Table Cl: Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year Semester Disbursements Cumulative Disbursements
FY1998
Jul-97                    --                     --
Jan-98                   1.50                    1.50
FY1999
Jul-98                   2.50                   4.00
Jan-99                   2.50                   6.50
FY2000
Jul-99                   3.00                    9.50
Jan-00                   3.00                   12.50
FY2001
Jul-00                   6.00                   18.50
Jan-01                   7.00                   25.50
FY2002
JUl-01                   9.00                   34.50
Jan-02                   9.00                   43.50
FY2003
Jul-02                   9.00                   52.50
Jan-03                   8.00                   60.50
FY2004
Jul-03                   6.00                   66.50
Jan-04                   4.00                   70.50
FY2005
Jul-04                   4.50                   75.00
Jan-05                    --                     --
Total              75.00



ANNEX C                                          - 85-
Table C2: Procurement Plan
Estimated   Proposed
Package  Procurement   Procurement Schedule
Description                                ($ million)  Procedure   Tender  Award  Complete
WORKS
Works Package 1 a                             7.27       ICB      Dec-97  Jun-98  Aug-01
(1.96)
Works Package 2 b                             5.46       ICB      Dec-97  Jun-98  Aug-01
(1.46)
Works Package 3 c                            19.18      ICB       Oct-97  Apr-98  Mar-01
(9.38)
Works Package 4 d                             9.97       ICB      Oct-97  Apr-98  Mar-01
(6.50)
Works Package 5e                              3.81       ICB      Oct-97  Apr-98  Mar-01
(3.26)
Works Package 6f                              1.19       LIB      Oct-97  Apr-98  Mar-00
(1.02)
Works Package 7 g                             7.53       ICB      Oct-97  Apr-98  Mar-01
(5.38)
Expansion of rural distribution systems - KfW  9.42     NBF       Dec-97  Jun-98  Aug-01
( )
Works Package 8 h                             1.37     SNCB k   Dec-97  Jun-98  Aug-01
(More than one package)                    (1.17)           k
Works Package 9'                              6.50     SNCB       Dec-97  Jun-98   Aug-01
(More than one package)                    (5.56)
Works Package 10'                             1.67      NCB       Apr-98  Oct-98   Sep-00
(More than one package)                    (1.43)
GOODS
Major Equipment for Operation and Maintenance    4.29   ICB      Apr-98  Oct-98   Sep-00
(3.66)
Minor Equipment for Operation and Maintenance    1.79     IS      Apr-98  Oct-98   Sep-00
(More than one package)                    (1.53)
SES Laboratories Equipment                    1.03        IS      Apr-98  Oct-98   Sep-00
(More than one package)                    (0.88)
Fumiture SES, Health Promotion, monitoring    0.87       NS       Apr-98  Oct-98   Sep-99
(More than one package)                    (0.74)
Equipment for Demand Management               0.61        IS      Oct-97  Apr-98  Dec-98
(More than one package)                    (0.52)
Office equipment, computers, vehicles        2.75         IS      Dec-97  Jun-98  May-99
(More than one package)                    (2.37)



- 86-                                           ANNEX C
CONSULTANT SERVICES
Sanitation, Health and Hygiene                            6.35       Short List   Apr-97   Sep-97   May-00
(6.21)
Water Demand Management and Loss Reduction                3.04       Short List   Apr-97   Sep-97   May-00
(1.95)
Institutional Strengthening of Water Utilities and        7.17       Short List   Apr-97   Sep-97   May-00
Bulk Providers                                           (7.17)
Tariff Study                                              0.63       Short List   Apr-98   Aug-98   Aug-99
(0.63)
Project Management and Supervision                        9.28       Short List   Apr-97   Sep-97   Aug-01
(7.24)
Refinancing of FS by Kuwait Fund                          0.83          NBF           n.a        n.a        n.a
(--)
Refinancing of Engineering Pilot Project                  5.00           n.a.         n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
(5.00)
Total                            117.00
(75.00)
Footnotes:
a. Rehabilitation of distribution systems in Nukus.
b. Rehabilitation of distribution systems in Urgench.
c. Rehabilitation of WTWs in Nukus and Urgench and expansion of WTW in Urgench..
d. Provision of additional trunk mains in Karakalpakstan Republic.
e.  Rehabilitation of rural distribution centers in Karakalpakstan Republic and Khorezm Oblast:
f   Rehabilitation of existing desalination units. Limited International Bidding (LIB) due to only a few Russian firms that have experience in
EKOS desalinization units.
g. Rehabilitation and development of groundwater sources in Karakalpakstan Republic and Khorezm Oblast.
h. Rural sanitation.
i.   Rural distribution systems with local water sources in Karakalpakstan Republic.
j.   Rehabilitation of laboratories and SES centers.
k. Simplified NCB.






-87 -                               ANNEX D
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX D
D. HEALTH DATA
Table DI: Birth Rate
(per 1,000 inhabitants)
Birth rate        1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Uzbekistan        34.5    32.8    30.9    29.4    29.5
Karakalpakstan   35.8    32.9    29.8    25.9    25.4
Khorezm Oblast   --         --      --      --       --
Source: Ministry of Health, Karakalpakstan; Ministry of Health, Khorezmn Oblast;
Sanitary-Epidemiological Services
Table D2: Infant Mortality Rate
(per 1,000 births)
IMR               1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Uzbekistan        35.5    37.0    32.0    28.2    26.0
Karakalpakstan   51.3    48.8    44.5    35.8    30.8
Khorezmi Oblast  37.6    38.6    34.0    28.3    25.8
Source: Ministry of Health, Karakalpakstan; Ministry of Health, Khorezm Oblast;
Sanitary-Epidemiological Services
Table D3: Maternal Mortality Ratio
(per 10,000 births)
MMR               1991   1992    1993   1994   1995
Uzbekistan        65.3      52.1   42.5    38.5    32.2
Karakalpakstan      --    103.3    --    70.2    53.0
Khorezm Oblast  46.8        44.4   34.6   30.2    25.4
Source: Ministry of Health, Karakalpakstan; Ministry of Health, Khorezm Oblast;
Sanitary-Epidemiological Services
Table D4: Incidence of Acute Intestinal Diseases
(per 10,000 births)
Acute Intestinal
Diseases           1991    1992    1993    1994   1995
Uzbekistan          573.5   523.1   535.7   489.7  409.3
Karakalpakstan      531.9   426.8   460.9   328.6  310.6
Khorezm Oblast   855.0   709.9   614.3   635.8    --
Source:. Ministry of Health, Karakalpakstan; Ministry of Health, Khorezm Oblast;
Sanitary-Epidemiological Services



ANNEX D                                       - 88 -
Table D5: Incidence of Hepatitis A per 100,000 Inhabitants
(per 100,000 inhabitants)
Hepatitis A     1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Uzbekistan       528.8   512.9   518.6   473.0   725.8
Karakalpakstan   422.9   391.8   312.2   171.7   228.4
Khorezm Oblast  398.4   393.6   336.5   297.6   351.8
Source: Ministry of Health, Karakalpakstan; Ministry of Health, Khorezm Oblast;
Sanitary-Epidemiological Services
Table D6: Incidence of Tuberculosis
(per 100,000 inhabitants)
TB          1991    1992    1993   1994   1995
Uzbekistan       46.0    43.6    44.5    43.0   44.3
Karakalpakstan   76.81   76.52   72.75   83.6   78.0
Khorezm Oblast 22.88   26.35   33.65          --     --
Source: Ministry of Health, Karakalpakstan; Ministry of Health, Khorezm Oblast; Sanitary-
Epidemiological Services
Table D7: Health Status in the Aral Sea Disaster Zone (1994)
Kzyl-Orda,   Karakalpakstan,      Tashauz,
Kazakstan       Uzbekistan      Turkmenistan
Infant
Mortality Rate        28             35.8              52
Maternal
Mortality Ratio       25             70.2              96
Table D8: Health Status in Central Asian Countries (1992/1993)
Indicator                     Kazakstan   Uzbekistan  Turkmenistan  Kyrgyz Republic  Tajikistan
Total Fertility Rate               2.7        4.1           4.2             3.7          5.1
Life Expectancy                     68         69           66              66            69
Infant Mortality Rate              31          42           46              37            49
Maternal Mortality Ratio           63          43    105 - 114              43            39
Sources: WDR 1994, World Bank 1995; Report 14861 TM, UNICEF 1995



-89 -                          ANNEX E
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX E
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
A. Project Impact and Environmental Rating
1.    The Uzbekistan Water Supply, Sanitation, and Health Project is designed to improve the
health and quality of life of the target population by providing safe drinking water and improved
sanitation. The project area, covering the Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast, has
been facing problems of water salinity and consequent potable water shortages for the past three
decades. The project is intended to implement a series of urgent schemes to improve the viability
and operation of the water supply and sanitation sectors. The overall impact would be a
substantial improvement in the level and quality of service while optimizing energy inputs and
preserving the quality of regional water resources.
2.    The project has been assigned a category B rating. Phase I project activities involve
primarily rehabilitation and modest expansions of the existing pipelines and treatment works.
Most construction activities would be small scale and without excessive noise or need for
explosives. Impacts on traffic flow and problems of noise and dust from construction activities
would be temporary and suitable mitigation measures would be taken to minimize these impacts.
The project has a sewerage component consistent with the water supply schemes to handle any
increases in sewage flow. The project also has a sanitation component integrated with a health
and hygiene education program to enable maximum improvements in public health. Adverse
environmental impacts of the project are therefore insignificant as compared to the overall
benefits.
B. Project Background and Environmental Issues
3.    The Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast together constitute over one third
of the total land area of Uzbekistan and are irrigated by the Amu Darya river which is the major
surface water source in the area. Intensive agricultural developments relying on major irrigation
schemes and chemical inputs have lead to a severe deterioration in the quality of the regional
water resources over the past few decades.
4.    The major problem is that of water salinity and, except in summer when snow melt
occurs, the salinity levels in most local surface water sources (river and canal water) are found to
be higher than the acceptable level for drinking water. Groundwater reserves are also highly
saline, with levels as high as 25-30 g/l in the deep aquifers. Shallow freshwater lenses in several
areas and extraction of this water to meet local demands, while inadequate in itself, is causing
recharge of the freshwater lenses with the surrounding saline water thereby exacerbating the
regional water quality problems.
5.    Much of the current water demand in the project area is met by a major water supply
scheme which uses water from the Tuyamuyun group of reservoirs located almost 240 km south
of the main settlements in Karakalpakstan. The scheme is extremely energy intensive and
involves pumping water over hundreds of kilometers into the urban and rural areas of



ANNEX E                                  -90-
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast. The project was launched in the Soviet period when
electricity was highly subsidized and the pumping costs were low. Water was supplied free or at
nominal cost to the consumers. In the present economy the subsidies cannot be afforded and very
soon the consumers would have to pay more for water.
7.    While the costs of water are difficult to meet, the condition of the water supply systems is
universally poor and the quality of service is below expected levels. The distribution systems in
the urban areas are old and corroded leading to frequent incidents of burst pipes (average 6.1
breaks per km in Karakalpakstan in 1995). The systems are therefore operated at less than half
the design pressure which poses a risk of inflow with consequent contamination of the water
supply. Leakage is estimated to be as high as 30 percent and the quantity of water supplied is
much lower than the design supply. Many areas on the outskirts of towns and in upper stories of
apartment blocks do not receive any water in the summer.
8.    At the local distribution centers, the Tuyamuyun water is blended with water from other
local sources (shallow groundwater and surface irrigation canals) to augment the supply. While
the chemical quality of the local sources is unacceptable during certain times of the year, the
water treatment plants are in generally poor condition and face shortages of chemicals for
turbidity removal and disinfection. As a result, the piped water supply does not always meet
bacteriological or chemical water quality standards.
9.   In the project area, fully developed piped sewerage and sewage treatment systems exist
only in the major cities (Nukus, Urgench, Khiva and Druzba) where they are operated and
maintained by the local Vodokanals. In some urban or peri-urban locations there are local
systems covering limited areas. In rural locations, some bigger farms operating food processing
factories have wastewater collection and treatment facilities for trade effluents. In most areas, on-
site sanitation is used extensively and often consists of simple pits which are emptied from time
to time.
10.   The sewerage systems as well as sewage pumping stations are in a state of disrepair and
substantial sections of the existing network require rehabilitation. The treatment plant at Nukus
has been constructed recently and has excess capacity, but the treatment facilities at Urgench,
Khiva and Druzba are overloaded and in a poor state of repair. Toilets in homes and public
buildings are unhygienic, partly because their design and construction are so poor that effective
cleaning is virtually impossible. In many urban and peri-urban areas there are numerous
multistory apartment blocks that are not connected to piped water supply or drainage despite
being equipped with internal pipework and sanitary appurtenances. The overall household
sanitation conditions in the rural areas are very poor as well.
11.   The major impact of existing water supply and sanitation conditions is on public health.
Diarrheal diseases are reported to be the second most important cause of infant mortality in the
project area. Other water related diseases such as hepatitis A, typhoid, and paratyphoid are also
known to constitute major health concerns. Although published health data are not conclusive in
linking health solely to water supply, recognized long-term health indicators show a higher
incidence, compared with other parts of Uzbekistan, of certain kidney ailments that are claimed
to be associated with chemically poor water.



-91-                          ANNEX E
12.   To improve the performance of the water supply and sanitation sectors in the project area,
a number of activities are proposed as part of the Uzbekistan water supply, sanitation, and health
project. The following sections describe these activities along with their positive and negative
impacts.
C. Project Activities and Impacts
Main Pipeline Supply to Urban and Rural Areas
13.   Major project activities and impacts under this component are:
Activities:   Repairs or replacement in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast of
sections of urban distribution pipes which are prone to failure or have excessive
leakage. It is estimated that 100 km of pipework in Karakalpakstan and 82 km of
pipework in Khorezm Oblast is involved. In addition, the chlorination facilities at
the water distribution centers in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast would be
rehabilitated.
Impacts:    This component would reduce losses and maintenance costs and
improve water quality by reducing the risk of groundwater inflow to the system. It
would also allow higher pressures to be used in the distribution system, resulting
in continuous supply to more consumers. Provision of chlorination equipment
would improve bacteriological quality of water. Some traffic disruptions would
occur while rehabilitation work is going on but these would be temporary and
would be dealt with by arranging alternative routes where necessary.
Activities:   Rehabilitation of water treatment works involving improvements
in the filtration unit at the 65 Mld capacity plant at Nukus; and provision of spare
parts and filter sand for the 50 Mld capacity plant at Urgench.
Impacts:    These activities would improve the efficiency of turbidity removal
thereby achieving better disinfection and producing better quality water. No
adverse impacts are likely to occur from these activities.
*    Activities:   Exploration and pump testing to develop groundwater sources for
possible capacity expansion from 10 Mld to 25 Mld at the Chalysh groundwater
source; and for providing an additional supply of 20 Mld in Karakalpakstan. This
component might eventually involve construction of additional wells with power
supplies and pipelines to link the source to the main Khorezm Oblast supply
system.
Impacts:    This component would augment the water supply with a cheaper
local water resource. Pumping tests are not likely to have any adverse impacts but
digging new wells may disturb the natural flora and fauna. Care would be taken to
select locations and pipeline routes that minimize these impacts.
*     Activities:   Completion of works started by the Vodokanal on trunk pipelines
linking the towns of Beruni, Turtkul and Kazanketken to the main Tuyamuyun
pipeline.



ANNEX E                                - 92 -
Impacts:    This would allow additional supplies to be provided to the towns
that at present rely on groundwater which is highly seasonal in availability. No
additional negative impacts are likely by the completion of ongoing works.
Activities:   Extension of the trunk pipeline in Khorezm Oblast to connect the
town of Shavat and reinforcement of connections to Koshkupir and Yangi.
Impacts:    This component would augment supplies to a population of 39,000
within the towns and secondary trunk mains off the new pipelines would allow
other rural consumers to be supplied from the main system. The connections to
Shavat would also allow the 10 Mld capacity Shavat groundwater source to be
added to the main pipeline system resources. Laying of pipelines would involve
some digging and trenching and mitigation measures would be taken to minimize
the impacts.
Development of Local Water Supply and Distribution Systems
14.   Major activities and impacts are:
-    Activities:   Exploitation of alternative water supply sources such as hand
pumps, small local desalinization units, fresh groundwater lenses with
chlorination, or other small scale package water treatment plants, and
rehabilitation of existing EKOS desalination units. This component would be
implemented following a demand-driven approach and would involve providing
grants to households for installing hand pumps. Where hand pumps cannot be
installed, community participation would be sought to choose among different
sources and levels of service and the schemes would be implemented through the
Agrovodokanals.
Impacts:.  About 200,000 people in rural settlements of the Republic of
Karakalpakstan and 20,000 people in rural Khorezm Oblast are proposed to be
covered by water supply from these alternative sources. While installation of hand
pumps is not likely to have any significant adverse environmental impacts,
development of fresh groundwater lenses would require judicious sitting and
operation norms to mitigate further deterioration in quality of the groundwater
regime. Operation of desalination units and package water treatment plants would
likewise require adequate disposal of the brine and other waste streams.
*     4Activities:   Construction of a 105 km long pipeline connecting the Kungrad
water treatment works to the town of Muynak.
Impacts:    This component would bring water to an additional 13,700 people
who are at present without an adequate supply of potable water. The laying of the
pipeline would involve some digging and trenching but the area along the pipeline
route is sparsely populated and impacts of dust and noise are not expected to be
substantial. Care would be taken to minimize disturbances to the natural habitat.
Water Demand Management and Loss Reduction
15.   Major activities and impacts are:



-93 -                         ANNEX E
*     Activities:   This component would involve actual measurement of leakage and
wastage, and device and implement a strategy for reducing both to acceptable
levels. This may include active leakage control policies, programs to increase
public awareness, and measures by the Vodokanals and Agrovodokanals to reduce
wastage such as repairing or replacing faulty internal plumbing. Demand
management, in particular the extension of water metering in apartment buildings
and other consumer groups would be examined on a trial basis in pilot areas.
Impacts:    These activities would improve water availability and are not likely
to have any adverse impacts.
Sanitation, Health and Hygiene
16.   The activities proposed under this subcomponent and their likely impacts are:
*     Activities:   This component would provide approximately 7,900 and 6,900
new hand pumps to be installed in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast to supply
44 percent and 47 percent of the population, respectively. The overall number of
hand pumps would be increased so that there is on average 1 hand pump per 40
people in areas where there is no access to piped supplies. The hand pumps would
be manufactured to an approved design in Uzbekistan and installed by local
contractors such as the PreAralia Expedition in Nukus.
Impacts:    This component would address the urgent need for access to
potable water in rural areas and is not likely to have any adverse environmental
impacts.
*    Activities:   This component would involve construction of improved latrines
and installation of hand washing facilities in individual households and public
facilities such as schools, primary community health care centers, canteens, and
market places. A grant financing scheme has been designed to help households
and communities finance the sanitation facilities.
Impacts:    This component would address the urgent issue of unsanitary
facilities and practices in the project area and is not likely to have any adverse
environmental impacts.
*     Activities:   This subcomponent would cover health and hygiene education of
both the rural and urban populations in the project area.
Impacts:    This program would complement the sanitation subcomponent of
the project and as such is an integral element of the overall strategy for improving
public health. No adverse impacts are likely to occur from these activities.
D. Overall Environmental Impact
17.   The overall impact of the project would be to provide an additional 239,000 urban and
241,000 rural consumers with piped water supply and 220,000 rural consumers with improved
alternative water supplies. In addition, 749,000 urban and 755,000 rural consumers would benefit
from improved levels of service. The entire population is expected to benefit from the health and
hygiene education program, to the extent that this program has an impact on changing hygiene



ANNEX E                                 -94-
practices and on health, especially among children. While providing better water supply and
sanitation facilities, the project would also strengthen the various organizations involved in
public health in the project area, such as,the regional Vodokanals and Agrovodokanals; the
Tuyamuyun-Urgench and Tuyamuyun-Nukus main pipeline operators; the regional Sanitary
Epidemiological Services; and the Regional Centers of Health.
18.   Overall, the project is envisaged to contribute substantially to the improvement of public
health and quality of life in the project area and any transient impacts associated with its
implementation are considered to be comparatively minor.



-95 -                           ANNEX F
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX F
F. WATER RESOURCES AND WATER QUALITY
1.    The only water source in the project area is the Amu Darya river, which drains a large
part of southern Central Asia. The total area of the basin is about one million square kilometers.
The Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast lie in the downstream end of the Amu
Darya basin, where the annual precipitation is about 420 mm in steppe areas and 170 mm in
desert areas. Most of the precipitation occurs during winter in the formn of snow.
2.    Substantial withdrawals are made at various points along the Amu Darya river. The
largest extractions take place upstream of the project area and are subject to international
agreements. By far, agriculture is the largest user in the basin and accounts for about 70 percent
of total withdrawals. Drainage water is returned to the river through irrigation drain canals but at
greatly increased salinity levels.
3.    At the beginning of the 1980s, the Amu Darya river was dammed and regulated through
four interlinked reservoirs, which form the Tuyamuyun reservoir system. Apart from supplying
water for irrigation, domestic and industrial purposes, hydropower is generated from the
reservoirs' releases. Table Fl shows the available storage capacity at each reservoir. As can be
seen, the combined maximum live storage of the system is about five million cubic meters.
Table Fl: Storage Capacity of the Tuyamuyun Reservoir System
Top Water   Gross Storage  Surface Area  Minimum Drawoff  Live Storage
Reservoir     Level (m)      (Mcm)         (km2)        Level (m)       (Mcm)
Main Reservoir     130          2,340         303            120            2,070
Kaparas            130            960          70            120             555
Sultansandjar      130          2,690         149            116            1,690
Koshbulak          130          1,810         128            116            1,020
Total                       7,800        650                           5,335
Source: Feasibility Study Report, May 1996
A. Quantity of the Amu Darya River
4.    Table F2 and Figure Fl show annual runoffs in the Amu Darya at various observation
points over a period of 10 years, from 1986-1995. Darganata and Tuyamuyun Gorge are located
immediately upstream and downstream of the Tuyamuyun reservoir system. Samambay and
Kizyldjar are located downstream of the Takhiatash barrage, near Nukus in the delta area of the
Amu Darya. As can be seen from the data, the average annual flow upstream at Darganata during
the analyzed period was about 40,000 Mcm, or five times the combined gross storage capacity of
the system. On average, approximately 75 percent of the Amu Dayra's flow at Darganata reaches
the delta area of Kizyldjar.



ANNEX F                                   -96-
Table F2: Annual Runoff in the Amu Darya River, 1986-1995
(In million cubic meters)
Year          Darganata        Tuyamuyun Gorge        Samambay          Kizyldjar
1986            18,434              16,891              463                434
1987            38,620              30,794             8,699              8,206
1988            44,016              40,765            16,811             16,429
1989            22,952              18,374             1,516              1,040
1990            35,906              29,805             6,892              6,140
1991            38,372              34,367            10,485              9,401
1992            58,345              51,966            24,270             21,342
1993            49,845              38,901            15,522             15,113
1994            54,623              42,690            18,721             18,389
1995            34,959              21,665             3,522              2,927
Average         39,607              32,622            10,690994
Source: Feasibility Study Report, May 1996
Figure Fl: Annual Run-off of the Amu Darya River, 1986-1995
60000
50000
#  40000
30000
3  20000   '
10000 
1986         1988          1990         1992          1994         1996
|n      Darganata   *  *  * TuyamuyunGorge         S amambay     -  - Kizyldjar
Source: Feasibility Study Report, May 1996
5.    As shown by Figures Fl, F2 and F3, there is a great variation between the dry and wet
years and between the wet and the dry seasons. In Kizyldjar, for example, while the average
annual run-off was about 314 cubic meters per second, there were some months when the
minimum runoff flow fell as low as 3.2 cubic meters per second. Limited water resources is a
characteristic of dry years. Thus, particular attention should be given to the operating rules of the
system if the Amu Darya river is used as the primary source of domestic water during drought
periods.



-97-                              ANNEX F
Figure F2: Mean Monthly Flows in the Amu Darya River, 1986-1995
3000
2500 I
|   2000 I
r   1500 I
,C  1000         
500
r.T.4        -~~~~~~~  -~~~~            0     z
| Darganata - -   TuyamuyunGorge          Samambay - - - Kizyldjar
Source: Feasibility Study Report, May 1996
Figure F3: Minimum Monthly Flows in the Amu Darya River, 1986-1995
1600
1400 -                                          .
*   1200
1000
800
U~600 
t    400
200 
inaDarganata -        TuyamuyunGorge     Samambay - -   Kizyldjar
Source: Feasibility Study Report, May 1996
B. Quality of the Amu Darya River
6.    The main pollution sources in the Amu Darya river are the irrigation drainage/collectors
located in the in the Bukhara and Kashikadarya regions. These regions have the largest
agricultural land in the river basin. The large volume of collector/drainage water discharged back
into the system has resulted in a drastic increase in the rate of mineralization (salinization). Water
mineralization increases along the Amu Darya river, reaching the highest values in the lower



ANNEX F                                      -98 -
reaches of the basin. Figures F4 through F7 show maximum, average and minimum monthly
levels of mineralization at four sites in the Amu Darya river between 1974 and 1993.
Figure F4: Maximum, Minimum and Average Monthly Salinization at Termez
1400           r
1200
4 000
31 6uo    ' 0--
2 0 0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Average
200
0                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Source: The Study on Water Supply System in Six Cities of the Aral Sea Region in Uzbekistan (Draft Final Report),
JICA, October 1996
Figure F5: Maximum, Minimum and Average Monthly Salinization at Tuyamuyun Gorge
2500
2000-r
2 1500
*2 0 00 
o  _ o                                     
0-                       I q        ! ;E    t      ,z   
Source: The Study on Water Supply System in Six Cities of the Aral Sea Region in Uzbekistan (Draft Final Report),
JICA, October 1996



-99 -                             ANNEX F
Figure F6: Maximum, Minimum and Average Monthly Salinization at Samambay
2 o 0 0                            
1500
I 0 0 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
500
rJ.. S  t'                                 C     0     Z
Source: The Study on Water Supply System in Six Cities of the Aral Sea Region in Uzbekistan (Draft Final Report),
JICA, October 1996
Figure F7: Maximum, Minimum and Average Monthly Salinization at Kizyldjar
2500
2000_i_                                                          _
2 1000
I         .00                                 40     0. 
2    S  R  >  i    X     ;E     t    rS~.c   me    O  Zi   a,
Source: The Study on Water Supply System in Six Cities of the Aral Sea Region in Uzbekistan (Draft Final Report),
JICA, October 1996
7.    Uzbekistan's standard for maximum allowable concentration of mineralization is 1,000
mg/liter. With the exception of Termez, the salinization at the three sites exceed the standard.
8.    The highest level of salinity is reached in March-April, while the lowest level is reached
in July. The mineralization concentration shows a seasonal trend, which fluctuates with the
discharge rate. During the summer season, when the discharge rate is high, the mineralization
concentration is low.
9.    The mineralization problem could be addressed by changing the operating rules of the
Tuyamuyun reservoir systems and filling the Kaparas reservoir with better quality water. This is,
however, a very costly alternative as shown below.



ANNEX F                                 -100 -
10.   The design capacity of the Kaparas reservoir is 960 Mcm at an elevation of 130 meters,
which gives a life-storage capacity of 550 Mcm. In order to impound 410 Mcm of water in the
Kaparas reservoir, water must be filled up to a level of 128 m. However, under current operating
rules, Kaparas reservoir reaches the 128 m level between November and December, when water
quality has badly deteriorated. Therefore, it is impossible to fill the reservoir with better quality
water by gravity flow.
C. Groundwater Resources
11.   Groundwater resources can be found in abundant quantities in the project area. One key
question regarding their development, however, relates to their quality. Fresh groundwater fields
are closely connected to the surface water. The decrease of flow rate in the Amu Darya river and
the rise in level of salinity during the last decades have negatively impacted on the quality of
groundwater, especially on shallow groundwater since it is recharged either directly or indirectly
by water from the Amu Darya.
12.   Under the current operating practices of extraction, shallow groundwater quality is being
deteriorated. When water is extracted in September, poor-quality surface water is pulled into the
aquifer leading to a steady decline in overall quality. However, if shallow groundwater aquifers
are exploited to their maximum during June to September, when surface water of reasonable
quality is available, then good quality water can be drawn into the aquifers. In the remainder of
the year, shallow aquifers should not be used to preserve their quality. This source then can be
used to meet peak demands during the months of June to August.
13.   A  recent study has estimated that under a proper operating extraction system
accompanied by quality protection measures, potential resources of relatively fresh shallow
groundwater may amount to some 94.9 Mcm in Karakalpakstan and about 98.6 Mcm in Khorezm
Oblast. Current extractions represent 7 percent and 2 percent of these amounts, respectively.
14.   Groundwater is also found in the project area in a 200-300 m thick deep artesian aquifer
at 100-300 meters below sea level. The deep groundwater aquifer is free of chemicals and
bacteriological contamination, but the level of salinization is relatively high, ranging from 1,000-
5,000 mg/liter in the east to 20,000-30,000 mg/liter in the west.



-101-                          ANNEX G
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX G
G. PROJECTED WATER DEMAND
1.    Demand for piped water depends on several factors, namely, population growth, per
capita consumption, volume-based pricing of water supply, coverage and levels of services,
household income level, industrial output, and demand management programs. Production of
piped water, in turn, is determined by the level of efficiency or unaccounted-for water.
2.    According to recent population statistics, the 1995 population totaled 1.35 million
inhabitants in Karakalpakstan Republic (632,700 in urban areas and 722,000 in rural areas) and
1.26 million inhabitants in Khorezm Oblast (363,300 in urban areas and 899,700 in rural areas).
The Government forecasts a population expansion from 2.6 million to approximately 3.9 million
between 1995 and 2015. Population projections up to year 2015 are presented in Table GI, and
are based on Government forecasts.
Table Gl: Actual and Projected Population from 1995 to 2015
(In million inhabitants)
Actual                Projected
Locality               1995      2000     2005     2010      2015
Urban
Nukus                               230.3     247.3    260.2    272.0    283.0
Chimbay                              31.9      34.2     36.0      37.7     39.2
Kungrad                              56.1      60.3      63.4     65.7     69.1
Muynak                               13.7      14.6      15.4     16.1     16.8
Urgench                             138.6     150.0    156.0    164.0    172.0
Khiva                                46.3      50.0      52.0     55.0     57.5
Other Urban-Karakalpakstan          300.7     349.0    381.2    399.9    451.7
Other Urban-Khorezm                 178.4     190.8    201.0    210.6    219.8
Rural
Rural-Karakalpakstan                722.0     809.2    893.7    985.9   1089.5
Rural-Khorezm                       899.7    1041.8   1182.5   1342.0   1523.2
Total               2617.70   2947.2   3241.4   3548.9   3921.8
3.    The feasibility study consultant assessed two scenarios for future water demand. The first
scenario or Plan I assumes that average service levels in urban areas of Karakalpakstan and
Khorezm Oblast would increase respectively from 76 percent and 86 percent in 1995 to 100
percent in both areas by the year 2010. In rural areas, the level of piped water services would
increase from 41 percent and 51 percent to 85 percent and 90 percent by the year 2010 and to 100
percent in both areas by the year 2015. The second scenario or Plan 2 assumes a more modest
expansion of services in rural areas of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast, from 41 percent and
51 percent to 55 percent and 65 percent by the year 2010 and to 60 percent and 70 percent by the
year 2015.



ANNEX G                                     -102 -
4.    Regarding consumption levels, the consultant used a modified version of the current
design norms by type of service', and assumed that because of income growth, the proportion of
those with higher level of service would increase in the future. Plan I assumes a 100 percent
increase in per capita domestic consumption from 1995 to 2015, while Plan 2 assumes a 50
percent increase. Industrial and commercial future demands were also based on modified supply
norms and on government development plans for industrial expansion. Table G2 presents water
consumption patterns and level of losses in 1995. Table G3 summarizes piped water production
forecast under Plans 1 and 2.
Table G2: Water Production Patterns in 1995
(In liters per capita per day)
Locality              Domestic  Industrial Institutional Losses    Total
Nukus                                 176         36          97        103       412
Chimbay                               91          21          33         48       193
Kungrad                              174          60          54         96      384
Muynak                               156          65         152        124      497
Urgench                              283         140         141        188      752
Khiva                                193          66         110        123      492
Other Urban-Karakalpakstan           141          29          78         82      330
Other Urban-Khorezm                  192          98         108        133      530
Rural-Karakalpakstan                 115          14           7         45       181
Rural-Khorezm                         81          15           7         34       137
5.    During         project  Table G3: Piped Water Production Forecasts, 1995-2015
preparation an attempt was
mrepraetion estimtemfuture pd                  (In million liters per day)
made to estimate future piped   Scenario      1995    2000    2005    2010    201
water demand for domestic  Plan 1             486      584     779      969     1238
and non-domestic users based  Plan 2          486      528     638      778      958
on a casual econometric
forecast aiming to assess the impacts of economic indicators such as income growth, industrial
output growth, water pricing, and bulk and individual metering. In addition, the analysis
incorporates a more realistic expansion path of piped water supply coverage, which is in line
with funds that can be mobilized by the Government of Uzbekistan in the short and long term.
6.    Piped water supply services in urban and rural areas are expected to increase coverage at
levels shown in Table G4. If consumption remains at current level, then total water demand in
the project area would increase from 364 Mcm to 587 Mcm between 1995 and 2015. Such
increase implies an average annual growth rate of 2.4 percent.
7.    At present, a large volume of piped water produced is unaccounted-for. The 1995 average
level of unaccounted-for water in the project area has been estimated at 42 percent. The proposed
Adjusted norms for domestic consumption used by the F/S consultant were as follows:
- Building equipped with internal plumbing, sewerage, and central heating    270-290 lcd
- Same as above but with own heating system                 200 lcd
- Building with internal plumbing without sewerage system    140 lcd
- Standpipe connection                                       45-50 lcd
- Watering of gardens and washing of vehicles                50 lcd



-103 -                           ANNEX G
project aims to reduce the volume of unaccounted-for water by 8 percent by the year 2002. The
current strategy for the sector is to decrease unaccounted-for water even further. Table G4 shows
the assumptions made in projecting future trend of unaccounted-for water.
Table G4: Assumptions on Piped Water Coverage & Reduction of Unaccounted-for Water
(In percentage)
ItemlArea             1995      2000       2005        2010       2015
Coverage
Nukus                             77         85        95         100         100
Chimbay                           79         85        95         100         100
Kungrad                           81         90        95         100         100
Muynak                            92        100       100         100         100
Urgench                           98         98       100         100         100
Khiva                             95         95       100         100         100
Other Urban-Karakalpakstan        73         80        95         100         100
Other Urban-Khorezm               75         88        98         100         100
Rural-Karakalpakstan              41         38        45         50           50
Rural-Khorezn                     51         47        55         60           60
Unaccounted-for Water
Nukus                             45         34        32          29          27
Chimbay                           45         40        38         36           34
Kungrad                           45         40        38         36           34
Muynak                            45         34        32         29           27
Urgench                           40         34        32         29           27
Khiva                             40         34        32         29           27
Other Urban-Karakalpakstan        45         40        38         36           34
Other Urban-Khorezm               40         34        32         29           27
Rural-Karakalpakstan              40         34        32         29           27
Rural-Khorezm                     38         32        29         27           24
8.    Current              Table G5: Annual Growth Rates of Income and Industrial
economic condition in                              Output
the project area could                         (In percentage)
change  in the future.           Item          1995-00   2000-05   2005-10   2010-1 
Therefore, the evolution  Income growth           0         0         1         2
of consumption  could  Industrial output growth   0         2         3        4
differ  from    current
patterns. Forecasting of future demand assumes household income and industrial output
elasticities of 0.4 and 0.5, respectively. Table G5 presents the assumptions regarding real growth
of income and industrial output during the analyzed period.
9.    Regarding metering, the government expects to continue with its policy of individual
metering of non-domestic consumers. Water metering targets for non-domestic consumers are
shown in Table G6. About domestic consumers, the government strategy is to introduce bulk
metering and individual metering in a piloting basis.



ANNEX G                                  -104-
10.   Current domestic tariffs are       Table G6: Water Metering Targets
well below the average marginal                   (InTpercentage)
cost of  supply. Non-domestic               r        p S c0    2005   2010
tariffs only cover current operating     User           40    7000   100    100
and maintenance (O&M) costs,  Category m: Industrial    64     86    100    100
while domestic tariff represents 
less than 5 percent of O&M costs. Government policy is to set tariffs that would cover O&M
expenses, changes in working capital and depreciation. To achieve financial sustainability tariffs
would have to increase substantially in real terms. However, due to the economic conditions in
the project area, these increases would have to be implemented over a relatively long period and
at small increments. These increases have been assumed to be 2 percent annually. The
forecasting of demand assumes that non-domestic consumers respond to price increase with an
elasticity of -0.5. In the case of domestic consumers, it is assumed that the metering program in
combination with a proposed demand management program would cause a reduction of demand
of 8 percent by the year 2000 and 20 percent by the year 2015. Table G7 shows the assumptions
regarding price increases as well as the targets of the demand management program.
Table G7: Non-Domestic Annual Water Price Increase and Domestic Savings Targets
(In percentage)
Item                      1995-00  2000-05  2005-10   2010-15
Non-domestic tariff                             2         2        2         2
Demand Management Program target (1995 base year)  8     12       17        20
11.   The results of the analysis are shown in Table G8 and Figures Gl and G2. The estimates
under a new pricing policy, combined with a rigorous unaccounted-for water reduction program
and an active water conservation campaign show that total water demand by the year 2015 would
represent 1.5 times the 1995 demand level. Losses would experience a reduction of 17 percent
between 1995 and 2015. Total level of production, in turn, would increase at an annual rate of 1
percent from 624 Mid to 769 Mld. If no measures are taken to manage demand or reduce waste,
production level by the year 2015 would have to rise by 2.8 percent per year in order to match
increase in income, coverage and industrial growth. Figure G3 presents the balance between
available supply and water production.
Table G8: Water Production and Demand Projections
(In million liters per day)
1995    2000      2005     2010      2015
With Demand Man. and loss reduction   624      615      684       732       769
- Water Losses                        260      216      226       224       217
- Water Demand                        364      399      458       508       552
Without Demand Man. and loss reduction  624    715       850      970      1084
- Water Losses                        260      299      356       405       453
- Water Demand                        364      416      495       564       631



-105 -                                               ANNEX G
Figure GI: Water Demand Under Current Policies
1000
8 00    -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -                 - - - -   -  -
700  --  -  -   -  - -   -  -                                                      ....
6 00 77M7
100
0,
1995                                 2000                                   2005                                  2010
|   Domestic          *Industrial           Olnstitutional           OLosses
Figure G2: Water Demand Projections Under New Sector Strategy
1200
8 00                                    -X   ;                       :
200                                                                           a
0
1995                                 2000                                  2005                                  2010
| Domestic            * Industrial          Olnstitutional           OLosses



ANNEX G                                                                               -106-
Figure G3: Water Production and Available Supply
1200
0   WitShou dmnand mnaSgernent and losssedUot o                   I   _        d             I            I
I            I                                                A-ilAbl. upply
; 600 --  - - - -: -                                                  - - - - - -   Withs d...nd m-agaimen't and loss mIluction - -~ -    
400        --    -     - _  _        _ -     -      -   -     -     -     -     -  L-   -     -     -     -   _-I-     -     -     -     -     -  L-   -     -     -     -     - -   -_   -     -     -     -    -     -     -     -     -     -    -     -     -     -     -     -
- -- - - - - --- -    - - - IL  I ~~                  I            I
200  --   -    -   -    -    - _             IL            L            I-   -    -   -    -   -    -   -   -     -   -    -   -   -   -    -   -   -    -    -   -   -  -     -_     
1995         1997         1999         2001         2003          2005         2007         2009         2011          2013         2015



-107 -                                         ANNEX H
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX H
H. SUPERVISION SCHEDULE AND PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
Table Hi: Supervision Schedule
Duration
No.    Date                         Objective                                  Composition                (weeks)  SW
1   10/97     Project Launch Workshop, Review of Status of       Task Manager, San. Engineer, Public       2.5       12
Consultants' Contracts, Review of Execution of Works,   Health Specialist, Financial Analyst!
Review of Financial and Institutional Performance  Institutional Development Specialist,
Participation Specialist
2   4/98       Review of Execution of Works, Review of Status of  Task Manager, San. Engineer, Public      3.0       14
Consultants' Assignments (TA, Tariff Study, Acet.  Health Spec., Fin. Analyst/Institutional
System), Rev. of Fin. and Institutional Performance  Development Spec., Participation
Specialist
3   10/98     Review of Execution of Works, Review of Status of  Task Manager, San. Engineer, Public       2.5       12
Consultants' Assignments (TA, Acct. System) Tariff  Health Spec., Fin. AnalystJInstit. Dev.
Study, Rev. of Fin. and Instit. Performance  ,    Spec., Participation Specialist
4   4/99       Review of Execution of Works, Review of Status of  Task Manager, San. Engineer, Public      3.0       14
Consultants' Assignments (TA) review of Implementation Health Spec., Fin. AnalystVInstit. Dev.
of Findings Tariff Study, Rev. of Fin. and Instit.  Spec.,Participation Specialist
Performance,
5   10/99     Review of Execution of Works, Review of Status of  Task Manager, San. Engineer, Public       3.0       14
Consultants' Assignments (TA) review of Implementation Health Spec., Fin. Analyst/Instit. Dev.
of Findings Tariff Study, Rev. of Fin. and Instit.  Spec.
Performance,
6   4/2000    Review of Execution of Works, Implementation of agreed Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.     3.0       11
Rev. of Fin. and Instit. Performance              Analyst/Instit. Dev. Spec., Participation
Specialist
7   10/00      Review of Execution of Works, Rev. of Fin. and Instit.   Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.  2.5       10
Performance                                       Analyst/lnstit. Dev. Spec.
8   4/01      Review of Execution of Works, Rev. of Fin. and Instit.   Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.   2.5       10
Performance                                       AnalystlInstit. Dev. Spec., Participation
Specialist
9   10/01     Review of Execution of Works, Rev. of Fin. and Instit.   Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.   2.5       10
Performance                                       Analyst/Instit. Dev. Spec.
10  4/02       Review of Execution of Works, Rev. of Fin. and Instit.   Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.  2.5       10
Performance                                       Analyst/Instit. Dev. Spec., Participation
Specialist
Total StaffWeeks             117



ANNEX H                                         -108-
Table H2: Project Design and Performance Summary
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions and
Supervision               Risks
CAS Objective
1. (a) Support macroeconomic        1.1 Improvements in key   1.1 Annual statistics by    Sector reform in project
stabilization along with structural and    economic indicators.  Govermment.          area through
sectoral reforms; (b) strengthen market   1.2 ERR of the project.  1.2 Ex-post review of  reorganization of six
incentives; and (c) protect vulnerable                       economic rate of return.   water agencies into two
groups through establishment of an                                                    regional agencies.
effective safety net and more efficient
service delivery. Bank support also                                                   Timely payment for water
would: (a) expand access to basic social                                              and sewerage services.
services which are largely poverty                                                    Realization of benefits of
alleviation focused; (b) strengthen the                                               sanitation demonstration
Government's institutional capacity; and                                              programs.
(c) create sustainable income,                                                        Affordability of proposed
employment and growth opportunity.                                                    solutions, water/sewer
tariffs.
2. Support Government efforts to                              2.1 Annual statistics on
improve the health of rural populations   2.1 Increased access to safe  water produced and
in the western regions of the country,    water.              distributed,
which are most severely affected by the   2.2 Improvement in the  connections installed,
consequences of the Aral Sea crisis and   quality of distributed water.  hand pumps installed.
which are the most poorly served with   2.3 Decrease of infant  2.2 Annual completion of
regard to water supply, sanitation and    mortality, mortality and  data on water test
hygiene.                            morbidity by diarrheal    performed and results.
diseases Construction of  2.3Annual healt  .
latrines.                statistics by age-group,
gender, and district.
2.4 Epidemiological
studies carried out by SES
3.1 Annual health
3. Improve the population's health,                           statistics.
during a transition to a market-oriented
economy.
Project Development Objectives
I. Improve the water supply, sanitation   1.1 Increased access to  1.1 Quarterly review of    Demonstration programs
and health of the population of     water through house, yard   data.                 and participation by
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast    connections, standpipes,                         affected population to
through                             hand pumps.                                       continue beyond pilot
provision of safe drinking water along    1.2. Quantity of water                      phase and to be supported
with imnproved hygiene education and    produced and distributed.    1.2 Quarterly data.  by the population at
sanitation facilities.              1.3 Quality of water                              large.
produced and distributed (%  1.3 Water quality   Improved access to safe
of water quality samples  statistics provided by  water will imnprove living
meeting bacteriological  SES.                    standards of the
quality standards).                              population
1.4 Alternative water                            and support sustained
supplies and sanitation (%                       development through
rural population covered by                      labor productivity
hand pumps and low-cost                          increases.
sanitation).              1.4 Quarterly reports and   Lack of political will to
1.5 Improvement in       SES data.               reorganize institutions.



-109 -                               ANNEX H
knowledge, attitudes and                         Lack of commitment to
practices related to water,                      take actions if monitoring
sanitation and health                            data indicates need for
2.1 Set of key monitoring                        action.
2. Strengthen the institutional capacity   indicators on managerial,    1.5 KAP surveys carried
for management, operation and financial operational and fnancial    out by Centeys oalth
performance of the regional water   performance and training
supply and sanitation utilities as well as
the regional Centers of Health and the
Sanitary Epidemiology Stations.
3.1 Prepare a plan for   2.1 Quarterly
3. Increase efficiency of project   restructuring the water   performance monitoring
institutions by                     agencies by January 1998.   reports.
restructuring/reorganization        3.2 Implement the plan
according to a schedule
agreed with the Bank.    3.1 Report on effective
reorganization by 1/98.
Project Outputs
I. Improvements in health and low cost  1. I Construction of 15,000   1.1 to 1.5 Quarterly  Drop in the incidence of
sanitation.                        latrines and handwashing    reports.               gastro-intestinal diseases.
basins;                                          Acceptance by population
1.2 Construction of 7,500                        of recommendations of
hand pumps;                                      health improvement
1.3 Community                                    programs.
participation activities (%                      Delay in merging existing
population covered).                             entities into two regional
1.4 Health promotion and                         entities.
education programs (%                            Government and local
population covered).                             authorities accept and
1.5 Drinking water quality                       support gradual increases
monitoring and sanitation                         in the autonomy of the
and hygiene surveillance                         two regional entities as a
programs (% population                           step toward more
covered).                                        efficiency.
Government supports
2. Improvements in water production  2.1 Annual sales of water.                       cost recovery principles
and distribution.                   2.2 Implementation and    2.1 Relevant statistics.    as part of the review of
operation of a utility   2.2 Annual progress     Goermnri t sde y
.                              ~~~~~~~~~~Governmnent defines and
accounting system.       reports; system to be
2.3 Completion of tariff  operational by July 1,  Implement a clear
study and implementation    1998.                sectoral policy
of new tariff structure.  2.3 Completion of tariff   Water agencies'
study 12/1998.          management is
2.4 Review of           committed to improving
recommendations and    their technical and
forinulation of new    financial management.
formulation of new
3. Increase in the efficiency of the water                   tariffs.
and sewerage sector organizations.  3.1 Performance indicators  2.5 Application of new
on project execution,    tariffs by Jan. 1, 1999.
4. Achievement of sustainability of  operations and technical  1.
service delivery for water and sewerage.  performance         3.1 Quarterly and annual
review of indicators.



ANNEX H                                        -110-
Project Components
The propose projectcomp1.1 For each component:    1.1 Site inspections.  Improving autonomy,
T  pr composed poe  omapri  four    -current percentage of   1.2 Monthly and         accounting, long term
main components: (a) main pipeline   .
system replacement or rehabilitation;    disbursement versus  quarterly works'       planning and efficiency
and service addition to a further 55,000   percentage planned.  supervision reports.  of operation and
consumers in Karakalpakstan and to  2.1 Rehabilitated and    1.3 Disbursement ratio  maintenance is a top
16,000 consumers in Khorezm Oblast;   equipped Centers of Health  per component and  priority for the water
and SES laboratories.    disbursement category.    entities.
Development of Local Water Supply  22T.ndsaf                                          roetipeetto
and Distribution Systems; provision of
spare parts for the about 300      2.3 Studies carried out.  2.1 Quarterly repor.    runs smoothly according
desalinization units in Karakalpakstan;                      22 Quarterly reports.   to schedule.
rehabilitation and development of  3.1 Performed triing      2.3 Quarterly reports.  Willingness to use
ground water sorversus planned.                                   TA/training programs.
ground water sources in Karakalpakstan  3.2 Ananpcino
and Khorezm Oblast; and expansion of  Annual inspecon of
demand-based rural water supplies in    Tuyamuyun dam.
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast;
Water Demand Management and Loss
Reduction and Equipment for Operation                        3.1 Monthly and
and Maintenance (b) a program of                             quarterly implementation
sanitation, health and hygiene measures,                     reports.
i.e., rural sanitation, Health Promotion                     3.2 Reports by inspection
and Hygiene Education, Water Quality                         panel.
Monitoring and Strengthening of the
Sanitary Epidemiological Services; (c)
Provision oftechnical assistance and
training including equipment for
institutional development; and (d)
project management and supervision.



- 111 -                                        ANNEX H
Table 113: Performance Monitoring Indicators
Tuyamuyun-Nukus (Karakalpakstan)
Indicator              Unit of  Reporting    Target   Target    Target    Target   Target   Target    Target
Measure  Interval      1997      1998       1999      2000     2001      2002       2003
Water produced & purchased      million   quarterly
m3
Watersold,total                 million   quarterly     38,612    38.612    38.612    38,612   38,612    38,612    38.612
m3
- Vodokanal                     million   quarterly
m3
- Agrovodokanal                 million   quarterly
m3
- Other consumers               million   quarterly
m3
Losses                            %       quarterly       14%       13%        13%       13%,'    13%        12%       12%
Average Tariff, water           sum/m3   quarterly
- Vodokanal                    sum/m3   quarterly
- Agrovodokanal                sumlm3   quarterly
- Other consumers              sum/m3   quarterly
Accounts receivable            No.of day  quarterly         53        48        43        39        35        31        28
Energy cost in % of op. exp.      %       quarterly
Subsidy received                million   quarterly
sum
Subsidy in % of op. exp.          %       quarterly
No of Staff                       No.    quarterly         639       632       626       620       613       607       601



ANNEX H                                                   -112-
Vodokanal Karakalpakstan
Indicator             Unit of  Reporting    Target   Target    Target    Target   Target   Target   Target
Measure  Interval     1997      1998      1999     2000      2001     2002      2003
Total connections, water        No.    quarterly      71.496   72,926    74,384   75.872   77,389    78.937    80,516
- domestic customers            No.    quarterly     70.699    72,113    73,556    75.027   76,527    78.058    79,619
- commerce, gvt. institutions   No.    quarterly       653       666       679       693      707       721      735
- industry, farms               No.    quarterly        144      147       150       153      156       159       162
Total connections, sewers       No.    quarterly      15.344    15,728    16,121    16,524   16,937    17.361    17,795
- domestic customers            No.    quarterly     15,191    15,570    15,960    16.359   16,767    17.187    17,616
- commerce, gvt. institutions   No.    quarterly        131      134       138       141      145       148       152
- industry, farms               No.    quarterly        23        23        24        24       25        26       26
Water produced & purchased     million   quarterly   63.788   64,936    65,585   66.241   66,904    67,573    68,248
m3
Water purchases                million   quarterly   46.259   46,259    46,259   46.259   46,259    46.259   46,259
m3
Water sold, total              million   quarterly   43.028   43,975    44,942    45.931   46,942    47.974    49,030
m3
- domestic customers          million   quarterly    21.813    22,292    22,783    23.284   23,796    24.320    24,855
m3
- commerce, gvt. institutions  million   quarterly   15,401    15,739    16,086    16.439   16,801    17,171    17,549
m3
- industry, farms             million   quarterly     5.815    5,943      6,074    6.207    6,344     6484      6,626
m3
Losses in %                      %      quarterly      33%       32%       31%       31%      30%      29%       28%
Average Tariff, water         sum/m3   quarterly
* domestic customers          sum/m3   quarterly
- commerce, gvt. institutions  sum/m3   quarterly
- industry, farms             sum/m3   quarterly
Average Tariff, sewerage      sum/m3   quarterly
- domestic customers          sum/m3   quarterly
- commerce, gvt. institutions  sum/m3   quarterly
- industry, farms             sumlm3   quarterly
Accounts receivable           No. of days  quarterly    135       120       105       90       75        60        60
Energy cost in % of operating    %      quarterly
eXpenses (water)
Energy cost in % of op. exp. (sewer)    %  quarterly
No of Staff (water)             No.    quarterly        815       790       765      742      719       696       675
No of Staff (sewerage)          No.    quarterly        175       170       166      162       157      153       149
NoofStaffper 1000 connections   No.    quarterly        I         11        10       10        9         9         8



-113 -                                         ANNEX H
Agrovodokanal Karakalpakstan
Indicator              Unit of  Reporting    Target   Target    Target    Target   Target   Target    Target
Measure  Interval      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001     2002      2003
Total connections, water         No.    quarterly       3,804     3.880      3.957    4,036    4,117      4,199     4.283
Water produced & purchased      million   quarterly
m3
Water purchases                 million   quarterly     3,635     3.635     3.635     3,635    3,635      3,635     3.635
m3
Watersold,total                 million   quarterly    10,672    10.864    10.972    11,082   11,193    11,305    11.418
m3
-Outlyingfarmarea              million   quarterly       302       308        311      314       317       320       323
m3
- ECOS plants                  million   quarterly      2,127    2.165      2.187     2,208    2,230     2,253     2,275
m3
- Deliveries to distribution system   million   quarterly  8,243  8.391     8.475     8,560    8,645     8,732     8.819
m3
Losses in %                       %       quarterly
Average Tariff, water          sum/m3   quarterly
- Outlying farm area           sum/m3   quarterly
- ECOS plants                  sum/m3   quarterly
- Deliveries to distrib. system  sum/m3   quarterly
Accounts receivable             No. of   quarterly        135       120       105        90       75        60        60
days
Energy cost in % of oper. expen.  %      quarterly
Subsidy received                million   quarterly
sum
Subsidy in % of oper. expenses    %      quarterly
No of Staff                      No.    quarterly         954       924       896       868      841       815       790
NoofStaffperl000connections      No.    quarterly         251       238       226       215      204        194       184
Tuyamuyun-Urgench (Khorezm Oblast)
Indicator              Unit of  Reporting    Target   Target    Target    Target   Target   Target    Target
Measure  Interval      1997      1998      1999      2000     2001      2002      2003
Water produced and bought       million   quarterly    72,307    72,023    71.752    71,495   71.251    71,019    70,799
m3
Water sold, total               million   quarterly    66,612    66,612    66,612    66,612   66.612    66,612    66,612
m3
-Vodokanals                    million   quarterly     41,614    41,614    41,614    41,614   41.614    41,614    41,614
m3
- Agrovodokanal                million   quarterly     24,937    24,937    24.937    24,937   24.937    24,937    24,937
m3
Losses in %                       %       quarterly       9%        8%        8%        7%        7%        7%        6%
Average Tariff, water          sum/m3   quarterly
- Vodokanals                   sum/m3   quarterly
- Agrovodokanal                sum/m3   quarterly
Accounts receivable             No. of   quarterly        105        95        85        77       69        62        56
days
Energy cost in % of operating     %       quarterly
expenses
Subsidy received                million   quarterly
sum
Subsidy in % of operating         %      quarterly
expenses
No of Staff                      No.    quarterly         725       717       710       703      696       689       682



ANNEX H                                                   -114-
Vodokanal Khorezm
Indicator             Unit of  Reporting    Target   Target    Target    Target   Target   Target   Target
Measure  Interval     1997      1998      1999     2000      2001     2002      2003
Total connections, water        No.    quarterly     54,740    55.835    56,952    58,091   59,253    60,438    61,647
- domestic customers            No.    quarterly     54,019    55,100    56,202    57,326   58,472    59,642    60,834
- commerce, gvt institutions    No.    quarterly       348       355       362       369      376       384      392
- industry, farms               No.    quarterly       373       381       388       396      404       412      420
Total connections, sewers       No.    quarterly      18,042    18.493    18.955    19,429   19,915    20,413    20.923
- domestic customers            No.    quarterly
- commerce, gvt. institutions   No.    quarterly
- industry, farms              No.    quarterly
Water produced & purchased     million   quarterly
m3
Water purchases                million   quarterly   39,324   39.324    39.324   39,324   39,324    39,324    39.324
m3
Water sold, total              million   quarterly   52,113    53.259    54.431    55,628   56,852    58,103    59.381
m3
- domestic customers          million   quarterly    28,261    28.883    29.519   30,168   30,832    31,510    32,203
m3
- commerce, gvt. institutions  million   quarterly    8,838    9,033     9.231     9,435.   9,642     9,854    10,071
m3
- industry, farms             million   quarterly     9,127    9.328      9.534    9,743    9,958    10,177    10,401
m3
Losses in %                      %      quarterly
Average Tariff, water         sumlm3   quarterly
- domestic customers          sum/m3   quarterly
- commerce, gvt. institutions  sum/m3   quarterly
- industry, farms             sum/m3   quarterly
Average Tariff, sewerage      sum/m3   quarterly
- domestic customers          sum/m3   quarterly
- commerce, gvt. institutions  sum/m3   quarterly
- industry, farms             sum/m3   quarterly
Accounts receivable           No. of days  quarterly    135       120       105       90       75        60        60
Energy cost in % of operating    %      quarterly
expenses(water)
Energy cost in % of operating exp/    %  quarterly
(sewerage)
No of Staff (water)             No.    quarterly        676       655       635      615      596       578       560
No of Staff(sewerage)           No.    quarterly        223      217        211      206      200       195       190
No ofStaffper 1000 connections  No.    quarterly         12        12        11       11       10        10         9



- 115 -                                       ANNEX H
Agrovodokanal Khorezm
Indicator              Unit of  Reportng    Target   Target    Target    Target   Target   Target   Target
Measre  Interval       1997     1998      1999      2000     2001      2002      2003
Total connections, water         No.    quarterly      5,273     5,379     5.486     5,596    5,708     5,822     5,939
Water produced & purchased     million   quarterly    38,984   39.686    40,083    40,484   40,889    41,297    41.710
m3
Water purchases                million   quarterly    30,694    30.694    30.694    30,694   30,694    30,694    30,694
m3
Water sold, total              million   quarterly    33,411    34.146    34.897    35,665   36,450    37,252    38.071
m3
- domestic customers          million   quarterly    33,411    34.146    34.897    35,665   36,450    37,252    38.071
m3
Losses in %                      %       quarterly
Average Tarifl water           sum/m3   quarterly
Accounts receivable           No. of days  quarterly     135       120       105        90       75        60        60
Energy cost in % of oper. expen.  %      quarterly
No of Staff                      No.    quarterly        501       485       470       456      442       428       415
No of Staff per 1000 connections  No.    quarterly        95        90        86        81       77        74        70



i



-116-                              ANNEX I
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX I
I. ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS OF EXISTING WATER PRODUCTION AND
DISTRIBUTION AGENCIES
A. Institutional Setup
1.    Water and sewerage services in Uzbekistan and Karakalpakstan are being provided
through a number of agencies. All urban potable water and sewerage services in Uzbekistan fall
on the national level within the portfolio of the Ministry of Communal Services (MCS). Two
separate departments of this ministry, one for the municipal water and sewerage agencies (the
Vodokanals) and one for the inter-regional trunk pipeline agencies (such as the one for the bulk
water producers of the Tuyamuyun reservoir) are in charge of overall supervision and
management, control, sector planning and regulatory aspects. Water and sewerage services in the
rural areas in Uzbekistan fall within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) which
oversees and coordinates the activities of the regional rural water agencies (Agrovodokanals)
through its department of Agrovodokanals. The set-up is similar in the Republic of
Karakalpakstan where its Ministry of Communal Services and Ministry of Agriculture oversee
directly the operations of the regional municipal water and sewerage agency (Vodokanal) and the
regional rural water agency (Agrovodokanal) there.
2.   In the past the central authorities in Tashkent exercised a strong control of all activities
associated with the production and distribution of water. This was modified recently with
delegating the responsibility for overseeing the distribution of water to the provincial level,
which in the project area is the Khorezm Oblast. The central government is still overseeing all
aspects associated with the treatment and transport of surface water from large reservoirs
including its delivery to the distributing agencies.
3.    The State Planning Authority (Goskomprognostat) plays a key role in the review and
approval of all investment in the water supply and sewerage sector. Execution of major capital
works is entrusted to specific commissions/agencies, for instance in the case of the Aral Sea
region, the Aral Sea Regional Commission (Priaraliye).
4.    Branch offices of the Ministry of Communal Services of Uzbekistan are part of the
administration of the provinces (Khakimiat), and referred to as the Territorial Communal
Services Amalgamations (TCMA) as they cover also gas distribution and urban transport,
oversee under the close supervision by the deputy governor the regional municipal water and
sewerage agencies, the Vodokanals. Rural water agencies in Uzbekistan, the Agrovodokanals,
are also controlled by the provincial authority through the deputy governor with assistance from
the MoA.



ANNEX I                              -117-
5.    This section therefore provides an overview of the operations of the following
institutions:
Khorezm Oblast:
(a) Tuyamuyun-Urgench;
(b) Vodokanal Khorezm; and
(c) Agrovodokanal Khorezm.
Republic of Karakalpakstan:
(a) Tuyamuyun-Nukus;
(b) Vodokanal Karakalpakstan; and
(c) Agrovodokanal Karakalpakstan.
The following comments refer to the operations of all of the above listed agencies.
B. Oversight
6.   In line with administrative policies of the Govermment of Uzbekistan the territorial
administration in each province (Khakimiat) is headed by the governor (Khakim), who is
appointed by the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan. In this capacity he exerts a strong
control of all aspects of public life including the daily operation of the government agencies,
state owned enterprises and utilities. In discharging his duties, the governor is assisted by the
deputy governor (deputy Khakim) and the local representation of key ministries, like the
Ministry of Finance, and the respective overseeing ministries, which for the Vodokanal Khorezm
and the Tuyamuyun-Urgench bulk supply is the Ministry of Communal Services, and for the
Agrovodokanal Khorezm, the Ministry of Agriculture.
7.   In the Republic of Karakalpakstan the set-up reflects the fact that the government is much
closer to its agencies. Tuyamuyun-Nukus which is administratively responsible to the Ministry of
Communal Services in Tashkent liaises closely with the Ministry of Communal Services in
Karakalpakstan in particular its advisory board, which includes the three deputy ministers and the
heads of all enterprises. The daily operations of Vodokanal Karakalpakstan are controlled by the
Ministry of Communal Services of Karakalpakstan exerts a strong control of the daily operations
of Vodokanal Karakalpakstan. A deputy minister within the Ministry of Communal Services of
Karakalpakstan supervises the technical and financial operations of Vodokanal Karakalpakstan.
In addition, the activities of Vodokanal Karakalpakstan are reviewed by the advisory board of the
Ministry of Communal Services of Karakalpakstan. Agrovodokanal Karakalpakstan is controlled
by the Ministry of Agriculture of Karakalpakstan. Both agencies are controlled by the Ministry
of Finance in Karakalpakstan and in Tashkent. While the first one concentrates its controls on all
operational aspects, the control by the latter ones is restricted to the financial aspects.
C. Vehicles and Telecommunication Equipment
8.   In general the about 70 percent to 80 percent of the vehicles of each agency are in a state
of more or less readiness. The average age is about 6 years which may require replacement of a
portion of the fleet as regular preventive maintenance was not perforned on a regular basis. With
the exception of Agrovodokanal Khorezm which uses the telephone, all other agencies have their



-118 -                             ANNEX I
branch offices connected by radio. However there are often problems in keeping in daily radio
contact.
D. Inventories
9.    As all agencies suffer from chronic cash shortages, inventories were drastically depleted
for performing repairs and urgent maintenance. Stocks, as required by normal operations, are
therefore not kept at normal levels. Where they exist, inventories comprise some electrical
switches, and uniforms. Only items that would deteriorate in a short time are in protective
custody. Larger parts, such as pumps, which were acquired some time ago are stored outside on
the soil lacking any kind of protection. However none of the agencies had a supply of pipes of
any diameter or fittings.
E. Tariffs
10.   The tariff policy of the bulk water supply agencies is different from the one pursued by
the water distributing agencies. While the tariffs of Tuyamuyun-Urgench and Tuyamuyun-Nukus
are highly subsidized by the central government to compensate for the pumping costs, only
Agrovodokanal Karakalpakstan is still receiving some limited subsidy. In general, the tariff
policy of the distributors is to achieve covering of the apparent cost of operation, maintenance
and nominal depreciation. This is not, however, the case if regular preventive maintenance and
replacement of worn-out equipment is considered. Depreciation charges are very low as they are
based on historic cost.
11.   Changes in the electricity tariff, increases in the cost of chemicals and wages require tariff
adjustments. In order to secure a tariff increase, each agency prepares studies for the future tariff
levels of category II and III customers (government agencies, commercial establishments,
industries and large farms). In the Khorezm Oblast the resulting proposal is then reviewed by the
department of price setting within the regional finance representation (local branch of the
Ministry of Finance) and once approved by it, is endorsed by the governor. Tariff adjustments for
Tuyamuyun-Urgench follow similar procedures with review by the department of price setting
within the regional finance representation (local branch of the Ministry of Finance), subsequent
review by the governor prior to the approval by the Minister of Communal Services.
12.   Tariffs for water sales to domestic users are set directly by the governor.
13.   Specific user groups such as veterans, teachers and persons of the medical profession
have preferential tariffs. Veterans pay only 50 percent. Fifty percent of the water bill for teachers
and persons of the medical profession are paid for by the central government out of the budgets
of the respective ministries.
14.  In Karakalpakstan Tuyamuyun-Nukus' request for tariff adjustments is first reviewed by
the department of price setting within its Ministry of Finance and after review by its Ministry of
Communal Services and approved by the Minister of Communal Services. Requests for tariff
adjustments for Vodokanal Karakalpakstan are first reviewed by the Ministry of Communal
Services of Karakalpakstan, then the antimonopoly commission of the Council of Ministers of
Karakalpakstan. They become effective upon approval by the Council of Ministers of
Karakalpakstan. Tariffs for water sales to domestic users are set directly by the Council of
Ministers of Karakalpakstan. Tariff adjustments for Vodokanal Karakalpakstan are first reviewed



ANNEX 1                               -119-
by the Ministry of Agriculture of Karakalpakstan and then the department of price setting within
the Ministry of Finance in Karakalpakstan and Tashkent and finally approved by the Minister of
Agriculture in Karakalpakstan in order to become effective. Tariffs for water sales to domestic
users are set directly by the Minister of Agriculture.
F. Billing and Collection
15.   All agencies bill their customers on a monthly basis. Large consumers (category II and
category III) enter into a yearly customers sales agreement, which specifies the applicable tariff.
Approximately 85 percent of the large customers accounts are metered and are read monthly.
Customers without a meter pay a monthly rate determined according to the diameter of the
supply line or according to the hours of pumping. This system is also used when the meter is out
of order. Bills are prepared manually and payments are posted manually. In the case of
Vodokanal Khorezm sales and billing data is transferred to a recently established computer-based
customer data base. This database has still to be modified to permit its use as an account
management tool including an age analysis of accounts, and also to be the backbone of a
computer-based billing system. Where sewerage charges are levied, the water bill includes the
bill for sewerage services as a separate line. A 17 percent value added tax is added to the water
and sewerage charges for category II and III customers and transferred to the government when
the bill is settled.
16.   While bills to category II and III customers are settled through the banking system,
domestic customers pay their monthly rate on the basis of a monthly coupon in the annual
customer booklet, either at the head office or directly to the bill collector. Large customers
occasionally use promissory notes issued by the Ministry of Light Industries to cotton producers.
Vodokanal Khorezm has instituted a system that in case of overdue bills assures their payment.
In line with the provision of the sales agreement, Vodokanal Khorezm sends payment
instructions for the water bills directly to the bank, who makes the transfer, once there are funds
in the account of customer. Arrears by category III are high because of insolvency of customers
and because of the harvest cycle which provides the farms only once a year with income. In order
to overcome the problems caused by infrequent payment of water bills by the large farms,
Agrovodokanal-Khorezm customers use regularly promissory notes, which are issued two times
per year by the Ministry of Light Industry to the cotton growers. These notes come in different
denominations and are used for payment of supplies, water and energy.
G. Accounting and Reporting
17.   The GoU adopted in 1994 a new accounting system. The system presently used by the
agencies is, however, an earlier modification of the former USSR system. It is a double entry
system, and accounting is performed on a cash basis and not on an accrual one. This accounting
system does not provide the information necessary for managing the agencies. Accounts are
manually kept and no plans exist for computerization in the near future. The accounts of all
agencies are kept separate from the Government accounts.
18.   All agencies prepare a number of reports at regular monthly, quarterly and annual
intervals. However the information provided is more used as statistical reference and for control
purposes than to assist in managing the operations.



-120 -                            ANNEX I
H. Audit
19.   The economic unit within each of the agencies prepares regular reports on the operations
by identifying costs and revenues during a certain period in order to compare the actual results
with the planning data. Quarterly reports on the operational and financial results are submitted by
the Tuyamuyun bulk suppliers to the Ministry of Communal Services and Ministry of Finance.
Both the Ministry of Communal Services and Ministry of Finance through its revenue service
audit annually the accounts of the two Tuyamuyun bulk. Vodokanal Khorezm  and
Agrovodokanal Khorezm submit quarterly reports on the operational and financial results to the
deputy governor's office and the regional services of the respective ministry and the Ministry of
Finance. The latter one, through its revenue service annual audits of their accounts which
concentrate on the proper use of government funds.
20.   The following institutions listed below, which all have accounts separate from the
Government, would be involved in the project.
I. Tuyamuyun-Urgench (Tuyamuyun-Ur)
Overview
21.   Tuyamuyun-Ur is responsible for the production and delivery of water as bulk supplier to
the water distribution agencies serving mainly the province (Oblast) of Khorezm (Vodokanal
Khorezm and Agrovodokanal Khorezm) and to some small centers located on the left bank of the
Amu Darya river in the Republic of Karakalpakstan (Vodokanal Karakalpakstan and
Agrovodokanal Karakalpakstan). Tuyamnuyun-Ur is a government budget organization within the
Ministry of Communal Services as it receives subsidies from the government budget. Its
accounts are separate from the government accounts.
22.   Construction works are executed by the republican department for the inter-regional
water mains. Upon completion of the works they are transferred to Tuyamuyun-Ur for operation
and maintenance and are included as assets in its balance sheet.
23.   Tuyamuyun-Ur's customers are the two Vodokanals and the two Agrovodokanals.
Operations are assured through its head office and include accounting, billing/collection and
finance as well as technical support to the treatment plant, the two pumping stations, and the
distribution centers.
Management
24.   Tuyamuyun-Ur's director is in charge of routine day-to-day operations with a regular
supervision by the deputy governor (Khakim). The director is appointed by the minister of
communal services upon proposal by the governor. His office is, however, not involved in
Tuyamuyun-Ur's procurement process.
25.   The organizational structure is that of an agency with no specific responsibility for long-
term capacity planning. Under the director the chief engineer, who is also the deputy director and
the chief accountant, different units are in charge of production, operations, accounting,
procurement, economics, internal control, and worker safety. An inter-ministerial commission is
responsible for long-range capacity planning and has established in the past long-term
development plans covering the period from 1990 to 2015.



ANNEX I                              -121-
Personnel
26.   Tuyamuyun-Ur has a staff of about 734 out of which 52 are assigned to the head-office.
The other staff man the pumping and-distribution stations as well as the treatment plant. Salary
and wage scales are determined by the Ministry of Communal Services on the basis of the
government-wide salary and wage structure.
Billing and Collection
27.   Payment by the Vodokanal and Agrovodokanal is slow and arrears amounted in June '96
to Sum 7 million. Although the government is paying regularly its subsidy, occasional problems
were encountered in the timely payment of salaries and wages.
Procurement
28.   Goods and services are mostly procured through the Ministry of Communal Services on
the basis of a needs assessment transmitted at the beginning of the year. Tuyamuyun-Ur pays
upon delivery of goods the equivalent in local currency. No shortage in the supply of chemicals
and coagulants were experienced recently. Barter agreements do not exist any longer.
Financial Aspects
29.   Tuyamuyun-Ur does not cover its operations and maintenance costs. Over the last three
years Tuyamuyun-Ur has consistently received subsidies from the government covering some 70
percent of the cost of its operations. Arrears from its customers have adversely affected the
financial management of Tuyamuyun-Ur, however not as much as the water distributing
agencies, since the government subsidy is paid regularly. The arrears, which amounted to some
Sum 7 million at the end of May '96, have constrained Vodokanal-Khorezm's operations such
that workers have occasionally not been paid regularly. Maintenance of essential plant is still
being performed on a regular basis, however routine maintenance and repair is being postponed.
Tuyamuyun-Ur has never used any credit facilities from the banking system. In mid '96 Sum 9
million was payable to the electricity corporation.
J. Vodokanal Khorezm (VK-Khorezm)
Overview
30.   VK-Khorezm is responsible for water distribution in the urban areas in the province
(Oblast) of Khorezm. It receives its water from the regional bulk supplier Tuyamuyun-Ur (70
percent) and 30 percent from its own wells. VK-Khorezm is a financially self-sufficient
government organization within the Ministry of Communal Services and its accounts are
therefore separate from the government accoui Ls.
31.   Prior to the take over of construction by the Ministry of Communal Services, VK-
Khorezm was responsible for executing all its construction activities. Upon completion of works,
VK-Khorezm becomes responsible for their operation and maintenance and the assets are
transferred to VK-Khorezm and included in its accounts. Construction works are executed by the
Directorate of Rural Construction in the Aral Sea Region, attached to the governor's (Khakim)
office. The funds are included in the government budget upon approval by the Government
Planning Office (Goskomprognostat). A recently issued Presidential Decree foresees the
installation of meters by all users to control waste. Meters are installed at the cost to the customer



-122 -                             ANNEX I
and recuperated through monthly charges. As VK-Khorezm has to prefinance the acquisition of
the meters, pipes fittings and the required labor, execution of this program has been extremely
slow due to insufficient funds.
32.   Operations are assured through 10 branch offices in the districts (rayons) and with one
serving the city of Urgench. All accounting, billing/collection and financial operations are
centralized in the head office with the exception of the branch in Druzhba, which performs all
operations by itself and reports to the head office.
Management
33.   The organizational set up reflects the need of an organization primarily concerned with
operating an existing distribution system. Under the director the chief engineer, who is also the
deputy director and the chief accountant, supervise the different divisions that are in charge of
production, operations, accounting, customer relations, procurement, economics, internal control,
and worker safety. As a water distributor, VK-Khorezm is not actively involved in the medium
and long-term planning process of securing water resources and large distribution network
extensions. An inter-ministerial commission is responsible for long-range capacity planning and
has established in the past long-term development plans covering the period from 1990 to 2015.
Personnnel
34.   VK-Khorezm has a staff of about 997 out of which 25 are assigned to the head-office.
Another 20 employees work in the central repair shop. The remainder staff serves in the 11
branch offices, which cover a district (rayon). Salary and wage scales are determined by the
Ministry of Communal Services on the basis of the government-wide salary and wage structure.
Procurement
35.   Goods and services with the exception of imported materials (mostly chemicals) are
procured locally. Items involving foreign exchange are procured through the Ministry of
Communal Services on the basis of a needs assessment transmitted at the beginning of the year.
VK-Khorezm pays upon delivery of goods the equivalent in local currency. In case the imported
items are available locally at a lower price they are procured locally and a promissory note with a
bank guarantee is given. Shortage of local currency has sometimes resulted in serious shortages
of vital supplies. Barter agreements with large customer for settling of their water bills are only
used for items for direct use by VK-Khorezm such as pipes and concrete construction materials.
Terms of the barter is covered in the sales agreement.
Financial Aspects
36.   VK-Khorezm is financially self-sufficient for operations and maintenance only. Over the
last three years VK-Khorezm has not received any subsidy from the government. Arrears from
large customers, in particular cooperative farms, present a serious problem in the financial
management of VK-Khorezm. The arrears, which amounted to some Sum 26 million at the end
of May '96, have constrained VK-Khorezm's operations such that workers have not been paid on
occasion for periods of up to two months and that only the most urgent repairs have been
performed. Also the absolute minimum of chemicals and spare parts are procured, and regular
maintenance does not take place. How long this situation can persist is difficult to project,



ANNEX I                               -123 -
however the already deteriorated state of equipment and plant would require the execution of a
major rehabilitation program soon.
37.   So far VK-Khorezm has not used bank credits because of the high interest rate. In mid
'96 Sum 26 million was payable to the electricity corporation.
K. Agrovodokanal Khorezm (AK-Khorezm)
Overview
38.   AK-Khorezm is the water distributor in charge of the rural water system in the Khorezm
Oblast. It receives about 96 percent of the water from the bulk supplier Tuyamuyun and 4 percent
from own sources. AK-Khorezm is under the Ministry of Agriculture and locally controlled by
the representation of this ministry as well as the local representation of the Ministry of
Communal Services. Recently some discussions have taken place to transfer all the
Agrovodokanal regional centers in the Republic of Uzbekistan from the Ministry of Agriculture
to the Ministry of Communal Services in an effort to have all potable water agencies under one
ministry. However no decision has been made as the Minister of Agriculture opposes this
transfer. AK-Khorezm is a financially self-sufficient government organization within the
Ministry of Agriculture and its accounts are therefore separate from the government accounts.
Operations are grouped in 11 branch offices which are responsible for their daily operations
including billing, collecting and accounting. According to the director, the head office finances
its operations through an assessment of 4 percent of the net income of the branch offices after
taxes (profit tax of 38 percent). This has still to be verified as the system of accounts specifically
foresees head-office expenses as a cost allocated to operations.
39.   AK-Khorezm was previously responsible for executing all its construction activities. This
has changed and the Ministry of Communal Services executes now all major construction work
for AK-Khorezm. Upon completion of the works, the assets are transferred to AK-Khorezm and
included in its accounts. AK-Khorezm's own construction works is therefore limited to the
execution of system expansion lines.
Management
40.   AK-Khorezm's director is in charge of routine day-to-day operations but is supervised by
the deputy governor (Khakim). The director and the departments heads are appointed by the
deputy governor. The deputy governor also approves AK-Khorezm's financial plans and budgets.
His office is, however, not involved in AK-Khorezm's procurement process.
41.   The organizational set up reflects the need of an organization concerned with operating
the water distribution systems that are spread out across the whole province. The branch offices
have therefore a higher degree of independence that those of AK-Khorezm and the head office
perceives its role more that of a coordinating and control unit than that of one actively involved
in the daily operations of a far flung operation. Under the director the chief engineer, who is also
the deputy director and the chief accountant, different divisions are coordinating, controlling and
advising the branch office operations in the area of production, operations, accounting, customer
relations. Procurement, statistical analysis including operational control, security and worker
safety are administered) centrally. Long-range capacity is the responsibility of an inter-ministerial



-124 -                            ANNEX I
commission that has established in the past long-term development plans covering the period
from 1990 to 2015.
Personnel
42.   AK-Khorezm has a staff of about 500 out of which 12 are assigned to the head-office.
Another 20 employees work in the central repair shop. The remainder staff serves in the 11
branch offices, which cover a district (rayon). Salary and wage scales are determined by the
Ministry of Communal Services on the basis of the government-wide salary and wage structure
Procurement
43.   Goods and services with the exception of imported materials (mostly chemicals) are
procured locally. Items involving foreign exchange used to be procured through the
government's central procurement agency in Tashkent. The change-over in the economy has
brought about some difficulties in the timely procurement of necessary items such as chemicals.
Shortage of local currency has sometimes resulted in serious shortages of vital supplies. AK has
no barter agreements with its customers for settling their water bills.
Financial Aspects
44.   AK-Khorezm is financially self-sufficient for operations and maintenance only. Over the
last three years AK-Khorezm has not received any subsidy from the government. Arrears from
large customers, in particular cooperative farms present a serious problem in the financial
management of AK-Khorezm. The absolute minimum of chemicals and spare parts are procured,
and regular maintenance does not take place. How long this situation can persist is difficult to
project, however the already deteriorated state of equipment and plant would require the
execution of a major rehabilitation program soon. Bank credits have not been used since the
interest rates are too high at 150 percent.
L. Tuyamuyun-Nukus (Tuyamuyun-Nk)
Overview
45.   Tuyamuyun-Nk is responsible for the production and delivery of water as bulk supplier to
the water distribution agencies serving the Republic of Karakalpakstan (Vodokanal
Karakalpakstan and Agrovodokanal Karakalpakstan). Tuyamuyun-Nk is a government budget
organization within the Ministry of Communal Services as it receives subsidies from the
government budget. Its accounts are separate from the government accounts.
46.   Construction works are executed by the republican department for the inter-regional
water mains. Works are upon completion transferred to Tuyamuyun-Nk for operation and
maintenance and are included as assets in its balance sheet.
47.   Tuyamuyun-Nk's customers are Vodokanal and Agrovodokanal. Operations are assured
through its head office including accounting, billing/collection and finance as well as technical
and operational and support to its pumping stations and treatment plant.
Management
48.   Tuyamuyun-Nk's director is in charge of routine day-to-day operations with regular
coordination with the Ministry of Communal Services in Karakalpakstan. The director is



ANNEX 1                              -125 -
appointed by the minister of communal services in Tashkent. His deputy is appointed by the
department overseeing the regional water supply agencies of the Ministry of Communal Services
in Tashkent. All department heads are appointed by the director. The Ministry of Communal
Services in Tashkent is only in so far involved in Tuyamuyun-Nk's procurement process as it
procures chemicals and other supplies through its central procurement unit.
49.   Tuyamuyun-Nk's organizational set up corresponds to the needs of a bulk water producer
and supplier with no specific responsibility for long-term capacity planning. Under the director
the chief engineer, who is also the deputy director and the chief accountant, different units are in
charge of production, operations, accounting, procurement, economics, internal control, and
worker safety. An inter-ministerial commission is responsible for long-range capacity planning
and has established in the past long-term development plans covering the period from 1990 to
2015.
Personnel
50.   Tuyamuyun-Nk has a staff of about,710 out of which 52 are assigned to the head-office.
The other staff man the pumping and distribution stations as well as the treatment plant. Salary
and wage scales are determined by the Ministry of Communal Services on the basis of the
government-wide salary and wage structure
Equipment
51.   Tuyamuyun-Nk's laboratory needs specialized equipment to perform all water analysis.
Its dispatching center is inoperable because the installation is incomplete and critical items are
needed. Equipment lists for the laboratory and the dispatch center were handed over to the
mission.
Procurement
52.   Goods and services are procured through the Ministry of Communal Services on the basis
of a needs assessment transmitted at the beginning of the year. Tuyamuyun-Nk pays upon
delivery of goods the equivalent in local currency. The local procurement of chemicals is
difficult as chemicals and coagulants are not available in sufficient quantities. Barter agreements
do not exist.
Financial Aspects
53.   Tuyamuyun-Nk is not financially self-sufficient for operations and maintenance. Over the
last three years Tuyamuyun-Nk has consistently received subsidies from the government
covering some 70 percent of the cost of its operations. Arrears from its customers have adversely
affected the financial management of Tuyamuyun-Nk, however not as much as the water
distributing agencies, since the government subsidy is paid regularly. The arrears, which
amounted to some Sum 12 million at the end of May '96, have constrained VK-Khorezm's
operations such that the electricity bill cannot be paid on time. Timely payment of wages is a
continued problem as the banks lack the necessary cash when needed. Maintenance of essential
plant operations are still being performed on a regular basis, however routine maintenance and
repair is being postponed.



-126 -                            ANNEX I
54.   Tuyamuyun-Nk has never used any credit facilities from the banking system. In mid '96
Sum 9 million was payable to the electricity corporation.
M. Vodokanal Karakalpakstan (VK-KK)
Overview
55.   VK-KK is responsible for water distribution in the urban areas in the sovereign the
Republic of Karakalpakstan. It receives 55 percent of its water from the regional bulk supplier
Tuyamuyun-Nukus and 45 percent from its own wells and surface water. VK-KK is a financially
self-sufficient government organization within the Ministry of Communal Services of
Karakalpakstan and its accounts are therefore separate from the government accounts.
56.   The Ministry of Communal Services of Karakalpakstan through its department of capital
construction is in charge of all construction works. Upon completion of the works, the assets are
transferred to VK-KK and included in its accounts. The funds are included in the government
budget and are allocated through the Ministry of Communal Services of Karakalpakstan for the
different municipal services such as water supply, heating and provision of gas. The planning
process is complex. VK-KK prepares a proposal, which is then reviewed by a layer of
government agencies starting with the Ministry of Communal Services of Karakalpakstan,
followed by the Council of Ministers of Karakalpakstan, the submitted to Goskomprognostat in
Tashkent, and finally approved by the Council of Ministers in Tashkent. While the general
supervision of works is performed by the Ministry of Communal Services of Karakalpakstan, the
construction contract is signed by VK-KK, which also makes the necessary payments upon
receipt of the funds through the Ministry of Finance in Tashkent, the Ministry of Finance in
Karakalpakstan, the Ministry of Communal Services of Karakalpakstan and by VK-KK's bank.
As the financing is tied, the bank controls the proper usage of funds.
57.   Operations are assured through 17 branch offices in the districts (rayons) and with one
serving the city of Urgench. All accounting, billing/collection and financial operations are
centralized in the head office.
Management
58.   VK-KK's director is in charge of routine day-to-day operations but with close supervision
by the deputy minister of the Ministry of Communal Services of Karakalpakstan. The director is
appointed by the minister of communal services of Karakalpakstan and who also approves the
appointment of the deputy director the chief engineer and the chief accountant. The deputy
minister also approves VK-KK's financial plans and budgets. His office is, however, not
involved in VK-KK's procurement process.
59.   The organizational set up reflects the needs of an organization primarily concerned with
operating the existing distribution system concentrated in the capital, Nukus and in 17 branch
offices. Under the director the chief engineer, who is also the deputy director and the chief
accountant, different divisions are in charge of production, operations, accounting, customer
relations, procurement, economics, internal control, and worker safety. As a water distributor, it
is not actively involved in the medium and long-term planning process of securing water
resources and large distribution network extensions. An inter-ministerial commission is



ANNEX I                               -127-
responsible for long-range capacity planning and has established in the past long-term
development plans covering the period from 1990 to 2015.
Personnel
60.   VK-KK has a staff of about 1,100 out of which 25 are assigned to the head-office.
Another 20 employees work in the central repair shop. The remainder staff serves in the 17
branch offices, which cover a district (rayon). Salary and wage scales are determined by the
Ministry of Communal Services on the basis of the government-wide salary and wage structure
Insurance
61.  Insurance exists only as third-party liability coverage for the operation of its vehicle.
Workmen compensation is assured through disability pensions from trade unions. As everybody
contributes to the trade union, also because of the social benefits in the form of free meals,
vacation camps, pension fund, all workers are covered for accidents. There is no need perceived
for any other type of insurance.
Procurement
62.   Goods and services with the exception of imported materials (mostly chemicals) are
procured locally. Items involving foreign exchange are procured through the Ministry of
Communal Services in Tashkent on the basis of a needs assessment transmitted at the beginning
of the year. VK-KK pays upon delivery of goods the equivalent in local currency. In case the
imported items are available locally at a lower price, they are procured locally and a promissory
note with a bank guarantee is given. Shortage of local currency has resulted in serious shortages
of vital supplies. Barter agreements with large customer for settling of their water bills do not
exist, nor are promissory notes used. The central procurement service of VK-KK also purchases
fuel in bulk. Coupons are then used by the branch offices to obtain the necessary quantities.
Financial Aspects
63.   Arrears from large customers, in particular cooperative farms and government budget
organizations present a serious problem in the financial management of VK-KK. The absolute
minimum of chemicals and spare parts arc procured, and regular maintenance does not take
place.
64.   VK-KK has never used credit facilities from the banking system because of the excessive
high rate of interest. In mid '96 Sum 26 million was payable to the electricity corporation.
N. Agrovodokanal Karakalpakstan (AK-KK)
Overview
65.   AK-KK is the water distributor in charge of the rural water system in the Republic of
Karakalpakstan. It receives about 13 percent of the water from the bulk supplier Tuyamuyun and
87 percent from its own surface and ground sources, which include some 300 desalination plants.
AK-KK distributes its water either through meter connections to collective farm, which
themselves redistribute the water to the population living on the farm or directly to government
agencies, commercial establishments and some domestic house connections. AK-KK is under the
Ministry of Agriculture of Karakalpakstan. AK-KK is a budget organization since it receives



-128 -                             ANNEX I
subsidies for covering its operating and maintenance expenses from the government. Its accounts
are, however, separate from the government accounts. Operations are grouped in 11 branch
offices, which serve the 15 administrative regions (rayons) and which are responsible for their
daily operations including billing.
66.   AK-KK was previously responsible for executing all its construction activities. This was
modified by entrusting execution of all major construction for AK-KK to the Directorate of Rural
Construction in the Aral Sea Region. Upon completion of the works, the assets are transferred to
AK-KK and included in its accounts. AK-KK's own construction works is therefore now limited
to the execution of system expansion lines which nevertheless cover the installation of some 200
km of pipelines.
Management
67.   AK-KK's director is in charge of routine day-to-day operations. He is appointed by the
Minister of Agriculture of Karakalpakstan and reports to him on a regular basis. Departments
heads are appointed by the director. The Minister of Agriculture also approves AK-KK's
financial plans and budgets which cover production forecasts, forecast of operating expenses, and
level of tariffs. His office is, however, not involved in AK-KK's procurement process.
68.   The organizational set up corresponds to the needs of an organization that has to mange
water delivery systems in a widely spread area. The branch offices have therefore a higher degree
of independence that those of VK-KK and the head office is more for controlling and
coordinating the activities of the branch offices than directly managing them on a routine basis.
Under the director the chief engineer, who is also the deputy director and the chief accountant,
different units are coordinating, controlling and advising the branch offices' operations in the
area of production, operations, water quality control, accounting, personnel, worker safety,
customer relations. Procurement is administered centrally with distribution from the head office
which also includes the supply of fuel which is purchased in bulk and then distributed by AK-
KK's own tanker trucks to the branch offices. Long-range capacity is the responsibility of an
inter-ministerial commission that has established in the past long-term development plans
covering the period from 1990 to 2015.
Personnel
69.   AK-KK has a staff of about 930 out of which 28 are assigned to the head-office, which
also includes 30 mechanics and 19 drivers. The remainder staff serves in the 11 branch offices,
which cover a district (rayon). Salary and wage scales are deternined by the Ministry of
Agriculture on the basis of the government-wide salary and wage structure.
Procurement
70.   Goods and services with the exception of imported materials (mostly chemicals) are
procured locally. Items involving foreign exchange used to be procured through the
government's central procurement agency in Tashkent. However the recent change-over in the
economy has created difficulties in the timely procurement of necessary items such as chemicals.
Shortage of local currency has contributed to this resulted in serious shortages of vital supplies.
AK-KK has no barter agreements with its customers for settling their water bills.



ANNEX I                               -129-
Financial Aspects
71.   AK-KK has so far achieved only limited financially self-sufficiency for operations and
maintenance. Over the last three years AK-KK has continued to receive subsidies from the
government. Arrears from large customers, in particular cooperative farms present a serious
problem in the financial management of AK-KK. The arrears, which amounted to some Sum 1
million at the end of May '96, have constrained AK-KK's operations such that only the most
urgent repairs were performed. Although the government advances to the farms twice a year
funds for the purchase of fertilizer, equipment and fuel, these funds are severely limited and
cannot be used to pay for the water bill. The absolute minimum of chemicals and spare parts are
procured, and regular maintenance does not take place.
72.   AK-KK has not used any credit facilities from the banking system because of the
prohibitively high interest rates which vary between 90 percent and 150 percent.



Table I1: Organizational Chart of the Water and Sanitation Sector in the Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast
Cabinet of Ministers
of the Republic of
Uzbekistan
Karakalpakstan is a sovereign republic within Uzbekistan  Cabinet Ministers of
... ....................................................               th e  Republic of
State Committee for                                                             Karakalpakstan
Forecasting and
Statistics
rMminitry1of          Ministryof                                              Ministry of      Ministry of Finance o
Ministry of Finance     Agriculture        Communal Service                  Communal Services       Agriculture of        Karakalpakstan
j               of Karakalpakstan      Karakalpakstan
Province of Khorezm
Administration                                       0
Bulk                                 |   Tuyamuyun -       Tuyamuyun -Nukus
Water                                   Urgench Pipeline  |      Pipeline       ---
Suppliers                                                1
Water
Distributors    Khorezm Vodokanal        Khorezm                                                Karakalpakstan       Karakalpakstan
LAgrovodokanal                                                 Vodokanal          Agrovodokanal
1.






-131-                              ANNEX J
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX J
J. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Introduction
1.    The limited and occasionally inconclusive and contradictory financial and operational
data available within the six agencies (Tuyamuyun-Khorezm, Vodokanal-Khorezm,
Agrovodokanal-Khorezm,  Tuyamuyun-Karakalpakstan,  Vodokanal-Karakalpakstan   and
Agrovodokanal-Karakalpakstan) does not permit a thorough financial analysis. Nevertheless the
data were used in preparing pro forma income statements, balance sheet and funds flow
statement for determining under which conditions a phasing out of the operating subsidies to the
bulk water supplier would be possible. Without tariff increases that go beyond adjustments for
inflation, subsidies would have to be foreseen for the near future, however, at reduced levels if
the operating efficiency of the distributing agencies could be improved and their "savings" be
used to compensate for part of these subsidies, which is summarized in Table J 1.
B. Assumptions for Financial Projections
Basic Assumptions
2.    The annual local and international inflation rates were assumed to be 4.0 percent and 2.4
percent respectively.
Income Statements
3.    Sales projections for the bulk water agencies assume that their level of production would
not be increased given the high cost of this source of supply. The demand increases foreseen for
the distributing agencies would be satisfied by the development of local water sources.
4.    Vodokanal-Karakalpakstan. Sales were forecast to increase by 1.6 percent with the
supplies to be increased by 2.5 percent from local sources and UzTransGaz. Other revenue was
assumed to correspond to 1.5 percent of water sales. Production and distribution losses are
forecast to decrease from 25 percent in 1996 to 23 percent by 2006.
5.    Agrovodokanal-Karakalpakstan. Sales were forecast to increase by 3.6 percent with
the supplies to be increased by 4.3 from local sources. Other revenue was assumed to correspond
to 1.5 percent of water sales. Production and distribution losses are forecast to stay steady at 5.0
percent.
6.    Vodokanal-Khorezm. Sales were forecast to increase by 2.0 percent with the supplies to
be increased by 4.1 percent from local sources. Other revenue was assumed to correspond to 1.5
percent of water sales. Production and distribution losses are forecast to decrease from 25 percent
in 1996 to 23 percent by 2006.
7.    Agrovodokanal-Khorezm. Sales were forecast to increase by 3.2 percent with the
supplies to be increased by 12.3 percent from local sources. Other revenue was assumed to



ANNEX J                               -132-
correspond to 1.5 percent of water sales. Production and distribution losses are forecast to stay
steady at 7.0 percent.
C. General Assumptions
8.    The following assumptions were the same for all six agencies (i.e., Tuyamuyun-
Khorezm,  Vodokanal-Khorezm,  Agrovodokanal-Khorezm,  Tuyamuyun-Karakalpakstan,
Vodokanal-Karakalpakstan and Agrovodokanal-Karakalpakstan).
* Water tariffs were adjusted for the forecast period for inflation only.
Costs
* The cost of electricity and consumption of chemicals is based on an analysis of the
requirements for proper operation of the existing facilities and those to be constructed
under the project.
* Expense for maintenance and repair are set at initially below 1.0 percent of the value of
replacement cost of gross fixed assets and growing to 2.3 percent over time.
- Personnel costs are based on actual staffing and costs. A provision was added to allow for
the recruitment of specialized staff, amounting to initially 2.0 percent and decreasing over
time to 0.5 percent.
* Administrative costs are forecast to increase with the growth of production; from year
1997 on, an additional increase by 2.0 percent was assumed. Fuel was assumed to
increase initially by 2.0 percent and from 2000 onwards by 3.0 percent. With the
implementation of the new works, a provision was made for materials which would
increase from 2.0 percent initially to 6.0 percent.
* Depreciation was calculated on revalued gross fixed assets. The provision for renewal has
been adjusted for inflation.
Balance Sheets and Cashflow Statements
*  The balance sheet for 1996 is an estimate.
* Net fixed assets and work in progress have been calculated taking into account projected
completion dates.
* Inventories are gradually increased from one and a half months to six months of
purchases.
*  Accounts receivable are forecast to decrease gradually from about 150 days of net sales
by 1996 to 60 days by 2005.
* A minimum cash balance of roughly one month of operating expenses has been provided
for.
* Accounts payable represent three months of cost of purchases (chemicals, electricity,
supplies for repair and maintenance and renewal investments).



Table JI: Assessment of Operating Subsidies Payable to Tuyamuyun-Nukus and Tuyamuyun-Urgench
(in '000 sum)
19961      19971       19981      1999       2000        2001       20021       20031      20041       20051       2006
Tuyamuyun-Karakalpakstan
Govemment Subsidy                        123,7611   216,9371   281,4361   346,5461   418,756|   503,9791   591,3191   712,8871   799,5471   890,6491  1,000,042
in%oftotalcashoperaHingcost                110%|      102%1       103%1       97%1        96[1       96%1        94%1       95%1        96%1       96%1        96%
Vodokanal-Karakalpakstan
Reduction of Gov. Subsidy           J    54,2521   227,8711   308,6111   380,284_  436,3091   478,9531   517,9581   457,851]   510,4251   546,0151   536,636
Agrovodokanal-Karakalpakstan
Reduction of Gov. Subsidy                 16,7771    65,564      86,9111   107,531     130,202    148,523    169,7521   143,0901   166,456    188,743    197,682
Government Subsidy less Payments by       52,731    (76,499)   (114,086)  (141,268)   (147,755,  (123,497)   (96,391)    111,9461    122,666    155,891    265,724
Vodokanal and Agrovodokanal           I_I                                                    I           I                            2
Tuyamuyun-Khorezm
Govemment Subsidy                   1   153,0301    223,6721   277,8011   335,9911    389,907    449,0661   514,3901   601,8831   688,4781   801,2811   949,641
in % of total cash operating cost          101%1      101%1        97%1       94%j        92%1       92% 1       92%1       93%1        93%1       93%1        94%
Vodokanal Khorezm
ReductionofGov. Subsidy             |    20,0071    91,2261   15,5151   126,316 1 135,3611   107,0841   114,1071    78,297]    41,036]    40,092]            33,932
Agrovodokanal Khorezm
Reduction of Gov. Subsidy                                         6,245     11,134      16,359     20,993      26,275     27,551      34,450     43,890      49,423
Govemment Subsidy                         28,004      4,309
Govemment Subsidy less Payments by       161,028    136,7551
Vodokanal and Agrovodokanal                                     156,042    198,541     238,186    320,989    374,008    496,034    612,992    717,299    866,287
Tuyamuyun-Karakalpakstan and Tuyamuyun-Khorezm
Total Govemment Subsidy less Payments    213,759     60,256      41,956     57,273      90,432    197,492    277,616    607,980    735,657       873,190   1,132,011
by Vodokanals and Agrovodokanals                                                            .      I                                                    I
Total Govemment Subsidy less Payments       81%        14%          7%         8%         10%        19%         23%        43%         47%         49%        55%
by Vodokanals and Agrovodokanals in %
,of cash operating cost



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Tuyamuyun-Karakalpakstan
in '000 sum
TABLE J2: PROFIT & LOSS STATEMENT
Year                                         1996         1997           1998          1999          2000         2001         2002         2003          2004         2005         2006
Sales
Total Revenue                              26,919       40,331         49,415        56,924        63,154       68,146       72,234       76,569        81,163       86,032       91,194
Expendaures
Payroll                                   17,782       33,465         41,823        48,901        55,066       60,013       64,250       68,446        72,915        77,676      82,749
Eblericity                                57,624      106,321        130,269       150,065       166,487      179,647      190,426      201,852       213,963       226,801     240,409
Chemicals                                  2,328        5,499          8,624        12,716        18,057       24,940       33,839       45,913        62,295        84,522     114,679
Fuel                                       7,475       14,067         17,581        20,759        23,261       25,350       27,140       29,056        31,107        33,304      35,655
Materials                                  2,454        4,619          5,772         6,783         7,705        8,481        9,170        9,914        10,719        11,589       12,531
Maintenance                                3,103        7,490         20,090        60,284       101,500      155,130      226,443      315,683       356,475       402,538     454,554
General&Admnrinistr.                      21,386       40,472         50,084        58,272        65,296       71,162       76,186       81,564        87,323        93,488      100,088
Sub-total                                 112,152      211,933        274,242       357,779       437,372      524,724      627,454      752,428       834,798      929,918    1,040,663
Water purchases                               -            -              -             -             -            -            -            -             -            -            -
Sub-Total                          112,152      211,933        274,242       357,779       437,372      624,724      627,454      752,428       834,798      929,918    1,040,663
Depreciation                              230,580      231,733        232,892       234,056       235,226      236,402      242,659      243,873       245,092      246,318      247,549
Total Expenditures                        342,732      443,666        507,134       591,835       672,598      761,127      870,113      996,301     1,079,890     1,176,236    1,288,213
ProtriLosa                               (315,813)    (403,335)      (457,719)     (534,911)     (609,445)    (692,981)    (797,879)    (919,733)     (998,727)   (1,090,203)  (1,197,018)
Govemment Subsidy                         123,761      216,937        281,436       346,546       418,756      503,979      591,319      712,887       799,547      890,649    1,000,042
ProfiJLoss after Govemment Subsidy       (192,052)    (186,398)      (176,284)     (188,364)     (190,688)    (189,002)    (206,560)    (206,845)     (199,180)     (199,554)    (196,977)
FINANCIAL RATIOS
V*orldng ratio                                 4          5.25           5.55          6.29          6.93         7.70         8.69         9.83         10.29        10.81        11.41
Government Subsidy in % of Cost              36%          49%            55%           59%           62%          66%          68%          72%           74%           76%         78%
Tariff hnreases for elmilnting subsidy by 200  -           0%             0%            0%            0%           0%           0%           0%            0%            0%          0%



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY. SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Tuyamuyun-Karakalpakstan
in '000 sum
TABLE J3: SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS STATEMENT
Year                                         1996         1997           1998          1999          2000         2001         2002         2003          2004          2005        2006
Incomefrom operations                    (315,813)    (403,335)      (457,719)     (534,911)     (609,445)    (692,981)    (797,879)    (919,733)     (998,727)   (1,090,203)  (1,197,018)
Add back depreciation                     230,580      231,733        232,892       234,056       235,226      236,402      242,659      243,873       245,092       246,318     247,549
Flow from operations                      (85,233)    (171,602)      (224,827)     (300,855)     (374,218)    (456,578)    (555,219)    (675,860)     (753,635)     (843,888)    (949.469)
Govemment Subsidy                         123,761      216,937        281,436       346,546       418,756      503,979      591,319      712,887       799,547       890,649    1,000,042
Subtotal                                   38,528       45,334         56,608        45,692        44,538       47,400       36,100       37,027        45,912       46,763       50,572
TOTAL SOURCES                              38,528       45,334         56,608        45,692        44,538       47,400       36,100       37,027        45,912        46,763      50,672
APPLICATIONS
Renewals (withthe Project)                 46,116       46,347         46,578        46,811        47,045       47,280       48,532       48,775        49,018        49,284      49,510
Increase indebtors                         11,063        3,854          1,532           605          (26)         (491)        (761)       1,006        (1,217)       (1,423)        849
Decrease in redItors                      (21,753)     (15,267)        (7,318)      (10,748)       (9,467)      (3,649)     (15,612)     (19,235)       (12,143)     (14,144)     (16,611)
Increase in Inentory                        2,046        6,911         14,222         7,668         5,809        3,295        3,112        6,622         9,334        12,084      15,773
Increasel(Deeas) InWrIng Cap.              (8,644)      (4,502)         8,436         (2,476)      (3,683)        (846)      (13,261)     (12,607)       (4,025)      (3,483)         11
Total Applications                         37,472       41,845         55,014        44,336        43,362       46,434       35,271       36,167        44,993        45,780      49,520
Total Sources less total Applications       1,056        3,490          1,594         1,356         1,176          966          829          860           919          983        1,052
Cash at Beginning                           2,000        3,056          6,546         8.140         9,496       10,672       11,638       12,467        13,327        14,246      15,229
Increase in Cash                            1,056        3,490          1,594         1,355         1,176          966          829          880           919          983        1,052
Cash at End                                 3,056        6,546          8,140         9,496        10,672       11,638       12,467       13,327        14,246        15,229       16,281
Govemment Subsidy in% of Cost              36.11%       48.90%         55.50%        58.55%        62.26%       66.21%       67.96%       71.55%        74.04%        75.72%      77.63%



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Tuyamuyun-Karakalpakstan
in '000 sum
TABLE J4: BALANCE SHEET
Yea                                        1996         1997           1998         1999         2000         2001         2002        2003          2004         2005        2006
Gross Fixed Asts                       9,223,200    9,269,316     9,315,663     9,362,241    9,409,052    9,456,097    9,503,378    9,551,910   9,600,684    9,649,703    9,698,966
less: Acc. DspreciAion                  230,580      462,313       695,204       929,260     1,164,487    1,400,889    1,643,549    1,887,421   2,132,514    2,378,831    2.626,380
Net Fked Assets                        6,992,620    8,807,003     8,620,458     8,432,960    6,244,565    8.055,208    7,859,829    7,664,488   7,468,171    7,270.872    7,072,586
Work in Progres                          46,116       46,347        46,578        46,811       47,045       47,280       48,532      48,775        49,018       49,264      49,510
Total Fixed Assets                     9,038,736    8,853,350     8,667,036     8,479,792    8,291.611    8,102,489    7,908,361    7,713,263   7,517,189    7,320,135    7,122,096
Cuwent Assets
hnenty                                    2,046       8,967         23,179       30,847        36,656      39,950       43,062      48.684        58,018       70,103      85,876
Debtors                                  11,063       14,917         16,449       17,054       17,028       16,537       15,776      16,782        15,565       14,142      14,991
Cash                                      3,056        6,546         8,140         9,496       10,672       11,638       12,467      13,327        14,246       15,229      16,281
Total Curent Assets                      16,165       30,420         47,768       57,397       64,356       68,125       71,305      78,793        87,830       99,474     117,148
Total Assets                           9,054,901    8,883,770     8,714,805     8,537,188    8,355,966    8,170,614    7,979,666    7,792,056   7,605,019    7,419,609    7,239,244
Equity and Labilkies
Lon, term Loans
Equity                                  278,200      278,200        278,200      278,200      278,200      278,200     278,200      278,200       278,200      278,200     278,200
Revaluation Reserve                    8,947,000    8,947,000     8,947,000    8,947,000     8,947,000    8,947,000    8,947,000    8,947,000   8,947,000    8,947,000    8,947,000
Current liabilties                       21,753       37,020         44,339       55,086       64,553       68,202      83,815      103,050       115,193      129,337     145,948
Resefves                                (192,052)    (378,450)     (554,734)    (743,098)     (933,787)   (1,122,789)  (1,329,348)  (1,536,194)    (1,735,374)   (1,934,928)  (2,131,9D5)
Total Equity and LIabilities           9,054,901    8,883,770     8,714,605     8,537,188    8,355,966    8,170,614    7,979,666    7,792,056   7,605,019    7,419,609    7,239,244



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Vodolkanal-Karakalpakstan
in '000 sum
TABLE J5: PROFIT & LOSS STATEMENT
Year                                            1998        1997        1998       1999        2000        2001         2002         2003         2004         2005         2006
Sales
Total Revenue                                350,559     533,383    663,781     776,752     875,504     959,908     1,034,003   1,113,962    1,200.259    1,293,408    1,393,968
Expenditures
Payrol                                       14,600      23,698      29,994      35,526     40,532      44,762       48,569       52.447       56,645       61,188       68,107
Eletwdty                                     25.160      39,612      49,157      57.363      64,478     70,502       75,741       81,382       87,458       94,003      101,054
CherIcals                                     3,570       7,201      11,438      17,084      20,740     23,584       26,097       28,882       31,969       35,392       39,189
Fuel                                            -           -           -           -          -           -            -            -            -            -            -
Matedals                                     23,440      37,606      47,601      58.658     65,214      73,361       81,536       91,242      102,933      117,243      139,588
Maintenance                                   5,891      11,826      19,417      33,719      43,862     54,361       65,150      128,004      136,362      145.267      154,753
General & Adrninistr.                        39,681      63,647      80,563      95,891     109,941    122,617      134,626      148,125      163,482      180,812      200,594
Sub-total                                    112,342     183.588     238,169    296,242     344,767     389,187      431,718      530,082      578,850      633,905      701,282
Water purchases                               24,145      36,242      44,492     51,358      57,095      61,741       65,593       69,690       74,050       78,690       83,628
Sub-Total                              136,487    219,830     282,661     347,598     401,862     450,929      497.311     599,772      652,900      712.595      784,910
Depredaton                                    52,363      52,625      52,888     53,152      53,418      53,685       53.954       90,005       90,455       90,908       91,362
Totl Expenditures                            188,850     272,455     335,549     400,750    455,280     504,614      551,264      689,778      743,355      803,503      876,273
PwoltLoss                                    161,709     260,928     328,231    376,001     420,225     455,294      482,739      424,184      456,904      489,905      517,693
Government Subsidy                                                                                                                                              -            -
Profitoss after Govenment Subsidy            161,709     260,928     328,231    376.001     420.225     455,294      482,739      424,184      456,904      489,905      517,693
FINANCIAL RATIOS
Woddng ratio                                       0        0.34        0.38       0.38        0.39        0A1          0.42         0.48         0.48         0.49         0.50
Government Subsidy In% of Cost                   0%          0%          0%          0%          0%         0%           0%           0%           0%           0%           0%
TwIN Increases for elIminating subsidy by 2005                     -          -           -           -                  -            -                         -            -



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Vodokanal-Karakalpakstan
in '000 sum
TABLE J6: SOURCES AND APPUCATIONS STATEMENT
Year                                           1996        1997        1998       1999        2000       2001         2002         2003         2004        2005         2006
Income from operasons                       161,709     260,928    328,231     376,001     420,225    455,294      482,739     424,184      456,904      489,905      517,693
Add back depredaffon                         52,363      52,625     52,868      53,152      53.418     53,685       53,954       90,005      90,455       90,908       91,362
Flowfrom operafions                         214,072     313,553    381,119     429,154     473,643    508.979      536,692      514,190     547,359      580,813      609,055
Govwnament Subsidy                              -          -           -           -          -                        -           -            -            -           -
Sub-total                                   214,072     313,553    381,119     429,154     473,643    508,979      536,692      514,190     547,359      580,813      609,055
TOTAL SOURCES                               214,072     313,553    381,119     429,154     473,643    508,979      536,692      514,190     547,359      580,813      609,055
APPLICATIONS
Renewals                                     26,182      26,312     26,444      26,576      26,709     26.843       26,977      45.003       45,228       45,454       45,681
Reduction of Gov. Subsidy                    54,252     227,871    308,611     380,284    436,309     478,953      517,958     457,651      510,425      546,015      536,636
Increase in debtors                         144,065      53,213     23,678      11,749      3,356      (3,124)      (7.111)      18,329      (13,969)    (17,572)      16,530
Deras in credtors                           (19,169)     (9,271)     (5,659)    (5,680)     (3,808)     1,079       (4,984)     (13,979)      (5,560)     (6.309)      (7,991)
IncreaseIn inventoDy                          4,265      11,492     25,277      13,732      8,776       3,141        1,854       4,728        8,631       10,210       14,279
Increase/(Decrease) InVoking Cap.           129,161      55,434     43,297      19,601      8,324       1,095      (10,241)      9,079       (10,898)    (13,671)      22,819
Total Applicaffons                          209,595     309,618    378,351     426,661    471,342     506,891      534,693     511,933      544,755      577,798      605,135
Total Sources less total Applications         4,477       3,935      2,768       2,493      2,301       2,088        1,999       2,257        2,604        3,015        3,920
Cash at Beginning                             2,000       6,477     10,412      13,180      15,673     17,974       20,062      22,061       24,318       26,922      29,937
Increase In Cash                              4,477       3,935      2,768       2,493      2,301       2,088        1,999       2,257        2,604        3,015        3,920
Cash at End                                   8,477      10,412     13,180      15,673      17,974     20,062       22,061      24,318       26,922       29,937      33,857
Govenment Subsidy in% of Cost                 0.00%       0.00%      0.00%       0.00%      0.00%       0.00%       0.00%        0.00%        0.00%        0.00%       0.00%



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Vodokanal-Karakalpakstan
in '000 sum
TABLE J7: BALANCE SHEET
Year                                           1996        1997       1998        1999        2000       2001         2002         2003        2004         2006         2006
Gross Fixed Assets                         5,236.300   5,262,482   5,288,794   5,315,238   5,341,814   5,368,523    5,395,366    9,000,543    9,045,545    9,090,773    9,136,227
less: Acc. Depredation                       52,383     104,988    157,876     211,028    264,446     318,132      372,085     462,091      552,546      643,454      734,816
Net Flxed Assets                          5,183,937   5,157,494   5.130,918   5,104,210   5,077,368   5,050,392    5,023,281  8,538,452    8,492,999    8,447,319    8,401,411
Work in Progress                             26,182      26,312     26,444      26,576      28,709     26,843       26,977       45,003      45,228       45,454       45,681
TotalGross Fixed Assets                    5,210,119   5,183.806   5,157,362   5,130,786   5,104,077   5,077,234    5,050,257    8,583,455    8,538,227    8,492,773    8,447,092
Subsidy Reduction Program                    54,252     282,123    590,734     971,018   1,407,327   1,888,280    2,404,238    2,862,090    3,372,515    3,918.530    4,455,166
Current Assets
Inventory                                    4,265      15,756      41,034     54,765      63,541     66,682       68,535       73,264       81,894      92,104      106,383
Debtors                                     144,065     197,279    220,957     232,706    236,062     232,938      225,827      244,156     230,187      212.615      229,145
Cash                                          6,477      10,412     13,180      15,673      17,974     20,062       22,061       24,318      26,922       29,937       33,857
Total Curent Assets                         154,807     223,447    275,171     303,145     317,578    319,682      316,423      341,738     339,003      334,656      369,385
Total Assets                               5,419,178   5,689,376   6,023,267   6,404,949   6,828,981   7,283,196    7,770,919    11,787,282   12,249,745   12,745,959   13,271,643
Equity and Liabilities
Long term Loans
Equity                                      248,400     248,400    248,400     248,400     248,400    248,400      248,400      248,400     248,400      248,400      248,400
Revaluation Reserve                        4,989,900   4,989.900   4,989,900   4,989,900   4,989,900   4,989,900    4,989,900    8,568,100  8,568,100    8,568,100    8,588,100
Current liabilitfes                          19,169      28,440     34,099      39,779      43,587     42,509       47,492       61,471      67,030       73,340       81,330
Reserves                                    161,709     422,637    750,868   1,126,870   1,547,094   2,002,388   2,485,127    2,909,311    3,366,214    3,856,119    4,373,812
Total Equity and Uabilities                5,419,178   5,689,376   6,023,267   6,404,949   6,828,981    7,283,196    7,770,919    11,787,282   12,249,745   12,745,959   13.271,643



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Agvovodokanal-Kwakalpakstan
in '000 sum
TABLE J8: PROFIT & LOSS STATEMENT
Yw                                         111S            11in7       1S9S         1l93         2000         200C         2e02          2003         200           2060        208
SW"
Total ReVnue                            133,648         211,426    273,600       331,332      386,527      436,509      484,363       534,921      590,854       652,838     721,434
Exeniues
Payrol                                  14,667          22.738      29,425       36,633       41,569       46,945       52,091        57,529        63,547       70,210      77,587
Eleckity                                18,499          28,117      35,672       42.561       48.917       54,696       60,091        66,033        72,579       79.790      87,735
Chwmicab                                 6,960          13,540      21,988       33,581       41.683       48,472       54,850        62,063        70,284       79,584      90,134
Fud                                      7,963          12,329      15,955       19,512       22,66        26,579       25.383       3M.502         34,971       38,30       43,123
Materials                                3,647           5,654       7.317        8,904       10,479       12,055       13,702        15,681        18,093       21,079      25,689
Maintenance                              4,982          10,003      16,423       28,519       37,098       45,978       55,103        90,774        96,702      103,016     109,743
Genra & Acnnllr.                        4,621           7,165       9,271       11,283       13,227       15,086       16,939        19.060        21,515       24,339      27,619
Sub5otal                                 61,329          99,546     136,051      179.993      215,625      248,810      281,159       342,662      377,690       416,848     461,611
Utberpu ase                               3,962           6.070      7,607         8,968       10,187       11,259       12,230        13,290        14,449       15,715      17,099
Sub-Total                         65,291         105,615     143,658      188,962      225,812      260,069      293,390       355,953       392,139      432,562     478,709
De_reeto                                 44,288          44,509     44,732        44,956       45,180       45,406       45,633        63.828       64,147        64,467      64,790
Total Exeie                             109,579         150,125     188,390      233.917      270,993      305,476      339,023       419,780      456.286       497,030     543,499
Pftl4An                                  24,069          61,301     85,210        97,415      115,534      131,033      145,340       115,141      134,598       155,806     177,935
Govemmwl Sub-idy                                                                                        -                   -                   -                                -
P     JuLO  S  Goveardnent Subs*i        24,069          61,301     85,210        97,415      115,534      131,033      145,340       115,141      134,598       155,806     177,935
FINCIAL. RATIOS
W    SkIg rDo                                 0            0.47       0.50          0.54         0.56        0.57          0.58          0.64         0.U4          0.64        064
Govenm t Subsid in% of Cost                 0%              0%          0%           0%           0%           0%           0%            0%            oA           o%          0%
Reducton o Govemnle Subsidy              16,777          65,564     86,911       107,531      130,202      14S.523      169,752       143,090       166,456      188743      197,6S2
pmftfltoe aft Reduction d Subsidy         7,292          (4,263)     (1,702)     (10,116)     (14,668)     (17,489)     (24,412)      (27,949)      (31,,S8)     (32,935)    (19,748)



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Agrovodokanal-Karakalpakstan
in '000 sum
TABLE J9: SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS STATEMENT
Year                                        1996            1997        1998         19"          2000          2001         2002          2003          2004          2005        2006
Incomefrom operations                     24,069          61,301      85,210       97,415      115,534       131,033      145,340       115,141       134,598       155,808     177,935
Add back deprecation                      44,288          44,509      44,732       44,956       45,180        45,406       45,633        63,828        64,147        64,467       64,790
Flow from operations                      68,357         105,810     129,942      142,371      160,715       176,440      190,973       178,968       198,744       220,275     242,724
Government Subsidy                                           -           -            -            -             -            -             -             -             -           -
Sub-total                                 68,357         105,810     129,942      142,371      160,715       176,440      190,973       178,968       198,744       220,275     242,724
TOTALSOURCES                              68,357         105,810     129,942      142,371      160,715       176,440      190,973        178,968       198,744      220,275      242,724
APPLICATIONS
Renewals                                  22,144          22,255      22,366       22,478       22,590        22,703       22,817        31,914        32,073        32,234       32,395
Reduction of Government Subsidy           16,777          65,564      86,911      107,531      130,202       148,523      169,752        143,090       166,456      188,743      197,682
Increase indebtors                        39,237          16,627       9,199        5,850        3,540         1,219         (101)        8,185         (2,802)      (4,289)      8,055
Decrease in creditors                    (11,898)         (5,804)     (4,794)       (5,544)      (3,565)        157        (4,259)        (8,972)       (4,486)      (5,017)      (5,768)
Increaseininventory                        2,186           6,117      15,389       11,238        7,159         3,103        2,044         3,956         6,597         7,565       9,090
tncreases(Decreasse) inWorking Cap.       29,525          16,940      19,793        11,544        7,134        4,480        (2,318)        3,169         (691)       (1,741)      11,377
TotalApplications                         68,446         104,758     129,071       141,553      159,927      175,706      190,253        178,173       197,837      219,235      241,454
Total Sources less total Applications        (89)          1,052        871           818          788          734           720           795           907         1,040        1,270
Cash at Beginning                          2,000           1,911       2,963        3,834         4,652        5,440        6,174          6,894        7,689         8,596        9,636
Increase in Cash                             (89)          1,052        871           818          788          734           720           795           907         1,040        1,270
Cash at End                                1,911           2,963       3,834        4,652         5,440        6,174        6,894         7,689         8,596         9,636       10,906
Government Subsidy in % of Cost            0.00%           0.00%       0.00%        0.00D         0.00%        0.00%        0.00%         0.00%         0.00%         0.00%       0.00f%



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Agrovodokanal-Karakalpakstan
in '000 sum
TABLE J10: BALANCE SHEET
Year                                      1996            1997       1998         1999         2000         2001         2002          2003         2004         2005        2006
Gross Fixed Assets                    4,428,800      4,450,944   4,473,199    4,495,565    4,518,043    4,540,633   4,563,336     6,382,753     6,414,666    6,446,740    6,478,973
less: Acc. Depreciation                 44,288          88,797    133,529      178,485      223,685      269,072      314,705       378,533      442,679      507,147     571,937
Net Fixed Aasets                      4,384,512      4,362,147   4,339,669    4,3t7,080    4,294,377    4,271,561   4,248,631     6,C04,220     5,971,987    5,939,593    5,907,037
WoArk in Prgress                        22.144          22,255     22,366       22,478       22,590       22,703       22,817        31,914       32,073       32,234      32,395
Fixed Assets                          4,406,656      4,384,401   4,362,035    4,339,557    4,316,967    4,294,264   4,271,447     6,036,134    6,004.060     5,971,827    5,939,432
SubsidyReducLn Program                  16,777          82,342    169,253      276,783      406,986      555,508      725,260       868,351     1,034,806    1,223,549    1,421,231
CuwentrAssets
Invwn-y                                  2,186          8,303      23,692       34,930      42,089       45,192       47,235        51,191       57,789       65,354       74,444
Debtors                                 39,237          55,863     65,062       70,912       74,452       75,672       75,571        83.756       80,954       76,664      84,720
Cash                                     1,9t1           2,963      3,834        4,652        5,440        6,174        6,894        7,689         8,596        9,636      10,906
Totl Cwrent Assets                      43,334          67,129     92,588      110.494      121,981      127,037      129,700       142,636      147,338      151,654     170,069
TotW Asst                             4,466,767       4,533,872   4,623,876   4,726,835    4,845,934    4,976,809   5,126,408     7,047,121     7,186,205    7,347,030    7,530,732
Equity and Labites
Long tem Loan
Equity                                 442,900         442,900    442.900      442,900      442,900      442,900      442,900       442900       442,9D0      442,900     442,900
Revaluation Reserve                   3,987,900       3.987,900   3,987,900   3,987,900    3,987,900   3,987,900    3,987,900     5,784,500    5,784,500     5,784,800    5.784,500
Cuent liabs                             11,896          17,702     22,496       28,040       31,605       31,447       35S,706       44,678       49,164       54,181      59,949
Reserves                                24.069          85,370    170,579      267,994      383,529      514,562      659,902       775,043      909,641     1,065,449    1,243,383
Totad Equiy end UabiliUs              4,466,767       4,633,872   4,623,878   4,726,835    4,845,934    4,976,809   5,126,408.    7,047,121    7,186,205     7,347,030    7,530,732



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Tuyamuyun-Khorezm
in '000 sum
TABLE Jll: PROFIT & LOSS STATEMENT
Yew                       Total         1996         1997         1S98          1l           2000          2001          2002           2003          2004          2006           2006
Tol Rvenue                            38,449       49,659       60,845        70.091        77,761        83,908        88,943         94,279        99,936       106,932        112,288
Payrol                                16,547      22,708       28,379         33,182        37,385       40,722         43,597        46,444        49,477        52,707         56,149
Electrilt                             91,194      126,648      155,174       178,755       198.317      213,993        226,833        240.443       254,859      270,162        286,371
Chemicals                             11,370      20,320        31.668        46,990        66,730       92,166        125,051        169,669      230,207       312,344        423,789
Fuel                                   5,881        8,242       10,300        12,162        13,898       15,446         16,864        18,412        20,103        21,948         23,983
Ma.trids                               4,911        6,920       8,648         10,161        11,544       12,815         14,054        15,515        17,264        19,393         22,029
MaInt                                  8,900       17,868       29,336        50,945        66,270       82,133         98,433       119,399       127,196       135,501        144,350
General & Admninistr.                 12,708       18.002       22,498        26,435        29,914       32,924         35,668        38,723        42,139        45,975         50,303
Sub-total                             151,512     220,707      286,204       358,630       424,038       490,200       560,499        648,604       741,254       858,031      1,006,955
Water purchases                          -                                 -                                 -             -              -             -             -              -
Sub-Total                      151,512     220,707      286,204        358,630       424,038      490,200        560,499       640,604       741,254       858,031       1,006,955
Depreciation                          79,114       79,114       79,114        79,114        79,114        79,114        79,114         79,114        79,114        79,114         79,114
Total Expenditures                   230,626      299,821      365,318       437,744       503,152       569,314       639,613        727,718       820,368       937,145      1,086,069
Profit/Loss                          (192,177)    (250,162)    (304,473)    (367,653)      (425,390)    (485,406)      (550,670)     (633,439)     t720.432)     (831,212)      (973,780)
GovemmentSubsidy                      153,030     223,672      277,801       335,991       389,907       449,066        514,390       601,883       688,478       801,281        949,641
ProfitLoss after Government Subsidy   (39,146)     (26,490)    (26,671)      (31,662)       (35,484)     (36,340)       (36,281)      (31,556)      (31,954)      (29,931)       (24,139)
FINANCIAL RATIOS
Vorking ratio                              4         4.44         4.70          5.12          5.45          5.84          6.30           6.88          7.42          8.10           8.97
Govemment Subsidy in % of Cost           66%          75%          76%           77%           77%          79%            80%           83%           84%           86%            87%
Tariff increases for reducing subsidy    -             0%           0%            0%            0%           0%             0%             0%           0%            0%             0%



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKtSTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Tuyamuyun-Khorezm
in 'OOO sum
TABLE J12: SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS STATEMENT
Year                                    1996         1997         1998          19S9          2000          2001          2002           2003          2004         2005            2006
Income from operations               (192,177)    (250,162)    (304,473)    (367,653)     (425,390)     (485,406)      (550,670)     (633,439)     (720,432)     (831,212)     (973,780)
Addbackdepreciation                   79,114       79,114       79,114        79,114        79,114        79,114        79,114         79,114        79,114       79,114         79,114
Flow from operations                 (113,063)    (171,048)    (225,359)    (288,539)     (346,276)     (406,292)      (471,556)     (554,325)     (641,318)     (752,098)     (894,666)
Govemment Subsidy                    153,030      223,672      277,801       335,991       389,907       449,066       514,390        601,883       688,478      601,281        949,641
Sub-total                             39,968       52,624       52,443        47,452        43,630        42,774        42,833         47,558        47,160       49,183         54,975
TOTAL SOURCES                         39,968       52,624       52,443        47,452        43,630        42,774        42,833         47,558        47,160       49,183         54,975
APPLICATIONS
Renewals                              39,657       39,755       39,954        40,153        40,354        40,556        40,759         41,977        42,187       42,398         42,610
Increase in detors                    15,801        2,566        1,887           745           (32)        (605)          (937)         1,239        (1,498)       (1,752)        1,045
Decrease in creditors                (19,084)       1,947        (8,697)      (7,180)      (10,215)       (8,750)        (9,757)      (14,915)      (23,151)      (31,080)      (41,812)
Increase in inventory                  2,846        7,234       18,308        12,879        12,769        10,937        12,196         18,644        28,939       38,850         52,265
Increase/(Decrease) inWorking Cap.      (436)      11,747       11,498         6,443         2,522         1,582         1,503          4,968        4,290         6,018         11,498
Total Applications                    39,121       51,502       51,452        46,597        42,876        42,138        42,261         46,945        46,477       48,416         54,108
Total Sources less total Applications    847        1,122          991           855           754          636            572           613           683.          767            867
Cash at Beginning                      2,000        2,847        3,969         4,960         5,815         6,569         7,205          7,777        8,390         9,073          9,840
Increase in Cash                         847        1,122         991           855           754           636            572           613           683           767            867
Cash at End                            2,847        3,969        4,960         5,815         6,569         7,205         7,777          8,390         9,073        9,840         10,707
Government Subsidy in % of Cost       66.35%       74.60%       76.04%        76.76%        77.49%        78.88%        80.42%         82.71%       83.92%        85.50%         87.44%



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Tuyamuyun-Khomzm
in '000 sum
TABLE J13: BALANCE SHEET
Yew                                     lm 1167                  low           199          a00           2001          2002          2003         2nu           200            2006
GraosFixed Asst                    7,911,400    7,950,957   7,990,712     8,030.665     8,070,819    8,111,173      8,151,729     8,395,487    8,437,465     8,479,652      8,522,050
m: Amc Depredaion                    79,114      158,228      237,342       316.456      395,570       474,684       553,798       632,912       712,026      791,140        870,254
Not Fixed Assets                   7,832,286    7,792,729   7,753,370     7,714,209     7,675,249    7,636,489      7,597,931     7,762,575    7,725,439     7,688,512      7,651.796
rk. in Pwges                          39,557      39,755       39,954        40,153       40,354        40,556        40,759        41,977        42,187       42,398         42,610
7,871,843    7,832,484    7,793,323    7,754,363    7,715,603     7,677,045     7,638,689     7,804,553     7,767,626    7,730,910     7t694,407
CunsnlAsset
kwbenwy                               2,848       10,081      28,389        41,267        54,037       64,974         77,170        95,814      124,753       163.603        215,868
Debtors                               15,801      18,367       20,254        20,999       20,967        20,362        19,425        20,654        19,166        17,414        18,4S8
Cah                                    2,847       3,969        4,960         5,815        6,569         7,205         7.777         8,390         9.073         9,840        10,707
TotolCasrent Assets                   21.495      32,417       53,602        68.081        81,673       92,541        104,372       124,868      152.992       190,857       245,033
Total Asset                        7,893,338    7,864,901   7,846,926     7,822,444     7,797,175    7,769,585      7,743,061     7,929,421     7,920,618    7,921,767      7,939,440
Equiy aid Usbif
Long tem Loon
Equiy                                158,600     158.600      158,600       158,600       158,600       156,600       158.600       158,6C0      158,600       158,600        158,600
Revaluaton Reerve                  7,754,600    7,754,800    7,754,600     7,754,800    7,754,800    7,754,800      7,754,800     7,957,800     7,957,800    7,957,8C0      7,957,800
Cwnt nablt                            19,084      17,137       25,834        33,014        43,229       51,979        61,736         76,651       99.803       130,882        172.894
Reserve                              (39,146)     (65,636)    (92,308)     (123,970)     (159,454)    (195,794)      (232,075)     {263.631)     (295,584)    (325,516)      (349,655)
Total EquIy and Lita               7,893,338    7,864,901    7,848,926     7,822,444    7,797,175    7,769,585      7,743,061     7,929,421     7,920,618    7,921,767      7,939.440



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Vodokanal Khorezm
in '000 sum
TALBE J14: PROFIT & LOSS STATEMENT
Year                                     1996        1997         1998          1999       2000         2001         2002         2003          2004         2005           2006
Sales
Total Revenue                         154,051     235,104      293,539       344,704    389,988     429,296       464,399      502.564       544.071      589,233       628,205
Expenditures
Payrdl                                14,449      21,703        27,563       32,764      37,524      41,609       45,343        49,187       53,379       57,952         62,943
Elecuidty                             11,043      16,262        20,248       23,713      26,757      29,376       31,695        34,211       36,942       39,907         43,129
Chemicals                              4,450       8,387        13,367       20,039      24,419      27,882       30,986        34,449       38,314       42,632         47.455
Fuel                                   4,863       7,304         9,276       11,135      12,690      14,072       15,334        16,717       18,232        19,893        21,713
Materials                              3,703       5,562         7,063        8,438       9,749      11,012       12,292        13,818       15,663        17,931        10,325
Maintenance                            6,489       12,970       21,212       36,720      47,679      88,559       94,585       126,334      175,969       188,636       202,350
General &Admninistr.                   6,046       9,081        11,533       13,777      15,856      17,757        19.580       21,646       23,996       26,681         29.763
Sub-total                              51,043      81,268      110,264       146,587    174,675      230,266      249.815      296,362       362,496      393,631        417,678
Water purchases                        24,608      31,782       38,941        44,858     49,767       53,701       56,923       60,339        63,959       67,797         71,864
Sub-Total                       75,651      113,050      149,204      191,445     224,443     283.968      306,738       356,701      426,455      461,428        489.542
Depreciadon                            57,680      57,712       57,777        57,883     58,067       58,305       58,748       59,221        77,819       78,699         79,642
Total Expenditures                    133,331     170,762      206,982       249,328    282,510      342,273      365,487      415,922       504,274      540,127        569,184
ProlitLoss                             20,721      64,342       86,557        95.376    107,478       87,023       98,913       86,642        39,798       49,106         59,021
Funds to Government fbr Subsidy
Reducdon                      -           -            -                                                               ' -                 -                    -
ProfltLoss after Government Subsidy    20,721      64,342       86,557        95,376    107,478       87,023       98,913       86,642        39,798       49,106         59,021
FINANCIAL RATIOS
itAr*ng ratio                              0         0.35         0.38          0.43       0.45         0.54         0.54         0.59          0.67         0.67           0.66
Government Subsidy In % of Cost           0%          0%            0%           0%          0%          0%           0%            0%           0%           0%             0%
Taff Inreases for elirinating subsidy by  -           0%            0%           0%          0%          0%           0%            0%           0%           0%             0%



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Vodokanal Khorezm
in '000 sum
TABLE J15: SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS STATEMENT
Year                                    1990         1997         1998          1999       2000        2001          2002         2003          2004         2005          2000
Income iom operatlons                 20,721       64,342       86,557        95.376    107,478      87,023        98,913       86,642        39,798       49,106        59,021
Add badc depreociaon                   57,680      57,712       57,777        57,883     58,067      58,305        58,748       59,221        77,819       78.699        79,642
Flowfriomiopefarons                    78,401     122.054      144.334       153,259    165,545     145.328       157,661      145,863       117,616      127,805       138,663
Government Subsidy                       -                  -                    -          -                  -            -                    -            -
Sub-total                              78,401     122,054      144,334       153,259    165,545     145,328       157,661      145,863       117,616      127,805       1'38.863
TOTAi SOURCES                          78,401     122,054      144,334       153,259    165,545     145,328       157,661      145,863       117,616      127,805        138.883
APPUCATIONS
Renewals                                3,245       6,485       10,686        18,360     23,840      44.279        47,293       63,167        87,984       94,318        101,175
Reduclon In Subsidy                    20.007      91,226       115,515      126,316    135,361      107,084      114,107       78,297        41,036       40.092         33,932
Incease In debtors                     62,373      23,298        10,597        5,475      1,855        (962)       (2,710)       8.597        (5,723)       (7,372)        6,312
Deas  In edors                         (8,888)      (4,254)      (3,646)      (4,641)     (2,768)     (4,795)      (2,390)       (6,782)      (9,912)      (4,058)        (2,778)
IneaseIn Inventory                      1,625       4,287        10,444        7,014      4,205        1,491         791         1,964         3,531        4,029           (17)
Incresae/(Decrease) in Vfking Cap.     55,132      23,331        17,395        7,848      3.292       (4,266)      (4.309)       3,779       (12.103)       (7,400)        3,517
TotalApWoications                      78.384     121,042       143,516      152,524     162,493     147,098      157.091       145,244      116,917      127,011        138,624
Totai Sourcesess totalApplications        17        1,012          818          735       3,052       (1,769)         570          619           699          794            39
Cash at Beginning                       2,000       2.017         3.029        3,847      4,582        7,634        5,865        6,435         7,054        7,753          8.547
Increasein Cash                           17        1,012          818          735       3,052       (1,769)         570          619          699           794            39
Cash at End                            2017        3,029         3,847        4,582      7,634        5,865        6,435        7,054         7,753        8,547          8,586
Government Subsidy In% of Cost          0.00%       0.00%        0.00%         0.00%      0.00%       0.00%         0.00%        0.00%         0,00%        0.00%          0.00%



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Vodokanal Khorezm
in '000 sum
TABLE J16: BALANCE SHEET
Year                                    1996        1997         1996         1999        2000       2001          2002         2003         2004         2005           2006
Gross Fixed Assets                 5,768,000    5,771,245    5,777,729    5,788,335   5,806,695    5,830,535  5,874,814    5,922,107     7,781,874    7,869,859     7,964,177
less:Acc.DeprecaLon                   57,680     115,392      173,170      231,053    289,120      347,425      406,174      465,395      543,213      821,912       701.554
NetFbxd AsseWt                     5,710.320    5,655,852    5,604,560    5,557,282   5,517,575    5,483,110  5.468.641     5,456,713    7,238,661    7,247,947     7,262,623
VWk In Pro9ress                        3.245       6,485       10,606       18.360      23,840     44,279        47,293       63,167       87,984       94,318        101,175
Fixed Assets                       5,713,565    5,662,337    5.615,166    5,575,642   5,541,415    5.527,389  5,515,934    5,519,880     7,326,645    7,342.265     7,363,798
Subsidy Reduction Program             20,007     111,233      226,748      353,063    488,424      595.508      709,616      787,913      828,949      869.042        902,973
Curent Assets
Inventory                              1,625       5,912       16,356       23,370     27,575      29,066       29,858       31,822       35,353        39,383        39,366
Debors                                62,373      85,671       98,268      101,743    103,598      102,637       99,926      108,523      102.800       95,429        101,741
Cash                                   2,017       3,029        3,847        4,582       7,634       5.885        6,435        7,054        7,753        8.547          8,586
Toal Current Assets                   66,015      94,612      116.472       129,696    138,808     137,568      136,219      147,399      145,907       143,358       149,692
TotalAssets                         5,799,587    5,868.182   5,958,385    6,058,402   6,168,648    6.260,485  6,361,768     6.455,191    8,301,501    8,354,665     8,416,464
Equity and Uabifliles
Long tern Loans
Equity                               166,600     166,600      166,600      166,60      166,600     166,600      166,600      166,60      1,963,200    1,963,200     1,963,200
Revaluation Reserve                 5,603,400    5,603,400   5,603,400    5,603,400   5,603,400    5,603,400  5,603,400    5,603,400     5.603,400    5,603,40      5,603,400
Currentliabiltes                      8,866      13,120       16.766       21,406      24,174      28.969       31,359       38,141       48,053       52.110         54,888
Reserves                              20,721      85,063      171,619      266,995    374,473      461,498      560.409      647,051      686,848      735,955        794.976
Total Equity and Uabilitles         5,799,587    5,868,182   5,958,385    6,058,402   6.168,648    6,260,465  6,361,768     6,455,191    8,301,501    8,354,665     8,416,464



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Agrovodokanal Khorezm
in '000 sum
TABLE J17: PROFIT & LOSS STATEMENT
Year                                    1996           1907         1998         1999          2000         2001          2002        2003          2004         2005          2006
sales
Total Revenue                         47,372         72,513       90,941      107,444       122,511      136,169       149,030     163,510       179,865      198,394       219,448
Expenditures
Payroll                               9,605          12,625      16,151       19,368        22,415        25,163       27,815       30,670        33.906      37,586         41,783
Electrity                             4.547           5,850       7.349        8,683         9,901        11,004       12,044       13,214        14,536       16,033        17,734
Chemicals                               186            306          491          743           915         1,058        1,193        1,348         1,527        1,735         1,977
Fuel                                    116            152          195          236           272          305           338         374           416          463           517
Materials                               176            232          296          357           417          477           540         617           713          833          1,021
MaItnane                              9,137           6,122       8,203        12,386        14,500       16,654       18,829       21,026        24,103       24,224        24,345
Genral & Admnnist.                      845           1,110        1,420        1,711         1,990        2,256        2,524        2,835         3,203        3,636         4,150
Sub-total                             24.612         26,408       34,106       43,465        50,410       66,918        63,282       70,084       78,404       84.510        91,527
Water prhes                           16,263         21,572       26,517       30,650        34,123       36,954        39,318       41,839       44,527       47,396        50,456
Sub-Total                     40,875          47,980       60,623       74,115        B4,533       93,871      102,599      111,923       122,931      131,905       141,983
Depreciation                          40,609         40,812       41,016       41,221        41,427       41,634        41,843       42,052       48,206       48,447        48.689
Total Expenditues                     81,484          88,792     101,640       115,336       125,960      135,506      144,442      153,975       171,137      180,352       190,672
ProflWLoss                           (34.112)        (16,279)     (10,698)     (7,892)       (3,449)         664         4.588        9,535        8,728       18,041        28,776
Gover  Subsidy                        28,004          4,309                                                  -             -           -             -            -             -
PrfitULoss afterGovernment Subsidy    (6,108)        (11,970)     (10,698)     (7,892)       (3,449)         664         4,588        9,535        8,728       18,041        28,776
FINANCIAL RATIOS
Wcking ratio                              1            0.36         0.38         0.40          0.41         0.42          0.42         0.43         0.44         0.43          0.42
GoverNmnt Subsidy in% of Cost           34%              5%           0%           0%            0%           0%           0%           0%            0%           0%            0%
TarfkwIcm  for slimnaft  subsidy by      -               0%           0%           0%            0%           0%           0%           0%            0%           0%            0%



REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Agrovodokanal Khorezm
in '000 sum
TABLE J18: SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS STATEMENT
Year                                     1996            1997         199S          1999           2000         2001          2002         2003          2004          2005          2006
Income from operations                (34,112)        (16,279)     (10,698)       (7,892)        (3,449)        664         4,588         9,535         8,728       18.041         28,776
Add back depreciation                  40,609          40,812       41,016        41,221        41,427        41,634        41,843       42,052        48,206        48,447        48,689
Flew trom operations                    6,497          24,533       30,3iU        33,329        37,979        42,296        48,430       51,567        56,934       66,469         77,465
Govemment Subsidy                      28,004           4,309          -                           -             -            -             -             -
Sub-total                              34,501          28,842       30,318        33,329        37,979        42,298        46,430       51,587        56,934       66,489         77,465
TOTAL SOURCES                          34,501          28,842       30,318        33,329        37,979        42,298        46,430       51,587        56,934        66,489        77,465
APPLICATIONS
Renewals                               20,305          20,406       20,508        20,611        20,714        20,817        20,921       21,026        24,103        24,224        24,345
Reducion in Subsidy                       -               -          6,245        11,134         16,359       20,993        26,275       27,551        34,450        43,890        49,423
Increase in debtors                    19,180           7,243        3,401         1,888           831           11          (488)        3,241         (1,323)      (1,854)        3,410
Decrease in creditors                  (3,949)            743         (604)        (895)          (396)          141         (579)         (613)         (793)         (349)         (404)
Increaseininventory                        80             172          443           294           188           79            54          111            190          225            284
Increase/(Decrease) in Working Cap.    35,615          28,564       29,993        33,032        37,696        42,042        46,182       51,316        56,626        66,136        77,057
Sources ss Applications                (1,114)            278          325          297            283          256           248          271            308          353            408
Cash at Beginning                       2,000             886        1,164         1,489          1,786        2,069         2,325        2,573         2,844         3,152         3,505
IncreaseinCash                         (1,114)            278          325          297            283          256           248          271            308          353            408
Cash at End                               886           1,164        1,489         1,786         2,069         2,325         2,573        2,844         3,152         3,505         3,913
Government Subsidy in % of Cost        34.37%           4.85%        0.00%         0.00%         0.00%         0.00%         0.00%        0.00%         0.00%         0.00%         0.00%



REPUBL(C OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Agrovodokanal Khorozm
in 'O0O sum
TABLE J19: BALANCE SHEET
Year                                   1996           1997         1998         199          2000         2001         2002         2003         2004         2005          2006
Gross FixsedAssets                 4,060,900      4,081,205    4,101,B11   4,122,119     4,142,729    4,163,443    4,184,260    4,205,181    4,820,607    4,844,710    4,868,934
less: Acc. DepreciatIon              40,609         81,421      122,437      163,668      205,088      246,720      288,563      330,614      378,821      427,268       475,957
NetFixedAssets                     4,020,291      3,999,783    3,979,173   3,958,460     3,937,644    3,916,723    3,895,597    3,874,567    4,441,787    4,417,443    4,392,977
arkin Progress                       20,305         20,406       20,508       20,611       20,714       20,817       20,921       21,028       24,103       24,224        24,345
Total Fixed Assets                 4,040,596      4,020,189    3,999,681   3,979,071     3,956,357    3,937,540    3,916,619    3,895,593    4,465,890    4,441,666     4,417,322
Subsidy Reduction Program                                         6,245       17,379       33,738       54,731       81,006      108,558       143,007     186,897       236,320
Current Assets
Inventory                               80            252          696          988         1,176        1,255        1,309       1.420         1,610        1,836        2,119
Debtors                              19,180         26,423       29,825       31,713       32,545       32,555       32,067       35,308       33,985       32,131        35,541
cash                                   886           1,164        1,489        1,786        2,089        2,325        2,573        2,844        3,152        3,505         3,913
Total Current Assets                 20,148         27,840       32,009       34,488       35,790       36,136        35,949      39,572        38,747      37,471        41,572
Total Assets                       4,060,742      4,048,029    4,037,935   4,030,937     4,027,885    4,028,407    4,033,574    4,043,723    4,647,844    4,666,034     4,695,214
Equity and LEiabitiies
Long term Loans
Equity                               75,000         75,000       75,000       75,D00       75,000       75,000       75,000       75,000        75,000      75,000        75,000
Revaluation Reserve                3,987,900      3,987,900    3,987,900   3,987,900     3,987,900    3,987,900    3,987,900    3,987,900    4,582,300    4,582,300     4,582,300
Current liebiities                    3,949          3,207        3,811        4,705        5,102        4,960        5,540        6,153        6,946        7,295         7,699
Reserves                             (6,108)        (18,078)    (28,776)     (38,668)      (40,117)    (39,453)      (34,866)    (25,330)      (16,802)      1,439        30,215
Total Equity and Liabilities       4,060,742      4,048,029    4,037,935    4,030,937    4,027,885    4,028,407    4,033,574    4,043,723    4,847,644    4,868,034     4,695,214



I



-153 -                                                 ANNEX J
Table J19: Summary of Key Financial Indicators for Khorezm Oblast, Tuyamuyun-
Urgench
Tuyamuyun-Urgench                Unit            1993                 1994                  1995          1996 (Ist quarter)
actual     %        actual        %        actual      %      actual      %
Total water supplied                 000 m3         74,136  =            73,105       0%/      71,377      0%    18,200
Water sales, of which to:            0              67,687  1000h        66,465     100%       63,438   100/e   16,570    100%
Khorezm Vodokanal                000m3          41,515   61%         42,930      65%       40,766   64%    10,168        61%
Khorezm Agrovodokanal            000 m3         22,161   33%         22,439      34%       21,544   34%       6,057      37%
Karakalpakstan Vodokanal         000 m3                                 491         -         849      2%       280       2%
Other consumers                  000 m3          4,011    6%1           605       1%          279   0.5%         65      0,4%
Water loss                             %                 -9%                  -       9%                  11%          -      9%
Income - total                       000 m3        644,181  100%          2,323     100%        12,630   100%     7,407     100%
Khorezm Vodokanal               000 Sum        404,292   63%          1,510      65%         8,065    64%     4,579      61%
Khorezm Agrovodokanal           000 Sum        218,817   34%            765      34%         4,309   34%      2,688      37%
Karakalpakstan Vodokanal        000 Sum                                  13         .          154     1%       105       1%
Other consumers                 000 Sum         21,072    3%             35       2%           102     1%        35      0.4%
Expenditures- total:                000 Sum      1,497,976  1 00%o       11,463     100%       90,783   100%    33,953      100%/
Wages                           000 Sum        163,791   11%          1,333      12%         4,765     5%     2,575       8%
Fuel                            000 Sum         23,300    2%            714       6%         3,598    4%        702       2%
Depreciation                    000 Sum         70,349    5%            501       4%         6,563     7%     2,137       6%
Materials                       000 Sum        371,606   25%          2,022      18%        11,101    12%     2,560       8%
Power                           000 Sum        539,350   36%          5,007      44%       49,560    55%    20,423       60%
Allocations to repairs fund     000 Sum         28,638    2%            280       2%         4,614     5%      1,094      3%
Allocations for social security  000 Sum        67,021    5%            449       4%         1,733    2%       1,015      3%
General operating costs         000 Sum        187,136   12%            926       8%         7,479     8%     2,647       8%
Non-operational costs           000 Sum         46,785    3%            231       2%         1,370     2%       800       2%
Profit or loss                      000 Sum       -853,795      .        -9,140         0      -78,153      0   -26,546       0%
Cost of water per m3                000 Sum          22.13      .          0.17                   1 1.43     .     2.05       0%
Average water tariff per m'         Surntrn3          9.52 -               0.03                   0.20             0.44       0%
Khorezm Vodokanal               Sum/i3            9.52       -         0.03         .         0.20       .     0.44       0%
Khorezm Agrovodokanal           Sum/m3            9.52       .         0.03         .         0.20       -     0.44       0%
Other consumers                 Sum/m3            9.52       .         0.03         .         0.20       .     0.44       0%ol
|Days receivable                       days                      -1          77          -          79                93         -



ANNEX J                                                  -154-
Table J20: Summary of Key Financial Indicators for Khorezm Oblast,
Agrovodokanal
Khorezm Agrovodokanal             Unit           1993                 1994                 1995          1996 (Ist quarter)
actual     %       actual                 actual     %      actual      %
Total water supplied               000 m'         27,610       -       34,720               35,358             9,047
Water sold - total                  000 m3        25,565      -        32,148               32,739       -    8,377
Water purchased                    000 mn3        26,171      -       27,326                28,747       -    7,778
Water losses                          %                     7%              .      7%             .    7%                 7%
Income - total                     000 Sum       528,671       -        4,361         -      19,597            9,164
Expenditures- total:               000 Sum       501,605  100%          3,987    100%        15,235  100%      6,967    100%
Wages                          000 Sum        107,697   21%         1,012      28%        4,248   28%      1,622     23%
Purchased water                000 Sum       231,710   46%          1 ,570    47%         5,672   37%      3,118     4S%
Depreciation                   000 Sum         17,058    3%          271        5%         907    6%         514      8%
Fuel                           000 Sum         11,741    2%            88       2%          106    1%         25     0.4%
Materials                      000 Sum        25,975    5%             39       1%          84      1%        40       1%
Power                          000 Sum        63,290   13%           409       10%        1,661    11%      980       14%
Allocations to repairs fund    000 Sum          6,001    1%            59       1%         197      1%        38       1%
Allocations for social security  000 Sum       30,770    6%          370        9%        1,699    11%       448       6%
General operating costs        000 Sum         4,434    1%            140       4%         534    4%         126      2%
Non-operational costs          000 Sum          2,929    1%            29       1%          127     1%        56       1%
Profit or loss                     000 Sum        27,066      -          374                 4,362             2,197
Cost of water per m3               Sum/M3           19.62     .          0.12         -       0.47              0.83
Water tariffper m3                 Sum/m3          20.68                 0.14         -       0.66             1. 90
Days receivable                                      308                 252          -        238               187



-155 -                                               ANNEX J
Table J21: Summary of Key Financial Indicators for Khorezm Oblast, Vodokanal
Khorezm  Vodokanal              Unit           1993                1994                 1995          1996 (1st quarter)
actual    %        actual       %        actual      %      actual     %
Total water supplied                000 m3        71,049    0%         73,272      0%        68,622    0%o   15,285       0%
Total water sold, by consumer       000 m3        64,126  100/         66,673   100%         54,571  1000/o   13,873    100A
category
Residential                      000 m3       20,449   32%         27,189    41%|        26,571   49%      5,936     43%
Commercial                       000 m3        19,445   30%        23,497    35          14,586   27%      2,4591    18%
Industrial                       000 m3        20,222   32%         15,987    24%        13,414   25%      5,4781    39%
Water losses                           %                -   10%                    9%                 20%                 9%
Water purchased                     000 m3        41,462    0%         42,922      0%        40,765    0%    10,167       0%
Income from water sales to          000 Sum     1,559,093  100%         14,617   100%        49,291  1000/   28,904    100%
consumers:
Residential                     000 Sum       21,157    2%            544      4%         2,391    5%      2,078      7%
Commercial                      000 Sum      671,910   31%           7,519    51%        22,754   46%      7,598     26%
Industrial                      000 Sum      903,133   67%           6,555    45%        24,145   49%    19,228      67%1
Expenditures- total:                000 Sum     1,231,279  100%         9,647   100%         53,129  1000/o   14,808    100%
Wages                           000 Sum     .251,913   20%           1,890    20%         7,835   15%      2,224      15%
Purchased water                 000 Sum      292,198   24%           1,732    18%         8,104   15%      4,226     290/o
Depreciation                    000 Sum       98,687    8%           1,515    16%/        3,454    7%        829      6%
Fuel                            000 Sum          n.a.   n.a.          335      3%         2,064    4%        783       5%
Materials                       000 Sum       36,295    3%            299      3%         2,897    5%       959       6%A
Power                           000 Sum      315,926   26%           1,455    15%        18,529   35%      2,380      16%
Allocations to repairs fund     000 Sum        55,717    5%           891      90/0       1,792    3%        798       5%
Allocations for social security  000 Sum       79,038    6%           816      8%         3,467    7%        890       6%
General operating costs         000 Sum       78,074    6%            650      7%         4,913    90/0    1,567      11%
Non-operational costs           000 Sum            9   .8%             91    .9%             74   .1%        152       1%
Profit or loss                      000 Sum      935,052                4,943                (3,838)          14,096
Cost of water per m3                Sum/m3          0.02                 0.02                  0.15             0.97
Average tariff for water supply per m3   Sum/iM3    14.60                0.22                  0.90             2.08
Tariff by consumer category
Domestic                        Sum/m3           0.92                 0.02                 0.09             0.35
Commercial                      Sum/M3          14.75                 0.32                 1.56             3.09
Industrial                      Sum/i3          31.001                0.41                 1.80             3.51
Days receivable                       days           1681                 141                   153  =          254



ANNEX J                                                  -156-
Table J22: Summary of Key Financial Indicators for Karakalpakstan, Tuyamuyun-
Nukus
Tuyamuyun-Nukus                Unit           1993                1994               1995          1996 (Ist quarter)
actual  I  %      actual       %      actual |%           actual      %
Total water supplied                 000 m3       53,625      0%     45,784       0%     43,924     0%       7,644       00/0
Total water sold, by consumer category   000 m    25,857   100%      35,116    100%      35,089   100%       6,915     100%
Khorezm Vodokanal                000 m3       25,265    98%      33,427      95%     32,480    93%        6,218     90%
Karakalpakstan Agrovodokanal     000 m3          592      2%       1,202      3%      2,091      6%        584       8%
Other consumers                  000 m3            0      0%        487       1%        518      1%        113       2%
Water losses                           %               0    52%           0      23%          0    20%           0      10%
Income by consumer category:         000 m3      213,320   100%/      1,502    100%       8,262   100%       4,797     100%
Khorezm Vodokanal                            208,436    98%        1,337     89%      6,496    79%        3,855     80%
Karakalpakstan Agrovodokanal    000 Sum         4,884     2%         48       3%        523      6%        467      10%
Other consumers                 000 Sum            0                117       8%     - 1,243    15%        475      10%
Expenditures- total:                000 Sum         1,357   100%     10,515    100%      83,957   100%      26,170     100%
Wages                           000 Sum          241    18%        1,870     18%      7,776      9%       4,367     17%
Depreciation                    000 Sum           56      4%         39    0.37%      3,007      4%       2,774     11%
Fuel                            000 Sum           77      6%        356       3%      3,299      4%       1,030      4%
Materials                       000 Sum           30      2%        133       1%      3,341      4%        499       2%
Power                           000 Sum          807    59%       6,000      57%     57,881    69%       12,350     47%
Allocations to repairs fund     000 Sum                                               1,760      2%        526       2%
Allocations for social security  000 Sum          86      6%        751       7%      3,018      4%       1,590      6%
General operating costs         000 Sum           60      4%       1,345     13%      2,573      3%       2,228      90/o
Non-operational costs           000 Sum                              21    0.20%      1,302      2%        806       3%
Profit or loss                      000 Sum      211,963            (9,013)            (75,695)            (21,373)
Cost of water per m3                000 Sum         0.05               0.30                2.39               3.78
Average water tariff per m3          SumJm          8.25               0.04                0.24               0.69
Khorezm Vodokanal                Sum/M3          8.25               0.04               0.20                0.62
Karakalpakstan Agrovodokanal     Sum/r3          8.25               0.04               0.25                0.80
Other consumers                  Sum/im3         49.5               0.24               2.40                4.20
Days receivable                       days             0                139                 1131                77



-157 -                                               ANNEX J
Table J23: Summary of Key Financial Indicators for Karakalpakstan, Agrovodokanal
Karakalpakstan Agrovodokanal           Unit          1993               1994               1995        1996 (Ist quarter)
actual    %      actual      %       actual     %       actual    %
Total water supplied                    000 m        9985        0    10825         0     11040        0      2556       0
Total watersold, of which from:         000m         9510        1    10310         1     10515        1      2435       1
pasture water main                  000 m3        500    0.05       384      0.04       384    0.04         39   0.02
EKOS plant                          000 m3       2880      0.3    2565       0.25      2565    0.24        642   0.26
distribution system                 000 m3       6130    0.64      7361      0.71      7566    0.72       1754   0.72
Water losses                              %                    5%                 5%        0%       5%         0%     5%
Water purchased                         000 m3        731             1,831               2,800                723
Income - total                                    697,931            14,035              50,255              16,992
Expenditures- total:                   000 Sum    570,717   100%      3,068     100%     42,966   100%       18,719  1000/o
Wages                              000 Sum    136,203    24%        954      31%       7,347    17%       3,354   18%
Purchased water                    000 Sum      31,065     5%       280       9%       3,752     9%       1,597    9%
Depreciation                       000 Sum      36,396     6%        52       2%       1,393     3%        899    5%
Fuel                               000 Sum      73,908    13%       447      15%       6,669    16%       2,906   16%
Materials                          000 Sum    105,000    18%        118       4%       1,846     4%       1,581    8%
Power                              000 Sum      90,038    16%       420      14%      13,467    31%       5,691   30%
Allocations to repairs fund        000 Sum      36,801     6%       413      13%       2,086     5%       1,108    6%
Allocations for social security    000 Sum      54,481    10%       382      12%       2,939     7%       1,342    7%
General operating costs            000 Sum       6,825     1%         2    0.07%       3,467     8%        241    1%
Non-operational costs               000 Sum
Profit and losses                                  127,214           10,967               7,289             (1,727)
Cost of water per m3                   000 Sum       60.01             0.30                4.09                7.69
Average tariff for water supply per m3  000 Sum      73.39              1.36               4.78                6.98
Water from:
pasture main                       000 Sum       70.30              1.61                4.70               9.90
EKOS plant                          Sum[m3       95.40              2.16                6.50               9.20
distribution system                              63.30              1.07                4.20               6.10
Days receivable                         Sum/m           0                92                  88                166



ANNEX J                                                 -158-
Table J24: Summary of Key Financial Indicators for Karakalpakstan, Vodokanal
Karakalpakstan Vodokanal           Unit          1993                1994                1995         1996 (1st quarter)
actual    %       actual      %        actual     %       actual    %
Total supply                       000 m3         66,799   0%       68,919      0%       63,103     0%/    13,210    0%
Total water Sales                  OO0 m3         57,018 100%        54,224    100%      47,109   100%     10,689  100%
Water losses                         %- 15%                               -    21%            -   25%           -   19%
Purchased water                    000 mr3        34,367   0%       43,798      0%       43,333     0%      8,269    0%
Income - total                     000 Sum     1,263,329 100%        26,655    100%     137,089   100%|   53,709  100%
Water sales:
Domestic                       000 Sum        19,845   2%          453       2%       4,843     4%       1,152    2%
Comnmercial                    000 Sum       844,706  67%        18,741     70%|    95,350    70%      38,483   72%
Industrial                     000 Sum       398,778  32%         7,461     28%      36,895    27%      14,074   26%
Expenditures- total:              000 Sum
Wages                          000 Sum       150,753  14%         1,639      900       6,460    6%      2,324    5%
Purchased water                000 Sum       401,120  38%         4,795     25%       38,995    36%     14,552   37%
Depreciation                   000 Sum        35,066   3%           590      3%        5,868    5%       1,537    4%
Materials                      000 Sum         3,777 0.4%          618       3%        1,818    2%        771    2%
Power                          000 Sum       181,354  17%         1,589      8%>      16,984    16%     5,429   14%
Allocations to repairs fund    000 Sum        18,664   2%         6,353     33%       17,071    16%      5,053   13%
Allocations for social security  000 Sum      54,602   5%          524       3%       2,455     2%        860    2%
General operating costs        000 Sum       188,555  18%         2,901     15%       16,752    160%    8,083   21%
Non-operational costs          000 Sum        12,495   1%         192       1%        1,328     1%       469    1%
Profit or loss                     000 Sum       216,943              7,454              29,358            14,631
Cost of water per m3               Sum/m3          18.35               0.35                2.29              3.66
Average tariff by consumer category:   Sunm        22.16               0.49                2.91              5.02
Domestic                       Sum/m3           0.96               0.02                 0.22              0.22
Commercial                     Sum/r3          32.45               0.83                 5.27             9.64
Industrial                     SuM/n3          38.66               0.83                 5.27             9.64
Days receivable                     days              15               163                  146               505
Table J25: Summary of Cost Structure of Water Utilities in Khorezm Oblast and
Karakalpakstan
'93   '94   '95   'P6    '93    '94   '95   '96          '93      '94    '95      '96
(% of total expenditure)   (% of total expenditure)        (% of total expenditure)
Expenditure Category         Tuyamuyun-Urgench    Agrovodokanal-Khorezm                  Vodokanal-Khorezm
Wages                          15    12       5     8       21    28    24    22          22     20      15       15
Fuel                            4      6      4     2       58    47    28    35          25      18     15       29
Materials                      25    18    12       8      n.a.  n.a.  n.a.       1      n.a.      3      4        5
Power                          36    44    55    60          5      5      1      1      0.5       3      5        6
Allocationstorepairsfund        7      2      5     3       12    11    15        1       28      15     35       16
Tuyamuyun-Nukus              Agrovodokanal-                    Vodokanal-
Karakalpakstan                 Karakalpakstan
Wages                          18    18      9    17        24    31    17      18         14       9       6        5
Fuel                            6      3     4      4        6      2     3       5       n.a.   n.a.   n.a.    n.a.
Materials                       2      1     4      2       13    15    16      16         0.4      3       2        2
Power                         59    57    69    47          18      4     4       8        17       8      16       14
Allocationstorepairs fund   n.a.  n.a.    2         2       16    14   31       30           2     33      16       13



-159-                               ANNEX K
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX K
K. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS: METHODOLOGICAL ASPECTS AND RESULTS
1.    This annex presents the economic analysis of the Uzbekistan Water Supply, Sanitation
and Health Project. Apart from presenting the results, it also introduces the methodology
followed in the analysis.
2.    Beneficiaries of the Project. The immediate impacts of the project would be a safe and
reliable water supply services for about 1.12 million people living in rural areas of the Republic
of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast, and 0.41 million people living in urban areas. The
project would also directly benefit about 50,000 inhabitants in rural and peri-urban areas with
improved sanitation facilities. Table Kl presents a breakdown by region of the population to
benefit from the implementation of the project.
Table Kl: Beneficiaries of the Project
(in '000 inhabitants)
Rehabilitation New Access to NewAccess to
Area                        of Existing    Safe Water   Improved
Water Supply    Supply    Sanitation
Karakalpakstan Republic
Urban Population
Kizketken peri-urban settlement - main pipeline    25.0          7.0
Nukus except Kizketken - main pipeline             176.0
Beruni and Turtkul - main pipeline                              65.3
Rural Population
Beruni and Turtkul - main pipeline                              64.3
Other rural areas - main pipeline                 233.8
Rural areas with desalination units - local water sources  56.9
Other rural areas - local water sources            108.5       160.0
On-site sanitation - rural and peri-urban population                        25.0
Subtotal                        600.2       296.6        25.0
Khorezm Oblast
Urban Population
Urgench - main pipeline                            136.0
Rural Population
Rural areas - main pipeline                       457.2
Rural areas - local water sources                               42.0
On-site sanitation - rural and peri-urban population                        25.0
Subtotal                        593.2        42.0        25.0
Total Beneficiaries               1,193.4       338.6        50.0
3.    Apart from above impacts, the water supply component would also provide additional
water supply to serve industrial, institutional and commercial users. The additional volume of



ANNEX K                               -160-
piped water to be sold to these consumers by the year 2002 has been estimated at 6.2 million
cubic meters, representing 22 percent of incremental sales volume.
4.    Furthermore, the project would help to strength the institutional capacity of the various
agencies working in the sector aiming at optimizing the use of existing infrastructure and local
water sources, improving planning and project design capacity, increase productivity and
efficiency, and reducing water losses and waste. For example, it is expected that the project
would be able to satisfy an incremental demand of 28.8 million cubic meters of water by year
2005, with an increment in production capacity of only 13.1 million cubic meters. Some
economies of scale are also expected to be gained by the integration of the various agencies into
a single unit. Through the implementation of the demand management component, the proposed
project would encourage water conservation for domestic consumers.
5.    Least-Cost Solution. The project has selected the most economic alternatives to improve
the overall provision of safe water and the environment conditions of urban and rural
populations. Demand management and leakage reduction programs were selected over other
alternatives to increase production capacity. Development of local sources (e.g., groundwater
lenses and irrigation canals) for water production would allow reducing the excessive operational
costs of having to pump water from the Tuyamuyun reservoir. Improved on-site sanitation
facilities were preferred over centralized waterborne sewerage systems in rural and peri-urban
areas.
6.    Economic Costs. The econornic analysis was conducted using the average market rate of
exchange applicable in February 1996, i.e., US$1.00 = Sum 36. Because the total investment
costs of the proposed project are expected to be incurred in foreign exchange (e.g., dollars), no
conversion factors were used for local financial costs. Similarly, no conversion factors were used
for foreign financial costs. It was considered inappropriate to use a shadow exchange rate
different from the market rate. Value added taxes, estimated at 17 percent of project costs, were
excluded from total costs. Physical contingencies estimated at 5 percent (technical assistance)
and 10 percent (non-technical assistance) of project costs were included in the economic costs.
7.    Operating costs were estimated on the basis of current production costs per cubic meter of
water, with adjustments to reflect economies of scale in administration and labor costs due to the
consolidation of the sector and the economic cost of power (US$0.07 per KwH). Average
variable costs per cubic meter of water produced were assumed as follows: US$0.19 for piped
water supply in both urban and rural areas, US$0.67 for potable water from existing desalination
units in the "without project" scenario and $0.56 in the "with project" scenario, and US$0.03 for
water from hand pumps. The average variable cost of piped water reflects the use of local
sources, which would be blended with Tuyamuyun water to satisfy incremental demand.
8.    Economic Benefits. Benefits were assessed for each type of beneficiary. The starting
point for estimating benefits was the "Willingness to Pay" survey carried out under the Social
Needs Assessment in November 1994. This was complemented by the "Water Vendors" survey,
the "Taste Tolerance Survey," and the "Hand Pump" survey carried out during the preparation
phase of the project. Data availability allowed a detailed estimation of benefits for different
beneficiaries.



-161-                                    ANNEX K
9.     Under the "Willingness to Pay" survey, households were asked how much they would
pay for different levels of services. The results revealed that if improved and reliable water
services were available for house connections, yard connections, standposts, and individual hand
pumps,' an average household of six members would be willing to pay US$1.66, US$1.52,
US$1.08, and US$1.112 per month (in February 1996 prices) or 3.8 percent, 3.5 percent, 2.5
percent, and 2.5 percent of his or her monthly income for improved water services.3 The
willingness to pay per cubic meter of water tended to increase for lower piped water consumption
levels from: US$0.05 for 180 liters per capita per day (lcd) (house connection), US$0.08 for 110
lcd (yard connection), and US$0.09 for 70 lcd (standpost). The willingness to pay for hand pump
water was estimated at US$0.07 per cubic meter.4
10.    The "Water Vendors" survey found that households who relied on water vendors were
paying US$0.57 per cubic meter of water delivered to their premises and consuming on average
44 liters (of unsafe water) per capita per day.5 The same survey assessed the willingness of the
population to pay for improved quality of delivered water. The majority of the households were
willing to pay US$0.17 per 100 liters (or 10 liter per capita per day) of good quality water for
drinking and cooking purpose delivered at the household's door,6 which is equivalent to 7
percent of their monthly income.
11.    Given the high willingness to pay for improved water services revealed by the surveyed
households, ranging from 2.5 percent to 7.0 percent of their monthly income when up to 90
percent of their cash income is spent on food, it seems logical to question the realism of the
payments for water. There is evidence which suggest that households indeed spend large shares
of their monthly income buying water from vendors: between zero and 7.7 percent during the
cold season and between 5.5 percent and 12 percent during the warm season. Therefore, the
above results were assumed to be the true willingness-to pay, and then a sensitivity analysis was
carried out to test how these values affects the economic rate of return of the investment.
I      Field observations shown that the majority of households had a pretty good notion of the amount of water
they used and how much they would use under hypothetical circumstances. Most of the level of services
offered in the survey existed in the community or its surroundings.
2      During the latest socio-economic survey carried out in February 1996, the average household income in the
project area was estimated at US$44 per month. This figure was used to estimate the monthly payments for
water services.
These figures reflect the one-time payment amortized at 10 percent real rate of interest over 25 years and
the monthly contribution revealed by the surveyed households for improved water services as a share of the
average household monthly income, which at the time of the survey (November 1994) was estimated at
US$25.
Surveyed rural households revealed greater satisfaction with hand pumps than with piped water supplies
(constant quality through the year and greater reliability). The high willingness to pay is a reflection of it.
Water consumption with an individual hand pump is estimated at 95 liter per capita.
The "Water Vendors" survey found that water consumption levels on a per capita basis were 54 liters
during the warm season and 36 liters during the cold season. The amount paid to vendors remained
constant year round.
No statistically significant relationship at 15 percent or better level was found between the price paid for
vendor's water and the quality of the water.



ANNEX K                                - 162-
11.   Another interesting finding of the "Water Vendor" survey was that households who can
not afford to buy water from vendors made on a monthly basis 24 trips of 2 km each (both ways)
to collect 1.6 cubic meters of water. Households spent 720 hours per year fetching 11 liter of
water per capita per day. If 75 percent of the household time could be used for productive
activities valued at the minimum labor wage of Sum 400 per month or US$0.56 per day, the
economic cost of having to fetch water was estimated at US$3.1 per month7 or US$1.94 per
cubic meter.
12.   The above results were used to estimate water demand curves for the various types of
households in the project area. In this particular case, the water demand relationship was
assumed to be of a linear functional form, and defined by two known points: PI and Q, in the
without project situation (for example, the price of water charged for vendor water and the
household's consumption at that price) and P2 and Q2 in the with-project situation (for example,
the willingness to pay for improved water services and the household's consumption at the stated
price). Given that the value of the economic benefits will change with a different functional form
of the demand curve, a log-linear relationship for example, this assumption was included in the
sensitivity analysis.
Figure Kl: Water Demand Curve for Households Relaying on Vendors
30D
25.0
Pl 20.0  A\,<    Without Project
P1 20.0
Q5.1 - 0.19*P
;  15.0
10.0
5.0
P2 0  _       ___
0      1      2      3      4   045        6
1  Q,  Comuu4lion(m3/momb/ca4ta)
1.    13.   Among domestic beneficiaries a distinction was made between those households
who would be connected to a water network, those who would depend on the use of
desalinized water from standposts, and those who would use hand pumps. Table K2 shows
the situation "without project" and the situation "with project" assumed to be faced by each
type of beneficiary.
7     This represents 7 percent of average household income estimated at US$44 as per the last socio-economic
survey undertaken in the project area.



-163 -                                   ANNEX K
Table K2: Water Situation in the "With" and "Without" Project Scenarios
Beneficiary            without Project           With Project              Remarks
Urban households that  44 lcd from vendors       HC - 180 lcd (25%)    Price of vendor water $0.56/m3
would make use of the  11 lcd from open sources  HC - 180 lcd (25%)    Closet source 2 km away
public network        44 lcd from vendors        YC - 110 lcd (20%)    Price of vendor water $0.56/m3
11 lcd from open sources   YC - 110 lcd (20%)    Closest source at 2 km away
11 lcd from open sources   SP - 70 lcd (10%)    Closest source at 2 km away
Urban households that  HC-40% suppressed demand   HC - 180 lcd (50%)    Low pressure, poor quality
currently have access   YC-40% suppressed demand   YC - 110 Ilcd (40%)    Low pressure, poor quality
to the public network   SP-40% suppressed demand    SP - 70 lcd (10%)  Low pressure, poor quality
Rural households that   11 lcd from open sources  HC - 180 lcd (20%)    Closest source at 2 km away
would make use of the  11 lcd from open sources  YC - 110 lcd (40%)    Closest source at 2 km away
public network        11 lcd from open sources   SP - 70 lcd (40%)     Closest source at 2 km away
Rural households that   11 lcd from open sources  SP - 15 lcd (100%)   Closest source at 2 km away
would use of
desalinized water
through standpost
Rural households that   HC-40% suppressed demand   HC - 180 lcd (20%)    Low pressure, poor quality
currently have access   YC-40% suppressed demand   YC - 110 lcd (40%)    Low pressure, poor quality
to the public network   SP- 20% no service       SP - 70 lcd (40%)     Closest source at 2 km away
Rural households that   SP - 32 lcd              SP - 45 lcd (100%)    Mostly broken
currently have access
to desalinized water
from standposts
Rural households that   11 lcd from open sources  HP - 45 lcd (100%)    Closest source at 2 km away
would make use of
hand pumps                                              __
Rural households that   30 lcd from hand pumps   HP - 45 lcd (100%)    One hand pump is shared by 9
currently depend on                                                   families
hand pumps                                      I                    I
Note: HC means house connection, YC means yard connection, SP means standpost, and HP means hand pump.
14.    Benefits of the project accruing to each type of domestic beneficiary were estimated as
follows. In the case of households that were without access to piped water services but would
depend on the public network, four benefits were identified: (a) the cost savings of not having to
buy water from vendors; (b) the cost savings of not having to spend time fetching water; (c) the
cost savings of not having to boil water; and (d) the consumer surplus on the increased quantity
of water used. For households already connected to the piped water supply network but suffering
from a 30 percent suppressed demand and inadequacies of the existing system (e.g., intermittent
services, uncertain or no pressure, pollution because of back-siphonage, almost non-existent
services to outlying households), two benefits were estimated: (a) the cost savings of not having



ANNEX K                                    -164 -
to boil water; and (b) consumer surplus on the increased consumption and increased reliability
and quality of the service.8
15.   For the case of rural households that were depending on unsafe water sources and would
gain access to hand pumps, two benefits were identified: (a) the cost savings of having to spend
less time in water collection; and (b) the consumer surplus on the increased consumption. For
those rural households that shared one hand pump among nine or more families, two benefits
were estimated: (a) the cost savings of having to spend less time collecting water because the
distance from the house to the hand pump would be reduced; and (b) the consumer surplus on
increased water consumption since the project would increase the ratio of hand pumps to
households from 1:9 to 1:5, e.g., the number of people depending on one hand pump would go
down, allowing consumption to increase.9
16.   Consumer surplus, and the cost savings of not having to buy water from venders were
derived directly from the demand curve. In the case of a urban household that would connect to
the piped water system through a house connection, for example, these benefits were estimated
as follows. In the "without project situation," the household was assumed to be buying 44 liters
per capita per day from water vendors at US$0.56 per cubic meter In the "with project situation,"
all household's members would use 162 liters per day (180 lcd without demand management)
and would pay at US$0.05 per cubic meter. The monthly cost savings accruing to each member
of the household were estimated at US$0.52 [44*30/1000*0.56*0.7]. 0 "The consumer surplus
is given by the area under the demand function between Q1 and Q2, as shown in Figure KI, and
represented by area C. This was estimated at US$0.81  per month  [(0.56+0.05)*(162-
44)*30/2/1000*0.75]12
17.   The cost savings of not having to boil water for drinking purpose were estimated as
follows. The various socio-economic surveys revealed that between 70 percent and 80 percent of
the interviewed households boiled water to cope with its poor quality. The project would reduce
this chronic problem by providing better quality water. The economic cost of fuel associated with
boiling 5 liter per person per day was estimated at US$0.22 per person per month
[5*365*200*0.042/4000/12*0.7].3 The base case assumes that 70 percent of the beneficiary
8      The analysis assumes that because the water system is plagued with reliability, quality problems, low
pressure and supply interruptions, those households already connected to the public system only received a
fraction (70 percent) of the consumer surplus represented by areas A and B in Figure K1.
9      No cost savings based on not having to boil water were expected for those rural households using hand
pumps.
10    Thirty percent of the price paid to vendors was assumed to be an economic rent.
For those households that in the "without project" situation were assumed to collect 11 liters per capita per
day from open sources and to have an opportunity cost of time of US$1.94 per cubic meter, the monthly
cost savings were estimated at US$0.45 [ 11 *30/1 000*1.94*0.7]. Only 70 percent of the opportunity cost of
time spent on water fetching was included in the calculation.
12     Given the uncertainty surrounding the linear form of the demand curve, the calculated consumer surplus
was reduced by 25 percent.
13    It was assumed that to boil 1 liters of water for 3 minutes some 200 kcal are needed. One kilogram of coal,
which economic cost was estimated at US$0.042 per kilogram, provides 4000 kcal.



-165 -                             ANNEX K
except for those using hand pumps would stop doing so and each would save US$0.16
[US$0.22*0.7] as a result of the project.
18.   A summary of the benefits accruing to each member of the household derived from the
demand curve and the cost savings associated with not having to boil water are presented in
Table K3.
Table K3: Domestic User's Net Benefits
(US$ per capita per month)
Urban Areas                  Rural Areas
Type of Services   New Supply  Improved Supply  New Supply  Improved Supply
House connection             2.74           0.67          4.00           1.48
Yard connection               1.83          0.56          2.60           1.13
Standpost                     1.47          0.85          1.95          0.85
Standpost - Desalination                                  0.78          0.38
Hand Pump14                                               0.44          0.23
19.   The economic analysis has assumed that the current distribution of piped water services
would prevail in the future. In urban areas this distribution was found to be as follows: 50 percent
with house connection, 40 percent with yard connections, and 10 percent with standpipes. In
rural areas, the distribution was assessed as follows: 20 percent with house connections, 40
percent with yard connections, and 40 percent with standpipes.
20.   Non-domestic consumers would also benefit from the project by increasing consumption.
The economic benefit was estimated as the average incremental cost of developing an alternative
water supply. In this case, the alternative supply is desalination of brackish water. The average
incremental cost of building a reverse osmosis plant of 150 m3 per day of capacity was estimated
at US$0.40/m3 (Sum 14.5 per cubic meter).
21.   Rehabilitation of the distribution networks, together with the demand management and
loss reduction program and the institutional strengthening component would allow reducing the
consumption of domestic consumers by 10 points by the year 2005 and to reduce unaccounted-
for water from by 10 and 15 points by the year 2005. As shown in Figure K2, the increased
consumption would be met from the reduction in water losses. Physical losses were estimated at
30 percent of total production in 1995. The level of unaccounted-for water is expected to be
around 45 percent. The benefits of the project would be to reduce the average operating cost per
cubic meter of water delivered by about 20 percent (from US$0.35 to US$0.28).
14   In the case of standpost and hand pumps, it was assumed that a fraction of the implicit cost incurred by
households in fetching water would continue in the "with project" situation.



ANNEX K                                    -166 -
Figure K2: Projected Production With and Without Reduction of Losses and Waste
3 5.00                         t        I        I        I
1        |    Incremental volume delivered to cons,umers
3  o.00                        I        I        I        I-   -     -     -     -     -     -    -
25.00   -         ---         
500
0.00
1996    200204             20       0        2016220           22
22.   In the case of sanitation improvements, the starting point to estimate the benefits was the
"Social Needs Assessment" survey, which found that 50 percent or more of households would
pay US$5.9 as a one-time cash contribution (or 24 percent of their average monthly income) for
building an improved latrine and make monthly contributions of US$0.40 for maintaining it (in
November 1994 prices). The equivalent monthly contribution was estimated at 1.8 percent of
household income.
23.   A recent survey undertaken by the consultants implementing the rural sanitation pilot
projects, however, revealed a much higher willingness to pay for improved rural sanitation
facilities. Surveyed households shown a readiness to spend 45 percent of their monthly income
or US$19.80 as a one-time cash contribution for having installed on their premises an improved
latrine. The economic analysis has included this latest field observation and assumed that the
monthly benefit for improved rural sanitation conditions was equivalent to 2.0 percent of
household income or US$0.15 per person in February 1996 prices.
24.   This low willingness to pay for improved on-site facilities captures only part of the health
benefits associated with improved sanitation conditions. Interviewed households appeared to be
not well informned about the health risks associated with the degradation in sanitary conditions
around their houses'15. Therefore, using the average willingness to pay as a proxy for the value to
the user of having a cleaner environment would underestimate the social value of the project.
25.   The base case scenario takes into account the benefits to be yielded to users, which may
not reflect the total health benefits, from readily available clean water and improved sanitation
practices. The use of a social weight associated with private users' benefit seems appropriate in
some cases, e.g., improved sanitation.
26.   Table K4 summaries the net economic benefits for the various types of beneficiaries used
in the base case scenario.
1.
1.   Since health services are highly subsidized in Uzbekistan, the willingness to pay for improved sanitation
conditions does not capture the medical costs and the burden on the medical systemns.



-167 -                                ANNEX K
Table K4: Net Economic Benefits by Beneficiary
(in US$ February 1996 prices per month)
Cost Savings by Not Having to  Consumer    Total
Beneficiary                 Fetch   Buy from    Boil    Surplus    Benefits
Water   Vendors   Water
Urban household with new piped supplies      0.25     0.23     0.16      1.66      2.31
Urban households with improved piped supplies  --     --       0.16      0.49      0.64
Rural households with new piped supplies    0.48       --      0.16      2.01      2.62
Rural households with improved piped supplies  --     --       0.16      0.93      1.09
Rural households with new desalination      0.39       --      0.16      0.17      0.78
Rural households with improved desalination  0.05      --       --       0.33      0.38
Rural households with new hand pumps        0.08       --       --       0.36      0.44
Rural households with improved hand pumps   0.12       --       --       0.11      0.23
27.   Economic Rate of Return. The analysis assumed an average project economic life of 30
years after construction. The replacement costs of those components with a shorter life span such
as the pumps and motors for the pumping stations, and the filters and the pumps for the hand
pumps, were included in the cost stream. Although the life span of the pipelines and distribution
networks is about 40 years, no residual values were included in the calculation. Cost and benefit
streams were calculated for the "without project" situation and the "with project" situation.
28.   The various subcomponents of the proposed project including the technical assistance
were packaged together to define 10 individual schemes, 6 water schemes in Karakalpakstan, 3
individual schemes in Khorezm and 1 sanitation scheme in both regions. An economic analysis
of each individual subproject was performed. Table K5 lists the subprojects by ranking order of
IERR. The subproject for on-site sanitation showed the lowest IERR (2.7 percent). The highest
(31.5 percent) corresponded to the improvement of rural piped water supplies in Karakalpakstan.
The overall economic rate of return and the benefit cost ratio at a discount rate of 10 percent for
the water investments were estimated at 17.9 percent and 1.86 percent in the base case scenario.
Detailed calculations are presented in Tables K6 to K1 8.
29.   Some remarks are in order regarding the subcomponent with an economic rate of return
of less than 10 percent: improved sanitation. First, a social weight associated with private
benefits derived from on-site sanitation equal to 1.5 times (e.g. 1.5 times private benefit) will
make the IERR of the subproject rise to 10 percent. Second, a health cost greater than US$1.0 per
capita year will also make this subproject, economically viable. These seem to be reasonable
values, which lead to conclude that the subproject should be undertaken.



ANNEX K                                     - 168 -
Table K5: Economic Rate of Return by Subproject
Scheme                                   IERR
Rural sanitation, Karakalpakstan and Khorezm                           2.7%
Rehabilitation of Urgench piped water supply, Khorezm                 10.3%
Rehabilitation of rural desalination units, Karakalpakstan            10.8%
Expansion in rural areas with local water sources, Khorezm            11.1%
Expansion in rural areas with local water sources, Karakalpakstana/   12.1%
Kizketken piped water supply, Karakalpakstan b/                       12.4%
Rehabilitation of Nukus piped water supply, Karakalpakstan            12.7%
Beruni and Turtkul piped water supply, Karakalpakstan c/              17.9%
Rehabilitation of rural piped water supply, Khorezm                   25.3%
Rehabilitation of rural piped water, Karakalpakstan                   31.5%
All water schemes in Karakalpakstan                                   17.6%
All water schemes in Khorezm                                          18.2%
All schemes in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm                             17.9%
Notes:
ai     It includes three subcomponents: local water schemes to supply services to 40,000 people, 3,400 handpumps
to supply water to 17,100 families, and 1,700 handpumps to increase accessibility to 15,500 families (from I
handpump per 9 families to I handpump per 5 families).
b/     It will provide better quality water supply services to 25,000 people with access to the piped water distribution
network and new access to 7,000 people.
cl     It will provide access to safe water to 129,600 people (65,300 living in urban areas and 64,300 living in rural
areas), which at present have access to piped water distribution networks, by linking both Rayons to the
Tuyamuyun pipeline.



Table K6: Expansion in Kizketken Village - Urban Karakalpakstan
Without Project                  With Project
1997             2002          Initially       2005
Discount rate                                              10%
ER                                                         *36                Benefits           S/year/capita                            $1year/capita
Economic Cost                                               1.3  Million US$  HC                     6.87             6.87           32.04          32.04
VAT                                                      14.5%                YC                     7.53             7.53           21.87          21.87
Beneficiaries                                               7.0  '000 people   SP                    6.28             6.28           22.41          22.41
O&M costs without project 1997       40%                   11.7    sum/m3    Average                 7.08             7.08           27.01          27.01
O&M costs without project 2002       45%                   12.7    sum/m3    Non-domestic             0                               0.00          0.00
O&M costs with project initially     33%                   10.4    sum/m3    (estimated at           14.5           sum/m3)
O&M costs with project 2005          25%                    9.3    sum/m3
Consumption                          Share      Consumption                   Costs
HC                                   50/%           162.0            lcd      HC                     8.48             8.48            17.60         15.92
YC                                   40%            99.0             lcd      YC                     8.48             8A8            10.70          10.04
SP                                   10%            70.0             lcd      SP                     9.60             9.60            8.06          7.34
Averagedomesticusers                                127.6            lcd      Percapital             8.59             8.59           13.89          12.71
average
Non-Domestic Users                    0%             0.0             lcd      Non-domestic           0.00                             0.00          0.00
Total                                               127.6            lcd      Total
Costs                                 Benefits                      Incremental Benefits and Costs          Incremental
W/O Project             With Project                                                                                            Volume
Year            Costs           Costs       Capital Cost    W/O Project     With Project       Costs            Benefits      Net Benefits     MCM
(Million USS)    (Million USS)   (Million US$)    (Million USS)   (Mllion USS)  (Million US$)   (Million USS)   (Million US$)
1996            0.06            0.06           0.00            0.05            0.05            0.00              0.00            0.00          0.00
1997            0.06            0.06           0.97            0.05            0.05             0.97             0.00           4.97           0.00
1998            0.06            0.10           0.05            0.05            0.19             0.09             0.14            0.05          0.33
1999            0.06            0.10           0.05            0.05            0.19             0.09             0.14            0.05          0.33
2000             0.06           0.10           0.00             0.05           0.19             0.04             0.14            0.10          0.33
2001            0.06            0.10           0.00             0.05           0.19             0.04             0.14            0.10          0.33
2002            0.06            0.10                            0.05           0.19             0.04             0.14            0.10          0.33
2003            0.06            0.09                            0.05           0.19             0.03             0.14            0.11          0.33
2004            0.06            0.09                            0.05           0.19             0.03             0.14            0.11          0.33
2005             0.06           0.09                            0.05           0.19             0.03              0.14           0.11           0.33
2006             0.06           0.09                            0.05           0.19             0.03              0.14           0.11           0.33
2007            0.06            0.09                            0.05           0.19             0.03              0.14           0.11           0.33
2008             0.06           0.09                            0.05           0.19             0.03              0.14           0.11           0.33
2009             0.06           0.09                            0.05           0.19             0.03              0.14           0.11           0.33
2010             0.06           0.09                            0.05           0.19             0.03              0.14           0.11           0.33
2011            0.06            0.09           0.05             0.05           0.19             0.08             0.14            0.06           0.33
2012            0.06            0.09                            0.05           0.19             0.03              0.14           0.11           0.33
2013             0.06           0.09                            0.05           0.19             0.03             0.14            0.11           0.33
2014             0.06           0.09                            0.05           0.19             0.03             0.14            0.11           0.33
2015             0.06           0.09                            0.05           0.19             0.03              0.14           0.11           0.33
2016-26           0.06            0.09                           0.05           0.19            - 0.03             0.14           0.11           0.33
NPV              0.57           0.82           0.91                            1.55                                             -0.06           2.52
Discount Rate       10%            IERR            9.1%
Net B/C         0.92
AIC (S/m3)       0.62



Table K7: Replacement of Water Source in Beruni and Turtkul - Urban Karakalpakstan
Without Project                   With Project
1997             2oz            Initially       2005
Discount rate                                                10%
ER                                                             36                Benefits            S/year/capita                             S/year/capita
Economic Cost                                                 4.5  Million USS   HC                      6.87              6.87           32.04          32.04
VAT                                                         14.5%                YC                      7.53              7.53           21.87          21.87
Beneficiaries                                                65.3  '000 people   SP                      6.28              6.28           22.41          22.41
O&M costs without project 1997         40%                   11.7    sum/m3      Average                 7.08              7.08           27.01          27.01
O&M costs without project 2005         45%                   12.7    sum/m3      Non-domestic             0                                7.40           7.40
O&M costs with project initially       33%                   10.4    sum/m3      (estimated at           14.5            sum/m3)
O&M costs with project 2005            25%                    9.3    sum/m3
Consumption                           Share       Consumption                    Coats other than capital:
HC                                     50%            162.0            lcd       HC                      8.48              8.48           17.60          15.92
YC                                     40%/o          99.0             lcd       YC                      8.48              8.48           10.27          10.04
SP                                     10%/6          70.0             lcd       SP                      9.60             9.60            8.06            7.34
Average domestic users                               127.60             lcd      Average                 8.59              8.59           13.72          12.71
Non-Domestic Users                     40%            51.04            lcd       Non-domestic            0.00                              5.29           4.76
Total                                                178.64             lcd
Costs                                  Benefits                        Incremental Benefits and Costs           Increnental
W/O Project              With Project                                                                                               Volume
Year             Costs           Costs        Capital Cost    W/O Project     With Project         Costs            Benefits      Net Benefits      MCM
(Million USS)    (Million USS)   (Million USS)    (Million USS)   (Million USS)   (Million USS)    (Million USS)   (Million USS)
1996             0.56            0.56            0.00             0.46            0.46             0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00
1997             0.56            0.56            1.28             0.46           0.46              1.28              0.00            -1.28          0.00
1998             0.56            0.56            1.28             0.46           0.46              1.28              0.00           -1.28           0.00
1999             0.56            0.90            1.28             0.46            1.35             1.62              0.89            -0.73          2.13
2000             0.56             1.24           O.00             0.46            2.25             0.68              1.78            1.10           4.26
2001             0.56             1.24           0.00             0.46            2.25             0.68              1.78            1.10           4.26
2002             0.56             1.22                            0.46            2.25             0.66              1.78            1.13           4.26
2003             0.56             1.19                            0.46            2.25             0.63              1.78            1.15           4.26
2004             0.56             1.17                            0.46            2.25             0.61              1.78            1.18           4.26
2005             0.56             1.14                            0.46            2.25             0.58               1.78           1.20           4.26
2006             0.56             1.14                            0.46            2.25             0.58              1.78            1.20           4.26
2007             0.56             1.14                            0.46            2.25             0.58              1.78            1.20           4.26
2008             0.56             1.14                            0.46            2.25             0.58               1.78           1.20           4.26
2009             0.56             1.14                            0.46            2.25             0.58              1.78            1.20           4.26
2010             0.56             1.14                            0.46            2.25             0.58              1.78            1.20           4.26
2011             0.56             1.14           0.19             0.46            2.25             0.77              1.78            1.01           4.26
2012             0.56             1.14                            0.46            2.25             0.58              1.78            1.20           4.26
2013             0.56             1.14                            0.46            2.25             0.58              1.78            1.20           4.26
2014             0.56             1.14                            0.46            2.25             0.58              1.78            1.20           4.26
2015             0.56             1.14                            0.46            2.25             0.58              1.78            1.20           4.26
2016-26            0.56            1.14                            0.46            2.25              0.58              1.78            1 .20          4.26
NPV              $5.32           $9.40           $2.99                           $16.25                                              4.85           28.32
Discount Rate        10%             EERR           26.2%
Net B/C          2.93
AIC ($/m3)        0.36



Table K8: Replacement of Water Source in and Turtkul - Rural Karakalpakstan
Without Project                   With Project
1997              2002          Initially        2005
Discount rate                                                10%
ER                                                             36                Benefits            Skyear/capita                             S/year/capita
Economic Cost                                                 4.1  Million US$  HC                      2.98               2.98           23.28          23.28
VAT                                                        14.5%                 YC                     3.05               3.05           15.03          15.03
Beneficiaries                                                64.3  '000 people   SP                     3.14               3.14           11.21          11.21
O&M costs without project 1997         40%                   11.7    sumtm3      Averge                 3.07               3.07           15.15          15.15
O&M costs without project 2005         45%                   12.7    sum/m3      Non-domestic             0                                5.80           5.80
O&M costs with project initially       33%                   10.4    sumtm3      (estimated at          14.5             sumlm3)
O&M costs with project 2005            25%                    9.3    sumlm3
Consumpfton                           Share       Consumption                    Costs other than capital:
HC                                     20%            162.0            lcd       HC                     4.03               4.03           17.20          15.92
YC                                     40%            99.0             lcd       YC                     4.03               4.03           10.67          10.04
SP                                     40%            70.0             lcd       SP                     4.03               4.03            7.66           7.34
Average domestic users                               100.00             lcd      Average                4.03               4.03           13.64          12.71
Non-Domestic Users                     40%             40               lcd      Non-domestic           0.00                               4.15           3.73
Total                                                  140             lcd
Costs                                  Benefits                        Incremental Benefits and Costs           Incremental
W/O Project              With Project                                                                                                Volume
Year             Costs           Costs        Capital Cost    W/O Project     With Project         Costs            Benefits      Net Benefits      MCM
(Million USS)    (Million US$)   (Million USS)    (Million US$)   (Million USS)   (Million USS)     (Million US$)   (Million US$)
1996             0.26            0.26            0.00             0.20            0.20             0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00
1997             0.26            0.26            1.18             0.20           0.20              1.18              0.00            -1.18          0.00
1998             0.26            0.26            1.18             0.20           0.20              1.18              0.00            -1.18          0.00
1999             0.26            0.70            1.18             0.20            0.77             1.62              0.57            -1.04          2.13
2000             0.26             1.14           0.00             0.20            1.35             0.88               1.15           0.27           4.26
2001             0.26             1.14           0.00             0.20            1.35             0.88               1.15           0.27           4.26
2002             0.26             1.12                            0.20            1.35             0.86               1.15           0.29            4.26
2003             0.26             1.10                            0.20            1.35             0.84               1.15           0.31            4.24
2004             0.26             1.08                            0.20            1.35             0.82               1.15           0.33           4.21
2005             0.26             1.06                            0.20            1.35             0.80               1.15           0.35            4.19
2006             0.26             1.06                            0.20            1.35             0.80               1.15           0.35            4.19
2007             0.26             1.06                            0.20            1.35             0.80               1.15            0.35           4.19
2008             0.26             1.06                            0.20            1.35             0.80               1.15           0.35            4.19
2009             0.26             1.06                            0.20            1.35             0.80               1.15           0.35            4.19
2010             0.26             1.06                            0.20            1.35             0.80               1.15            0.35           4.19
2011             0.26             1.06           0.18             0.20            1.35             0.97               1.15           0.17            4.19
2012             0.26             1.06                            0.20            1.35             0.80               1.15           0.35            4.19
2013             0.26             1.06                            0.20            1.35             0.80               1.15           0.35            4.19
2014             0.26             1.06                            0.20            1.35             0.80               1.15            0.35           4.19
2015             0.26             1.06                            0.20            1.35             0.80               1.15            0.35           4.19
2016-26            0.26            1.06                            0.20            1.35        _     0.80              1.15            0.35           4,19
NPV              $2.46           $7.96           $2.75                           $9.52                                 .             -0.56          28.05
Discount Rate        10%             EERR            7.6%/
Net B/C          0.78
AIC ($/m3)        0.36



Table K9: Expansion of Water Supplies with Local Water Sources - Rural Karakalpakstan
Without Project                   With Project
1997             2002          Initially        2005
ER                                                            36                Benefits           S/yer/capita                             S/year/capita
Economic Cost                                                5.2  Million USS   HC
VAT                                                       14.5%                 YC
Beneficiaies                                                40.0  '000 people   SP                     6.28             6.28            8.30           8.30
O&M costs without project 1997                                      sum/m3      Average                6.28             6.28            8.30           8.30
O&M costs without project 2005                                      sum/m3    Non-domestic              0                                0              0
O&M costs vwith project initially     15%                   23.5    sum/m3      (estimated at          14.5           sum/m3)
O&M costs with project 2005           15%                   23.5    sum/m3
Consumption                          Share       Consumption                    Coats other than capitol:
HC                                    0%/0             0              lcd       HC
YC                                    0%               0              lcd       YC
SP                                    100%            15              lcd       SP                     8.06             8.06            4.26           4.26
Average domestic users                               15.00            lcd       Average                8.06             8.06            4.26           4.26
Nen-Domestic Users                    0%               0              lcd       Non-domesdc            0.00                             0.00           0.00
Total                                                 15              lcd
Costs                                 Benefits                       Incremental Benefits and Costs           Incremental
W/O Project             With Project                                                                                              Volume
Year             Costs          Costs        Capital Cost     W/O Project    With Project        Costs            Benefits      Net Benefits     MCM
(Million USS)    (Million USS)   (Million USS)    (Million USS)   (Million USS)  (Milion USS)    (Million USS)   (Million USS)
1996             0.32            0.32           0.00            0.25            0.25             0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00
1997             0.32            0.32           1.48            0.25            0.25              1.48             0.00            -1.48          0.00
1998             0.32            0.25           1.48             0.25           0.29              1.40             0.04            -1.36          0.11
1999             0.32            0.21           IA.             0.25            0.31              1.37             0.06           -1.30           0.16
2000             0.32            0.17           0.00             0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2001             0.32            0.17           0.00             0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2002             0.32            0.17                            0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2003             0.32            0.17                            0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2004             0.32            0.17                            0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2005             0.32            0.17                            0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2006             0.32            0.17                            0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2007             0.32            0.17                            0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2008             0.32            0.17                            0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2009             0.32            0.17                            0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2010             0.32            0.17                            0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2011             0.32            0.17           0.22             0.25           0.33              0.07             0.08            0.01           0.22
2012             0.32            0.17                            0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2013             0.32            0.17                            0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2014             0.32            0.17                            0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2015             0.32            0.17                            0.25           0.33             -0.15             0.08            0.23           0.22
2016-26           0.32            0.17                            0.25            0.33             -0.15             0.08           0.23           0.22
NPV              $3.06           $1.96          $3.46                           $2.96                                              -1.72         $1.58
DiscountRate         10%            IERR           2.7%
Net B/C         0.45
AIC ($/m3)        2.85



Table K10: Expansion of Water Supplies with Handpumps - Rural Karakalpakstan
Without Project                   With Project
1997             2002           Initially       2005
ER                                                           36                 Benefits           S/year/capita                            S/year/capita
Economic Cost                                                2.8  Million US$  HC
VAT                                                       14.5%                 YC
Beneficiaries                                              120.0  '000 people   SP                     6.68              6.68           11.00          11.00
O&M costs without project 1997                                      sum/m3      Average               6.68               6.68           11.00          11.00
O&M costs without project 2005                                      sum/m3      Non-domestic            0                                0              0
O&M costs with project initially                             1.0    sum/m3      (estimated at          14.5            sum/m3)
O&M costs with project 2005                                  1.0    sum/m3
Consumption                          Share       Consumption                    Costs other than capital:
HC                                     0%              0              lcd       HC
YC                                     0%              0              lcd       YC
SP                                    100%            45              lcd       SP                     8.06              8.06           7.53           7.53
Average domestic users                                45              lcd       Average                8.06              8.06           7.53           7.53
Non-Domestic Users                     0%              0              lcd       Non-domestic           0.00                             0.00           0.00
Total                                                 45              lcd
Costs                                 Benefits                       Incremental Benefits and Costs           Incremental
W/O Project             With Project                                                                                              Volume
Year            Costs            Costs       Capital Cost    W/O Project     With Project        Costs            Benefits      Net Benefits     MCM
(Million US$)    (Million USS)   (Million US$)    (Million USS)   (Million US$)  (Million US$)    (Milliorn US$)   (Million USS)
1996             0.97            0.97           0.00            0.80            0.80             0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00
1997             0.97            0.97           0.81            0.80            0.80             0.81              0.00            -0.81          0.00
1998.            0.97            0.94           0.81             0.80           1.06             0.77              0.26            -0.52          0.99
1999             0.97            0.91           0.81             0.80           1.27             0.75              0.47            -0.28          1.77
2000             0.97            0.90           0.00             0.80            I.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2001             0.97            0.90           0.00             0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2002             0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2003             0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2004             0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2005             0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2006             0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2007             0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2008             0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2009             0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2010             0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2011             0.97            0.90           1.21             0.80            1.32             1.15              0.52           -0.63          1.97
2012             0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2013             0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2014             0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2015             0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              0.52           0.58           1.97
2016-26           0.97            0.90                            0.80            1.32            -0.06              O 0.52          058            1 .97
NPV              $9.17           $8.71          $2.44                          $11.38                                              2.16           14.4
Discount Rate        10%            EERR           25.5%
Net B/C         2.56
AIC ($/m3)        0.20



Table Kll: Rehabilitation of Nukus Piped Water Supply - Urban Karakalpakstan
Without Project                   With Project
1997             2002           Initially       2005
ER                                                             36                Inc. Benefits       $iyear/capita                             S/year/capita
Economic Cost                                                18.2  Million US$  HC                      11.38             11.38           17.52          17.52
VAT                                                         14.5%                YC                      8.85              8.85           13.68          13.68
Beneficiaries                                               176.0  '000 people   SP                     14.04             14.04           22.41          22AI
O&M costs without project 1997         45%                   12.7    sum/m3      Average                10.64             10.64           16.47          16.47
O&M costs without project 2005         50%                   14.0    sum/m3      Non-domestic           10.36             10.36           14.80          14.80
O&M costs with project initially       38%                   11.2    sum/m3      (estimated at           14.5            sum/m3)
O&M costs with project 2005            30%                   10.0    sum/m3
Consumption                           Share       Consumption                    Costs other than capital:
HC                                     50%           162.00             lcd      HC                     18.72             20.32           18.95          17.00
YC                                     40%            99.00            lcd       YC                     12A8              13.46           11.89          10.70
SP                                     10%            70.00            lcd       SP                     8.92              9.54-           8.64           7.80
Average domestic users                               127.60             lcd      Average                15.24             16.50           15.10-         13.56
Non-Domestic Users                     80%/0         102.08             lcd      Non-domestic           9.09              10.00           11.43          10.21
Total                                                229.68            lcd
Costs                                  Benefits                       Incremental Benefits and Costs           Incremental
W/O Project              With Project                                                                                                Volume
Year            Costs            Costs        Capital Cost    W/O Project     With Project         Costs            Benefits      Net Benefits      MCM
(Million USS)    (Million USS)   (Million USS)    (Million USS)   (Million USS)   (Million US$)    (Million USS)   (Million US$)
1996             4.28            4.28            0.00            3.70             3.70             0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00
1997             4.35            4.35            5.66             3.70           3.70              5.66              0.00           -5.66           0.00
1998             4.41            4.54            5.66             3.70           4.60              5.79              0.90           .4.89           2.21
1999             4.47            4.62            4.25             3.70            5.05             4.40              1.36            -3.04          3.32
2000             4.54             4.67           0.00             3.70            5.50             0.13               1.81            1.68          4.43
2001             4.60             4.67           0.00             3.70            5.50             0.07               1.81            1.74          4.43
2002             4.66             4.55                            3.70            5.50             -0.12              1.81            1.92          4.43
2003             4.66             4.43                            3.70            5.50             -0.24              1.81           2.05           4A3
2004             4.66             4.31                            3.70            5.50             -0.36              1.81           2.17           4.43
2005             4.66             4.18                            3.70            5.50             -0.48              1.81           2.29           4.43
2006             4.66             4.18                            3.70            5.50             -048               1.81           2.29           4.43
2007             4.66             4.18                            3.70            5.50             -4A8               1.81           2.29           4.43
2008             4.66             4.18                            3.70            5.50             -0.48              1.81           2.29           4.43
2009             4.66             4.18                            3.70            5.50             -0.48              1.81           2.29           4.43
2010             4.66             4.18                            3.70            5.50             -0.48              1.81           2.29           4.43
2011             4.66             4.1           0.78             3.70            5.50             0.30               1.81            1.51          4.43
2012             4.66             4.18                            3.70            5.50             -0.48              1.81           2.29           4.43
2013             4.66             4.18                            3.70            5.50             -0.48              1.81           2.29           4.43
2014             4.66            4.18                             3.70            5.50             -0.48             1.81            2.29           4.43
2015             4.66            4.18                             3.70            5.50             -0.48             1.81            2.29           4.43
2016-26           4.66             4.18                            3.70            5.50             -0.48              1.81           2.29            4.43
NPV             $43.17           $41.38         $12.23                           $48.04                                              2.81           31.9
Discount Rate        10%/           IERR            12.7%
Net B/C          1.27
AIC ($1m3)        0.66



Table K12: Rehabilitation of Kizketken Village Piped Water Supply - Urban Karakalpakstan
Without Project                   With Project
1997              2002          Initially        2005
ER                                                             36                Benefits            51year/capita                            S/year/capitb
Economic Cost                                                 1.8  Million US$   HC                      11.4             11.38           17.52          17.52
VAT                                                        14.5%                 YC                     8.85               8.85           13.68          13.68
Beneficiaries                                                25.0  '000 people   SP                     14.04             14.04           22.41          22.41
O&M costs without project 1997         45%                   12.7    sum/m3      Average                10.64             10.64           16.47          1647
O&M costs without project 2005         50/                  14.0    sumlr3      Non-domestic             0                               0.00            0.00
O&M costs with project intially        38%                   11.2    sum/m3      (estimated at           14.5            sum/m3)
O&M costs with project 2005            30%                   10.0    sum/m3
Consumption                           Share       Consumption                    Costs other than capital:
HC                                     50/          162.00             lcd      HC                     18.72             20.32           18.95          17.00
YC                                     40%            99.00            lcd       YC                     12.48             13.46           11.89          10.70
SP                                     10%            70.00            lcd       SP                     8.92               9.54           8.64            7.80
Averagedomestic users                                127.60            lcd       Average                15.24             16.50           15.10          13.56
Non-Domestic Users                     0%             0.00              lcd      Non-domestic            0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00
Total                                                127.60             lcd
Costs                                  Benefits                       Incremental Benefits and Costs            Incremental
W/O Project              With Project                                                                                                Volume
Year             Costs           Costs        Capital Cost    W/O Project     With Project         Costs            Benefits      Net Benefits      MCM
(Million USS)    (Million USS)   (Million US$)    (Million USS)   (Million USS)   (Million US$)     (Million USS)   (Million USS)
1996             0.38            0.38            0.00             0.27            0.27             0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00
1997             0.39            0.39            1.13             0.27            0.27             1.13              0.00            -1.13          0.00
1998             0.39            0.38            0.19             0.27            0.41             0.18              0.15            -0.03           1.16
1999             0.40            0.38            0.19             0.27            0.41             0.17              0.15            -0.02           1.16
2000             0.40             0.38           0.00             0.27            0.41             -0.02              0.15           0.17            1.16
2001             0.41             0.38           0.00             0.27            0.41             -0.03              0.15           0.18            1.16
2002             0.41             0.37                            0.27            0.42             -0.04              0.15           0.20            1.16
2003             0.41             0.36                            0.27            0.43             -0.05              0.16           0.22            1.16
2004             0.41             0.35                            0.27            0.44             -0.06              0.17           0.23            1.16
2005             0.41             0.34                            0.27            0.45             -0.07              0.18           0.25            1.16
2006             0.41             0.35                            0.27            0.45             -0.07              0.19           0.26            1.16
2007             0.41             0.35                            0.27            0.46             -0.06              0.20           0.26            1.16
2008             0.41             0.36                            0.27            0.47             -0.05              0.21            0.26           1.16
2009             0.41             0.37                            0.27            0.48             -0.05              0.22            0.26           1.16
2010             0.41             0.37                            0.27            0.49             -0.04              0.23            0.26           1.16
2011             0.41             0.38           0.08             0.27            0.50              0.04              0.24            0.19           1.16
2012             0.41             0.39                            0.27            0.51             -0.02              0.25            0.27           1.16
2013             0.41             0.40                            0.27            0.52             -0.02              0.26            0.27           1.16
2014             0.41             OAI                             0.27            0.53             -0.01              0.27            0.27           1.16
2015             0.41             0.41                            0.27            0.54              0.00              0.28            0.28           1.16
2016-26            0.41            0.42                            0.27            0.55              0.01              0.29            0.28           1.16
NPV              $3.82           $3.61           $1.24                            $4.05                                               0.52           9.0
Discount-Rate        10%             IERR           14.4%
Net B/C          1.54
AIC ($/m3)        0.42



Table K13: Rehabilitation of Water Supply Distribution Centers - Rural Karakalpakstan
Without Project                   With Project
1997             2002           Initially       2005
ER                                                             36                Benefits            S/year/capita                             S/year/capita
Economic Cost                                                11.5  Million US$  HC                      30.71             30.71           46.56          46.56
VAT                                                         14.50%                YC                    18.39             18.39           30.06          30.06
Beneficiaries                                               233.8  '000 people   SP                     14.04             14.04           22.41          22.41
O&M costs without project 1997         45%                   12.7    sum/m3      Average                19.11             19.11           30.30          30.30
O&M costs without poject 2005          50%                   14.0    sum/m3      Non-domestic            3.05              3.05            4.35           4.35
O&M costs with project initially       38%                   11.2    sum/m3      (estimated at           14.5            sum/m3)
O&M costs with project 2005            30%                   10.0    sum/m3
Consumption                           Share       Consumption                    Costs other than capital:
HC                                     20%            162.00            lcd      HC                     18.72             20.32           18.95          17.00
YC                                     40%            99.00            lcd       YC                     11.08             11.92           11.89          10.70
SP                                     40%            70.00            lcd       SP                      8.92              9.54            8.64           7.80
Average domestic users                                100.00            lcd      Average                11.74             12.65           12.00          10.80
Non-Domestic Users                     30%            30.00            lcd       Non-domestic            2.67              2.94            3.36           3.00
Total                                                 130.00            lcd
Costs                                  Benefits                        Incremental Benefits and Costs          Incremental
W/O Project              With Project                                                                                                Volume
Year             Costs           Costs        Capital Cost     W/O Project    With Project         Costs            Benefits      Net Benefits      MCM
(Million US$)    (Million US$)   (Million USS)    (Million US$)   (Million US$)   (Million US$)    (Million US$)   (Million US$)
1996             3.37            3.37            0.00             5.18            5.18             0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00
1997             3.42             3.42           3.73             5.18            5.18             3.73              0.00            -3.73          0.00
1998             3.46             3.53           3.73             5.18            6.64             3.80               1.46           -2.34           1.66
1999             3.51             3.57           2.37             5.18            7.37             2.43              2.19            -0.24          2.50
2000             3.55             3.59           0.00             5.18            8.10             0.04               2.92           2.88            3.33
2001             3.60             3.59           0.00             5.18            8.10             -0.01             2.92            2.93            3.33
2002             3.65             3.50                            5.18            8.10             -0.14              2.92            3.07           3.33
2003             3.65             3.41                            5.18            8.10             -0.24             2.92            3.16            3.33
2004             3.65             3.32                            5.18            8.10             -0.33              2.92            3.25           3.33
2005             3.65             3.23                            5.18            8.10             -0.42             2.92            3.34            3.33
2006             3.65             3.23                            5.18            8.10             -0.42              2.92            3.34           3.33
2007             3.65             3.23                            5.18            8.10             -0.42              2.92           3.34            3.33
2008             3.65             3.23                            5.18            8.10             -0.42              2.92           3.34            3.33
2009             3.65             3.23                            5.18            8.10             -0.42              2.92           3.34            3.33
2010             3.65             3.23                            5.18            8.10             -0.42              2.92           3.34            3.33
2011             3.65             3.23           0.49             5.18            8.10             0.07               2.92           2.85            3.33
2012             3.65             3.23                            5.18            8.10             -0.42             2.92            3.34            3.33
2013             3.65             3.23                            5.18            8.10             -0.42             2.92            3.34            3.33
2014             3.65             3.23                            5.18            8.10             -0.42             2.92            3.34            3.33
2015             3.65             3.23                            5.18            8.10             -0.42             2.92            3.34            3.33
2016-26            3.65            3.23                            5.18            8.10             -0.42              2.92            3.34           3.33
NPV             $33.80           $32.04          $7.76                           $70.13                                              15.18           24.0
DiscountRate         10%             IERR           31.5%
Net B/C          4.03
AIC ($/m3)        0.60



Table K14: Rehabilitation of Desalination Units - Rural Karakalpakstan
Without Project                   With Project
1997             2002          InitiaDy         2005
ER                                                            36                Benefits           S/yer/apita                              S/year/capita
Economic Cost                                                2.6  Million USS   HC                     0.00              0.00           0.00           0.00
VAT                                                        14.5%                YC                     0.00              0.00           0.00           0.00
Beneficiaries                                               56.9   000 people   SP                    15.23             15.23           19.18          19.18
O&Mcostswithoutprojet 1997            30%                   34.3    sum/m3      Average               15.23             15.23           19.18          19.18
O&M costs without project 2005        35%                   36.9    sum/m3      Non-domestic            0                                0              0
O&M costs with project initially      25%                   26.7    sum/m3      (estimated at          14.5            sum/m3)
O&M costs with project 2005           20Y.                  25.0    sum/m3
Conmption                            Share       Consumption                    Costs other than capital:
HC                                     0%              0              lcd       HC                     0.00              0.00           0.00           0.00
YC                                     0Y.             0              lcd       YC                     0.00              0.00           0.00           0.00
SP                                    100%            45              lcd       SP                    12.86             13.69           13.47          12.72
Average domestic users                                45              lcd       Average               12.86             13.69           13.47          12.72
Non-Domestic Users                     0%              0               lcd      Non-domestic           0.00              0.00           0.00           0.00
Total                                                 45              lcd
Costs                                 Benefits                       Increnental Benefits and Costs           Incremental
W/O Project             With Project                                                                                              Volume
Year            Costs           Costs        Capital Cost    W/O Project     With Project        Costs            Benefits      Net Benefits     MCM
Wlion USS)    (uMilion USS)       lin USS)    (Milion US$)   (yillion USS)    O(illion US$)       (Million US$)    Million USS)
1996             0.73            0.73           0.00             0.87           0.87             0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00
1997             0.74            0.74           0.43             0.87           0.87             0.43              0.00            -0.43          0.00
1998             0.75            0.76           1.37             0.87           0.98              1.38             0.11            -1.27          0.14
1999             0.76            0.77           0.43             0.87           1.16             0.45              0.29            -0.15          0.36
2000             0.76            0.77           0.00             0.87            1.09             0.00              0.22           0.22           0.28
2001             0.77            0.77           0.00             0.87            1.09             0.00              0.22           0.23           0.28
2002             0.78            0.76                            0.87            1.09            -0.02              0.22           0.25           0.28
2003             0.78            0.75                            0.87            1.09            -0.03              0.22           0.26           0.28
2004             0.78            0.73                            0.87            1.09            -0.04              0.22           0.27           0.28
2005             0.78            0.72                            0.87            1.09            -0.06              0.22           0.28           0.28
2006             0.78            0.72                            0.87            1.09            -0.06              0.22           0.28           0.28
2007             0.78            0.72                            0.87            1.09            -0.06              0.22           0.28           0.28
2008             0.78            0.72                            0.87            1.09            -0.06              0.22           0.28           0.28
2009             0.78            0.72                            0.87            1.09            .0.06              0.22           0.28           0.28
2010             0.78            0.72                            0.87            1.09   -0.06                       0.22           0.28           0.28
2011             0.78            0.72           0.67             0.87            1.09             0.62              0.22           -0.39          0.28
2012             0.78            0.72                            0.87            1.09             -0.06             0.22           0.28           0.28
2013             0.78            0.72                            0.87            1.09            -0.06              0.22           0.28           0.28
2014             0.78            0.72                            0.87            1.09            -0.06              0.22           0.28           0.28
2015             0.78            0.72                            0.87            1.09            -0.06              0.22           0.28           0.28
2016-26           0.78            0.72                            0.87            1 .09            -0.06             0.22           0 .28          0.28
NPV              S7.25           $7.02          S2.03                           S9.92                                              0.11            2.1
Discount Rate        10Y            IERR           10.8%
Net B/C          1.07
AIC (S/m3)        1.65



Table K15: Rehabilitation of Handpumps - Rural Karakalpakstan
Without Project                    With Project
1997              2002           Initially       2005
ER                                                              36                 Benefits           $/year/capita                              S/year/capita
Economic Cost                                                  2.0   Million US$  HC                      0.00               0.00            0.00           0.00
VAT                                                          14.5%                YC                      0.00               0.00            0.00           0.00
Beneficiaries                                                108.5  '000 people   SP                      9.72               9.72            11.00          11.00
O&M costs without project 1997                                 1.0    sum/m3      Average                 9.72               9.72            11.00          11.00
O&M costs without project 2005                                 1.0    sum/m3      Non-domestic              0                                 0               0
O&M costs with project initially                               1.0    sum/m3      (estimated at           14.5             sum/m3)
O&M costs with project 2005                                     1.0    sum/m3
Consumption                            Share       Consumption                    Costs other than capital:
HC                                      0%               0               lcd      HC                      0.00               0.00            0.00           0.00
YC                                      0%               0               lcd      YC                      0.00               0.00            0.00           0.00
SP                                     100%             45               lcd      SP                      8.85               8.85            7.53           7.53
Average domestic users                                  45               lcd      Average                 8.85               8.85            7.53           7.53
Non-Domestic Users                      0%               0               lcd      Non-domestic            0.00               0.00            0.00           0.00
Total                                                   45               lcd
Costs                                   Benefits                       Incremental Benefits and Costs             Incremental
W/O Project              With Project                                                                                                  Volume
Year             Costs            Costs        Capital Cost     W/O Project    With Project         Costs             Benefits      Net Benefits      MCM
(Million US$)    (Million US$)   (Million US$)    (Million US$)   (Million US$)   (Million US$)      (Million US$)   (Million US$)
1996             0.96             0.96            0.00             1.06            1.06              0.00              0.00            0.00            0.00
1997             0.96             0.96            0.57             1.06            1.06              0.57              0.00            -0.57           0.00
1998             0.96             0.89            0.57             1.06            1.12              0.50              0.07            -0.43           0.89
1999             0.96             0.83            0.57             1.06            1.18              0.44              0.12            -0.31           1.60
2000              0.96            0.82            0.00             1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2001              0.96            0.82            0.00             1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2002              0.96            0.82                             1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2003              0.96            0.82                             1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2004              0.96            0.82                             1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2005              0.96            0.82                             1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2006              0.96            0.82                             1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2007              0.96            0.82                             1.06            1.19             -0.14               0.14            0.28           1.78
2008              0.96            0.82                             1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2009              0.96            0.82                             1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2010              0.96            0.82                             1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2011              0.96            0.82            0.85             1.06            1.19              0.71              0.14            -0.57           1.78
2012              0.96            0.82                             1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2013              0.96            0.82.                            1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2014              0.96            0.82                             1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2015              0.96            0.82                             1.06            1.19             -0.14              0.14             0.28           1.78
2016-26            0.96            0.82                             1.06             1 .19            -0.14              0.14            0.28           1.78
NPV              S9.10            $8.06           $1.72                           $11.01                                                0.59           13.0
Discount Rate        10%              EI             16.1%
Net B/C          1.52
AIC (/m3)         0.16



Table K16: Expansion of Water Supply with Local Water Sources - Rural Khorezm
Without Project                   With Project
I997              2002          Initially        205
ER                                                             36                Benefits            S/year/capita                             S/year/capita
Economic Cost                                                 9.8  Million US$  HC                      5.97               5.97           46.56          46.56
VAT                                                         14.5%                YC                     6,11               6.11           30.06          30.06
Beneficiaries                                                42.0  '000 people   SP                     6,28               6.28           22.41          22.41
O&M costs without project 1997         40%                   11.7    sumtm3      Average                6.15               6.15           30.33          30.30
O&M costs without project 2005         45%                   12.7    sumtm3      Non-domestic             0                                7.25           7.25
O&M costs with project initially       33%                   10.4    sum/m3      (estimated at           14.5            sum/m3)
O&M costs with project 2005            25%                    9.3    sum/m3
Consumption                           Share       Consumption                    Costs other than capital:
HC                                     20N.           162.0            lcd       HC                     8.06               8.06           17.60          15.92
YC                                     40%/o          99.0             lcd       YC                     8.06               8.06           11.07          10.04
SP                                     40%/o          70.0             lcd       SP                     8.06               8.06           8.06            7.34
Average domestic users                                100.0            lcd       Average                8.06               8.06           11.18          10.14
Non-Domestic Users                     50%            50.0             lcd       Non-domestic           0.00                               5.19           4.67
Total                                                 150.0            lcd
Costs                                  Benefits                        Incremental Benefits and Costs           Incremental
W/O Project              With Project                                                                                               Volume
Year             Costs           Costs        Capital Cost    W/O Project     With Project         Costs            Benefits      Net Benefits     MCM
(Mllion IJSS)   (Miflion USS)   (Million US$)    (Mi11ion US$)   (Million USS)    (Million USS)     (Million USS)   (Million USS)
1996             0.34            0.34            0.00             0.26            0.26             0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00
1997             0.34            0.34            2.79             0.26           0.26              2.79              0.00            -2.79          0.00
1998             0.34            0.43            2.79             0.26           0.59              2.8S              0.33            -2.55          0.57
1999             0.34            0.55            2.79             0.26            1.05             3.00              0.79            -2.21          1.38
2000             0.34            0.69            0.00             0.26            1.58             0.35               1.32           0.97           2.30
2001             0.34            0.69            0.00             0.26            1.58             0.35               1.32           0.97           2.30
2002             0.34            0.67                             0.26            1.58             0.33               1.32           0.99           2.30
2003             0.34             0.65                            0.26            1.58             0.32               1.32           1.00           2.30
2004             0.34            0.64                             0.26            1.58             0.30               1.32           1.02           2.30
2005             0.34            0.62                             0.26            1.58             0.28               1.32            1.04          2.30
2006             0.34            0.62                             0.26            1.58             0.28               1.32           1.04           2.30
2007             0.34            0.62                             0.26            1.58             0.28               1.32           1.04           2.30
2008             0.34            0.62                             0.26            1.58             0.28               1.32           1.04           2.30
2009             0.34            0.62                             0.26            1.58             0.28               1.32           1.04           2.30
2010             0.34            0.62                             0.26            1.58             0.28               1.32           1.04           2.30
2011             0.34            0.62            0.42             0.26            1.58             0.70               1.32           0.62           2.30
2012             0.34            0.62                             0.26            1.58             0.28               1.32           1.04           2.30
2013             0.34            0.62                             0.26            1.58             0.28               1.32           1.04           2.30
2014             0.34            0.62                             0.26            1.58             0.28               1.32           1.04           2.30
2015             0.34             0.62                            0.26            1.58             0.28               1.32            I.04          2.30
2016-26           0.34             0.62                            0.26            1 .58            0.28               1.32            1 .04          2.30
NPV              $3.21           $5.33           $6.53                           $11.56                                              0.58           15.88
Discount Rate        10%             ERR            11.1%
Net B/C          1.10
AIC ($/m3)        0.67



Table K17: Rehabilitation and Capacity Expansion of Urgench Water Supply - Urban Khorezm
Without Project                   With Project
1997             2002           Initially       2005
ER                                                             36                Inc. Benefits       S/year/capita                            S/year/capits
Economic Cost                                                17.4   Million USS   HC                    11.38             11.38           17.52          17.52
VAT                                                         14.5%                YC                      8.85              8.85           13.68          13.68
Beneficiaries                                               136.0  '000 people   SP                     14.04             14.04           22.41          22.41
O&M costs without project 1997         45%                   12.7    sum/m3      Average                10.64             10.64           16.47          16.47
O&M costs without project 2005         50%                   14.0    sum/m3      Non-domestic           11.66             11.66           16.65          16,65
O&M costs with project initially       38%                   11.2    sum/m3      (estimated at           14.5           sum/m3)
O&M costs with project 2005            30%                   10.0    sum/m3
Consumption                           Share       Consumption                    Costa other than capital:
HC                                     50%           162.00             lcd      HC                     18.72             20.32           18.95          17.00
YC                                     40%            99.00            lcd       YC                     12A8              13.46           11.89          10.70
SP                                     10%            70.00            lcd       SP                     8.92              9.54            8.64           7.80
Average domestic users                               127.60             lcd      Average                15.24             16.50           15.10          13.56
Non-Domestic Users                     90%           114.84             led      Non-domestic           10.23             11.25           12.86          11.48
Total                                                242.44             led
Costs                                  Benefits                        Incremental Benefits and Costs          Incremental
W/O Project              With Project                                                                                               Volume
Year             Costs           Costs        Capital Cost    W/O Project     With Project         Costs            Benefits      Net Benefits     MCM
(Million USS)    (Million US$)   (Million USS)    (Million USS)   (Million US$)   (Million USS)     (Million USS)   (Million USS)
1996             3.46            3.46            0.00            3.03            3.03              0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00
1997             3.52            3.52            6.20             3.03           3.03              6.20              0.00           -6.20           0.00
1998             3.57            3.69            6.20             3.03           3.77              6.32              0.74           -5.58           1.81
1999             3.62            3.76            2.44             3.03           4.14              2.58              1.10            -1.47          2.71
2000             3.67            3.80            0.00             3.03            4.50             0.13              1.47            1.34           3.61
2001             3.72            3.80            0.00             3.03            4.50             0.08              1.47            1.39           3.61
2002             3.77            3.70                             3.03            4.50             -0.07             1.47            1.54           3.61
2003             3.77            3.60                             3.03            4.50             -0.17             1.47            1.64           3.61
2004             3.77            3.51                             3.03            4.50             -0.27             1.47            1.74           3.61
2005             3.77            3.41                             3.03            4.50             -0.37             1.47            1.84           3.61
2006             3.77            3.41                             3.03            4.50             -0.37             1.47            1.84           3.61
2007             3.77             3.41                            3.03            4.50             -0.37             1.47            1.84           3.61
2008             3.77             3AI                             3.03            4.50             -0.37             1.47            1.84           3.61
2009             3.77             3AI                             3.03            4.50             -0.37             1.47            1.84           3.61
2010             3.77             3.41                            3.03            4.50             -0.37             1.47            1.84           3.61
2011             3.77             3.41           0.74             3.03            4.50             0.37              1.47            1.10           3.61
2012             3.77             3.41                            3.03            4.50             -0.37             1.47            1.84           3.61
2013             3.77            3.41                             3.03            4.50             -0.37             1.47            1.84           3.61
2014             3.77             3.41                            3.03            4.50             -0.37             1.47            1.84           3.61
2015             3.77             3.41                            3.03            4.50             -0.37             1.47            1.84           3.61
2016-26            3.77            3.41                            3.03            4.50             -0.37              1.47            1.84           3.61
NPV             $34.93           $33.64         $11.84                           $39.34                                              0.27           26.0
Discount Rate        10%             lERR           10.3%
Net B/C          1.03
AIC (S/m3)        0.73



Table K18: Rehabilitation of Water Distribution Centers - Rural Khorezm
Without Project                   With Project
1997             2002           Initially-      2005
ER                                                            36                Benerits           S/year/capita                            S/year/capita
Economic Cost                                               22.8  Million USS  HC                     30.71             30.71           46.56          46.56
VAT                                                       14.5%                 YC                    18.39             18.39           30.06          30.06
Beneficiaries                                              457.2  '000 people   SP                    14.04             14.04           22.41          22.41
O&M costs without project 1997        45%                   12.7    sum/m3    Average                 19.11             19.11           30.30          30.30
O&M costs without project 2005        50%                   14.0    sum/m3    Non-domestic             4.06              4.06            5.8            5.8
O&M costs with project initially      38%                   11.2    sum/m3    (estimated at            14.5            sum/m3)
O&M costs with project 2005           30%                   10.0    sum/m3
Consumption                          Share       Consumption                    Costs other than capital:
HC                                    20%           162.00            lcd       HC                    18.72             20.32           18.95          17.00
YC                                    40%            99.00            lcd       YC                    11.08             11.92           11.89          10.70
SP                                    40%            70.00            lcd       SP                     8.92             9.54            8.64           7.80
Average domestic users                              100.00            lcd       Average               11.74             12.65           12.00          10.80
Non-Domestic Users                    40%            40.00            lcd       Non-domestic           3.56             3.92            4.48           4.00
Total                                               140.00            lcd
Costs                                 Benefits                       Incremental Benefits and Costs           Incremental
W/O Project             With Project                                                                                              Volume
Year            Costs           Costs        Capital Cost     W/O Project    With Project        Costs            Benefits      Net Benefits     MCM
(Million USS)    (Million USS)   (Million US$)    (Million USS)   (Million USS)  (Million US$)    (Million US$)   (Million USS)
1996             7.00            7.00           0.00            10.59           10.59            0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00
1997             7.10            7.10           7.82            10.59           10.59            7.82              0.00            -7.82          0.00
1998             7.19            7.19           7.82            10.59           10.59            7.82              0.00            -7.82          0.00
1999             7.29            7.35           3.87            10.59           12.07            3.93               1.48           -2.46          1.75
2000             7.38            7.54           0.00            10.59           16.51             0.15              5.91           5.76           7.01
2001             7A8             7.54           0.00             10.59          16.51             0.06              5.91           5.85           7.01
2002             7.58            7.34                            10.59          16.51            -0.23              5.91           6.14           7.01
2003             7.58            7.15                            10.59          16.51            -0.42              5.91           6.33           7.01
2004             7.58            6.96                            10.59          16.51            -0.62              5.91           6.53           7.01
2005             7.58            6.77                            10.59          16.51            -0.81              5.91           6.72           7.01
2006             7.58            6.77                            10.59          16.51            -0.81              5.91           6.72           7.01
2007             7.58            6.77                            10.59          16.51            -0.81              5.91           6.72           7.01
2008             7.58            6.77                            10.59          16.51            -0.81              5.91           6.72           7.01
2009             7.58            6.77                            10.59          16.51            -0.81              5.91           6.72           7.01
2010             7.58            6.77                            10.59          16.51            -0.81              5.91           6.72           7.01
2011             7.58            6.77           0.98             10.59          16.51             0.17              5.91           5.74           7.01
2012             7.58            6.77                            10.59          16.51            -0.81              5.91           6.72           7.01
2013             7.58            6.77                            10.59          16.51            -0.81              5.91           6.72           7.01
2014             7.58            6.77                            10.59          16.51            -0.81              5.91           6.72           7.01
2015             7.58            6.77                            10.59          16.51            -0.81              5.91           6.72           7.01
2016-26           7.58            6.77                            10.59          16.51            -0.81              5.91            6.72           7.01
NPV             S70.23          S66.82         $15.49                          $138.73                                             26.52          45.4
Discount Rate        10%            IERR           25.3%
Net B/C         2.89
AIC (S/n3)        0.62



-182 -                               ANNEX K
30.   Sensitivity Analysis. Several risks that would jeopardize the successful implementation of
the project and effect its economic return were identified. They included: (a) reduction in benefits
because waste and losses would not reduce to the levels proposed under this project, reduction in
production costs do no materialize, assumptions regarding cost savings of not having to boil water
and not having to buy water from vendors are over-optimistic, and time savings of not having to
fetch water are less than expected; (b) increase in costs because of unexpected expenditures, and
higher operations and maintenance (O&M) costs; and (c) a lag in benefits because of construction
delays.
31.   Two sensitivity analyses were carried out for the proposed project. The first one was a
detenninistic one, and assessed the impacts on the economic rate of return of: (a) an increase in
investment costs of 15 percent above contingencies already included in the base case; (b) a
decrease in benefits of 15 percent; and (c) a one-year delay in beginning the implementing the
project. The results of the deterministic analysis were as shown in Table K19.
Table K19: Results of a Deterministic Sensitivity Analysis
Scenario                      Internal Economic Rate of Return
Karakalpakstan     Khorezm           Both
Base Case                            17 6%            18.2%           17.9%
Investment costs increase by 15%     15.2%            16.2%           15.7%
Benefits decrease by 15%             10.9%            12.9%           11.9%
Project delays by one year           15.4%            16.1%           15.7%
32.   The second analysis is a risk-based sensitivity analysis. Given the high degree of
uncertainty surrounding the data used in the evaluation, it was considered appropriate to carry out a
risk-based sensitive analysis using the @RISK simulation packages, which uses a Montecarlo
probabilistic approach. Table K20 shows the assumptions used to estimate the probability density
function for the calculating the distribution curve for the IERR. The results of the risk-based
analysis are summarized in Table K21.
Table K20: Uncertainty in Parameters Included in the Sensitivity Analysis
Parameter                    Min Value   Most Likely   Max Value
Value
Willingness to pay increases by                  -15%         0%         +15%
Consumer Surplus                                  50%        75%          100%
Unaccounted-for water targets increase by         -5%         0%          +5%
Economic rent in vending activities               20%        30%          40%
Population boiling water                          20%        30%           40%
Consumer surplus obtained with existing piped supplies  60%  70%           80%
Consumer surplus obtained by hand pump users      60%        70%           80%
Demand management target                           5%         10%          15%
Capital costs increase by                        -10%         0%         +10%
O&M costs increase by                            -10%         0%         +10%
Value of time in urban areas fraction of minimum wage  80%   90%          100%
Value of time in rural areas fraction of minimum wage  60%   70%           80%
Note: the distribution is assumed to be triangular.



ANNEX K                                  -183-
Table K21: Results of the Risk-Based Analysis
Schemes                            Min         Mean       Max
Rural sanitation, Karakalpakstan and Khorezm              2.4%        2.7%        3.1%
Rehabilitation of Urgench piped water supply, Khorezm     5.7%       10.2%       13.8%
Rehabilitation of rural desalination units, Karakalpakstan  4.1%     10.8%       17.4%
Expansion in rural areas with local water sources, Khorezm  6.9%     11.0%       15.4%
Expansion in rural areas with local water sources,        5.9%       12.0%       16.7%
Karakalpakstan
Kizketken piped water supply, Karakalpakstan              7.2%       12.3%       17.8%
Rehabilitation of Nukus piped water supply, Karakalpakstan  7.4%     12.6%       16.9%
Beruni and Turtkul piped water supply, Karakalpakstan    10.0%       17.7%       26.1%
Rehabilitation of rural piped water supply, Khorezm      18.6%       25.3%       33.9%
Rehabilitation of rural piped water, Karakalpakstan      21.5%       32.6%       46.1%
All water schemes in Karakalpakstan                      11.8%       17.5%       24.4%
All water schemes in Khorezm                             12.8%       18.2%       24.5%
All schemes in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm                12.3%       17.8%       24.5%






-184 -                              ANNEX L
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX L
L. DOCUMENTS TO BE SENT TO THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Final Feasibility Report: Technical Financial and Economic Analyses, August 1996, Binnes
and Partners.
2.    Final Report, Phase I: Community Based Pilot Demonstration Rural Sanitation, Health and
Hygiene Project, Helvetas, August 1996.
3.    Annexes Final Report, Phase I: Community Based Pilot Demonstration Rural Sanitation,
Health and Hygiene Project, Helvetas, August 1996.
Final Report, Phase II: Community Based Pilot Demonstration Rural Sanitation, and Health
and Hygiene Project, Helvetas, February 1997.
4.    Social Assessment of Urban Water Supply, Uzbek Social Science Network, August 1996.
5.    Hand Pump Monitoring Survey, Uzbek Social Science Network, August 1996.
6.    Water Vendor Survey, Uzbek Social Science Network, August 1996.
7.    Salinity Taste Tolerance Assessment, Uzbek Social Science Network, August 1996.
8.    Needs Assessment for the Proposed Uzbekistan Water Supply, Sanitation and Health
Project, Uzbek Social Science Network, July 1995.
9.    Minutes of the Project Concept Review Meeting, September 1996.
10.   Comments from Peer Reviewers, September 1996.
11.   JICA Final Report, October 1996.






IBRD 28255
UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION
KAZAKSTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                     AND HEALTH PROJECT
-                                                                                                                                                                  ,,t ~J1.        PROJECT LOCATION
45.
                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJEcT AREA
0   SELECTED CITIES
KAZAKSTAN                                                                 (T PROTINCE CAPITALS
IJAT ONAL CAPITAL
M STAIN ROADS
muy-k                                                                                                                                                             r *,.- .                  RAILROADS
-  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
TURKMENISTAN <~*,                                                                                                                                           KYRGZ 
ISLAM C.   REPL-                                                                    L                                               CT-                                                R EPgU,,
O   F   I   R  A N - j M= T.5h A F G H A N I~U    Z                       S  T  A    N                           .Turz SlN kx 
_ 609 \ _' 6s- 70: \ . PAKISTAN OF RAN >r,i 7 , : _ _ r TeRNDAATRs;sA~~~~~~~~0                                                i                      F. 
N-i                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 25 50 75 100 125 lTT r Iou-k-
TURK             ENITANeol--,    z
-9- -
cho'd.                                                           N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  ..     
ISLAMIC   R E P U B L I C   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~,ROEREP.
M--Sb-f                                                                     L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'
1                                           70'                   ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAKISTAN  I"uEMREPUBI[C  HA    N4TANuJ4
60-                                          65,                                                          70        ~        ~        ~                RAN I60' 
SEPTEMEER P996






IBRD 28256
59\                             $-           ' - W                                                             This map was produced by the
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations
and anyother information shown on
3 c                                      C                                                                                       this map do not implyp, o the port of
The World Bank Group, any judgment
an the legalstaus ofony trritoryor
any endorsement or acceptance of
A   r   a   I  S   e   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,, ~~~such boundaries.
KAZAKSTAN
7                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44'
UZBEKISTAN
WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION
AND HEALTH PROJECT
_____EXISTING WATER PIPELINES                DAM
INTAKE PUMPING STATION           U      WATER TREATMENT PLANTS
(UNDER CONSTRUCTION)                   EETDCTE
-420~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELCTE CITIES                                                                                        2
HYDROPOWER STATION                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
To Kazokston
tngrod         KzAAetken               Karauzyak          4ak 3tol
~~~  N               Takhiatash~~~~~~~~~Taktkui
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI I 997I 
KAZAKSTA    Ln i                                               Koshkupi                     Ho
Sea~ ~ ~ ~~~~~UU
TURKMENISTAN      TRKMENISTAN-n
OF IANI AGNISA  I                                                                       \ AINACPTA  1
0  10  20  30  40  50 Miles ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ARI 19









IMAGING
Report NW.:          i5988   uz
'Type:     SA



