Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4216 UZ
Loan Agreement
(Water Supply, Sanitation and Health Project)
between
Republic of Uzbekistan
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 29, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4216 UZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 1997, between Republic of Uzbekistan (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
to assist in the financing of the Project, the Borrower intends to 
contract: (a) a loan from Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (Kuwait Fund) in 
an amount equivalent to about $20,000,000; and (b) a loan from Kreditanstalt fur 
Wiederaufbau (KfW) of the Federal Republic of Germany in an amount equivalent to about 
$9,000,000; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of 
the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that 
the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or 
(f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Co-Financiers" means Kuwait Fund and KfW; 
(b)
"Co-Financing Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the Co-Financiers;
(c)
“Community-Based Society” means a society or an organization registered 
under the laws of the Borrower or under local regulation in the Project area to 
provide community services and is qualified under such laws or regulation for the 
performance of works and services related to its functions;
(d)
“Goskomprognostat” means the Borrower’s State Committee for Forecasting 
and Statistics;
(e)
“Institutional Consumer” means an agency which is a customer of a Water 
Agency (as defined in this Agreement); 
(f)
“Pilot Project Loan” means the loan provided by the Bank to the Borrower 
in the amount of $5,000,000 under the Loan Agreement dated September 27, 1996, for the 
Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project;
(g)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit, established to manage and 
implement the Project, within Goskomprognostat;
(h)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(i) 
“Project Area” means (i) the Khorezm Oblast, a region in the south-west 
of the Borrower’s territory, and (ii) the Republic of Karakalpakstan, which, according 
to Articles 69-72 of the Borrower’s Constitution, constitutes a part of the Borrower’s 
Page  3
territory, and is subject to the Borrower’s laws;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
“Tuyamuyun Hydro System” means the multi-purpose reservoir, dam and 
related structures on the Amu Darya River; and
(l)
“Water Agencies”  means the agencies responsible for water production or 
distribution in the project area, namely:
(m)
Tuyamuyun-Urgench, the agency responsible for the production and delivery 
of bulk water to the water distribution agencies in the Khorezm Oblast;
(n)
Tuyamuyun-Nukus, the agency responsible for the production and delivery 
of bulk water to the water distribution agencies in the Republic of Karakalpakstan; 
(o)
Khorezm Vodokanal, the agency responsible for water distribution and 
sewerage in urban areas of Khorezm Oblast; 
(p)
Khorezm Agrovodokanal, the agency responsible for water distribution and 
sewerage in rural areas of Khorezm Oblast; 
(q)
Karakalpakstan Vodokanal, the agency responsible for water distribution 
and sewerage in urban areas in the Republic of Karakalpakstan; and
(r)
Karakalpakstan Agrovodokanal, the agency responsible for water 
distribution and sewerage in rural areas of the Republic of Karakalpakstan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
seventy-five million Dollars ($75,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Upon the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Pilot Project Loan withdrawn as of such date and outstanding 
and to pay all unpaid charges due thereon. Thereupon the unwithdrawn balance of the 
Pilot Project Loan shall be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
Page  4
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the 
initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period 
(or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for value 
the Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding 
the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiration of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable February 15 and August 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the PIU, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate engineering, financial, public utility, public health, and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Page  5
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause each Water Agency to maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition.
Page  6
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause each Water Agency to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: 
(a) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such 
year as so 
audited: and (b) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested, 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the financial statements and the 
audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01.  The Borrower shall cause each Water Agency:
(a)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, public utility and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(b)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
public utility practices.
Section 5.02.  The Borrower shall cause each Water Agency: 
(a)
to complete and review with the Bank, by October 15, 1998, an assessment 
of its requirements for insurance; 
(b)
to prepare, on the basis of such review, a plan for insurance of its 
assets and operations against such risks and in such amount as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practices; and
(c)
to implement such plan commencing January 1, 1999.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Without limitations to the provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any Water Agency or for 
the suspension of its operations.
(b)
The Co-financing Agreement to be concluded between the Borrower and 
Kuwait Fund shall have failed to become effective by December 31, 1997, or such later 
date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph 
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
Page  7
(a)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds 
of  any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the 
Co-Financing Agreement providing therefor, or
(b)
any such loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: 
(a) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and 
(b) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c)(i)(b) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Mustakillik Meydani
Tashkent
Republic of Uzbekistan
Telex:
116360 IKBOL
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  8
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
By /s/ S. Safaev 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ K. Kodera 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
   Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
  to be Financed
(1)
Works
42,000,000
  83%
(2)
Equipment and 
10,000,000
  100% of foreign
Materials
  expenditures,
  100% of local
  expenditures
  (ex-factory cost)
  and 83% of local
  expenditures for
  other items procured
  locally
(3)
Consultants’
 9,000,000
  100%
Services
(4)
Refinancing of the 
Pilot Project Loan
 5,000,000
  Amounts due pursuant to 
  Section 2.02 (c) of this 
  Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
        9,000,000
TOTAL
75,000,000
==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
Page  9
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent each; and (b) consultant’s services under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent for the employment of consulting firms 
and under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent for the employment of 
individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve water supply, sanitation and health 
in the Project area through: (a) the provision of safe drinking water and sanitation 
facilities; and (b) the strengthening of the financial, operational and managerial 
capacities of water supply and sanitation utilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A: 
Water Supply and Distribution 
(1)
Improvement and expansion of the piped water supply systems in urban and rural 
parts of the Project area through: (a) replacement or rehabilitation of sections of 
the distribution systems; (b) expansion of piped water supply to new consumers; (c) 
rehabilitation and expansion of water treatment plants; (d) rehabilitation and 
expansion of ground water sources; (e) construction of additional trunk pipelines; (f) 
rehabilitation of rural distribution centers in the Project area; (g) provision of 
spare parts for desalination units and training for operators of desalination plants; 
and (h) expansion of demand-based rural water supplies.
(2)
Provision of goods and technical assistance and carrying out of works for the 
implementation of a water demand management program, including measures for: (a) 
testing different approaches to controlling water usage; (b) improving consumers’ 
awareness of the need to optimize water use; (c) repairing of water fixtures; and (d) 
implementing a leakage control strategy.
(3)
Provision of equipment and materials to the Water Agencies to improve the 
operation and maintenance of their facilities.
Part B: 
Sanitation, Health and Hygiene 
(1)
Construction of latrines in rural parts of the Project area and installation of 
hand washing facilities in selected households, schools, health care centers, canteens 
and public places in the Project area and provision of training in hygiene and 
low-cost sanitation.
(2)
Installation of hand pumps and other low-cost supply schemes in the Project 
area.
(3)
Provision of technical assistance and training in carrying out of health care 
promotion and hygiene education activities as a complement to the sanitation 
investments under Parts B(1) and (2) of the Project. 
(4)
Carrying out of works and provision of goods and technical assistance to 
implement measures to improve water quality monitoring and the operations of the 
Sanitary Epidemiological Services (SES), including a review of quality standards for 
Page  10
water and sanitation service, adoption of a monitoring program, rehabilitation of SES’ 
laboratories and improvement of health data collection, analysis and reporting.
Part C: 
Technical Assistance
(1)
Carrying out of measures to strengthen the technical, managerial and financial 
capacities of the Water Agencies, including measures for: (a) preventive maintenance; 
(b) monitoring and reduction of operating costs; (c) management and reduction of 
accounts receivable; (d) design and operation of a utility accounting system including 
cost accounting; (e) training of technical staff; and (f) development of a mechanism 
for restructuring of the Water Agencies.
(2)
Carrying out of a study of water and sewerage tariffs and development on the 
basis thereof of tariff policies and a mechanism for tariff implementation. 
Part D: 
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance to the PIU in the management of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
     (Expressed in Dollars)*
February 15, 2003
1,635,000
February 15, 2004
1,735,000
February 15, 2005
1,835,000
February 15, 2006
1,945,000
February 15, 2007
2,065,000
February 15, 2008
2,190,000
February 15, 2009
2,320,000
February 15, 2010
2,460,000
February 15, 2011
2,605,000
February 15, 2012
2,760,000
February 15, 2013
2,925,000
February 15, 2014
3,105,000
February 15, 2015
3,290,000
February 15, 2016
3,485,000
February 15, 2017
August 15, 2017
3,690,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid 
except 
as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
Page  11
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works to be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 above shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost 
$1,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
Bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be 
advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under 
paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Works required for rehabilitation of the desalination units under Part A of the 
Project estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 
equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Without limitation to the provision of paragraph 5 of this Part, works estimated 
to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,250,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for construction of latrines, installation of hand pumps and 
rehabilitation of laboratories under Part B of the Project; estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$10,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under fixed-price contracts awarded to 
Community-Based Societies, following the soliciting and evaluation, under standard 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, of price quotations from not less than two (2) 
such Societies.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of bids for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for 
the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
Page  12
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more; (ii) the first two contracts for works awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 of this Schedule; and (iii) each contract 
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to the first two contracts for goods awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Parts C.3 and C.4 of this Schedule, the following procedures shall 
apply:
(i)
prior to selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures the Borrower shall provide to the Bank, a report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy 
of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f) 
and 2(g) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above. 
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall assign the responsibilities for management and coordination 
of Project implementation to the PIU, and shall, for this purpose, until completion of 
the Project: (a) maintain the PIU with such staff, facilities and resources as shall 
be required for proper performance of its responsibilities under the Project; and (b) 
cause the PIU to put into effect appropriate procedures to ensure an adequate level of 
coordination and cooperation in Project implementation between the Water Agencies and 
Page  13
other agencies of the Borrower involved in Project implementation.
2.
Without limitation to its general responsibility for Project management, the PIU 
shall, in particular, be responsible for: (a) maintenance of Project records and 
accounts; (b) preparation of contract and bidding documents under the Project; (c) 
coordination of approvals of contracts and expenditures under the Project; (d) 
obtaining necessary administrative decisions, permits or approvals required for the 
carrying out of activities under the Project; (e) preparation of quarterly reports on 
progress in the implementation of the Project, and the furnishing of such reports to 
the Bank; and (f) arranging for the audit of Project accounts.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) establish, not later than October 1, 1997, in the 
currency of the Borrower, and maintain until Project completion, a Project Account to 
be drawn on to meet payments required in said currency in respect of contracts under 
the Project; and (b) ensure regular replenishment of the Project Account so that the 
balance of amount in deposit therein shall be maintained, on average, at the 
equivalent of not less than $300,000.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure the carrying out of the Project in accordance with a 
time-schedule which shall have been agreed upon with the Bank and which shall provide, 
inter alia, for the undertaking, by October 1, 1997, of the following actions under 
the Project:
(a)
conclusion of the contracts for the provision of consultants’ services 
required under Part C (1) of the Project;
(b)
conclusion of the contracts for the provision of consultants’ services 
required under Part B of the Project;
(c)
completion of bidding documents, agreed upon with the Bank, for contracts 
to be financed under the Loan during the first year of Project implementation; and
(d)
issuance of invitation for the provision of consultants’ services 
required for the carrying out of the tariff study referred to under Part C (2) of the 
Project.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the dam of the Tuyamuyun Hydro System is 
inspected annually in accordance with sound engineering practice by independent 
expert(s) is dam safety approved by the Bank; (ii) the report and recommendations of 
such experts are forwarded to the Bank for its review and comment within three months 
of each annual inspection; and (iii) any appropriate remedial action recommended by 
such expert(s) is promptly taken.
6.
For the purpose of consolidating responsibilities for water production and 
distribution in the Project area, the Borrower shall: (a) by January 1, 1998, prepare 
and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, a plan for restructuring of the 
Water Agencies; and (b) implement such plan, taking into account the Bank’s comments 
thereon, in accordance with a time-schedule agreed upon with the Bank.
7.
The Borrower shall: (a) undertake the tariff study referred to in Part C.2 of 
the Project under terms of reference which shall have been agreed upon with the Bank 
and which shall provide, inter alia, for the completion of said study by June 30, 
1998; (b) furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, the findings and 
recommendations of said study, promptly upon the completion thereof; and (c) prepare, 
by December 31, 1998, on the basis of said study and the Bank’s comments thereon, and 
put into effect, by December 31, 2000, a tariff structure for water and sewerage 
services in the Project area which shall provide for the determination of said tariffs 
at such levels as shall enable each Water Agency (or any successor thereto under the 
plan referred to in paragraph 6 above) to generate revenues sufficient to cover its 
operation and maintenance expenses, working capital requirements and a reasonable 
portion of the cost of its investment program.
8.
Until the implementation of the tariff structure referred to in the preceding 
paragraph, the Borrower shall: (a) cause each Water Agency for water distribution (or 
any successor thereto under the plan referred to in paragraph 6 above) to set tariffs 
at such levels as shall enable said Water Agency to generate revenues sufficient to 
cover its operation expenses, working capital requirements and a progressively 
Page  14
increasing proportion of its maintenance cost; and (b) cause each Water Agency for 
water production to set such tariffs at such levels as shall enable it to generate 
revenue sufficient, when added to subsidies provided to cover the pumping costs, its 
operation expenses, working capital requirements and a progressively increasing 
proportion of its maintenance cost.
9.
(a)
The Borrower shall cause each Water Agency to prepare its draft budget 
for each year, and a forecast of its projected water sales to each Institutional 
Consumer for the following calendar year, together with a statement of the total 
outstanding water bill of such Institutional Consumer.
(b)
The Borrower shall take appropriate measures to ensure that the draft 
annual budget for each Institutional Consumer shall include allocations adequate to 
cover the amounts forecast and outstanding for water sales, referred to in the 
preceding sub-paragraph (a).
10.
The Borrower shall cause the Water Agencies to adopt and enforce procedures for 
the gradual reduction of their accounts receivable for water supplies to farms and 
industrial establishments, including the use of contractual provisions in the annual 
contracts with such consumers requiring monthly payment for services supported by a 
bank guarantee, so that accounts receivable for water supply to farms and industrial 
establishments shall not exceed, on average, the equivalent of: 135 days of billing by 
the end of the year 1997, 120 days of billing by the end of the year 1998, 105 days of 
billing by the end of the year 1999, 90 days of billing by the end of the year 2000, 
75 days of billing by the end of the year 2001, and 60 days of billing by the end of 
the year 2002 and each subsequent year.
11.
The Borrower shall ensure: (a) the preparation for each Water Agency of the 
utility accounting system, referred to in Part C.(1)(d) of the Project, under terms of 
reference which shall have been agreed with the Bank and which shall provide, inter 
alia, for completion of said preparation by December 31, 1998; and (b) the adoption 
and operation by the Water Agencies (or any successors thereto under the plan referred 
to in paragraph 6 above) of their respective utility accounting systems not later than 
July 1, 1999.
12.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about April 15, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 15, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2)and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
Page  15
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Page  16
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
