3lp3                       I0 BE REl'UrNED To REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELQPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1335-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT,
TO:THE
EXECUTIVE, DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
COTTON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 20, 1973
This report was prepared for ofticial use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USED IN THIS REPORT
From independence in 1961 until March 1973, the exchange
rate between the Tanzania Shilling and the US dol'ar was retained
at $1 = TSh 7.143. This is the exchange rate used throughout the
report. Since June 30, 1973, the Tanzania Shilling has been set
at a central rate of $1 = TSh 6.9, and the country has availed
itself of the margins of up to 2-1/4 percent.
Tanzania Shs 1.0                U US$ 0.114
Tanzania Shs 1 million          US$ 140,000
US$ 1.00                   =    Tanzania Shs 7.1h
MEASURES
1 mile   =    1.6093 km
1 acre        0.4047 hectares
FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EIECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A COTTON DEVELOPMENT PRJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the United Republic of Taxlzania for
the eauivalent of US$ 17.5 million on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Cotton Development Project. Some $5.0 million of the
credit would be relent to the Tanzanian Rural Development Bank for
25 years, including a five-year grace period with interest at 4
percent per annum. TRDB would onlend these funds to cooperative
societies at 8-.½ percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
General
2.        The last full Economic Report on Tanzania (AE-26) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 22 and June 22, 1972.
This was followed by an Economic Updating Report (30-TA) which was
distributed on December 11, 1972 and which was especially prepared
for the EE-st African Consultative Group meeting on Tanzania of
January 1973. An agriculture/raral development sector mission visited
Tanzania during September/October 1973; its report is expected to be
issued about the middle of 1974. During 1974 we shall undertake a
mission to 3tudy industrial and mining sectors as well as a basic
economic mission.
3.        Tanzania celebrated its first decade of independence in
December 1971. In the past eleven years gross national product in-
creased in real terms by some 65 percent to the present level of
about $1.5 billion. Daring the same period, life expectancy at
birth increased from 35 to 41 years, infant mortality declined from
250 to 160 per thousand live births, maternal mortality declined
from 4.7 to 2.7 per thousand deliveries, and the primary school
enrollment rate increased from about 28 to 37 percent of the relevant
age group. While this sample of economic and social indicators shows
that significant progress has been made, it also gives some idea of
the magnitude and difficulty of the development tasks facing the
country. For example, while GNP grew at 4.7 percent per annum in
real terms during these years, these gains were to a large extent
offset by the growth of population, with the result that per capita
income increased at only 2.4 percent per annum. Tanzania is one



-2-
of the 25 least developed countries.
4.        Tanzania has a one party system which is embodied in the
constitution. The party, TANUJ, is a well organized mass party and is
actively engaged at the grass roots in the promotion of popular
involvement in the national development effort, and within the party
democratic nrinciples are being strictly adhered to. In economic
policy making, the long-term objective of social equality prevails
over economic interests of minority groups; some progress towards
reducing inequality of income distribution within the category of
employed workers has been made, but large gaps continue to exist
between urban and rural standards of living.
Economic Performance and Resource Mobilization
5.        Tanzania's economic performance in recent years has been
characterized by high marginal savings, relatively low returns
on investment, and rapid institutional change. Marginal national
savings were around 50 percent in 1970 and 1971 which represents an
excellent savings performance. The growth of production, however,
has been modest in most sectors, especially in agriculture. The
combination of moderate production growth rates, virtually stagnating
exports and a very ambitious investment program has led to severe
pressure on resources. This pressure has been partly alleviated
by steadily increasing external capital inflows and more recently
by a dramatic improvement in the country's terms of trade. Owing
to the favorable current world market prices for several of Tanzania's
principal exports as well as growing contributions for local project
costs by foreign donors, Tanzania's external reserves are pre8ently
at a level representing about four months imports.
6.        In terms of foreign aid disbursements, the People's
Republic of China is presently Tanzania's principal donor, supplying
about 75 percent of the net capital inflow in 1971. In terms of
outstanding loans and credits, however, the Bank Group is the largest
creditor to Tanzania followed by Sweden, Norway and the Soviet Union.
Including a notional one-third share of the debt of the East African
Community Corporations, the IBRD is presently carrying 9 percent
of Tanzania's outstanding external debt aid IDA 13 percent; the IBRD
share is expected to rise to about 12 percent in the next 5 years,
and the !DA share to 16 percent. Most capital aid to Tanzania is
made available on very favorable financial terms, although about 50
percent of the total is tied to procurement in the donor country.
Supplier credits have been kept to the minimum. In addition to
seeking as favorable a blend as possible and the minimum of tying,
the Government has attempted to secure donors' agreement to simplify



-3-
the procedures associated with tne use of conmitted aid. For example,
Swedish assistance is now given within the terms of a frame agreenent,
which allows the Government to set its own priorities in the use of
SIDA funds and allows considerable flexibility in the switching of
such finance between the various projects and programs. The overall
debt service ratio was 9.7 percent in 1972 and is not expected to exceed
10 percent before the end of this decade. Although Tanzania's
reserves are presently at an adequate level, in view of poor long-
term market prospects of Tanzania's main export crops, it was agreed
at the last meeting on Tanzania of the Consultative Group for
East Africa held in January 1973 that it was important that aid be
kept as concessional as possible so as not to overburden the balance
of payments.
Tanzania's high rate of investment during the last five
years has not been reflected in high growth in production -- at least
not as yet -- partly because there was a heavy bias towards social
and economic infrastructure with long gestation periods.  A substantial
proportioni cf total investment has been undertaken to provide a
viable alternative outlet to the sea to neighboring landlocked Zambia
after Southern Rhodesia's Unilateral Declaration of Independence
of 1965. Economic and political ties between Zambia and Tanzania
are growing stronger every year. As a consequence of the lower than
expected growth rate, the Government has decided to shift its
investment emphasis to more productive quick yielding investments,
particularly those which generate increased export earnings. The
effects of these new policies can already be seen in the rural sector
and in the Bank Group's own lending program.
B.        Tl. Ž budgetary position which has been adversely affected
by sluggish economic growth in recent years coupled with high levels
of development and recurrent expenditure, remains extremely tight.
The Government does not have many remaining possibilities to increase
revenues. In view of the already high marginal savings rate, the
scope for additional taxation is very limited. Even with an expected
decline in the rate of investment, Tanzania will still require a
continued capital inflow in excess of the foreign exchange component
of high priority projects if it is to achieve its development
targets; financing of local expenditures will therefore be justified.
9.        Financial discipline in the regions, Central Government
Mlinistries, and many parastatal organ7zations remains a problem,
probably because scarce accounting and auditing skills are now
even more thinly spread. There -is a general serious shortage of many
professional skills. The situation has been aggravated by the
departure of many Asians and the Government's reluctance to recruit



abroad. However, this reluctance is now diminishing as part of an
affort to accelerate project preparation and implementation.
10.       President Nyerere recently announced that following a
review, the Government has decided to move the capital of Tanzania
fLrom Dar es Ealaam to Dodoma. By moving the capital city to the center
of the country and so closer to the bulk of the rural population,
it ts the expectation that the Government will become more responsive
-c the needs of the rural sector. The Government presently plans to
make the move over a ten year neriod. No accurate estimates of the
total costs involved are yet available but in view of the scarcity
of investment resources in Tanzania, it is likely that the transfer
of the capital will take much longer than planned; in addition, the
number of Government offices moved may be fewer than is presently
envisaged.
itural Development
11.       By the middle of this year there were about 5,600 cooperative
or "ujamaaa" villages in Tanzania comprising more than two million
people or about 15 percent of the rural population. The ujamaa
village is used by the Government as an important instrument to
bring about development in the rural area. Most of these villages
are concentrated in the poorer areas where the provision or promise
of government services (often but not always including health, water,
education and land clearance) has been an important inducement for
people to leave their scattered homesteads to live and work together
in organized communities. There are no reliable data permitting
quantitative assessment of the productive impact of the ujamaa-
based rural development efforts and it is too early to make an overall
assessment. However, the impression is that the collectivization
of agriculture has not yet progressed very far and that in general
the Government is inclined to proceed pragmatically and without undue
haste. The ujamaa village remains the focal point of the Government's
rural development effort but the degree of collectivization will be
left to the villagers for decision.
12.       The administrative structure and many of the functions of
Government were decentralized to the regions in July 1972. This was
done to make the Government more responsive to the needs of rural
development. It is still far too early to assess the success or
otherwise of the decentralization of Government in Tanzania. As
expected, problems of' coordination between the center and the regions
have occurred and the transfer of high-ranking officials from Dar
es Salaam to the rural areas has had its inevitable, but one hopes
orny short-term, effect on the smooth functioning of central Government.



Some dislocation in project implementation has also been experienced.
In some regions the new Government structure is already showing its
potential to be more responsive and relevant to the needs ot the
rural sector. Several rural development programs are now being
prepared in the regions and Bank Group finance is being sought for
some of them. It has become acparent that the severe shortage
of regional technical expertise will inhibit the ability of the new
decentralized authorities to plan and execute rural projects; progress
in regional development will, therefore, inevitably be patchy, re-
flecting the local availability of the required expertise. Ways in
which the Bank Group and other donors might assist in alleviating
these constraints are currently being explored with the Government.
Expropriations
13.       In April 1971 legislation (The Acquisition of Buildings
Act) was enacted empowering the President on behalf of the state to
acquire any rental or commercial property, the construction cost of
which was o-ver 100,000 Tanzanian shillings ($1L',000). About three
thousand properties were acquired under the Act. About five houndred
and sixty claims, including less than ten percent on behalf of foreign
owners, were lodged in respect of the actual acquisition itself or
on the amount of compensation. These claims, including the foreign
cases, have either been settled or are in the process of being settIed
in accordance with the provisions of the Act. The Government has
recently expropriated about 50 large scale farms in the Moshi-Arusha
area of northern Tanzania. The Government is presently making an
assessment of the value of these properties and negotiations on
compensation are expected to commence soon.
PART II - BANK GROUP LENDING TO TANZANIA
1J.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in i962. Beginning
with an IDA credit for education in 1963, it has so far received
13 credits and three Bank loans amounting to $1t8.6 million.   In
addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of nine loans, totalling
$229.8 million which have been extended for the development of coimmon
services operated on a regional basis by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda
throuvh their association in the East African Community. The only
-FC investments in Tanzania to date, totalling $4.4 million, were
made in the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 196h. :n 1969,
IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Company to the
Government.  Annex II contains suTmary statements of Bank Loans,
IDA Credits and IFC Investments in Tanzania and the East African
Community organizations as of October 31, 1973 and ;aotes on the
execution of ongoing projects.



1?5.      Our lending program, reflecting the emphasis the Tsnzanian
;Govermrnent attaches to agricultural development is increasingly
focusing on directly productive activities in the rural sector.
Up to the end of FY72, ten out of l1 loans and credits have been
made for infrastructuLre.  All but one of the loans to the East
African Conmunni ty Organizations, of which Tanzania is a beneficiary
and co-guarantor, had been extended for improvements in transporta-
tion and communicatiors.  However, the approval by the Executive
Directors of the Flue-Cured Tobacco Project, Credit No. 217 TA in
October 1970 opened a new phase in our lending for such directly
productive activities.   The Smallholder Tea Development Project
(Credit No. 287 TA) was approved in March 1972. A Second Livestock
Project (Credit No. 382 TA) was approved early in April 1973. The
project presently under consideration constitutes the beginning of a
major effort to expand cotton production. A project to expand cashew
nut production and processing and a proposed rural development project
were appraised in October 1973. A sugar project was also appraised
in December 1973. Preparations of a proposed dairy project and a
second rural development project are underway.
16.       Our Regional Mission in East Africa was involved in the
preparation of six of the above projects. Our capacity to provide
such assistance has proved to be particularly valuable in a country
where project preparation capacity is, and for some time will be,
limited. Tanzania is developing an institutional structure, stressing
greater regionalization and development of ujamaa villages, designed
to promote and respond to development initiatives. These institutions
are still in their formative stages, and related organizational and
staffing difficulties have sometimes resulted in the project delays
referred to in Annex II. In recent months Bank Group staff have
held intensive discussions with the Government on ways in which these
implementation bottlenecks can be alleviated. As part of this exercise,
a procurement and disbusement workshop was organized in Dar es Salaam
in late August '973 for the relevant Tanzanian staff engaged on Bank
Group projects. In addition, the Government has recently instituted
a high level monthly review for all externally aided projects. As
a result of these efforts, it is expected that project implementation
should now improve.
17.       Tanzania's education and training programs are expected to
solve the manpower problem in the longer run, but meanwhile there
vwi1 L continue to be a need for technical assistance in planning and
implementation if the difficulties in executing projects are to be
ove-come. We are exploring with the Govrernment how assistance of
this kind can be strenrgthened and best fitted to Tanzania. Through
participation in their projects we have supported Tanzania's new



-7-
development institutions at an early stage. Our supervision of
the projects has resulted in bringing to light, earlier than might
have happened otherwise, that some of these institutions are facing
significant difficulty in executing all the projects they have under-
taken. Because of our involvemernt we have been able to help the
Government in its consideration of how to overcome this problem
whose solution is fundamental to rapid development.
18.       Projects outside the agricultural sector which are expected
to be ready for your consideration within tne ne.xt six months or
so include a highway maintenance project, an urban site-and-services
project and a credit to the Tanzania investment Bank, all of which
have been recently appraised. The latter two projects would, if
approved, represent our first direct involvement in the urban and
industrial sectors in Tanzania.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Backeround
19.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest
single sector in the Tanzanian economy. Roughly 40 percent of GDP
is derived from the sector of which 50 percent constitutes sub-
sistence production. Agricultural exports, which account for 80
percent of total exports, include mainly sisal, cotton, cashew and
coffee. About 94 percent of the population live in rural areas,
usually in small isolated communities, and 90 percent of the economical-
ly active people are engaged in agriculture.
20.       Most production is from smallholdings, and using family
labor. Large scale agriculture is represented by private estates,
producing sisal, coffee, tea and wheat, and state farms, mainly
producing wheat, rice, sisal and lvestock. Estate production has
diminished in importance particularly as sisal has declined, and
the state farm program remains small. Tanzania's national herd,
the second largest in Africa, is grazed extensively over the 40
percent of the country which is free from tsetse fly infestation.
It is largely managed along traditional lines. There is limited
use ol. oxen for cultivation, mainly in the western cotton areas.
Tanzania is largely self-sufficient in staples, but about 10 percent
Of total imports in 1971 were foods among which dairy products,
wheat and maize were major items.
Agricultural Development Strategy
21.       The Government recognizes that agriculture will continue
to be the main source or employment for a long time and has been trying
to devise a strategy which will bring about improvement in output,



incones, and the living conditions of the agricultural population.
,-he policy for agricultural and rural development which has emerged
from these deliberations has been adopted as a central part of
Tanzania's second Five-Year Plan.
22.       The ma.4or aim of the Plan is to make significant progress
towards socialist organization of rural activity, based on ujamaa
cooneratives and maximization of the use of labor. State farms fill
a need for larger scale production units, but the approach to mechaniza-
tion is to be cautious and in general based on proven viability.
A similar caution is expressed toward irrigation development.
Agricultural production is to be increased within a framework of crop
priorities based on prodiction possibilities, market prospects, and
a desire for increased self-sufficiency. High priority is given to
raising nutritional standards in the country, and to the expansion
of selected export activities including cotton, livestock, and flue-
cured tobacco, the last two of which are already being assisted by
IDA credits. A vigorous policy for the development of vertically
integrated single crop authorities, dealing with all aspects of
production, processing and marketing, is being pursued with cooperatives
playing a central role.
23.       Several other types of farming and commodities also have
scope for expansion. These include dairying, and horticultural
production, cashew nuts, which is already a valuable export earner,
sugar, pyrethrum, oilseeds and forestry products. Projects designed
to develop these are in various stages of Dreparation.
2h.       Tanzania has had some success in formulating and implementing
the single crop development programs mentioned in paragraphs 22
and 23 above. However, they have typically involved relatively
high cost per farmer, and have affected only a small proportion of
the rural population, even when developed along labor intensive
lines. Tanzania has recognized these shortcomings and is attempting
to design and plan broader based rural development projects. Our
'Regional Mission in East Africa has been assisting the Government in
this effort and helped to design and prepare such a project in
Kigoma region in western Tanzania. This region has considerable
potential but has so far been bypassed by more traditional development
programs.
n5.        -.e Government of Tanzania uses price regulation both as
an allocation mechanism and as arn instrument to achieve its welfare
goals. However, some relative prices, particularly in the agricultural
sector have been keot too low and distortions in the market have
occurred. Tn some cases supply has been depressed and farmers have



-9-
been relucta.t to invest in particular activities.  The Government
has become increasingly aware of these issues and recently relaxed
some price controls (on beef for example) as a first step toward
evolving a more rational price structure.
26.       As Bank Group involvement in the agricultural sector has
grown (paragraph 1 above), Bank staff have, participated in a
continuing dialogue with the Tanzanian Government over agricultural
potentialities, priorities, and policies. As part of this effort,
an Agriculture Sector Survey Mission visited Tanzania in October
1973; it is expected that the findings of the mission will constitute
inputs to the third Five-Year Plan due to start in July 1975.
Agricultural Credit
27.       Virtually all credit funds for the development of the
agricultural sector in Tanzania are chanelled through the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank (TrDB). This instiitution, which was created
in 1971, took over the assets and liabilities, as well as operations,
of the Natic'nal Development Credit Agency (NIXA). The Bank Group
has been associated with the TRDB from the beginning. The bulk
of the proceeds of three IDA credits are onlent through TRDB and some
of the credit here proposed would be channelled through it. The
interest rates charged on long- and short-term loans are presently
about 8-'n percent. TRDB's organization and policies are generally
considered sound. In late 1972 and early 1973 TRDB's overdue debt
increased by a substantial amount; most of these overdues arose from
debts taken over by TRDB from the NDCA. However, TRDB has now
taken measures to recover a large portion of this debt; some have
been rescheduled and a small proportion which TRDB has no hope of
recovering has been written off.
Teclmical Services
28.       Research presently being carried out in Tanzania is
generally of a good standard although some strengthening in particular
disciplines is needed. However, there is a gap between research
and its application at farmer level. About 2,500 field staff in
Tanzania are engaged in field work associated with crop production.
Owing to its inadequate dissemination of new techniques, limited
material, poor logistic support and the fact that staff have been
spread too thinly, the extension services have been ratner ineffective
in introducing improved techniques to farmers except when organized
along project lines. In designirg new programs care is now being
taken that these shortfalls of the past will be avoided.



C otton
29.       Cotton, which is Tanzania's most important cash crop in
terms o.1i the number of growers, has oeen the leading export earner,
f or all but two years, since 1965. 'En addition, it has the greatest
potential for growth of any agricultural product in the country.
Cotton cultivation, originally introduced into Tanzania around the
turn of the century, has for the last 50 years been based almost
exclusively on traditional smallholder production methods. output,
although subject to severe fluctuations due to the vagaries of the
weather, rose from around 50,000 bales in 1950 to about 400,000
bales in 1971 and now provides the main source of cash incme
for about 10 percent of Tanzania's 2.6 million farm failies. The
major region of production, known as the Western Cotton Growing
Area, accounts for about 95 percent of total production. It borders.
on the shores of Lake Victoria in the north, stretches south to
Tabora and west to Lake Tangaryika.
30.       Each farmer typically devotes about 0.8 to 1.5 hectares
of his land to cotton and about the same to subsistence crops.
There is some limited use of oxen but the bulk of cotton production
is accomplished without animal or mechanical assistance. Yields
average around 350-450 kgs of seed cotton per hectare, but could
be doubled or tripled with the use of new inputs and improved
practices.
Cotton Development Strate
31.       The second plan projected an expansion in cotton output
from 4C0,000 bales in 1969 to 600,000 in 1974. However, the base
figure was probably an overestimate. Production has growl slowly,
and the target will not be met. The expansion of cotton production
in the postwar years was primarily a result of a rapid increase in
the acreage devoted to the crop. However, the scope for increasing
production in this way is becoming increasingly limited in a number
of areas owing to population pressures and shortages of land suitable
for cotton. Tanzania has therefore been trying to develop an
effective program to increase cotton production in selected areas.
This effort utilizes improved varieties, the introduction of ferti-
lizers and insecticides, the expansion of institutional credit,
strengthening extension services, and measures designed to improve
the efficiency of ginneries. In line with the country's development
policy, and in an effort to distribute the benefits oi these programs
as widely as possible, the program is based on smallholder and
ujamaa production.



32.       The Government of Tanzania recently established the
Tanzania Cotton Authority (TCA) with jurisdiction over all aspects
oa production, processing and marketing of cotton. TCA has taken
over all functions nreviously performed by the Lint and Seed Marketing
Board. It is expected that with the establishment of TCA, all the
various efforts to increase cotton production will be properly
integrated and coordinated.
33.       An ad valorem export tax oI- 10 percent is currently levied
on cotton. The Government has attempted to stabilize prices to
growers and also to pass on the benefits of world price increases
to the cotton sector. The Government sets cotton prices before
planting; any surplus or deficit, resulting from the difference
between the local and world prices, is paid into or drawn from the
Cotton Price Assistance Fund. As a consequence of favorable world
prices, this Fund has built up substantial reserves in recent years.
34.       Both fertilizers and insecticide sprays are being provided
to farmers in selected areas, at a subsidized price, currently 50
percent of cost.  The costs of these subsidies are being borne by
the Price Assistance Fund. These subsidies are considered necessary
and sensible at the present stage of development. In the longer
run, the returns to experienced farmers accruing from the improved
inputs will be good; however, it will inevitably take time to
realize the full potential return. The sufosidy thus provides
incentive for farmers to adopt innovations in the early states.
It is the intention of the Government that subsidies will be gradually
phased out as participating farmers perfect the application of the
new technology. An alternative incentive policy would be for the
Government to raise producer prices. However, the subsidy approach
is considered preferable at this stage since it directly encourages
the use of those inputs which are necessary to ensure an increase in
cotton production. In view of the current differential between the
world price and the local cotton price, no net subsidy to the cotton
farmer is involved at the present time. In order to ensure a satis-
factory rate of return to the farmers and to ensure their partici-
pation in the project, assurances have been obtained that the Government
will maintain such incentives as necessary, including but not limited
to its present subsidy program.
35.       Experience with mechanization and the use of tractors in
Tanzania has not been encouraging. In particular, tractor pool
arrangenents have typically encountered severe financial difficulties.
tractors have not beean maintained properly and have been inefficiently
utilized. However, by mechanizing certain crucial operations in
the cultivation of cotton during periods of seasonal labor con-
straints good returns through increased area planted and better



-12-
husbandry can be realized. Tanzania has, in consultation with the
Association, therefore developed a mechanization program for Geita
district, vhich will be initiated under the project. Credit for
tractors will be made available to ujamaa cooperative societies who
meet stringent criteria designed to ensure that tractors will be
operated efficiently and well maintained. UjaTaa societies ownirg
tractors would also rent them to nearby ujamaa villages and to co-
operating farmers, who are not ujamaa members, but who have consolidated
their land into blocks of sufficient size to render mechanization
feasible and advantageous.
PART IV - THE PROJIXT
36.       An appraisal report entitled "Geita Cotton Project - Tanzania"
is being distributed separately. A Credit and Project Summary is
provided as Annex III to this report.
37.       The Government has selected Geita District, Mwanza Region
(see map) located on the southem shores of Lake Victoria, as a
major area of emphasis for its cotton development program. The
district which has a population of about 425,000, produces an average
of about 56,000 bales per annum or 16 percent of the country's
production. The population is primarly dependent on agriculture
for a livelihood. Per capita income in the district is about
$h5 which is less than half of the national average level.
38.       The project, prepared with the help of the Regional Mission
in East Africa, was appraised in the field in February/March 1973.
Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington in
November 1973. The Tanzanian delegation was headed by Mr. F.A.
Byabato, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
39.       The proposed project constitutes a seven year program
(April 1974 to March 1981) to expand cotton and maize production
through the application of fertilizers, insecticides aad other
inputs provided on credit to smallholders and ujamaa farmers.
Maize forms an integral part of the cotton crop rotation and support
for this staple food crop, which is grown by virtually all cotton
farmers, is considered essential to encourage farmers to participate
in the project. The project would also provide tractors to ujamaa
cooperatives and credit for tractor hire to cooperating farmers
able to meet specified conditions. The project would provide
support services for tractors and would strengthen extension services
and supervision ol cooperative credit. It would also provide for
storage, a road survey and construction, crop research, soil anal3ysis
and land planning. A water supply would also be constructed for



Nyamalilo Ginnery.  Support is also proposed for a limited. number
of education and health facilities.
Costs
40.       The total cost of t'ne project net of taxes is estimated
at US .S23.8 million.  The proposed IDA credit of $17.5 million
(74 percent of total project cost) would finance the total estimated
foreign exchange component of US .$14.0 million (59 percent of
total project costs) as well as US $3.5 million equivalent of local
cost. The breakdown of the project cost is given irn Annex III.
Organization and Execution
41.       The Tanzanian Cotton Authority (TCA) (para. 32 above)
would be the primary project executing agency. Responsibility f'or
&ay-to-day activities would be delegated to a Project Unit to be
established wqithin TCA and located in Geita district. The Project
iJhit would be responsible for extension services, land planning,
evaluatinn Prd selection of farmers, ujamaa villages and cooperatives
for credit. Credit would be provided in kind and TPDB would be
responsible for procurement and delivery of inputs to the beneficiaries.
In order to ensure proper coordination with the newly decentralized
regional authorities, a committee including a Project Unit, district
and regional representation would be established.
42.       Since it will take some time to build up an effective
field organization, project imlementation wiill be divided in three
phases. The commencement of the second phase is expected to begin
two seasons after the start of the first phase and the third phase
would commence a year after that. Progress of each phase will be
carefully assessed by the Project Unit. A research unit will carry
out continuous adaotive research ir. the project area and focus par-
ticularly on the yield responses to the new inputs. mn evaluation
unit will continually monitor and assess the economic returns of
these inputs wnth a view to refining extension reconrendations as
th.e project progresses. By phasing project implementation and
establishing these evaluation mechanisms, the returns to the project
investments will be maximized. In order that implementation can
be monitored closely, an assurance has been obtained that an annual
plan of operations would be submitted to the Associatiorn for its
agreement.
41.D      it is expected that it will take seven years for the
29,000 farners, who are eventually expected to participate in the
Geita cotton development program to join the project. Hiowever, this
is a conservative estimate and the project could, in the event be
implemented more quickly.



44;.      Tmprovement of road transportation is an important component
o0 the project. The district roads are inadequate and present a
severe constraint to marketing cotton production. It is expected
that about 800 km of secondary roads and spur roads would be improved
or constructed under the project. A survey to determine the exact
requirements for feeder roads will be carried out before actual
construction begins. A "betterment unit" established under the
Third Highway Project (Credit No. 265 TA) in Geita district, is
presently improving roads in the area to be covered by the first
phase of the proposed project. Four health centers and four community
education centers would be constructed under direct supervision of
the Project Unit.
Onlending
45.       Credit funds for short- and medium-term credit would be
onlent to the project beneficiaries via the Tanzania Rural Development
Banc (TRDB). Credit applications would be screened by the Project
Unit and passed on to TRDB which would provide necessar inputs and
take the credit risk.  The Government would bear the exchange risk.
The Government would onlend these funds to TRDB for 25 years including
a grace period of five years at an interest rate of four percent
per annum. TRDB would onlend these funds to cooperative societies,
at 8- percent per annum who would, as in their normal practices,
in turn onlend to participating ujamaas and individual farmers
at the same rate. The Project Unit, would be responsible for super-
vising the credit operations. The rate at vhich the Government would
lend to TRDB is the same as under the past three IDA credits for
prolects in the rural sector. TRDB has been designated by the
Government as the primary financial vehicle to promote agricultural
development and the 1h-½ percent margin which it would derive from
these credit operations would enable it to defray the cost of credit
administration and procurement and delivery of inputs to the ben-
eficiaries, as well as to accumulate further funds for relending to
priority projects in the rural sector.
Training and Technical Services
46.       The program and the variaus entities responsible for the
intensification of cotton production in Geita are considered to be
sound and well conceived. However, this represents the first time
that a comprehensive program to increase cotton production will be
implemented in Tanzania and managerial and technical support will
be necessary for a number of years. The proposed credit therefore
includes funds to support such assistance to the Project Unit,
for the training of land planners and for research. Assurances



-i 5 -
that the Government will consult the Association prior to making
appointments to the oosts of Pro4ect Manager, Assistant Project
Manager, Accounts Officer and the heads of the extension, mechanization
and credit sections of the Project Unit, have been obtained.
Procurement
47.       Contracts for fertilizers and insecticides, IJLV pumps
and spares, tractors and tillage equipment totalling about US $3.6
million would be let after international competitive bidding in ac-
cordance with Bank/IDA procurement guidelines.  Local manufacturers
would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent or the exdsting
rate of import duties, whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f.
price of competing imports. Contracts for feeder roads totallimg
about US t4.9 million would be let after international biddiig,
unless the Association, after considering the results of the survey
referred to in paragraph 44 above, should agree that the dispersed
nature o0 the road works would justify resort to local competitive
bidding or to work by force account. Construction of workshop,
staff housf_'Z, health facilities, schools, and other building
totalling about US 82.2 million would be carried out by contractors
after local competitive bidding or, if no local contractors are
available, by force account. International competitive bidding is
not considered appropriate for these items since they are small
and widely disDersed and hence would not be attractive to inter-
national bidders, and in some cases not even to local bidders.
In order to avoid unnecessary delays, miscellaneous items and equip-
ment not suitable for bulk procurement would be purchased in ac-
cordance with the Government's normal procurement procedure in cases
where individual contracts were less than US $30,000.
Disbursements
48.       A schedule o0 estimated disbursements is included in
Annex III. The Association would disburse 100 percent of expenditures
of agricultural equipment, vehicles and inputs to be financed by
the seasonal credit, if such goods are procured outside of Tanzania
and 70 percent of expenditures of such goods, if procured locally;
foreign costs of expatriate and consultant personnel; 70 percent
of total expenditures for civil works; and 70 percent of the Project
Unit operating expenditures.
Special Features
L9.       The project has several features which distinguish it
from past Bank Group operations in the Tanzania rural sector.
Although it rests heavily on cotton production, attention has been



-16-
given in formulating the program to the broader aspects of development
in the district. Cotton provides 80 percent of cash income of' the
Geita District and the project is expected to affect directly
29,000 farmers, (40 percent of the area's farmers). In view of this
area orientation, and to the extent practicable, an attempt has
been made to identify and alleviate constraints additional to those
directly affecting cotton production. It is hoped that, by taking
a broader view of impediments to development in the area, some of
the inplementation difficulties experienced by other "single crop"
development programs in Tan2ania will be avoided. For example, a
past lack of coordination in the provision of water, education and
health facilities associated with the resettlement of farmers under
the Tobacco Project (Credit 217 TA), has resulted in recruitment
problems and delays in implementation, even though the actual
agricultural inputs associated with the production of tobacco itself
have been supplied on schedule. In recognition of the importance
oi these other constraints, support for maize production (the
dominant staple in the district and grown by virtually every farmer),
roads, ecbacation and health facilities is therefore proposed.
50.       The project is designed with flexible implementing phases
which cater to the needs of the individual farmer, who will receive
short-term inputs, of the cooperating indiviu.al farmers who have
consolidated their land and can hence benefit frao hired tractors,
and of the full ujamaas which will actually ovn tractors. If the
pace of collectivization in Geita District is different from that
expected, the project is sufficiently flexible to accommodate the
change.
51.       In order to assist implementation, the project organization
has been designed to take advantage of the political structure.
TANUt, the sole political party on the mainland, is organized in a
pyramidal structure, at the base of which are cells of ten house-
holds each. The unpaid chairman of the cells, the Balozi, are party
members elected by the cell members and provide an effective means
o' commmuncating with all farmers. Under the project the Balozi
would mobilize potential participating farmers, verify credit ap-
plications and help ensure repayment with the assistance of the
Project Unit. To ensure proper coordination at the higher levels,
TANU would also be represented in the project sub-comiittee.
Benefits
52.       From 1985 onward the program would yield incremental
annual cotton production of over 50,000 bales valued at about
US $7 million on the world market. The annual net foreign exchange



-17-
earnings would be about US $3 million equivalent. The annual
increment of maize for domestic consumption is expected to be
L5,000 tons. The economic rate of return to the project is estimated
at 14 percent over a twenty-year period. The net cash incomes of
the 29,000 participating farm famMies would be increased by 65,
percent. However, if, as expected, tne nroject is successful,
it has a much greater potential impact. It is planned that the
Geita program, suitably modified by the lessons of experience.,
would provide the patterr, for the intensification of cotton production
in other areas of the country over the next twenty years or so.
53.       The project is not without risks. Although the potential
for expanding cotton production in Tanzania is great and the project
and the related development strategy are well conceived, it i.s the
first time that such a fully integrated program of this sort is
.n';A -. ttempted.  The effects of the new inputs are not known with
comDlete certainty and cannot be. Past experience with mechaniza-
tion in Tanz-nia and other parts of the tropical Africa has been
mixed and tlke proposed scheme for ujamaa ownership, while apparently
avoiding I-, 4-sadvantages of tractor pooling arrangements, is untried.
The progran. mi.,t of its very nature be experimental. The project
,.as been des: _ned to minize these risks, the implementation schedule
is deliberately flexible and the project management and research
and evaluation units are designed to maximize the benefits of
"learning hyT  J1inglg (paragraph 42). Given normal precautions in
their use, the environmental effects of the use of fertilizers
and insectic'des provided under the project are expected to be
small; however, the research unit would monitor this closely.  In
spite of these precautions, however, the success of the project,
and its potential in developing a viable program for the intensifica-
tion of cotto? production in other parts of Tanzania, will deend
on the provisioin of management and technical expertise over a long
period.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRIENTS AND AUTHOIZITY
5h.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association, the Tanzania Rural Development Bank, and
the Tanzania Cotton Aluthority, the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) oI- the Articles of Agreement and
the text ol a resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft
Agreements conform to the normal pattern for agricultural develop-
ment projects.



55.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would cQuply with
the Articles of Agreement ot the Association
PART VI - RECOMMEN=ATION
56.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 20,1973



Page I of 3 pages
COUNTRY DATA - IANzASIA
AR&Ai                                             aPOPUAfTIigN                                 35NSIt':
945,0837  kmo I                                              lion (sid-1971)                          14   Per kml
1iut7   Per krz2of araba lanrd
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Reference Countries
tacozanta                                  ia a  Ntio  U.K.
____                   197o          I~ 73        11Th
JNP PEt CAFITA U1$ (ATLOs BASIS)                       *                     100              IA           120        2,210
E?WRAPIHlC
Crude north rate (par thousar,71                              4b   ia h    47               u.           50            16
Crude death rate (per Thoescrd)                                25  la       21               it           24           11
Infant wrtality rate (per thusuand live births)               225        160-165/c           ..      150-175           I Q
liTfe expectancy at birth (years)                              38 /a        h3                49          37            72
orolss repodutn rte                                             .             3.               3.3          33
PoPulation growth rate I                                        2.2          2.7               1.3         2.5           O.6
Popuslation growth rate - urhan                                              7                6   /a.f      5            '3.S
Age structure (1ercont)
0-Uli4                                                       12    '      nit                                        26
15-61,                                                       S9w           53               51           53           h3
65 and over                                                    2 /          3               2             2           13
P'-I,er y ratio /14                                             0.at         1.lI             1.2/h         L.2          0.3
llrnen populslaoon as percent of totel                           4            6 /c             9 /d!       2.           7h
Fatily plannrin: No. f accaptors cumxlative (thous.)
No. of users (S or married on)                ..           .                 2.2
total labor f^rRo  .1 '-ands)                                             5,780            S,o   Id h 214,050      25,2Bo
Percentage employed in agriculture                            ..                            90           70            3
Percentage Lnemployed                                        .-            .                ''
INC'A DISTRIB1ITIDN
Percent of national iocone received by higheet 5%
Percent of national Ž'comc received by highest 20%              ..
Percent of national- ir1ice  recelved by lowest 20%             ..           ..               .
Percent or national insore recelved by lowest 40%                     ..             .         .-..
5STh:1BUTION OF      UMa '  8C3.':HRP
S owned by top lOS  orSners
% owned by smallest 10% of owners
HAALTi AND NUTIRITION
.     ptisn- er phyz sn                                2,000   /o   21,5iO  /b       12,350  /d   24 030  1'      860  /c
Pupulation per nursing person                                             2,9d0            3,050   &    2,530  A       a' 2o d
Population per hospital nod                                    53    . tu     0               3   7Z     I ,/0105           td
Per capita calorie supply as 5 of reqjutrements 15              65 /tk       65               90          9G           120
Rsir capita protein sur  y, total (grams per dayT/6             47  7F7      43               68           59           8d
Of which, animal an,. ,,1sa                                   27 7k        23               29           14           58
Death rate 1-4 years /7                                         .            ,9.                     .        *          0.9
EDUCATION
AdJusted /8 prtciary school enrollment ratio                    25           3 /              60  /s       3            98 /d
Adjuated LT sec..andry school enrollment ratio                   2            2                8            t           56 S
Yrars of en hooliog pro-id'd, firet and second level            13           13               13           lb           tO
Vocational enrollment as % of sec. school enrollseot            22            6                2           10  /         5 /c
Adult literacy rate S                                                                         30            *           97 7-
HOUSINi
Average No. of persons per rooe (urban)                          1.8/o       .                                           0.6/a
Percent of occupied units without piped water                                20  /n
Access to electricity (as % of total population)                              3                             8
Pereent of #ural population connected to electricity
CONSUMPTION
Radio rWc-ivers p.r 1000 ppulstion                               2           1               48  /d       23          326 /)
Passenger cars per 1000 population                                            2 /b d           9             1.2        215
Slectric power coneunmption (kth p.o.) ct. /b                                29  7            45           19  /d    h,291  /-
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                           o.o7s        0.1              0.          0.1          a 28
Notes,  Pigores refer either to the latest perioda or to            account of envirornetrl tesperature, body weighta, and
the latest years. Latest pariods refer in principle to              distribution by age and sex  f tsation,al populations.
the yrears 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in prin-        4   Protein standards (requirmasnts) for all oountries as eotab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970. Orny aog,,ificantly different               'ished by ISSA Eoonomio Research Service provide for a mtnimu
periods or years re footnoted separately.                           alowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, ana 20 gra    of
The Per Capita C2P eatimates for years Dther than 1960          animal sar  pulee protein, of whicb 10 gram  should De anim al
is at market prioes, oalculated by the sane conversion          protein. These standards are auepwhat lower than those of 75
taohnique as the 1972 World Bank Atlas.                         grams of total protiein and 23 grams of animal protein ma an
/2  Average number of Jaughtere per wean or reproduotive            average for the vorld, propoaed by FAO in the Third World Food
age.                                                            Survey.
5   Population growth rate are fbr the decdes onding in         57 Scre atudies have suggested that crude death rates of children
1960 and 1976.                                                  ages 1 through 14 may be used as a first approximation index of
Ratio of under 15 and 65 eat 00cr age hrar.ket  to              malnutrition.
thoee in labor force bracket of agee 15 through 64.         /8 Percentage enrolled of sorreaponding population of schoci age
5   PAD reference atana;rds reprareatt pwnjottogocal re-            as defined frr each ooantry.
quirenents for normal activity and iealte, taking
A    lt,; /l     loogor'yiko  '1     '    ' -U    /t  Kr t;:   ie    " 2-7     /f (lear 2,000 p,oprilation;  /R  RatiD of
populetLn, aIrier lj ar-d i,j td  -cr tos total  ot,or 1'rce;  Ic  La-or ktrce tio age bracket 15-59;  /I  Ratio oi
p.p,;taLtt.  onder LI and 6$ anal o.er Age eracket  t.o tsose In' fi to ag- rutrelt;kt  1196ld;  /I  19;743;    /L  Dato
r.,onr otIl ov out ofr 17 eatro;  /ot  lnac onto; /-j    liNt. uro-r, 0n rural;   1r1958, Zanoioar only;     5P  Excluding
forests cod lastures.
R2 Decenoer 4, 193



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
G.iSS NATONAL PRODLCT IN 1971                                         ANNJUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.                                1960 -65           1965 -70          1971
GXP at Merket Prices           1,332       100.0                         5.0                4.5            l4J5
G-ross 3One3tic Investmnent      370        27.5                                          14.3             27.5
Gross National Saving            286        21.5                         ..                5.7             10.8
Current Account Balance         - 90       - 6.7
E}orts of Goods, NFS             338        25.4                         ..                 7.4             6.4
Imports of Goods, NFS            433        32.5                         ..                9.4             20.0
OUT?UT, LABOR FORCE AND
PH0DUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added                   Labor Force-                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ EI-n.                        min.  g                         us
Agriculture                     521       39                   5.3       91                     98         43
Industry                        159       12                   0.1        2                   1590        694
Secrvices                       651       49                   0.3        3                   2170        948
Unallocated                                                    0.1        4
Total/ANerage           1331      100.0                  D       100.0                  229        1oo.0
GOVERNIMNT FINANCE
General Governsment                            Central Oovernment
min-n.) of GDP                           {)                 % of GDP
197          197         196 -7         .7&           T a/71            195
Current Receipts                  (No information available but totals              1913        20             16
Current Expenditure                for all items only slightly higher than          1824        129- 16
Current Surplus                    for Central Government)                            89         1              1
Capital Expenditures                                                                11,40       15              7
External Assistance (net)                                                            839.         9             3
MDNEY,
MONEY, CHEDIT and PRICES                  1965         1969         1970        1971        1972         1973 (June)
tMillion Sh8 outtanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      ..          2194         2620        3174        3178         3180
Bank credit to Public Sector               ..           ..           ..          ..          ..
Bank Credit tD Private Sector              ..           ..
(Percentages or Iudex Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          ..           26%          29%         33%         29%
General Price Index (1963 - 100)           ..          130          134         138         150          156
Annual percentage changes ins
Gleneral Price Index                       ..            1.6          2.7         3.3        8.1         4.0 (6 months)
Bank credit to Public Sector               ..           ..
Bank credit to Private Sector              ..           ..
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unomployed ore allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated1 consists
mainly of unemployed 'workers seeking their first job.
not ayailable
not applicable



Page 3 of3 ,  gese
TRADS PAYENTS AND CAPITAL FLWO
M.AiCE OF PAYErS                                                    MRCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1969-71)
1969     1970     1971                                                US $ Mln    %
(balitons US $ )                       toffee                        37
cotton                        33       14
Exports of Goods, NFS           285      318      338                    sisal                         22        9
tmports of Coods, NFS           277      361      433                    diamonds                      26      .11
Resource Gap (deficit - -)    -TI +t8           - .3'S                   cashew                        i7        7
Interest Payments (net)         - 3     _ 3      - 2                All other conmodities             103       43
Workers' Remittances                                                      Total                       237     Ico.o
Other Factor Payments (net)                                                                         2,
Net Transfers                   q 9       12      t 7              EXRERSL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1972
Balance on Current Account      t    1      4     -9J  rUS
US $ M1n
Direct Foreign Investment .       3     - 1         1
Net MLT Borrowing                28       85      116                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             371
Disbursements                 34       93      142                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortizatiot                   6        8       26               Total outstanding & Disbursed'
SubtoeRal                     31     'l        117                                         l p2J
Capital Grants                   ..       ..       ..              DEBT SERVICE RAIIO for 19t -
Other Capital (net)              .,       ..     - 1B                                                        9.7%
Other itemR n.e.i              - 20     ,zS1     sJ
Increase in Reserves (+)       + 3      - 15     - 5                 Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           9.7%
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)        80       65       60               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Net Reserves    (end year)       74       55       42
WA!E OF EXCIANGE                                              IBRDJIDA LENDING. October   1973   (Million US $   /
Through  Harcb 1973                                                                                i3RD         IDA
US $ 100 - Sh 7.i-4
TS%   1.00 - US $t.l14                                         Outstanding & Disbursed                32         h9
Undisbursed                           10          58
Since July* 1973                                               Outstanding incl. Uadisbursed I?T
uS S 1.00   s Sh 6.9 (central rate)
TSh   1.00   u US $0.14
1J  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Coods and Non-Factor Services.       E/ Fccluding IBRD lending to
Fast Atrican Coeunxnity.
U Including Tanzania's notional one-third share in the external
debt of the East African Comnunity.
.  not available
not applicable
December 3, 1973



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF OCTOBER 31, 1973
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
NO.       YEAR    BORROWER      PURPOSE            BANK   IDA    UNDISBURSED
ONE LOAN AND FIVE CREDITS FULLY DISBURSED          5.2    41.7
132 TA    1968    Tanzania    Ranch Development            1.3        .1
586 TA    1969    Tanzania    Roads                 7.0    -         2.6
-t  TA    1969    Tanzania    Education              -     5.0       2e4
217 TA    IQ70    Tanzania    Tobacco               -      9.0       7.7
715 TA    1970    TANESCO     Power                30.0    -         7,2
232 TA    1971    Tanzania    Education              -     3.3       3.3
265 TA    197°    Tanzania    Roads                  -     6.5       6-3
287 TA    1972    Tanzania    Smallholder Tea        -    10.8       9.5
371 TA    1973    Tanzania    Education                   10.3      10.3
382 TA    1973    Tanzania    Livestock                   18.5      18.5
Total                                    T. 2
of which has been repaid                 .5    -
Total now outstanding
Amount sold:                .1
of Which has been repaid   .1           _
Total now held by Bank and IDA           h1.7  106.4
Total undisbursed                         9.8   58.1      67.9
1/ Prior to Bkchange Adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
3. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK IL)ANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TAINZANIA AND UGANDA AS AT OCTOBER 31, 1973
(U.S.-$ Yllion)
Amount less cancellations
NO.      YEAR    BORROWER         PURPOSE             BANK      UNDISBURSED
Three Loans Fully ILsbursed                            75.0
638 EA    1969     EAHC       Harbors                  35.0          14.?
674 EA    1970     FARC;      Railways                 42.4          24A2
675 EA    1970     FAPTC      Telecommunications       io.4           2.3
843 EA    1972     EADB       Developnent Finance       8.0           8.0
865 EA    1972     EAHC       Harbors                  26.5          24.7
914 EA    1973     FAlPTC     Teleconmunications       32.53
Total                                       229.8         105.9
of which has been repaid                   24.1
Total now outstanding                       205.7
Amount sold:                  24.4
of which has been repaid      5             1.9
Total now held by Bank                      203.8
Total undisbursed                           105.9
lJ Prior to ESxchange Adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. PROJECTS I.{ EXECUTION -
(As of December 17, 1973)
There are currently ten projects under execution.
AGRICULTURE SECTOR.
Credit No. 132-TA - Beef Ranching Development Project: $1.3 Million
Credit of October 31, 1968; Closing Date December 31, 1973
Initial management difficulties were overcome by replacing
managers with more experienced staff. Drought conditions brought high
o|.-'e mortality on one ranch.  A problem oi low fixed meat prices was
alleviated by substantial increases in 1972 and 1973.   The project
is expected to be fully disbursed by the scheduled Closing Date
(December 31, 1973). This project demonstrated the feasibility of es-
tablishing awi officient beef industry in Tanzania.
Credit Nio. 217-TA - Tobacco Project: $9.0 Million Credit of October 9,
w970; Closing Date September 30, 1976
Project implementation remains disappointing.   There have
been some recent changes in the official attitude towards collective
production, and farmer recruitment should improve now that farmers
can cultivate tobacco on an individual as well as a collective basis.
Although the Tobacco Authority and the Ministry of AgriculIture have
generally exec .ted their project management responsibilities well, a
lack in communications between the Regions ana the Central Government
lMinistries had led to serious delays in implementation especially in
water development and research. The project has been rephased and
the Authority is now expected to be responsible for all developmernt
actions and not reliant on other agencies; consequently, coordination
should improve. The project is being kept under careful review.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Sxecutive Directors regarding
the progreEs of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the actions being
taken to remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with
the understanding that they dc not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8 Million Credit
of March 3, 1972; Closing Date December 31, 1976
This project has experienced a number of delays. Farmer
recruitment has been behind target partly because farmers are
reluctant to plant tea on a collective basis. The Tea Authority
(TTA) is planning to engage in some field development itself in
order to absorb the excess planting material. Meanwhile a full-
scale review of the project, including the rephasing of the
planting program is planned by IDA for December 1973.
On both the Tobacco and Tea projects, and to a lesser
extent some projects in other sectors, a lack of understanding of
IDA procurement and disbursement procedures by the various project
agencies concerned has been the cause of considerable delays. A
workshop on procurement and disbursement procedures was held in
Dar es Salaam in late August 1973. Bank Group staff explained
and discussed the relevant procedures with the Tanzanian officials
concerned. It is expected that procurement and disbursement
difficulties in Tanzania will now become less acute.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:   $18.5
Million Credit of May 23, 1973; Closing Date December 31, 1972
The Credit was declared effective on September 28, 1973.
The Government has made good progress in recruiting the necessary
staff to implement this project. Plans for the first phase of
procurement are presently being finalized. Implementation is on
schedule.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 715-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project:   $30 Million Loan
of December 14, 1970; Closing Date June 30, 1976
This project has encountered major cost overruns. The
latest cost estimates exceed the original (US$59 million) by about
one-half. The two main factors responsible for the overruns were
(i) the unexpectedly high cost escalations inside and outside
Tanzania since appraisal in April 1970 and    (ii) the unexpected
bad rock conditions encountered during excavation of the underground



ANNZX TI
Page ' of 6
f.acilities which make up the major part of the main civil
engineering works. CIDA of Canada has provided Canadian $13
million to cover the major portion of the overruns and dis-
cussions are currently taking place between the Bank. the Govern-
tent and SIDA with a view to covering the residual (about 410
million). In spite of these cost overruns, the project still remains
the most attractive alternative to other possible development,
including thermal, in the power sector.
TRANSPORTATION 5CTOR
Loan No. 586-TA - Second Highway Project: $7 Killion Loan of
February 24., 1969; Criginal Closing Date Deceaber 31, 1972;
Revised Closing Date December 31, 1973
Construction work on this project has been completed,
but outstandiag claims by contractors are substantial.  Although
the Government and the contractors have now been negotiating these
various claims for sometime, it is unlikely that the remaining
issues can still be resolved by December 31, 1973, the revised
Closing Date, and an extention may be necessary.
Credit Nc. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: $6.5 Million Credit of
August 6, 1971; Closing Date December 31, 1974
After protracted delays, tenders for the improvement of
the Mtwara-iNasasi Road have now been invited, and the
contract for supervision of construction of this road has been
signed with consultants. Consulting contracts have also recently
been signed for the supervision and management of work of two
betternent units to be established for the improveinent of about
475 kn of agricultural feeder roads in the Geita district and
Mara region; consultants' proposals for the preinvestment studies
to be financed under the project are now being evaluated. As a
resuLt of these developments, a rapid improvement in the pace of
project implementation is now anticipated. However, extension of
the Closing Date of the credit will be necessary.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 149-TA - Second Education Project: $5.0 Million Credit
oi lay 29, 1969; Closing Date December 31, 1973
The project is about 12-18 months behind schedule, and
an extension of the Closing Date by about 24 months will be necessary.
Delays in project implementation were in part attributed to shortages
of counterpart funds in FY72, lack ot interest on the part of
contractors, and some shortcomings in project management. Progress
has improved recently. Most contracts have now been awarded, and
although it is not expected that lost time can be made up, all
elements of the project should be completed in good order within a
2h-month extension of a Closing Date.
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 Million Credit
of February 5, 1971; Closing Date June 30, 1975
Initial delays in the establishment of the Project Unit,
in defining building design procedures, and the more recent need
for re-tendering for civil works, have delayed the project by
12-18 months. Bids for the construction of all 1 project institu-
tions were received in May 1973 resulting in the contract award for
four institutions; after high quotations and poor response, the
remaining nine were re-tendered. Although the new tenders were
still higher than anticipated, 12 of the 13 contracts have now been
awarded. Recruitment of educational specialists has not been
successful and bilateral sources are now being explored. It is
likely that a 12-month extension of the June 30, 1975 Closing Date
will be required.
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3 Million Credit
of April 13, 1973; Closing Date June 30, 1978
The credit was declared effective July 2, 1973. The project
coordinator has been appointed, and technical assistance specialists
to assist in project implementation, provided by the Danish Inter-
national Development Agency, are being recruited. The team is now
expected to arrive early in 197h, and some delays in designing
project components will inevitably result. Meanwhile, to minimize
delays before the arrival of the specialists, the Government has
agreed to use other available specialists to design the community
education centers.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
Credit and Project Summar-
Borrower:                     United Republic of Tanzania.
Amount:                       US$17.5 million equivalent.
Terms:                        Standard IDA terms.
Project Description:          Geita Cotton Project.  The expansion of
cotton and maize production in Geita
district of Mwanza region by providing
fertilizers and other inputs, tractors
and maintenance facilities, storage,
feeder road construction, a ginnery water
supply and related technical and extension
services and training. Health and edu-
cation facilities would also be provided.
Cost of Prc> nt:                                     US$'000
Component                 Local      Foreigrn     Total
A. Farm Credit
Fertilizers, insecticides,
seed sprayers, tractors and
related equipment and
cultivation credit               -            3.231       3.996
B. Proict Investment
Vehicles and equipment              48          274        322
Storage, housing and building    1,774          522      2,296
Ginnery and water supply            10           42         52
Road construction                1,475        3,,442      4,917
Health facilities                  196          196         392
Educational facilities             35?          137         489
Sub-total            3,855        4,613       8,468
C. Project Administration
(including technical
services)                       2,656        1,784       444o
D. Contingencies                     2,4449       444         6,893
Total Project Cost   9,725       14,072      23,797



A"iNEX ITI
Page 2 of 3
Financing Plan:      The financirng plan is expected to be as follows:
component-V       I D A           Government      Total
iJs$'O     %     Us$ '000    %    Us$ 'ooo
Farm Credit         4.6     81%       1.1    19%       5.7
Project Investment 8.5      71%      3.4     29%      11.9
Project
Administration      4'4     71%       1.8    29%       6.2
17.5              6.3              23.8
Relending:           The following are the proposed relending terms:
Government to Tanzania       4%         25 years including
Rural Development Bank                  5 years grace
(TRDB)
TRDB to cooperative          8-1/2%     12 months for short
societies                               term inputs, 5 years
for medium term credits
(tractors)
1/   Including allocated contingencies.



ANNEX Il-
Page 3 of 3
Estimated                                Fiscai Year
Oisburseilents:                           (US tC000s)
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980    1981
600   1700   1400   2500   2800   3400   3000    2100
Pro curement
Arrangements:          International competitive bidding for fertilizers,
tractors and associated equ-pment, insecticides,
U-LV pumps where contracts exceeded $30,000; local
manufacturers would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15 percent or the existing rate of import
duties, whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f. price
of imports; international competitive bidding, or if
agreed by the Association local competitive bidding
or force account, for road construction, local com-
petitive bidding or force account for construction of
workshop, staff housing, and other building; existing
Government procurement procedures in cases where
individual contracts total less than $30,000.
Rate of Return:        Overall   Economic Rate of Return estimated at
about 14 percent.
Appraisal Renort:      Reoort No. 269-TA dated December 17, 1973.
:Map                   A map of the proposed project area is attached.



32'00'                               32'30'
TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
-   Tetitoriol Moin Roads  -  Phose Boundares
Olier Roads, Mointo ted by Comworks *  Central Workstta  Silo
-   Used lor Cctlionernsportotson
Z A  K E  V t C F O  R I A                      (Omits Link Roads aid Tracks)  -innery Zones
K   TO/ion Trocko (Ahgnmenl Schemotic)  inries
.U                              Roads to be Inproved.Under the
Third Highway Project (CR 265 TA)  icton Ruirg Stores
Raila- aoy             U  Trade Cenlers
<C.>             ~~~~~~~~~~~ENisitrnc U4amas Villagos (ArlPass
-  Mar sense  *,)  ,-'\  t:->~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~> ~Forest RosoroEs
,b o      ZMaisme  IundEB
*. - 8, ~~~~~~~Island   .'2             !. 
. -  I  ,-  ,   1   <   e   \ \  i   o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kcrne  R'' 
_ 2 i S \,JE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IscndoBUH MA ,C,
. Ruborrdo                                           A 
*    island
B U C   H O, - ;SN FUAF r.M
'LMKOBE  4           A
BILULUMO                            -,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KARLJM
J  W'MWANZ A _
2*30                                             I                                      rASFNI
I  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LL
5½ *M A                                                 WMI--1.-
P                                   E                    Z33c
A
* V                                                             -            flOEfR
6.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
US@a@@~~~~~~eAAOMA.             Iuiw drAOOUANr'i \ 1                    -
BIHARAMULO~T L,ATORO        /                                      2   \           5ln 
K   - -.  .-                                           _-  9    Snse..  C ig _l
A           2 MK'       I 
-3'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~  ~~~t LS1LY .v *2                                TAN . .-N,Atflu .
M W A     2 
KAA   M A   H A N                                                         ao~)$-
YAW,'WALE ~ ~ ~ *  1-
*       t~~~~o, Coso~ 'cd
BIHARAMU  ATORO                                              5     0~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C,sO  -c
C 4    M IE 4 -I
3730        4~~~~~~~~T  Bo-, TRC
OtO                                                                    -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ZC A N



