FILE COpy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 269a-TA
APPRAISAL OF
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
TANZANIA
December 17, 1973
Agriculture Division
Projects Department
East Africa Region
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CUMiMNCY EQUIVALMNTS
US$1.00 = Tanzania Shilling 7.14 (Tsh)
Tsh 1.00 = US$0.14
l-EIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare 0M)                 =    10,000 m2 = 2.46 acres
1 kilometer (am)              =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)      =    0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)               =    2.20 pounds
1. liter (1)                  =    0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton       =    0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
NAPB        =   National Agricultural Products Board
NCU             Nyanza Cooperative Union
NMC         =   National Milling Corporation
PAF         =   Price Assistance Fund
TANU        =   Tanganyika African National Union
TCA         =   Tanzania Cotton Authority
T.£B            Tanzania tRral Development Bank
dCGA        =   Jestern Cotton Growin3 Area
4JC         =   Western Research Center



TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Page No.
SU1IARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........... ..............  i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION          ............................. ..... .  1
II.   BACKGROUND ......................................            2
A.   The Economy of Tanzania .....         ...............  2
B.   The Agricultural Sector .....         ...............  3
III.   PROJECT AREA ......................                          6
IV.   THE PROJECT ........         .............................   9
A.   General Description ........................           9
B.   Project Phasing and Farmer Participation  ...          9
C.   Detailed Features .....       .....................    11
D.   Project Costs ............. ..       ..............    15
E.   Financing          ..                      ...............    17
F.   Procurement ...... o        .........................    17
G.   Disbursement ...............................    18
R.   Accounts and Audit o         ........................    18
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....          ................    19
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS .....    22
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION           ..............    25
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .........  o_         ....................    26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Tanzania in
February/March 1973 comnosed of Messrs. J. H. Cleave, j. Gregor (part-time),
A. Marot and G. I. Oluonye (IDA), M. A. Keech and J. P. Tunstall (Consultants).



-2-
Table of Contents - Cont'd.
ANNEXES
1.  TTj amaa and TANU
Table 1. Formation of Ujamaa Villages:  Comparison of
1971 and 1972 Data
2.   Tar.zania Rural Development Bank
Table 1.  TRDB Composition of Outstanding Portfolio
Loan for Cooperative Societies
3.   Farming Situation in Geita District at End of 1972, Breakdown by
Project Area
4.   Expected Project Build-Up:  Project Phasing and Farmer Participation
5.   Production and Improvement of Cotton and Maize
Table 1.  Input Requirements Under the Project - Breakdown
by Phase
Table 2.  Farm Budget:  Consolidated and UJamaa Farmers
Table 3.  Farm Budget:  Unconsolidated Farmer
6.  Mechanization
Table 1.  Build-Up of Tractors, Cultivation Implements and
Additional Storage
Table 2.  Mechnization Section - Build-Up of Workshops and
Tractor Handling Capacity
7.  Road Study:    Terms of Reference
8.   ProJect Costs
Table 1.  Summary of Annual Costs
Table 2.  Annual Costs of Project Headquarters and Mechanization
Section
Table 3.  Annual Costs of Inputs, Equipment, Storage,- Extension
and Credit Services - Breakdown by Phase
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit



-3-
Table of Contents - Cont'd.
10.   Project Staffing
Table 1. Build-Up and Unit Costs of Staff
Table 2. Build-Up of Extension, Credit Collection and Mechani-
zation Staff
11.   Incremental Production of Seed/Lint and Maize from Project
12.   Markets and Prices
13.   Government Cash Flow
14.   Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Table 1. Rate of Return
CHART
Project Organization (World Bank - 8219)
MAP
Geita Cotton Project (IBRD 10439)






TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Tanzania's development strategy has given increased emphasis to agri-
cultural and rural development. As part of the rural development program and
in line with Government's recent decentralization of its administrative finc-
tions, a balanced r>egional development effort has recently been undertaken.
Within this context greater attention has been given to the construction of
agricultural feeder roads, rural water supplies and health facilities. Educa-
tion has also been given a high priority. In order to help achieve balanced
regional growth, Government intends to concentrate its resources in directly
productive investments, particularly in agriculture. The expansion of cotton
production has been given a high priority under Government's Second Five-Year
Plan (1969-74). Efforts have also been made to increase the level of marketed
maize production in order to achieve domestic self-sufficiency.
ii.       The proposed Project is designed to increase the incomes of farmers
in Geita district, and to support Government's rural development program by
supplying essential infrastructure and social services in the area. Over
seven years it would intensify production of otton and maize in Geita by
providing credit to farmers for fertilizers and other inputs, tractor and
support services to ujamaa villages, and agricultural research and land
planning facilities. The Project would support the extension of the rural
road network in the district, thus facilitating not only cotton production
but also the more general needs of the rural population. The upgrading of
the road network would reduce marketing costs and would support the ongoing
effort to provide a balanced system of transportation throughout the country.
The Project would in addition include provision for expanded educational
and health facilities in order to bring badly needed social services to the
district.  The Project would provide a pattern for the intensificatig qf
production which could be adapted for use in other regions in Tanzania.
iii.      The Project would reach about 29,000 smallholder families in Geita
distric- aboutO4__% of the total population in the district.  Project imple-
mentation would be carried out in three phases, with the most agriculturally
advanced areas selected first for development. Geita farmers participating
in the Project would include individual farmers, farmers who had consolidated
their holdings with neighbors, and farmers in ujamaa villages. The Project
would be executed by a Project Unit established within the Tanzania Cotton
Authority (TCA) with local coordination through a subcomittee of the Geita
District Development Council.  Credit would be channeled through the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank (TRDB).
iv.       An IDA Credit of US$17.5 million is proposed which would cover the
foreign exchange component of the Project (US$14.1 million) and 35% of local
costs over the seven year period (1974/75 - 1980/81). This would represent



- ii -
74% of total Project costs of US$23.8 million (Tsh 170 million).  IDA funds
for farmer credit would be made available to TRDB at 4% annually. TRDB would
onlend short and medium-term credit to cooperatives at 8-112%, and they in
turn would onlend to farmers at the same rate - the standard rate for final
borrowers in Tanzania. TRDB would also receive on the same terms funds for
tractor loans which it would on lend through its lwanza Office.  TCA would
receive annual subventions from Government for the workshop, housing, storage,
office and laboratory construction, vehicles, the water supply and staff
costs. Government would retain funds for road construction, the soil labora-
tory, health facilities and education centers. Iraported goods, mostly tractors,
tillage equipment, fertilizers and ULV pumps and spares, valued at US$3.5 mil-
lion, would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank/IDA guidelines. In evaluation of bids local manufacturers would be
allowed a preference margin of 15% or the existing rate of import duties,
whichever is lower. Orders of less than US$30,000 would be procured in accord-
ance with Government procedures. Due to their small size and the fact that
they would be scattered over a wide area, construction of workshops, housing
and other buildings would be by force account or local competitive bidding.
The road study (US$345,000) would be carried out by consultants chosen in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Project roads would be constructed by con-
tractors chosen after international competitive bidding. However, such roads
may be constructed by force account or by contractors selected after local
bidding as agreed with the Association following a review of the findings of
the road study by Government and IDA.
v.        From Year 15 onward the Project would yield incremental annual cotton
production of over 50,000 bales valued at about US$7 million on the world mar-
ket. The annual net foreign exchange earnings would be about US$3 million
equivalent. The annual increment of maize for domestic consumption would be
45,000 tons. Cash incomes of participating farmers would be increased by
about 64%.
Vi.       The internal economic rate of return of the Project is estimated at
14% over a twenty-year period. In this calculation 50% of the costs of road
construction and the road study were attributed to the Project, and the costs
of school and health facilities were omitted. The benefits attributed to
road construction represent only the direct saving in running costs of cotton
and maize vehicles, including savings from reduced distances travelled.  The
rate of return would be sensitive to changes in some of the basic parameters.
With the costs of schools and health facilities included the return would be
13%. If 100% of the costs of roads were included the return would be 10%. A
10C%  --:p in yields or prices would reduce the return to 7%, but a 10% increase
in benefits would give a return of 21%.
vii.      Five IDA credits totalling US$44.6 million have been approved thus
far for agricultural projects in Tanzania. These,include one for agricultural
credit, two for livestock and one each for tobacco and tea. In addition, an
education credit in 1971 provided US$3.3 million for agricultural training.
Performance under these projects has been mixed.
viii.     The Project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$17.5 million
to the Tanzania Government.



TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      One of the most important aspects of Tanzania's development strat-
egy is the increased ermphasis on agriculture and rural development. As part
of the rural development program and in line with Government's recent, decen-
tralization of its administrative functions, a balanced regional development
effort has recently been undertaken. This effort is designed both to make
maximum use of the growth potential in each region and to narrow the gap be-
tween regions in terms of the supply of essential services. Within this con-
text greater attention has been given to the construction of agricultural
feeder roads, rural water supplies and health facilities. Education has also
been given a high priority and efforts have been made zo gear the system more
closely to the needs of a rural society. In order to help achieve balanced
regional growth, Government intends to concentrate its resources in directly
productive investments, particularly in agriculture. As cotton has excellent
potential for rapid expansion, and as more farmers are engaged in its produc-
tion than any other crop, the expansion of cotton production has been given a
high priority under Government's Second Five-Year Plan (1969-74). Maize is
the staple food of the rural population and efforts have been pade to increase
the level of marketed production in order to achieve domestic self-sufficiency.
1.02      The proposed Project would over seven years intensify production of
cotton and maize in Geita district. It would provide credit to farmers for
fertilizers and other inputs, tractors and support services to ujamaa villages,
and agricultural research and land planning. The Project would support the
extension of the rural road network in the district, thus facilitating not
only cotton production but also the more general needs of the rural population.
The Project would in addition include provision for expanded educational and
health facilities in order to bring badly needed social services to the dis-
trict.
1.03      Five IDA credits totalling US$44.6 million have been approved thus
far for agricultural projects in Tanzania. These include one for agricultural
credit, two for livestock and one each for tobacco and tea. In addition, an
education credit in 1971 provided US$3.3 million for agricultural training.
Performance under the projects has been mixed. In reference to cotton loans
extended under the now completed credit project, a need was found for im-
proved supervision of cooperative society loan records and input distribution.
The first livestock project has progressed satisfactorily and is nearing
completion, and the second credit has only recently become effective. The de-
velopment of the tobacco project has been disappointing and slower than ex-
pected and has encountered difficulties due to inadequate services (mainly
water) in the new settlement areas and the premature introduction of collective
cultivation under the ujamaa system.  The Project has been rephased and an
upgraded water system provided; some project farmers are now also being



- 2 -
?ermitLed to farm individual tobacco plots within ujamaa villages. A review
in August, 1973 reported, however, that despite satisfactory management, re-
cruitn1ent of new growers is still behind schedule. The smallholder tea project
is also encountering problems with farmer recruitment, and the planting pro-
gram is about two years behind schedule.  Weak management and other difficul-
ties have slowed progress, and it is expected that the project will be re-
c.nased. Construction under the education credit is not now expected to
be comDleted on schedule owing to delays in tender procedures; however,
all contracts for construction of various .nstitutions have been awarded.
I.G4      The loan application was prepared by the Government with assistance
from the IBRD Permanent Mission to East Africa (PMEA). This report is based
on che findings of an appraisal mission to Tanzania in February/March 1973
composed of Messrs. J. H. Cleave, J. Gregor (part-time), A. Marot and G. T.
Oluonye (IDA), M. A. Keech and J. P. Tunstall (Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. The Economy of Tanzania
2.01      Overall, Tanzania is sparsely populated; the average density is
under 15 per kml, but most of the 13.9 million people are concentrated in a few
areas, including that south of Lake Victoria. The population is increasing
at about 2.7 percent a year. Fluctuations in the performance of the agricul-
tural sector have been responsible for variations in the growth rate of the
economy of between 2.3 and 6.0 percent from 1969 through 1971. Per capita GNP
is estimated at US$105.
2.02      Tanzania's socialist development philosophy aims at reducing in-
equalities in income distribution through emphasis on smallholder agriculture
and rural development and through State control of important industries, serv-
ices and large-scale agricultural enterprises. Growth has been behind the
Second Five-Year Plan (1969-1974) targets, mainly due to failure of the main
agricultural crops to reach plan projections; this was due in part to bad
weather and to the fact that Government had not provided the necessary con-
ditions and incentives for an expansion of smallholder production. For the
same reason exports have been sluggish, resulting in a deficit on the country's
external trade balance. To facilitate rural development and to improve its
overall efficiency, Government in 1972 decentralized a number of its important
administrative activities. Under this decentralization scheme, the country's
18 Regions and 63 Districts were given substantial power to control budgets,
programs and planning in their jurisdictions.



-3-
B. The Agricultural Sector
The Organization of Production
2.03      Most production is concentrated on smallholdings which are culti-
vated by hand and produce family subsistence as well as cash crops. The
family provides most of the labor, and hiring workers is discouraged as alien
to the socialist spirit of the country. Limited use is made of oxen, mainly
in the less densely populated parts of the Western Cotton Growing Area (WCGA).
Annual crops are typically grown in a rotation of bush-fallow, and frequently
crops are inter-planted. Plots tend to be irregular but fragmentation is only
serious in such densely populated areas as Kilimanjaro. The area cultivated
by a family is generally about 5-6 ha. Although some private tractors operate
successfully in WCGA and the Kilimanjaro area, Government organized tractor
operations for smallholders have not generally been successful due both to the
high cost of the initial investment required and the low returns to operations.
On the basis of earlier programs, it is now evident that intensification of
agriculture is an essential prerequisite to the widespread introduction of
tractors in this area.
2.04      Cotton is the most important smallholder cash crop in terms of
numbers of growers and it is the second largest foreign exchange earner after
coffee; ninety-five percent of the crop is produced in the WCGA. Other impor-
tant crops are coffee, cashew nuts, tea, tobacco, maize and rice. Large-scale
estates produce sisal, coffee, tea and coconuts, and state farms mainly wheat,
rice and livestock. Estate production has diminished in importance, particu-
larly as production of sisal has declined, and the state farm program remains
small. Tanzania's national herd of 13 million cattle grazes extensively over
the 40 percent of the country which is free from tsetse fly. There is little
integration of livestock into arable farming.
Ujamaa Villages (Annex 1)
2.05      A major instrument of Government's rural development strategy is
the reorganization of production on communal lines in "ujamaa" villages,
usually comprised of 60-70 families. Ujamaa is a voluntary movement based
on a maximum of self-help and self-reliance; the ultimate aim is to transform
ujamaa villages into production-based, multi-purpose cooperative societies.
Some of these are formed by physical resettlement, others without change of
location. Although their justification is social and political, Government
recognizes that ujamaa villages must be economically viable. Success in
implementing this program has varied considerably between areas and regions,
and over-enthusiasm by local officials has on occasion led to undue pressure
on farmers to form ujamaas, with subsequent adverse effects on production.
There has been some opposition by farmers to the ujamaa, particularly in
areas with established cash crops. In December 1972 a total of 5,556 ujamaa
villages involving nearly 2 million people were in some stage of development,
and 315 of these were registered cooperatives.



- 4 -
Cotton and Maize: Production, Marketing and Processing
2.06      Although total cotton production has been highly variable over the
past decade, cotton has the highest potential for absolute growth of any agri-
cultural product. Increases in production in the immediate future could be
e:pected as a result of area expansion as well as yield increases due to im-
proved seed, fertilizers and ULV (ultra-low-volume) sprays. The acceptance
of fertilizer and spray would de2end on relative pri4ces of the inputs and cot-
ton, the proven incremernts from fertilizers, the effec_iveness of che ULV sprays,
and the coverage and quality of extension staff. These factors are in turn
dependent on high levels of farmer husbandry, as the returns to improved inputs
are relatively low in the first years after their introduction. Total cotton
production over the past five years has averaged about 350,000 bales. With
projected increases in area and with improved inputs, this total is expected
to rise to about 540,000 bales in 1974, although weather conditions could
cause wide variations in output. This projection is substantially short of
the Second Plan Target of 600,000 bales by 1974, however. (If the current
rate of expansion continues, this target would not be achieved until 1977 or
1978).
2.07      As with most of the agricultural products destined for export and
a number of crops sold internally, cotton and maize are handled by statutory
marketing agencies, and prices to producers are regulated by Government. The
buying agents for the marketing agencies are the Cooperative Unions and their
menmber societies. About one-third of all farmers are members of cooperative
societies. Seed cotton is purchased from farmers by a cooperative society of
which the farmer may or may not be a paid-up member. Each society in a cotton
area has a seed cotton store, a cotton seed store, an office and a house for
the society secretary. Nationwide pre-planting prices are fixed for two grades
of seed cotton, and payment is in cash on delivery less any debts for inputs
proviied on credit earlier in the season and deductions to meet society opera-
ting costs. Crop financing is provided to Unions by the Tanzania Cotton
Authority (TCA) which also makes loans for seed cotton stores and provides so-
ciety cotton seed stores and ginnery storage. Seed cotton is bulked at the
society before being transported to a Union ginnery.
2.08      Maize is the staple food of the rural population and the most im-
portant cereal in the country. The objective under the Second Plan is to
achieve domestic self-sufficiency and to carry sufficient stocks to maintain
su--olies in years of poor harvests. Maize not used for on-farm consumption
is SoC9, to the National Agricultural Produ:rs Board (NAPB) at prices set by
,overnment.  Because they are residual, NAI23 p>rca.ses fluctuate, but they
are generally about 20-30% cr total annual produc--oa.  Marketed production
over the last decade has averagec about 1'0)_3 m tons aninually, varying be-
tween 47,000 m tons in 1969/70 and an escia:ated 175,000 m troa in 1970/71. In
oetter years NAPB stores par. of its purchases against crcp fail.ur- and
all7ocates the remainder co t.e National Yifling Corporation (N;MC) for proc-
essing and sale.  In recent y;ears domestic sup?.ies have been inadequate
aacc Tanzania has had to impo:-t maiza.  Co_s of production could be con-
sicerably lowered by the introduction of high-yielding hybrids and through



-5-
increased application of fertilizer. Output of maize is extremely responsive
to improved inputs, and the higher yields would simultaneously benefit the
producers and allow lower prices to consumers.
Price Stabilization and Subsidy Policies
2.09      Government's crop pricing policy is generally to minimize year to year
price fluctuations.  In tne case of cotton, an export crop, this policy is effec-
ted through a Price Assistance Fund (PAF) into which trading surpluses of TCA,
after payment of export duty, can be paid in years of good world prices. The
funds are used to support farmers' prices in less favorable years. Surpluses
were estimated in June 1973 to be about Tsh 160 million. In view of the
exceptionally high current prices for cotton this total would be even greater,
but Government has recently increased the export duty to a rate which diverts
new funds from TCA to General Revenue.
2.10      In the 1972/73 crop year Tanzania introduced a policy of subsidiz-
ing 50% of the cost of fertilizers and insecticide to be used on cotton; the
PAF was used as a source of subsidy funds, and it is expected that this arrange-
ment will continue. By encouraging peasant farmers to adopt innovations, it
was expected that the subsidy would make it possible to reach production targets
established under the Second Five-Year Plan. Even without the subsidy, innova-
tions would prove increasingly profitable to farmers - particularly as management
improved - but experience has shown that large initial returns are needed to
persuade peasants to accept new ideas and ensure their long-run adoption. The
subsidy is being gradually introduced, and it is expected that Mwanza region
including the Project area would be covered in 1973/74. The cost of the sub-
sidy would more than be covered by the existing export duty on all cotton
exported from Tanzania.
Agricultural Credit
2.11      The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) was founded in 1971; it
was the fourth of a succession of rural credit institutions and the third in
the decade following independence (Annex 2). TRDB provides long, medium,
and short-term credit to farmers through cooperative societies; it also
administers special funds on behalf of Government, and is the main credit
channel for IDA funds. The standard rate of interest charged by TRDB on
short and medium-term loans is 8-1/2%, and the rate on long-term funds is
7-1/2%. Societies onlend to members at the same rate. At the end of March
1973, TRDB loans to societies totalled Tsh 122 million. Overdues represented
21% of the portfolio, and only half of these were covered by provision for bad
debts. However, this situation arose mainly from debts taken over from
predecessor organizations. There was a marked improvement in debt recovered
in the first quarter of 1973, and in response to suggestions from IDA, TRDB
will be taking new measures to ensure repayment by borrowers. With Govern-
ment backing and control of credit at farmer level (para 4.12), TRDB would
be a satisfactory channel for continued lending of IDA funds.



-6-
Res earch and Extension
2.22      Agricultural research is organized in twelve major centers.
Pri'orities are set at a conference under the chairmanship of the Director of
Research in the Ministry of Agriculture (Kilino). Both cotton and maize
research for WCGA is concentrated in the Ukiriguru Research and Training
Institute. This, along with six substations and the Nyegezi Training Institute,
maKes up the Western Research Center (WROC).  Maize research has concentrated
on development of improved variecies and on 'ercilizer trials. Research on
co.con has centered on breeding for higher yields and pest resistance;
assistance in this work has been given by the Cotton Research Corporation of
London. The plant breeding and pathology sections of W4RC are well staffed
ana the research program in these fields has been satisfactory. However,
the entomological section is understaffed - one entomologist has to carry out
a cotton research program for the whole WCGA - and another agronomist is
needed to work on field trials of fertilizer response. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that Government would adequately staff the WRC to
enaDle it to provide support for the Project and to help prepare the ground
for future projects.
2.13      The agricultural extension service is organized regionally with a
coordinating office in Dar-es-Salaam. There are about 2,500 field staff
engaged on crop work, and a further 2,000 on animal husbandry and animal health
programs; the average worker is responsible for 900-1,000 farmers. The region-
al staff is headed by a Regional Agricultural Development Officer (RADO), as-
sisted by graduate Agricultural Officers in charge of districts and Field
Officers and Assistant Field Officers with diplomas and certificates respec-
tively from training institutes. The extension services have thus far been
rather ineffective in introducing improved techniques to farmers. Major fac-
tors have been the lack of adequate staff, inadequate retraining in the more
valuable techniques, and poor management; the latter is reflected in a lack
of logistic support, frequent transfers, and problems with the administration
of pay and allowances.
III. THE PROJECr AREA
3.01      The Project area would cover the 9,067 km  of Geita District in
Mwanza Region (Annex 3). The district borders the southern end of Lake
Victoria, and altitudes vary from 1,050 m on the lake to 1,200 m further in-
land. It is served by an all-weather road from Mwanza via a ferry at Busisi,
and a network of roads and tracks - many of which are passable by heavy
vehicles only in dry weather.
3.02      Annual rainfall in Geita totals about 1,000 mm, but tends to vary
between years and locally within the district. The soils of the district are
varied but fall into three main types: alluvial soils, mostly used for rice
and livestock grazing; granitic soils, witr, fair agricultural potential, on
which most of the cotton, maize, cassava and sorghum of the district is grown;



and banded iron-stone soils, of moderate to high fertility but inclined to
erode easily. The two latter types respond to nitrogenous and phosphatic
fertilizers. Individual farms are typically laid out down a catena which would
embrace a range of soil types.
3.03      Most of the population, estimated at about 425,000 in 1972, has
migrated to the district in the last quarter century.  Overall density is 2
about 47 per km2, but this figure is considerably higher - about 75 per km -
in the northern and eastern parts of the district which were earlier settled.
The population is primarily dependent on agriculture for a livelihood.
3.04      Family cash incomes in Geita are estimated at about Tsh 800 (US$115).
The value of subsistence production adds about another Tsh 750-1,000 to the
total incomes. This gives a per capita income in the district of about US$45.
Cotton is the major cash crop, but sales of cassava are important locally,
and maize is sold in the better years. Livestock also makes an important
contribution to farm income.
3.05      Most farms average about 8-12 ha, and less than half of the total
area is under cultivation at any one time. The concept of ujamaa is being
slowly accepted in Geita, and at present there are only 50 ujamaa villages,
three of which are fully established. The average ujamaa comprises about
twelve families.
Agricultural Production
3.06      About half of the land area outside the Geita Forest Reserve is
suitable for cultivation. Crop rotation is usually followed by a fallow
period of equal length. Cassava may be grown on part of the fallow and rice
in the wet, arable bottom land. Cotton and rice are usually grown in pure
stand; maize, beans, millets, legumes and sweet potatoes are frequently sown
as mixtures. Crops are usually grown on broad-based ridges, spaced at five-
foot intervals. This system provides good weed control, reduces erosion, and
is particularly suited to hand cultivation. In the past, family labor has
often been supplemented by communal work groups or hired labor, but hiring of
labor is now discouraged. There is a small amount of ox-cultivation, mainly
in the south, but tractor cultivation is gradually becoming more popular. The
tractors are privately owned by operators who migrate with their units.
3.07      About 95% of the farmers in Geita district grow cottoni.  Production
over the last five years has averaged 56,000 bales of lint, 16% of Tanzania's
production. The district's production has increased thirteen fold over tne
last 30 years as a result of both higher yields--from improved seed and
better husbandry--and an increase in area following migration into new parts
of the district. The district is divided into four ginnery zones (Map), each
served by a single ginnery owned by the Nyanza Cooperative Union (NCU). The
capacity of the ginneries, estimated at 100,000-111,000 bales, is adequate to
deal with production increases in the Project period. The baled cotton lint
is moved from three ginneries to railhead at Fela on NCU vehicles; that from
Buchosa goes by lighter to Mwanza. From these points all lint except that



supnlied to local mills is railed to Dar-es-Salaam for export. With the excep-
tion of nearly 20% reserved by TCA for planting, cotton seed is sold to oil
mills for crushing. Most of the oil mills are owned by NCU and overall capa-
city is sufficient to handle expected production increases.
3.08      Maize, the dominant staple in the district, is grown by virtually
every farmer. Yields vary widely from year to year, as the area is only
marginally suitable for maize production. Production averages about 42,000
tons per year, of which L.s than 1,000 tons of grain is sold to NAPB.
Credit
3.09      About 5% of farmers in Geita district receive loans each year through
the 107 cooperative societies, but there is considerable turnover in borrowers
from year to year. Loans, mainly for fertilizers, insecticide and pumps, are
made in kind and are recovered by deduction from farmers' cotton proceeds. No
collateral is required, and the allocation of credit rests with the society
committee. Credit records are kept by the society secretary, who plays a
major role in loan recovery. Society accounts are audited by staff of the
Cooperative Development Division of the Prime Minister's Office; there is one
inspector for every 7 societies. Default on loans has been widespread. The
major problems are the lack of communal responsibility for the unrecovered
balances and inefficient management of many of the societies. Also, although
only registered members of cooperative societies may obtain loans, all cotton
farmers sell their cotton through societies. It has therefore been simple
for borrowers to avoid deductions by selling their crop either to a society
other than that through which they borrowed, or through a friend or relative
who has not borrowed.
Land Tenure
3.i0      Land rights in Tanzania are vested in Government, but allocation,
although formerly the responsibility of the chiefs, is now carried out by the
local Village Development Committee.  A family has secure tenure on the land
as long as it is put to productive use. Land cannot be sold or used as
collateral, but the right of usufruct can be inherited.
Roads
A. ;      The rural road network in Geita district is in generally poor con-
'i-rifon.  However, some upgrading of about 2,&6 kr, of roads and tracks is now
Je;ng unaer-aken by the Ministry of Commun-cations an'&" Works (Comworks)
:ct:zerment Ur.it organizac under the Third }-igiw..y ?rojtis  (Credit 265-TA).
Th:.s -mprovemeint is designed to supporz co .on production 3n the district,
anc is scheduled for completion in FY 75/76. Local main roads and district
roads in the area are mainta_ned by the District Comworks organizaLion, and
are the immediate responsibii-ty of the District Engineer, Geita.



- 9 -
IV. iHE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would over seven years (1974/75-1980/81)  Lncrease the
output of cotton and maize in Geita district. It would reach some 29,000
smallholder families (175,000 persons), 40% of the total population of the
district. The Project would include:
(a) provision of supervised incremental credit to farmers for
fertilizers, insecticide, improved maize seed, and spray
pumps; it would also provide cultivation credit for the
hire of tractors;
(b) intensification of production through provision of tractors
and supporting services to some ujamaa villages;
(c) extension services and supervision of cooperative credit
procedures;
(d) railhead and society storage for inputs and incremental produce;
Ce) road study and construction;
(fl) agricultural research, soil analysis and land planning; and
(g) technical and social services and provision for Project
evaluation.
The Project would be executed by a Project Unit established within the Tan-
zania Cotton Authority (TCA). Credit would be channeled through the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank (TRDB).
B. Project Phasing and Farmer Participation (Annex 4)
4.02      Under the Project the district would be divided into three areas
(Map 10439) and Project implementation would be carried out in three phases.
The most agriculturally advanced area would be selected first for development.
Recruitment of farmers and most Project investments would be initiated in one
area at a time; the timing of the second and third phases would depend on
the rate of progress in preceding phases. The areas and the year in which
each phase is scheduled to begin are:
(a)  Phase I.        Nyang'wale, Kalangalala and Msalala Divisions,
and Bukoli sub-division of Busanda Division:
1974-75 crop season;



- 10 -
(b)  Phase II.       Bugando Division and Busanda Division, less
Bukoli sub-division:  1976-77; and
(c)  Phase III.      Karumo and Nyakalilo Division:  1977-78.
4.33      Three groups of Geita farmers would be included in the Project:
selected .ndividual farmers, farmers who have consolidated their holdings
with neighbors, and farmers in ujamaa villages. Selection of farmers
woIld be the joint responsibility of the 'Balozi' 1/ and the local ex-
tension officer. As optimum results from selected inputs can be achieved
only with good husbandry, participating individual farmers would generally
be expected to be among the more progressive farmers (para 6.01).
4.04      Farmers would be encouraged to consolidate their holdings to form
contiguous blocks of at least 5 ha in order that they could meet Project
conditions for receiving tractor services (para 4.09). Individual ownership
of the land thus consolidated and of the crops would be retained if farmers
so wished. The highest level of consolidation would take place when farmers
grouped themselves into an ujamaa village which, when fully established and
able to meet Project conditions, would own its own tractor for use on the
vi-llage lands and on nearby consolidated holdings. To encourage develop-
ment of adjoining areas and to facilitate the cotton improvement program,
the Project Manager would permit neighboring qualified ujamaas to purchase
a tractor and enter the Project even though located in areas designated for
later development.
4.05      Within each phase it is anticipated that farmers would join the
Project over a four-year period. The farmers in the Phase I area are among
the most responsive in the district, and in this area a greater degree of
land consolidation and ujamaa development would be expected. However, the
longer lead time, increasing experience of Project staff, and the demonstra-
tion effects of Phase I would result in a more rapid rate of farmer partici-
pation in the t'wo later phases. If the response of farmers were faster than
expected, the schedule could be advanced; if delays were encountered, the
later phases would be delayed so that funds would not be committed to capital
investment (including training) greatly ahead of production increases.
4.06      It is assumed that all 29,000 participants would have entered by
the 1980/81 growing season. The process of consolidation and formation of
ujamaa villages would, however, continue some years beyond the Project
period. The expected Project build-up (Annex 4), is detailed below:
1/   The sole political party on the mainland, the Tanganyika African National
Union, TANU (Annex 1), is organized in a pyramid structure at the base
of which are cells of ten households. The unpaid chairmen of. the cells,
the Balozi, are party members elected by the cell members, and provide an
effective means of communicating with all farmers. The Project would aim
to make the party organization largely responsible for the mobilization
of farmers.



- 11 -
1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81
Project Farmers
(Cumulative)        2,200    5,400    10,700   18,800   24,700   28,000   29,000
Consolidated
Holdings               300      800      1,900    3,800    6,200    9,000   11,900
Total Cotton
Area (ha)            2,800    6,900    13,900   24,400   32,400   37,200   39,200
Total Maize
Area (ha)            2,300    5,600    11,200   19,700   26,200   30,300   32,000
4.07      The success of the Project would to a great extent be dependent on
the rate at which farmers would be willing to accept good husbandry methods
and the use of fertilizer and sprays on the cotton and maize crops, as well
as their perception of the economic return to the additional inputs required.
The long-run return to farmers would be good; however, as traditional farmers
are often resistant to change and as it would take some time for the farmers
to become proficient in the use of inputs, it would be necessary to subsi-
dize the inputs over the early stages of each phase of the Project. Once the
advantages of these new techniques become apparent, the subsidy could be
gradually removed. It is estimated that a 50% level of subsidy - that currently
applied to fertilizer and insecticides (para 2.10) - would be sufficient to pro-
mote the regular use of the selected inputs provided under the Project.
Farmers would be eligible for the subsidy for the first five years of develop-
ment in each phase, and it would then be removed over three years. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the necessary incentives to ensure farmer
participation in the Project, including but not limited to the use of a sub-
sidy program, would be established and maintained, and that sufficient funds
would be made available for this purpose.
C. Detailed Features
Farm Inputs and Credit
4.08      The Project would provide incremental credit for the purchase of
seasonal inputs for cotton and maize, cultivation credit for the hire of
tractor services, and four-year credit for purchase of tractors. Credit
would be in kind. A fertilizer and spray store would be built at each
cooperative society. Nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers would be applied
to both cotton and maize. Initially, the present blanket recommendations
would be followed (Annex 5), but fertilizer applications would eventually
be modified in line with the recommendations of the Project Research Unit.
Ultra-low-volume (ULV) sprayers, with adequate spares, and insecticides
would be available for cotton. Through societies, three to four farmers



- 12 -
would be encouraged to cooperate in the use of each sprayer, and all ex-
tension staff would be trained to carry out necessary maintenance and re-
pairs. An insecticidal dust (para 7.05) would be applied to maize, which
would be grown from improved seed to be supplied through the Project.
Input requirements are at Annex 5, Table 1.
Mechanization and Workshops (Annex 6)
4.09      The Project would encourage the mechanization of basic land prepara-
tion under those conditions where it would be economically and financially
justified. Land preparation is carried out at a time of year when the ground
is hardest and the climate is its hottest; farmers therefore generally delay
preparation until the rains have softened the soil and working conditions have
improved. By this time, however, the optimum planting dates often have passed.
Mechanized land preparation would consequently ensure the timely planting of
cotton and maize, a major factor in the attainment of improved yields. The
Project would provide tractors to some ujamaa villages on four-year credit;
these would then be operated as a commercial enterprise. To qualify for cre-
dit, a village would be required to be a registered cooperative or a member of
a cooperative, lave two trained drivers, and have a minimum of 240 ha earmarked
for tractor cultivation within its own boundaries or in consolidated blocks of
over 5 ha within 5 km of the farm.  Strict adherence to these conditions would
be necessary. 'Farmers with consolidated holdings would also be eligible to
hire tractors owned by neighboring ujamaa villages. This service would be
obtained on credit under the conditions laid down and supervised by the
Project. Hire rates would be set annually in the Project plan of operations
(para 5.01). The owning village would have its account with TRIB credited
with the hire cost as endorsed by the farmer and his Balozi.
4.10      Mechanization would involve land preparation, ridging and fertilizer
application, and would require changes in the pattern of production. Post-
harvest cultivation would be introduced, and a five-year rotation (cotton-
maize-cotton-fallow-fallow) followed. To assist ujamaa farms in adapting to
this regime, the Mechanization Section (para 5.05) would be responsible for
training of drivers, setting of hire charges, supervision of credit require-
ments, advising on tractor operation and maintenance, and provision of movable
workshops or repair facilities as appropriate.
Agricultural Extension and Credit Supervision
4.11      The Project would provide intensive extension coverage in Geita
district. Initially, there would be one contact-level worker--Assistant
Field Officer, grade II (AFO)--per 150 farm fam-lies, but this ratio would
be reduced after the fourth year of each phase to 1:250. There would be one
Field Officer (FO) to every 15 AFO's. The extension staff would work in
close cooperation with the TANU organization in the district and would look
to the Balozi to mobilize Project farmers for meetings and demonstrations as
well as to assist in the selection of participants. AFO's would be provided
with bicycles, and FO's with light motorcycles.  Provision is made for junior
staff houses to be sited as needed to ensure coverage of remote areas of the
district. The Project would also provide for one cinema van and other ex-
tension aids.



- 13 -
4.12      A cooperative credit supervisor for every two cooperative societies
would be financed. They would supervise the consolidation of annual input
requirements, train society staff in the distribution of inputs, and help
ensure that credit repayments are effected. Provision would be made for
housing of credit officers and for transport for supervisory staff.
Storage
4.13      Under the Project an input store would be provided at each
cooperative society within the Project (Annex 6, Table 1). These coop-
erative society stores would be constructed immediately prior to the start
of each phase of development. Seed cotton storage would be expanded as
required by increases in production, but cotton seed storage is adequate.
Additional storage would be provided at railhead to accommodate supplies of
fertilizer and insecticide prior to distribution to societies.
Roads
4.14      Of the 306 km of roads and tracks scheduled to be improved under
the Third Highway Project (para 3.11), 230 km in the eastern section of Geita
district would be developed under Phase I of the Project, and 76 km in the
northern section would be developed under Phase III. Financing would be pro-
'vided under the Project for a study of roads and tracks not being improved
under the Third Highway Project which need to be upgraded in order to support
cotton production. The total additional distance involved is estimated at
800 km. The Tanzanian Government has been asked to make arrangements for
consultants to carry out the study. This would include recommendations as to
alignments, design standards and methods for the improvement of existing
roads or construction of new ones and would provide estimates of costs and
benefits. Terms of reference for the study are set out in Annex 7.
Agricultural Research and Soil Analysis
4.15      An adaptive research program would be carried out by the Project
Research Unit. The program would be designed to improve the efficiency of
use of insecticides and fertilizers on both cotton and maize in Geita.
Provision would be made for an entomologist and agronomist, supporting staff,
a field laboratory, equipment, housing, stores and transportation. A trial
center at Geita would carry out farm trials. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that Government would make available to TCA 25 ha of un-
occupied land near Geita suitable for agricultural trials.
4.16      A soil laboratory would be set up to provide soil analyses from
which refined fertilizer recommendations could be made. The laboratory would
be sited in existing buildings at Ukiriguru, where research work to improve
the chemical determination of fertilizer needs is already underway; in case
of excess capacity this facility would be able to serve the rest of WCGA.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Project would be granted
priority in the use of the soil analytical laboratory.



- 14 -
Land Use Planning
4.17      The Project would provide for a land planning unit to demarcate
farm boundaries on ujamaa farms and the larger consolidated holdings, and
to provide a farm planning service for farmers. The unit would also plan
farm track alignments, develop soil conservation layouts, plan village
layouts, and assess water supply needs. Extensive use would be made of
existing aerial photographs held at Nyegezi Training Institute.
Social and Technical Services
4.18      Project services would include:
(a)  Water Supply.  As Geita district is naturally well-supplied
with water, the only additional facility required would be
a pumped water supply to the Nyamalilo ginnery.
(b)  Health Centers.  Government plans to develop a rural-based
health system with one center per 50,000 persons; Geita
now has only three of the 7 centers projected under this
plan. These health centers would serve areas over 20 miles
from existing centers or from the two district hospitals;
each center would service five satellite dispensaries. Under
the Project four such centers would be constructed and equipped.
One each would be constructed at Kibingo and Chinfunfu, and
the remaining two would be located by the District Development
Council. Assurances that appropriate staff and medical supplies
would be made available to the centers were obtained at negotiations.
(c)  Community Education Centers (CEC).  Government also plans
to provide four-classroom community education centers through-
out the district. Four CEC's would be constructed under the
Project, which would be the same as those being developed under
the Fourth Ecucation Credit (from which the designs would be
supplied). The location of the CEC's would be agreed between
the Project Unit and the regional education authorities.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that teachers and
funds for recurrent expenditures would be made available.
(d)  Procurement Officer.  In order to improve overall procurement
performance throughout Governmen:>,  rovision would be made
£or a Procurement Officer to be attac-h^a -o TRDB for three
years.  The Officer would handle proc-Zr_O, or botn this
and other IDA projects, and woulf train otner Government staff
in international procurement procedures.
(e)  Proiect Evaluation and Planning.  A Project 'Evaluation Unit
wo-ld be established to improve on base-line data, analyze
progress of the Project, evaluaLe Project components, and



- 15 -
undertake farm management research to obtain planning data.
The unit would also be responsible for preparation of a
follow-up project in Geita district or in neighboring cotton
areas.
D. Project Costs (Annex 8)
4.19      Total Project cost is estimated at Tsh 170 million (US$23.8 million),
of which US$14 million or 59% would represent foreign exchange requirements.
Details are summarized in the following table:



- 16-
Local    Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign   Total       Foreign
Exchazge
-------- Tsh'000 ---------    ------- US$'000 -----              g
Fain Credit
Seasonal Credit (fertilizer,
insecticides and seed)        2,803    12,771    15,574        392    1,788      2,180       82
Medium-tern credit
- sprayers                      434      2,462     2,896        61       345       406       85
- tractors                      772      4,372     5,144       108       612       720       85
- ploughs/ridgers/tillers       433      2,454     2,887        61       344        405      85
- cultivation credit          1,020     1,021      2,041       143       142       285       50
Sub-t.itail             -5,462    23,080    28,542          765    3,231      3,996
Project Investment
Vehicles                          142        8014       946       20       113        133      85
Storage                         7,282      2,090     9,372    1,019        293     1,312       22
Buildings                         386        386        772       54        54        108      50
lIcusing                        5,007      1,252      6,259      701       175        876      20
Equipaerrt (incl.mobile units)   203       1,149     1,352        28       161        189      85
Ginnery and water supply           74        295        369       10        42         52      80
Road survey                       665      1,798      2,463        93      252        345      73
Road construction              10,537    24,588    35,125    1,475    3,442        4,917       70
Hlealth facilities              1,400      1,400      2,800      196       196        392      50
Schools                         2,514        977      3,491      352       137        189      28
Sub-total                28,210    34,739    62,919    3,948         ,865      8,813      55
Project Administration
Wlages and salaries            16,813      9,458    26,271    2,354    1,3214       3,678       36
Other operating costs           1,490      1,439      2,979      209       208        417      50
Sub-total                18,303    10,947    29,250    2,563    1,532         4,095       42
Total                    51,975    68,766   120,741    7,276    9,628    16,904
Cont.ingency Allowtances
FP.hysi cal                     5,809      8,022    13,631       813    1,123       1,936      58
ic c                           11,635    23,723    35,103    1,636    3,321        4,957       67
i2. -   <ect Cc't              69,)469   100,51'   1 6 9 ,     9,725   14,072    23,797        59



- 17 -
Costs are based on recent development experience and appraisal finding, and
are inclusive of taxes (Tsh 5.12 million over the Project period), Physical
contingencies of 15% have been applied to road construction costs and 10%
on all other Project costs. Cumulative price contingencies of 7% annually
have been applied on both local and foreign exchange costs.
E. Financing
4.20      Financing of Project costs would be shared in the following amounts
and proportions:
Tsh        US$
(million)  (million)          %
IDA                            125.0       17.5           74
Government of Tanzania          45.0       6.3            26
Total                          170.0       23.8           100
The proposed IDA credit of US$17.5 million would be on standard terms to
Government. This would finance the foreign exchange cost and 35% of local
costs. IDA funds for farmer credit would be made available to TRDB at 4%
annually. TRDB would onlend short and medium-term credit to cooperatives at
8-1/2% and they would in turn onlend to farmers at the same rate - the standard
rate for final borrowers in Tanzania. TRDB would also receive on the same
terms funds for tractor loans which it would onlend through its Mwanza
office. TCA would receive annual subventions from Government for the work-
shop, housing, storage, office and laboratory construction, vehicles, the
Nyamalilo ginnery water supply, and staff costs. Government would retain
funds for road construction, the soil laboratory at Ukiriguru, health facili-
ties and education centers. These would be handled through the Ministries of
Works, Agriculture, Health and Education respectively.
F. Procurement
4.21      Tractors (US$720,000), tillage equipment (US$405,000), fertilizers
and insecticides (US$2.0 million), and ULV pumps and spares (US$406,000)
would be procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines. In evaluation of bids local manufacturers would be allowed
a preference margin of 15% or the existing rate of import duties, whichever
is lower. Orders of less than USS30,000 would be procured in accordance with
Government procedures; orders would be bulked to the maximum extent possible.
Due to their small size and the fact that they would be scattered over a wide
area, construction of workshops, housing and other buildings would be by
force account or by local competitive bidding. The road study (US$345,000)



- 18 -
would be carried out by consultants chosen in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Project roads would be constructed by contractors chosen after international
competitive bidding. However, such roads may be constructed by force account
or by contractors selected after local bidding as agreed with the Association
following a review of the findings of the road study by Government and IDA.
Assurances that these procedures would be followed were obtained at negotiations.
G. Disbursement (Annex 9)
4.22      Disbursement of funds from the credit would be on the following
basis:
(a) 100% of foreign or 70% of local expenditures for the
incremental cost of seasonal inputs including fer-
tilizers, insecticides, seeds and equipment operating
expenditures (US$1.9 million); 100% of the foreign or
70% of the local cost of agricultural equipment in-
cluding sprayers, tractors, ploughs, tillage equipment
and TCA vehicles and equipment (US$1.7 million);
(b) 100% of the foreign costs of expatriate staff and the
foreign costs of the road study (US$1.5 million);
(c) 70% of total costs of rDad construction, houses, buildings,
schools, health centers and the water supply (US$5.7 mil-
lion);
(d) 70% of local costs of the Project Unit operating ex-
penditures (US$1.8 million); and
(e) an unallocated amount of about US$4.9 million representing
contingencies on the above categories and transferable to
them as required.
Disbursement against (a), (b) and (c) would be fully documented; disbursement
against (d) would be made against certificates of expenditures endorsed by the
Project Manager, the documentation for which would not be submitted for re-
view, but would be retained by the Borrower and available for inspection by the
Association during the course of supervision. The estimated schedule of dis-
burEement is shown in Annex 9.  Any funds remaining on the credit account upon
completion of the Project would be used, at the issociation's discretion, for
the continuing development of cotton in Geita district.
H. Accounts and Audit
4.23      Commercial accounts for the Project specifically geared to cost
control and management operations would be maintained and published in the



- 19 -
accounts of TCA. TRDB would keep a separate account for disbursements
under the Project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that both
accounts would be audited by auditors acceptable to IDA, and that the ac-
counts and auditors' reports would be submitted to the Association within
six months of the close of the financial years of TCA and TRDB. All coopera-
tive societies would keep simple accounts of loans to individual farmers and
ujamaa villages. These accounts would be audited by the Registrar of Coopera-
tives and assurances were obtained at negotiations that audits would be under-
taken within six months of the close of the financial year of each society.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Administration (Chart)
5.01      A Project Unit with headquarters at Geita would be set up as a semi-
autonomous division of the Tanzania Cotton Authority (TCA). Local coordination
would be achieved through a subcommittee of the District Development Council
which would be composed of: Area Commissioner, Geita (Chairman); District
Chairman of TANU; District Development Director, Geita; General Manager, TCA;
General Manager, NCU; and Regional Agricultural Development Officer, Mwanza
and the Project Manager. The Project would thus be identified as a district-
level scheme and coordination with other district activities would be ensured.
An annual plan of operations detailing proposals for Project execution would
be drawn up by the Project Unit by 1st March of each year, and agreed with
the Association by 1st May of that year. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations.
5.02      The post of Project Manager would be filled by a person of proven
administrative ability, preferably with field experience in smallholder agri-
cultural projects. The Deputy Project Manager, unless the background of the
Project Manager suggests otherwise, would be a man with proven technical ex-
pertise in smallholder agriculture. A Project Accounting Unit headed by an
expattiatj Accounts Officer would be located at TCA headquarters at Mwanza.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that appointment of a suitably quali-
fied Project Manager, Deputy Project Manager and Accounts Officer would be
made only after prior consultation with the Association.
Field Organization
5.03      The field organization would be divided into three sections--exren-
sion, mechanization, and credit services--established at the commencement of
the Project. (Overall staff requirements are detailed in Annex 10.) Each
section would be headed by a suitably qualified and experienced senior offi-
cer, whose appointment would be made after consultation with IDA. Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
5.04      Supervision of the Extension Section would be the responsibility of
a Chief Extension Officer, with a Field Officer (FO) in charge of the area of



- 20 -
each phase of development.  Under him there would be an Assistant Field Offi-
cer, grade I (AFO I) for approximately each 15 AFO II. Contact would be main-
tained at each level with the TANU District, Ward and Ten-cell organization
(Annex 1). Personnel would live in their areas close to cooperative societies
or at ujamaa villages.
5.05      The Mechanization Section would have a flexible organization geared
in size to the number of tractors in the Project. Initially, it would operate
from Geita in mobile -nxcait (four-wheel drive utility vehicles) carrying suf-
ficient equipment to carry out basic repairs; each unit would be staffed by
a mechanic grade II and an assistant/driver. Movable workshops would be
established at a later date, each with an FO (Mechanization) in charge of
operations in the phase area, including supervision of mobile units. Movable
workshops would probably be established at Karumwa (1978-79), Sengerema
(1979-80) and Bilulumo (1981-82). The central workshop at Geita, which would
double as a training center for drivers, would be developed in three stages
as the Project expands.
5.06      A Chief Credit Officer would direct a Credit Section with an organi-
zation similar to that of the Extension Section. There would be one credit
officer for every two societies. The ratio of credit officers to Project
farmers would be high in the initial years of each phase (ratio of 1:300)
when the logistical problems would be greatest and society staff would need
most guidance; eventually each officer would be responsible for 500-600 farmers.
Staff and Training
5.07      All staff whether seconded or newly recruited would be employed by
TCA, and assurances were obtained at negotiations that terms and conditions
of service and transfer would be finalized between Government and TCA and
details furnished to the Association. Government would second existing exten-
sion and cooperative field staff to the Project at the beginning of each phase
of the Project. The extension staff would be retrained in short courses
emphasizing cotton and maize intensification which would also familiarize them
with the Project' organization. The courses would be organized by Project
management in conjunction with the Regional Agricultural Development Officer,
using Kilimo facilities. Cooperative development staff would receive similar
retraining under the Project in conjunction with the Regional Cooperative
staff and TRDB.  Courses would cover estimation and handling of input orders
as a;a as credit operations.
5. 03     'xtension staff recruited directly would Uv  two-year certificate
level trainin;,. Training facilities within WCGA are avalIable at the Insti-
tute at Ukiriguru, 1/ and throughput at ttVc Institute would be adequate for
Project needs. New credit staff would be drawn from two-year diploma gradu-
ates of the Cooperative College at Moshi, and there would be no ditficulty
supplying this need. However, as there are conflicting demands for diplo-
mates from Ukiriguru and Moshi, assurances were obtained at negotiations
I/   To be expanded under the Third Education Project.



- 21 -
that they would be made available to the Project as the need arises. All
Project extension and credit staff would attend periodic refresher courses.
5.09      The few mechanics needed in the early stages of the Project would
be recruited from technical school graduates, and would receive further train-
ing under the Project; provision is also made for the training of later re-
cruits. Staff for the Land Planning Unit would be trained at Nyegezi Training
Institute with field work in Geita district. Facilities at Nyegezi are good,
but the quality of the teaching staff is inadequate to take full advantage of
the Institute's potential. The standard of instruction in land planning at
the Institute would be strengthened by the appointment of a qualified staff
instructor. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Research and Land Planning
5.10      The Research and Land Planning Units to be established at the start
of the Project would be located at Geita. Provision would be made for two
expatriate professional staff in the Research Unit: an entomologist and an
agronomist. Provision would also be made for two Tanzanian trainee profes-
sional officers. The team would be supported by 15 field assistants working
on center and farm trials. The Planning Unit would be composed of a Senior
Planning and Conservation Officer and team of 4 APO's. Two further teams
would be added as the Project progressed. The soil analytical laboratory at
Ukiriguru would come under the direction of the Director of Research and
Training at Ukiriguru in order to ensure that links with the stations' soil
fertility research program would be maintained. For the first three years
the soil analytical laboratory would be staffed with an expatriate Senior
Analytical Chemist, a graduate chemist and 4 laboratory assistants; in the
fourth year another graduate chemist and 4 assistants would be added.
Credit Allocation
5.11      TRDB would allocate short-term credit to cooperative societies on
the final recommendations of Project extension staff. Allocation of inputs
would be determined according to society estimates of members' requirements;
these would be endorsed by the extension credit officers, who would also
supervise distribution, carried out by NCU on behalf of TCA, to societies
and fully developed Ujamaas. TRDB would be responsible for procurement and
delivery of inputs to societies.
5.12      Societies with poor credit records would be required to show satis-
factory improvement in management standards before its members would be per-
mitted to enter the Project. Individual farmers who have defaulted on past
loans would be excluded from the Project unless there were grounds for writin
off the debt. Farmer credit applications would be endorsed for credit-worth-
iness by the applicant's Balozi, who would be advised on input needs by the
extension staff. All farmers in the district would be required to register
with the cooperative to which they would sell their cotton. Only cotton
growers would also receive credit for maize inputs. Recovery of credit for
both cotton and maize, including the cultivation credit for tractors, would



- 22 -
carried out by the cooperative society which, as at present, would deduct mem-
bers' loan amounts from their cotton proceeds. The Regional Office of TRDB at
Mwanza would issue credit to societies for the purchase of tractors only
after Project staff had confirmed that all criteria had been met (para 4.09),
and recovery would be effected by TRDB.
Road Construction
5.13      Recommendations as to the method of execution and supervision of
the road construction to be carried out under the Project would be detailed
in the road study (para 4.14). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
all local main roads, district roads and cotton tracks to be either improved
or constructed as part of the Project would be maintained by the district Com-
works organization.
Project Evaluation
5.14      The Evaluation Unit would be headed by an experienced agricultural
economist, who would be supported by a statistical assistant in charge of
data processing and a farm-survey officer. Initially, 2 data clerks and 2
senior enumerators would be permanently employed by the Unit, and provision
would be made for the training and contract employment of enumerators. The
Unit would be expanded by the recruitment of an additional senior enumerator
and data clerk at the opening of Phase III of the Project.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Yields and Production (Annex 13)
6.01      The average base yields for Project participants are 500 kg/ha of
seed cotton (compared with a district average of 400 kg/ha), and 850 kg/ha of
maize grain (compared with a district average of 550 kg/ha). Over an eight-
year period it is assumed that a farmer's cotton yields would increase to
1,100 kg/ha, and that average maize yields would rise in two annual steps to
2,000 kg/ha. These increases are based on plot observations and take account
of inter-year fluctuations caused by climate. Details of yield progressions
are given in Annex 5. An average farmer would have 1.25 ha under cotton and
1.00 ha under maize, the current average areas in Geita district. Farmers
who have consolidated their fields with those of neighbors and farmers in
ujamaa villages are assumed to cultivate 1.50 ha of cotton and 1.25 ha of
maize, as they would be assisted by mechanized land preparation and cultivation.



- 23 -
6.02      Production of cotton and maize on Project farms is estimated to in-
crease as follows:
Seed Cotton               Cotton Lint                  Maize
Project        Project    Project    Incremental   Project   Incremental
Year Production    Av. Yield/1 Production  Production   Production Production
m. tons         kg/ha          bales (181 kg)        m. tons       m. tons
0     18,100           500        33,000-         -         24,600           -
3     22,000           600        4f,100       7,100        34,500        9,900
6     33,700           800        62,400      29,400        59,300       34,700
9     41f,600        1,000        75,800      42,800        66,500       41,900
12     44,900         1,070        81,900      48,900        69,200       44,600
15     46,100         1,100        84,000      51,000        69,300       44,700
/1  Weighted average of all Project farmers irrespective of period of
participation.
Markets and Prices (Annex 12)
6.03      Tanzania currently produces about 400,000 baleqs of lint annually,
of wqhich the local textile industry uses abou-t3,000-60,000 bales, 12-15%
of production. The rest is exported, and over half of this goes to Hongkong,
Japan and the Republic of China. The Project would have no significant
impact on world prices, as the incremental Project production of 51,000 bales
would represent an increase of less than 0.1% of current world production.
Cotton seed not retained for planting is crushed and the oil is sold on the
domestic market; cake is exported to Europe. Surplus maize is marketed
domestically. Although incremental maize production in the Project period
would represent about 18% of present total sales, commercial demand is
increasing at about 4.5% per annum, and there should be no difficulty market-
ing this additional volume.
6.04      By 1980 world lint prices expressed in 1973 constant dollar terms
are expected to be around 29 US,/lb c.i.f. Liverpool as compared with today's
price of about 46 USJ/lb. In keeping with Government policy (para 2.07) prices
to growers are expected to be maintained at Tsh 1.13/kg for AR (unstained cot-
ton) and Tsh 0.60/kg for BR (stained cotton) throughout the period (Annex 12).
The controlled internal price of cotton seed oil is above equivalent world
prices. Although these are expected to decline by about 10% by 1980, and
allowing for increased milling costs, TCA should be able to obtain at least
Tsh 450 per ton for seed. The international price of maize is expected to
decline from the hieh level caused by current world shortages in food grains;
by 1980 the price is expected to be about US$63/ton f.o.b. (Tsh 440). This is
close to the equivalent farmgate price of Tsh 0.35/kg fixed by Government for



- 24 -
priority areas 1/. For non-priority areas, including Geita, a price of
Tsh 0.30/kg is set. These levels are expected to be maintained in the fore-
seeable future.
Government Budget and Foreign Exchange!
6.05      The impact of the Project on the Government budget is shown in
Annex 13. The Project would result in considerable increases in Government
expenditure which would not be matched by revenues until after Year 12. By
that time the maximum cumulative deficit in Government budget would be
Tsh 60 million (IJSS8.4 million). Revenues would benefit from export duties
on cotton, the margin of interest on the IDA loan and income taxes levied on
incremental incomes. Major imported Project items would not be subject to
duty. A further contribution would come from indirect taxes on farmers' in-
cremental consumption expenditure. The costs of the subsidy on cotton inputs
would be offset by the export duty on incremental cotton lint production from
the Project, and these costs would be fully recovered from Year 10 onward.
6.06      From 1985 onward the Project would result in an annual incremental
production of cotton of nearly 50,000 bales, with a total value of US$7 mil-
lion on the world market. The annual net foreign exchange earnings would be
nearly USS3 million equivalent.
Farmer Benefits
6.07      Farm budgets for the three groups of farmers (para 4.03) are given
in Annex 5. These budgets include subsidies on inputs for a maximum of five
years, and these are then reduced in three equal stages. Maximum cotton yields
would be obtaLned in the farmers' eighth year when, with no subsidy on inputs,
net annual cash incomes would reach Tsh 1520. This would represent an increase
of some 64% over pre-Project incomes (about Tsh 930) and a return on inputs of
about 100%.
6.08      In the fifth year of the Project the value to farmers of incremental
cotton production would be Tsh 12.7 million (USS1.8 million) and after the
tenth year of the program it would exceed Tsh 28 million p.a. (US$4 million).
The farmgate value of maize would be Tsh 8.5 million (TJS$1.2 million) in the
fifth year and Tsh 13 million p.a. (USS1.8 million) from Year 10. The net
annual per capita cash income of Project participants (exclusive of subsidy
and assuming a family of five persons) would increase from an estimated US$25
to US$43, without affecting the subsistence production on the farm. Project
benefits to farmers on ujamaa farms would be similar. The annual per capita
income of Project farmers in Year 8 would be about US$68, including subsistence
valued at US$25. At that time the per capita GNP in Tanzania is expected to
be in the range of US$120-130.
1/   Areas where maize is the major cash crop.



- 25 -
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would support Government's regional rural development
program by (i) expanding the production of cotton which would increase the
country's foreign exchange earnings, (ii) increasing maize production to meet
the needs of the growing domestic market, and (iii) supplying essential in-
frastructure and social services in Geita district. The upgrading of thle road
network would reduce marketing costs, and would support the effort to provide
a balanced system of transportation throughout the country. The health cen-
ters would help meet the projected requirements of the rural health system,
and the community education centers would substantially augument existing
facilities. Cash incomes of participating Project farmers would be increased
by about 64%. The Project would provide a pattern for the intensification of
production which could be adapted for use in other regions of Tanzania.
Economic Rate of Return
7.02      The internal economic rate of return of the Project is estimated at
14% over a 20-year period (Annex 14). In this calculation 50% of the costs of
road construct-on and the road study were attributed to the Project, and the
costs of schools and health facilities were omitted. Foreign exchange costs
and earnings were shadow priced at Tsh 10.00 per US$1.00 to reflect the economic
value of foreign exchange to Tanzania (the official exchange rate is Tsh 7.14
per US$1.00). The benefits attributed to road construction represent only the
direct saving in running costs of cotton and maize vehicles, including savings
from reduced distances travelled. Benefits to road users are not included as
they are not expected to be significant.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.03      There are a number of factors which could adversely affect the out-
come of the Project. (Annex 14) The most important of these are the rate of
participation of the farmers, and their relative success in achieving yield
increases with new inputs. The Project has been made flexible so as to mini-
mize effects of delays in farmer participation, and, although typically sensi-
tive to yield variations, the assumed rate and level of increase in yields is
conservative. With the costs of schools and health facilities included the
return would be 13%. If 100% of the costs of roads were included, the return
would be 10%. A 10% drop in yields or prices would reduce the return to 7%,
but a 10% increase in benefits would give a return of 21%.
Employment Benefits
7.04      There will be little direct employment benefits because the Project
intensifies production on existing family units, but families would be more
fully employed through the introduction of cooperative cultivation. A few
additional jobs would be created in the ginning, oil-milling, and transporting
sectors. The use of tractors will not be labor displacing, as they would
assist with basic and timely land preparation - at present a severe constraint
on improved yields.



- 26 -
Ecological and External Effects
7.05      The fertilizers and insecticides to be used in the Project would
have only a small effect on the local ecology given normal precautions in
u use. 3ndosulphan spray is toxic to humans and safety instructions
should be included in all training. All hospitals and dispensaries in the
district have already been issued treatment instructions. Potential erosion
as land is consolidated would be controlled by laying out blocks on contours
with the guidance of the land planning unit. Precautions would also be
taken in the construction of roads to prevent erosion. The Evaluation Unit
would monitor the environmental effects of the Project.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a) Government would adequately staff the WRC to enable it
to provide support for the Project and to help prepare
the ground for future projects (para 2.12);
(b)  The necessary incentives to ensure farmer participation in
the Project, including but not limited to the use of a sub-
sidy program, would be established and maintained, and suf-
ficient funds would be made available for this purpose (4.07);
(c)  Government would make available to TCA 25 ha of unoccupied
land near Geita suitable for agricultural trials (para 4.15);
(d)  The Project would be granted priority in the use of the soil
analytical laboratory (para 4.16);
(e)  Appropriate staff and medical supplies would be made
available to the rural health centers (para 4.18(b));
(f)  Teachers and funds for recurrent expenditures would be
made available to the community education centers
(para 4.18(c));
(g)  Tractors, tillage equipment, fertilizers and insecticides,
and ULV pumps and spares would be procured by international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
In appraisal of bids local manufacturers would be allowed
a preference margin of 15% or the existing rate of import
duties, whichever is lower. Orders of less than US$30,000
would be procured in accordance with Government procedures;
orders would be bulked to the maximum extent possible. Due
to their small size and the fact that they would be scattered
over a wide area, construction of workshops, housing and other



- 27 -
buildings would be by force account or by local competitive
bidding. The road study would be carried out by consultants
chosen in accordance with IDA guidelines. Project roads would
be constructed by contractors chosen after international com-
petitive bidding. However, such roads may be constructed by
force account or by contractors selected after local bidding
as agreed with the Association following a review of the find-
ings of the road study by Government and IDA (para 4.21);
(h)  Project accounts maintained by TCA and TRDB would be audited
by auditors acceptable to IDA and Project accounts and
auditors' reports would be submitted to the Association
within six months of the close of the respective financial
years (para 4.23);
(i)  Society accounts would be audited by the Registrar of
Cooperatives within six months of the close of the
financial year of each society (para 4.23);
(j)  An annual plan of operations detailing plans for Project
execution would be drawn up by the Project Unit by 1st March
of each year and agreed with the Association by 1st May of
that year (para 5.01);
(k)  Appointment of a suitably qualified Project Manager,
Deputy Projec; Manager and Accounts Officer would be
made only after prior consultation with the Association
(para 5.02);
(1)  Appointments to the posts of Chief Extension Officer, Chief
Mechanization Officer and Chief Credit Officer would be
made only after consultation with the Association (para 5.03);
(m)  Terms and conditions of service and transfer of all staff,
whether seconded or newly recruited, would be finalized be-
between Government and TCA and details would be furnished to
the Association (para 5.07);
(n)  Diplomates from Ukiriguru and Moshi would be made avail-
able to the Project according to need (para 5.08);
(o)  The standard of instruction in land planning at the Nyegezi
Training Institute would be strengthened by the appointment
of a qualified staff instructor (para 5.09); and
(p)  All local main roads, district roads and cotton tracks to be
either improved or constructed as part of the Project would
be maintained by the district Comworks organization (para 5.13).
8.02      The Project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$17.5 million
to the Government of Tanzania.






A_NNEX 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Ujamaa and TANU
The Uiamaa Village Program
1.        Tanzania's socialist development policy is aimed at the simultaneous
achievement of rapid economic growth and an egalitarian society. Perhaps one
of the most important aspects of this policy is the increasing emphasis on
agriculture and rural development, and in recent years the rural development
strategy has focused on the establishment of cooperatives or ujamaa villages
throughout the country. The immediate objectives are social and political -
to foster a sense of self-reliance through self-help, to achieve equality of
income, and to raise rural incomes in order to close the rural/urban gap and
reduce the flow of people to the major towns. Government recognizes, however,
that to be successful in these spheres, the strategy must be economically
viable, and cooperative production - only possible with the new social atti-
tude - is set as the final goal. The formation of ujamaa villages, which is
one of the more conspicuous features of the execution of the policy, is im-
portant in those rural areas of Tanzania where the greatest progress towards
ujamaa has been made so far. However, cooperative production can take place
without any resettlement and, particularly in the most closely populated
areas, will probably be developed on that basis.
2.        The Prime Minister's Office is charged with the development of ujamaa
villages. A Rural Development Division coordinates with TANU (the polit-
ical party organization) and other executive Ministries, and is responsible
for continuous evaluation of ujamaa operations. The standardization of
reporting and assessment of economic performance is still poor but these
problems are receiving close attention. Technical support is given by other
Ministries, especially the Ministry of Agriculture at Kilimo.
3.        It is difficult to gauge progress with ujamaa in quantitative
terms, because this is marked by the acceptance of a cooperative attitude
to working and living as well as by the economic success in production. The
latter is only now being evaluated by the Tanzanians. A count of ujamaa
villages and the population involved in them is some guide to progress,
but village formation is reported in three stages and the first, unspecific,
stage which dominates the statistics tends to be overestimated in spite
of efforts to improve reporting. Estimates of population in villages may
also be high due to double counting. Subject to these reservations, Table
1 shows progress with village formation. In April 1971, 17 villages had
been registered with the Registrar of Cooperatives and were accepted as
being in Stage TII; by October 1971 this total had risen to about 40, and
in December 1972, 315 villages had been registered.



ANNEX I
Page 2
4.        The stages ir. ujamaa development, based on sources of finance open
to villages, are:
(a) A formative stage during which resettled villages require financial
aid for activities such as clearing bush, access road construction,
and purchase of initial equipment. In practice, they often also need
food, which cannot always be raised locally. At this stage the
Regional Development Funds are the major source of assistance.
Villages that are members of primary marketing cooperatives also
receive the same servicing facilities as individual members.
(b) A growing stage in which the village members learn to live and
work together, putting increasingly more of their work effort into
commercial crops and activities. The village has a workable con-
stitution, and when it has become economically viable registers
as an Agricultural Association. Credit may then be obtained from
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB).
(c) The final, mature, stage is when the ujamaa village registers
with the Registrar of Cooperatives. It may become a full multi-
purpose cooperative society, and would have adequate security to
attract commercial credit. The assessment of when this stage is
reached is carried out by the local Cooperative Officer, Agricultural
Officer, and TANU secretary.
5.        In the early years of ujamaa development, over-zealous officials
exerted pressure on farmers to form villages. The basic principle of Ujamaa
formation was thus transgressed, i.e., that it take place on the un-coerced
initiative of members. This policy of coercion has been abandoned for some
years, but there have been signs of undue persuasion again being used, almost
certainly without the approval of central policy makers. Table 1 also contains
evidence that the three-stage approach is being short-circuited in some areas
and that ujamaas are registered without first going through a learning period.
This has clearly happened in the Coast, Dodoma and Iringa Regions and to a
lesser extent in Mara, Mwanza and Shinyanga, where the number of registered
villages in December 1972 greatly exceeded those in Stage II 18 months earlier.
It is desirable that only viable ujamaa villages incur major debts such as the
tractor and input loans in this Project. It is assumed that only about 70
villages could reach this stage in the Project period.
6.        Progress with ujamaa village formation varies considerably by
region. The differences reflect boch the variety of motives for the for-
mation of villages, and the social and geographical conditions of the areas.
The greatest development has been close to the boundary with Mozambique
where the dominMant motivation has been defense.  Elsewhere the largest num-
ber of vil.lages are in areas which have limited involvement in the cash



A NIEX 1
Page 3
economy, are sparsely populated, and have a harsh environTment. These include
Dodoma and Kigoma where there has been a concentration of planning effort
and technical assistance. It is in these areas where the concept of physical
movement into concentrated villages (probably located on a new water supply),
and the introduction of new crops (necessitating rather intensive technical
guidance, modern inputs and credit) is a particularly appropriate approach.
Because of the real need for services, and the flexibiliLty which available
land presents, these areas will probably accept ujamaa most readily.
7.        Progress in numbers has been noticeably slower in two types of
areas. These are: (i) the densely populated highland areas where individ-
ually owned land is under coffee, tea or bananas (such as in Kilimanjaro,
Bukoba and Rungwe districts) and where ujamaa will be based on cooperative
work on existing crops and is urtlikely to involve any resettlement; and
(ii) generally less densely populated areas with established cash crops
such as cotton, tobacco, and cashew. These are drier regions than the
highlands, with more extensive cultivation and marked seasonal peak labor re-
quirements (traditionally met by hiring). Technical and social problems
seem particularly likely in the cotton area around Lake Victoria, including
Geita, where an individualistic attitude, typical of first-generation
settlers exists. An unhurried approach to ujamaa seems especially appropri-
ate in these areas.
8.        The economic justification for communal farming rests on the
greater production arising from economies of scale and division of labor,
and the more economical (and therefore increased per capita) provision
of Government services such as extension advice, water supplies, schools
and dispensaries. The case for economies of scale is based on (i) sharing
bulk orders of inputs and group marketing; (ii) making more efficient
use of labor and hand or powered implements, enabling a greater area to be
cultivated; (iii) allowing specialization of function, such as herding
and tool repair in the village; and (iv) enabling wider access to and
acceptance of yield-increasing technical advice. The channelling of agri-
cultural credit can be facilitated by cohesive ujamaa units, as can the
economic distribution of packages of inputs supported by extension services.
Potentially, ujamaa villages would extend the coverage of cooperative
marketing organizations, but until they reach a sufficient size to provide
marketing services economically, ujamaa villages would be members of existing
cooperative societies. A further argument for ujamaa villages is that a
group of farmers will accept an innovation to which individuals are indifferent.
However, there is a lack of empirical evidence on where economies of scale
are achievable in commercial production; the optimum scale of different
operations is not known, but it is clear that radical changes are needed in
farm management as production becomes increasingly communal and is carried
out on a larger scale.  A well-trained extension service familiar with or
trained in decision making on large farms then becomes a necessity.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
9.        These manag zat caaages wiLl be particularly required for crops
like tobacco w_.th a at0h management requirement, and crops such as cotton
;.:ch have a high pay-off from timely operations, and are typically included
~ o  _ Z-hoo. croas.  The application of uJamaa principles to
corton growing, partic-ularly with mechanization, calls for major changes in
frarm itanagemen: techn,-uies.  'These would .nclude new rotations and crop
-vroportions, iatrocucr-on o: minimum tillage techniques, intensification of
cuLt .vation rrom use o  sprays and fertilizers, and possibly changes in
pickl'rhg and sorti ang. kiechanization needs to follow intensificiation and a
reorganization of landholdings. It cannot economically be imposed on the
existing low-yield sys_em.
IO.       Difficulties wizhin villages - which are likely to be a continuing
concern - are tie lack of leadership and management skills among village
.'.t;,ers, anc problems of measuring the share of communal production which
_s Che due of the individual.  The former can be helped by planning, train-
and assistance from extension services.  The most important factor is to
er.sure that ujamaa villages develop from the desire of the people and at a
pac~_ at which they can absorb the new ideas and techniques essential for
viable communal production.
TANU
1t.       The mobilizing force in ujamaa development has been the political
_Lrzy, TANU. Organized down to cells of ten families, TANU reaches the grass-
roots of the rural areas, and in its pyramid structure rising through village
development committees and ward organizations provides a hierarchy for
channelling both policy decisions and local opinions. At the village level it
provides a forum within which a group of farmers can debate possible coopera-
tion through which technical and planning advice (e.g., on site selection,
crops, planting areas) can be channelled, and through which farmers' problems
and wishes can be passed to the party and Government.
12.       The unpaid leader of the 10-family cell, known as the 'Balozi',
is a TANU member elected by party members of the cell. It is his job
to keep records of the cell membership, collect dues from party members, and
pass on political and policy information to the cell. He is also to keep
the party leadership and--through TANU--the Government informed on local
problems. The Balozi tries to settle local disputes which otherwise would
go to the courts. The position is primarily political, but with Party and
development matters so closely linked, the Balozi obviously fills an econ-
omic role as well. A 3alozi may become t'ne chairman of an Ujamaa village
formed in h_s area only if the villagers consider his technical knowledge
acequate for the post. Although the 10-cell system has not been working
uniformly well, partly because the duties of the Balozi have become over-
.urdeasome, it does provide the most effective two-way channel for
informati0n available. The use of the Balozi within the Project would bring
about the closer idencification of the Party with local development efforts,
an ena which is highly desirable.
October 10, 1973



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
Resources of TRDB
1.        TRDB has an authorized capital of Tsh 100 million, divided in 100
equal shares, to be subscribed exclusively by the Government. The initial
subscribed share capital of Tsh 25 million, representing the tangible assets
transferred from NDCA (TRDB's predecessor), was raised through successive
Government contributions and finally reached Tsh 47 million by the end of
1972. General reserves as of December 31, 1972 were about Tsh 0.7 million,
as compared to about 1.7 million at the end of the previous year. This
reduction was mainly due to the loss of almost Tsh 1 million recorded for
the half-year ending December 1972.
2.        Other resources of TRDB comprise short-term deposits of Tsh 26.2
million, 1/ as well as medium and long-term loans totalling approximately
Tsh 37 million. Beside a number of IDA credits, the latter include a
National Bank of Commerce overdraft of Tsh 3.3 million, loans from SIDA for
grain storage facilities and trucks, and a loan from the ICO for the local
purchase of seasonal inputs. The bulk of TRDB's funds available for lend-
ing to date have originated from the five IDA credits extended to Tanzania
for agricultural projects over the last seven years.
Date of      Credit        Amount disbursed
Credit                           Credit        Amount       as of Feb. 28, 1973
No.   Purpose                 Agreement  (US$ million)       (US$ million)
80-TA General Agriculture
Credit                Jan. 1966        5.00              5.00
132-TA  Beef Ranching Develop-
ment                  Oct. 1968        1.30              1.20
217-TA  Small Farmer Flue-Cured
Tobacco               Oct. 1970        9.00              0.55
287-TA  Smallholder Tea         Mar. 1972       10.80              0.65
382-TA  Livestock Develop-
ment                   May 1973       18.50               _
Total                           44.60               7.83
As of December 31, 1972, IDA funds represented almost 80% of TRDB's medium
and long-term liabilities with a total of Tsh 28.5 million.
1/   Including Tsh 20 million reserved by the Lint and Seed Marketing Board
for cotton purchases.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        TRDB is also expected to receive special funds from the Governaitpr,
bearing the name of "soft window", to be administered separately from ordinary
capital resources and used for the purpose of extending loans on concessionary
terms to finance special development projects. To date, this procedure has
not been used by TRDB.
Lending Operations
4.        TRDB provides short and medium-term loans generally at an interest
rate of 8-1/2% and long-term loans at 7-1/2%. Maturities are usually based
on the productive capacity and estimated life of the assets to be financed
and a rough distinction can be made between the following categories:
(a) Short-term loans for agricultural inputs due for repayment within
12 months from the date of disbursement.
(b) Medium-term loans repayable over a period of five years. These
loans are mainly for farm implements and machinery, trucks,
piggeries, poultry farms, fishing boats and equipment and small-
scale industries.
(c) Long-term loans with a maturity of up to 15 years. These cover
major investments such as produce godowns, buildings, coffee
pulperies, tea factories, ranches, etc.
5.        As a matter of policy, TRDB does not normally finance more than
75% of total project cost and a loan for any single project should not
exceed 10% of the Bank's net worth. Eligible borrowers are mainly the
Cooperative Union and Societies, the District Development Corporations, the
Ujamaa villages and registered associations. Crop financing remains the
prerogative of the National Bank of Commerce and the various agricultural
produce Marketing Boards.
6.        TRDB's outstanding loans as of December 31, 1972 amounted to Tsh
134 million, of which 121 million or 90% were with Cooperative Societies.
The composition of the outstanding cooperative loan portfolio at the time
was as follows (Table 1):
Short-term loans    :   Tsh 69 million or 57%
Medium-term loans         Tsh 34 million or 28%
Long-term loans      :   Tsh 18 million or 15%
Short-term loans cover seasonal inputs for a number of crops; tobacco, tea,
coffee, and cotton currently represent about 95% of the short-term outstanding
portfolio. Tobacco is by far the most important crop for TRDB with a share
of about 40%. The medium-term loan portfolio is heavily geared toward
vehicles (usually trucks), which account for almost 85% of the medium-term



ANNEX 2
Page 3
funds outstanding, and the remainder is equally shared by tractors and spray
equipment. Long-term loans in the past have mainly been for the construction
of godowns, buildings, coffee pulperies, tea factories and coffee rehabilita-
tion These items represented about 85% of the long-term outstanding portfolio
at the end of 1972.
7.        Four of the eighteen regions - Xringa, Tabo-ra, Mbeya and Mwanza -
currently hold almost 60% of the total outstanding loan port'olio, while
other regions such as Central, Kigouma and Morogoro are hardly represented
at all. Investments from IDA funds represent about 20% of the total amount
outstanding and are largely in the form of short-term loans for tea, coffee
and cotton inputs.
Arrears Situation and Credit Recovery
8.        The accumulation of overdues has been a constant feature of TRDB's
operations over the last three years, and at the end of December 1972, these
amounted to Tsh 35.6 million, or 26.5% of the loan portfolio. This situa-
tion arose mainly from bad debts on medium and long-term loans inherited by
TRDB from its predecessors; overdues on the loans extended by TRDB itself
were only 7% of the outstanding amount in February 1973.
9.        Pursuant to IDA's request that a statement of measures to reduce
the amount of arrears be prepared, TRDB recently submitted a detailed pro-
posal for rescheduling and writing off a number of bad debts. The proposal
received IDA's approval and loans amounting to Tsh 9.9 million were resched-
uled, while a balance of Tsh 4.4 million was written off. This, combined
with a large collection of overdues totalling Tsh 7.2 million during the
first quarter of 1973, reduced total arrears to Tsh 11.3 million (that is,
9% of the new outstanding portfolio), fully covered by the provision for
bad debts.
10.       Along with the above measures, TRDB expressed its intention to
improve credit recovery in the future. This would be achieved through a
series of measures including claims against stocks held by the delinquent
unions, repossession of vehicles, seizure of cattle, etc. In some cases,
TRDB would seek to obtain a lien on crop sales to the National Agricultural
Product Marketing Board (NAPB) or on fees paid by NAPB to the Unions
for the rental of godowns. TRDB also plans to take court action against
societies which refuse to pay in spite of their good liquidity position.
The determination of TRDB to recover its overdues is beyond doubt, but its
success hinges upon the backing which the Government will be willing to
provide.
Organizational Structure and Management
11.       The major element affecting TRDB's structure has been the
regionalization of the country. TRDB's former 58 field offices were re-
placed by 18 regional offices, each having a regional representative and



ANNEX 2
Page 4
a credit supervisor. The responsibilities of the new regional offices in-
clude pre-investment studies, project appraisal and supervision, technical
assistance and the maintenance of permanent contacts with borrowers,
regional representatives of Ministries and branches of the National Bank of
Commerce. As a result of this reorganization, the operations of TRDB will
uncoubtedly gain in effectiveness, and some improvements in credit recovery
may be expected. On the other hand, the staffing and operation of such
offices will be an additional burden on TRDB's already strained financial
resources, since the regional allocation of staff has been made irrespective
of the nature of the Bank's involvement in any given region. The overall
increase in staff was from 90 before the regionalization to about 180 today.
A recent development, which should have a positive bearing on TRDB's future
operations, was the appointment of six UNDP specialists who will reinforce
Management's skill in a number of key areas: namely farm management, rural
credit, marketing, livestock and agricultural machinery. All six specialists
have now joined TRDB and are expected to play a key role in project appraisal.
12.       A number of changes are currently taking place within the financial
management of the Bank. Effective December 1973, the functions of the
Financial Analyst, a post held to date by an expatriate, will be taken over
by local staff. The qualifications of the candidate proposed for replacement,
whose responsibilities will include the administration of IDA credits, appear
satisfactory. He will be assisted by an Assistant Financial Analyst whose
main function will be to assess the creditworthiness of TRDB's clients and to
advise Management on lending decisions.
13.       In general, the senior staff of TRDB appears dedicated and qualified
in their respective positions. The only field in which an obvious weakness
appears is procurement. TRDB has had difficulties in the past in preparing
procurement documents and delays have resulted. Also, substantial managerial
time has been diverted into such activities at the expense of the more funda-
mental functions to be performed by Management. It is therefore recommended
that an expatriate procurement specialist be appointed and an appropriate
provision has been made in the credit to cover the related expenses for a
period of five years.
Future Prospects of TRDB
14.       In view of the recent measures taken by TRDB to reduce arrears,
improve credit recovery and reinforce its appraisal capacity, future pros-
pects appear quite favorable. Financial projections prepared by Management
for the 1973-77 period indicate that TRDB expects to operate at a substan-
tial profit in the future.
September 15, 1973



HI
RF                                 iU
q                            -a
S 4
sl                                                                                                                                          4ii
tfnm
11 al
. . . . .  . . . . .
n-
. . . .     . . . .               . . . . .   . . . . .                                                                                     uff
k k  W',  W -k M
nm    q
g                 N                RM k
.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
eiM
. .   . . . . .   . . . . .
Kiw  -W
'Im                     H-
Vm
. . .   . . . . .   . . . . .   . . . . .  . . . . .   . . . . .   . . . . .                                                                                                    v W
o--c
MHI,
pv-
J.                                 2i
Et
zu      N           -5
64-`   Z--
Ei
to                               t
jq  E
inw
a  e                                          n






TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Farming Situation in Geita District at End of 1972
Breakdown by Project Area
Seed
Number          Number of          Number of          Number of      C.1tivable      Cultivated      Area under       Area under7/    Cottorn Production (tons)        Maize
Population-2   of Farms    Coop. Societies    Coop. Members    Cotton Farms-            Land   -      Land (a/          Cotton  6        Maize  -        AR       BR       Total       Production
E221LIatioa~~~~~~~   of Farms ~~~~(ha.)                                             (ba.a    .)      .)             (h7aT7)                                         (tons)
Phase I Area-/         163,900        27,320             31               11,640            25,950             -                -             32,440          34,150         11,408   1,466    12,874           18,780
Phase II  Area-        117,900        19.650             31               12,840            18,670             -                              23,340          24,560          9,188      952    10,140          13,510
Phase III Area-        145,100        25,230             46               21,960            23,970             -                -             29,960          31,540         10,292   1,090    11,382           17,350
Total District       426,900        72,200            108               46,440            68,590         400,000           383,000          85,740          90,250         30,888   3,508    34,396           49,640
1/  Includes following sub-divisions:  Phase I Area:   Bulela, Ihamilo, Bukoli, Nyangwale, Mwingiro, Kakora, Xaruoowa, Bukwimba, Kalangalala.
Phase II Area: Bugando, Butundwe, Busanda, Kahunda, Sina.
Phase III Area: Kazunzu, Nyakaliro, Kasenyi, Bukura, Kasungamile, Nyamatongo, Kame.
2/  Calculated from 1967 Census figures by applying growth ines of 3% in Phase I and II Areas and 2.5% in Phase III Area.
Corresponlding averagc growth rate for the District is 2.8%.
3/  Calculated on the basis of average household sizes identical to those appearing in 1967 Census, i.e. 6  for Phase I and II Areas
and 5.75 for Phase III Area, yielding an average of 5.9 for the District.
4/  Taken as 95% of total number of farms.  Cotton farms as referred to here also grow maize in rotation with cotton.  On those farms,
areas respectively under cotton and maize are considered identical.
5/  Mission Estimates.
6/ Assuming an average of 1.25 ha. of cotton per cotton growing farm.
7/  Assuming an average of l,0OO ha. under maize on all farms in the Diarrict.
Sources:  -  1967 Population Census.
- District Agricultural Department
- Mission Estimates.
May 2, 1973



ANNIDI 4
GEITfA C5OTTO PROJECT
EIpeted Prject Buld-Up
PRoococraT3SO                                               I  Yn          Y2         Y3        Y4         Y5          6         37     '  Y7          Y9         Y10       7l1
CPOP SEASO!                                        1973/74   1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81   1961/a2   1982/83    1963/80    1984/85
PHASE I A9EA1/ (27530 cMttoe/msO Ie ffarms)&
Lumber oP roect participants                         550      2,200      4,960      8,260    fL,010     11,010     11,010     13,010, 11,010        11,010     11,010     11,010
>.t-.r ax  iALf       Provtt-jsrtiteI PSt             5%        20%       45%        75%       100%       -          -          -          -          -          -         -
(N-oer ao iar e                                    55        280        770      1,6oo     2,700      3,800      4,900      6,0 00     7,100      8,200      9,300      9,300
Area under cotton (ha)                             80        420      1,160      2,400     4,050      5,700      7,350      9,0D0     10,65o     12,300     13,950     13,950
Area -nder esie- (ha)                              70,    350           960      2,000      3.375     4,750      6,130      7,500  '  8,880      10,250     11 62)    11,625
Total aces- cultivaLted (ha)                      330,  1,680         4,620      9,600     16,2C0    22,800    29,400      36,000  ' 42,600      49,200    55,800    55,800
tor-rtorolt^ldaten Lprn(ect Papas S i 
htLer of re                                       435      1,920      4,190     6,60o       8,310     7.210      6 110      5.010      3,910     2,310      1,71)       1,710
Area  -i-e cotton (h.)                            62o      ?,4oo      5,24o.     8,320    10,390      9,010      7,640      6,260,  4,890         3,51Q     2,1410     .14,
A_rea roer Laine (ha)                             500      1,9°0      4,190     6,66o      9,310 3    7,210      6,110      5,010  ,  3,910      2,810      1,71 ,     1,710
locawl urea roltarated (ha)                     2,430      9,600    20,950      33,300    41,'-    36,050       30,550    25,050, 19,550         14,050     8,55'      9 ,ot
Iota.1  'hate I Area
Pro'ect ares under cotton (hal                    7350     2,820      6,400     10,720    14,440     14,710     14,990     15,260     15,540     1t,n10    16,0, 0     ,, I8 0x
Projet.. are  uder -st- (ha)                      570      2,270     5,150      8,660     11,685     11,960    12,240    1-2,510  , 12,790       13,o61    13,330,    13,335
Octal      -rciect aresL culeateLL (ha)         2,810    11]280    25,570    42,930       57,750    58,850    59,950    61,0o     62,150         4 63,250    a4, 351    634,350
dASF [I ABEA0   14800 -nttoa/eiate farms)?!
Number of preject partioipaath                                             400     1,986      4,750      7,130      7,920      7,920      7,920     7,320     731 ,       7,970
'erceotade of oItimte Prcjtqt 0srt cupant, I/                               5% ,      25%        6o%        90%      100%       -
C otsoliL.utel Proect Pantrs J 1
borber    fSarnt                                                        4         240        710      1,430      2,20       3,010      3,800     4,59       5,343      6, I
Area -nz-r cootca (ha)                                                  60        360      1,071      2,150      3,330      4,520      5,700     t,99r      8,0390     9,200
Aron color tal-e (hat                                                   50  .    300         890      1,790      2,780      3,760      4,750     5,74r      6,714      7,731
Total area colt-tsued (ha)                                 '            240  .  1,440      4,260      8,580     13,320     18,060, 22,800       27,540    32,340    37,080
Non-cctooqllatod FrdJect Prraea
N     If'erot fa-to                                                     360,  1,740        4,040      5,700      5,700      4,910      4,120     3,330      1,530      0,740
A-  -de cotton (ha)                                                    450,  2,180         5,D50      7,130      7,130     6,143      5,150      4,160      3,160      2,1PD
Arn  c-der rt    (h.)                                                  360,  1,740         4,040      5.700      5.700     4,910      4,120      3,330      2,530      1,740
Tat- a-ren -nltirated (ha)                                            1,800,  8,700       20,200     28,500    28,500    24, 550    20,600    16,65c    12,650         8,700
butd- arh- If Area
P-roter0  rea c-der -cttc  (ha)                                        510,  2,540         6,12o      9,280    1i,460    io,66o      10,850     11.05Cc         11,250  lu450
ro  _ct -reA vnd.r -LsLi-e (h.)                                        410,  2,040        4,930      7,490      8,480      8,670      8,870     9,070      9,270      9,470
rto.1 oc- t area udret-atd ((a  )                                    2,o40, io,140        24,46o    37,o80    41,820       42,61o    43,400     44,190    44,990      ,5,780
PhASE Ill AREA -  2S480 cetona/esle  Fs)
loboter oS prjec-t p-atteiPiPt                                                       500      3,0 00     6,55o      9,060    10,2o70     0,070    10,070      10,070    10,070
Perreata  nO j±sa1      rn-isrepeos2                                                   5% ~   30%           65%        90%      100%,                 ---
Coneeel(ae-d Project Paean 4/ 5.
NumbDer of fars                                                                    50  ,    350       1,000      1,910     2,920  *  3,930       4,940      5,940      6,950
Area. onoer cotton. (ha)                                                           80  ,    520       1,500      2,860     4,380  ,  5,900       7,410      8,910    10,430
Area under mase (ha)                                                              60,    44o    1250           2,390     3,650   ,  4,910      6,180      7,430      8,690
Totto  rrea c- ltorated Iho)                                                      300      2,100      6,0O3     11,460     17,520     2 23,580  29,640     35,640    41,700
aec-consoclnurd  Project Ferms4 2/S260mo                                                                                                 614         .3         ,3         .2
Nnber of fuee                                                                     450  '2670          5,550       7,150    7  150      6r14o     5,130      4,130      3,920
4rer' alerecotton (ha)                                                             ee,560  3340        6,940      8,940    8940       760        6,4i       5,160      3,900
Area n-der esi-e (ha)                                                             45o      2,670      5,550      7,150      7.150     6,±40      5,130      4,130      3,120
Total area cutitated (h.)                                                       2,250     13,350    27,750      35,750     35,750     30,700    25,65o    20,650    15,600
Total Pese TII AIra
Pra1eet area -der rather (h3)                                                     640      3,860      8,440    11,800      13,320    13,580     13,820     14,270     14,330
PrJeet ere. ..tere- tie  (ha)                                                     510      3,110      6,800      9,540    10,800     11,050      11 310    11,560     11,810
Peta1 Prajeet ares -ultieated (ha)                                              2,550     15,45o     33,750    47,210    53,270       54,260    55,290    56,290    57,300
TOIAL DISTRICT  (76,600 -ntoae/eie farse)
the,ber ef ProJect particlpaatn 2/                   550     2,200      5,360     lo,740    18,780    24,690      27,990     29,000   , 29,000     29,000     29,000    29,000
TNaaalifateO Protect Parse W S
NBtber ef Paean                                     5        280       810      1,890      3,760      6,230      9,030    11,930     14,830    17,730    20,63O    27,430
Ares under cetton (ha)                             F0       420      1,220      2,840      5.640      9,350    13,550    17,900   ' 22,250    26,600       30,950     33,650
Area under esteAte (ha)                           70,    350         1,010      2,360      4,700      7,790    11,300     14,910     13,540    22,170    25,790    20,O50
Total area roltivated (ha)                        330,  1,680          4,860   11,340     22,560     37,380    54,18o    71,580      88,98o    106,380   123.780    134,580
Noo-ecoaoidated Projeet Fn-s S
NBber oPf f.aa                                    495      1,920     4,550      8,850     15,020    18,460    i8,96o       17,070   , 14,170    11,270      8,370      6,570
Ares  Cde"r -ott-n (ha)                           62o      2,40.0    5,690     L1,060     18,780    23,080    23,700    21.310   . 17,720    14,o8c    10,460          9,220
Ares _neer taiee (ha)                             500      1,920     4,55o      8,850     15,020    18,46o    18,96o      17,070     14,1io     11,270      8,370     6,570
Total area- c-ltiated (ha)                      2,480     9,600     22,750     44,250    75,100    92,300       94,800    85,350   , 70,850    56,350    41,*0        32,850
otaroeot rea ouder rottca (ha)                    700      2,&0      6,910     13,900     24 420    32,430    37,250       39,240     398970    40,680    41,410    41,87o
Prejert area -oPe-  eit-e (ha)                    570     2.270      5,560     11,210    19,720    26,250       30,260    31,980     32 710    33,440    34,160    34,620
Tsotal Prolert area rolttacted (ha)             o,8so0    II,280    27.61o    55,590    97,66o   129,680   143,980    156,930    159,830   162.73C    165,630   167,430
Tetal tn-ter of fea-coaecladsted Patd '-       76 550    76,330     75,790     74,710     72,840     70,370     67,570    64,670     61,770     58,870    55 970    54 170
Tetal ares roittted (ha)                      383,000    383,200    383,800    384,900    386,8oo   389,200    392,000    394,900    397,800    400,700    403,600    405.400
' 0r r tefintt to of.r, rot phtaae uTeaeM . aee Onene.  3, foateot1
2'  lerice.t frcn  Attnes t 9y Opp aIying tre 72/73-74/75 petrlal past 7p73latc- ,-ro,rth rtoai (Annet  3 . feoto ots2 ) ta at(her ot  cotona f.seJ. . Ber af f faeis kept ease in
frI I a-n leure for Ile-i , atora.ti- h-n virtrally bees re-ehod by them (about 400,000 ha of e-Ltie-ble land in the ditstrict)
.' ltlttete -tober r-   part lotonte txhen a, 40% af totaL -nhr  f -otton f-arm r
b/  Iroretebeut  tn    tnYe rer aneaned se 10% nf rs.ts p-rtiiptin  sche    e tnht mar.
i7/ The               ..re. .,,u.rrr,ou.. an average f-rmer e,aLd be an fe1l1e.  Nte-o..solidated ft-a (hs)   PoonalldsAtd L t2e, (ha)
Cottaa  ........         1.25                        1.50
.i4 .1    ........       1.00                         1.25
Food crp- .              0.25                        A 25
ranee/rsesanrs .............  2.50.                  3.00
T n t * I ...      5.00                         6.oo
It In - aae d that --.,aettostn- brte, aeec 0.20 h. lets eulteatl n  far -eery enleitag ha   ao-tlidsted.
luste >l, (973



ANNEX 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Productic-  and Improvement of Cotton and Maize
A. Production
1.        Cotton has the highest potential for absolute growth of any agri-
cultural product in Tanzania. Production is, however, extremely variable.
In the year of peak production (1965/66), total output reached 436,000 bales;
this level was approached in 1969/70, another year of exceptionally favorable
weather, when production reached 423,000. Average production over the past
ten years has, however, been well under 400,000 bales. Production increases
can be expected in the future as the result of both increased area and iim-
proved cotton yields. As there is little new land available, most of the
increase in area will tave to come about as farmers who have recently shifted
from cotton production into rice and maize return to cotton growing. Yield
increases will come about from use of new seed varieties, application of fer-
tilizer and spray and improved management. As Tanzania is only marginally
suitable for cotton growing, returns on increased inputs would be sufficiently
attractive to induce zheir introduction only where farmers demonstrated superior
husbandry.  Especially important considerations would be good land preparation,
timely planting and adequate weedirg. The coverage and quality of the ex-
tension staff available would also be important. The introduction of mechanized
cultivation would improve crop husbandry by helping to overcome seasonal labor
shortages and allowing more efficient land preparation and weeding. With the
estimated increase in cotton area and with the increased yields from improved
inputs, it is estimated that annual cotton production would rise to about
540,000 bales in 1974. Variations in weather conditions could, however, cause
wide disparities in annual production.
2.        In the Western Cotton Growing Area cotton is grown under diverse
climatic and soil conditions. Altitudes in this area range from 1,000 to
1,250 m - near the upper alLitude limit of 1,300 m for cotton. This means
that optimal yields obtainable under these ecological conditions will be less
than those obtainable at lower altitude and warmer temperatures. Research
at Ukiriguru has been directed towards finding a cotton variety well suited
to the rainfall pattern of tne area and whicn would be resistant to insect
attack, bacterial blight and Fusarium wilt. Detailed recommendations are
not available as to fertilizer rates and spraying  egimes fr  atl climatic
conditions prevailing throughout the Western Cotton Growing Area. However,
the table below demons;rates a simplified account of improvements in yields
which can be expected in Geita district.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(a) No inputs but with:                      % increase in yield
early sowing                                 25
correct spacing                              15
clean weeding                                15
Possible increase with no inputs               55%
(b) Good husbandry plus inputs:
Spraying                                     67
Fertilizer                                   33
Increase due to inputs                        100%
3.        Maize is the staple food of the rural population and the most
important cereal in the country. Only a small proportion of the crop passes
through official marketing channels, and this residual therefore fluctuates
widely. Maize not used for on-farm consumption is sold to the National
Agricultural Products Board (NAPB) at prices set by Government. The stated
objective of Government maize policy is to maintain domestic self-sufficiency
and provide an even, low cost supply for the commercial market. Government
is therefore attempting to establish sufficient stocks to cover random fluc-
tuations in supply. Maize production is particularly responsive to improved
inputs, and the highest potential for increased output is through the intro-
duction of high-yielding hybrids and through the increased application of
fertilizer.
B. Input Recommendations
Cotton Inputs
4.        Fertilizer and insecticide would be applied to cotton planted by
mid-December at recommended spacing.
5.        Fertilizer.  The current recommendations for fertilizer would be
followed initially. These are:
125 kg/ha sulphate of ammonia
50 kg/ha triple super-phosphate
Both would be applied as a basal dressing. This blanket recommendation would
be modified for different soil types in the Project area as the work of the
soil analytical laboratory makes more precise recommendations possible and
as the fertility of the soils changes over time. A compound would be used.
The blanket recommendation has been retained for budgeting purposes.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
6.        Insecticide.  It is proposed that insecticidal material would be
applied with Ultra Low Volume (ULV) sprayers, a technique introduced into
Geita district in 1972/73. The currently approved regime is six applications
of 2.5 liters/ha of oil-based endosulphan, applied at two-weekly intervals
from first flowers (late February). An alternative spray of carbaryl, for
protection against sucking pests, may be needed in some years. The battery-
powered sprayers would last two seasons and would be shared by three
neighboring farmers (this is feasible due to the speed of application com-
pared with conventional low volume spraying).
7.        Existing formulations and application rates are used throughout
in the budgets. However, changes in the formulation and type of insecticide
are likely during the Project period. The use of water-based sprays with
ULV applicators is at an advanced stage of research in Eastern Africa and
would be the subject of adaptive research in the Project. A water-based DDT
formulation would result in significant cost savings. Further cost savings
and marginal yield increases are possible by reducing the number of spray
applications and making the remaining ones more effective by improving timing,
both on the basis of a program of egg-counts of pests on cotton. Research
on a scouting program which would facilitate changes in the spray regime would
also be part of the Project's crop-research program. Scouting would be
carried out by extension staff employed under the Project. No allowance for
these cost savings has, however, been made in the budgets.
Maize Inputs
8.        Maize yields would be raised by the introduction of improved seed,
and the application of fertilizer and insecticidal dust to early planted
material.
9.        Seed and Fertilizer.  Composite seed supplied by the Tanzania
Seed Co. would be made available to Project farmers. The initial fertilizer
recommendation for the area would be:
100 kg/ha sulphate of ammonia
50 kg/ha triple super-phosphate
This would be varied in the light of experience on some soils where phosphate
would probably be replaced by an additional dressing of nitrogen.
10.       Dusting.  Control of stalk-borer with 5% DDT dust is essential.
Although two or even three applications may sometimes be needed, an average
of one application has been budgeted.
11.       Project inpuL requiremllents for both cotton and maize are given
in Table 1.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
C. Farm Budgets
12.       Farm budgets for both consolidated and unconsolidated Project
farmers are given in Tables 2 and 3.
Cotton
13.       Yields.  The average yield of seed cotton in Ge&ta district is
estimated to be 400 kg/ha, but there is considerable variation between
farmers in any one year and from year to year. For Project farmers
selected on the basis on their current husbandry standards and their re-
ceptivity to advice, it is anticipated that the average starting yield will
be about 500 kg/ha, and over 90% of these farmers will start with yields
above the district average (Ainnlex 11). It is assumed that yields will
increase at a decreasing rate over a period of eight years as farmers master
the use of new inputs. The yield assumptions are shown in the two farm bud-
gets. After the first five years of development in each phase, the input
subsidy of 50% on fertilizers and spray materials would be removed in three
annual steps.
14.       Prices and Grades.  Current prices to growers and outturns for seed
cotton are:
AR 85%, Tsh 1.13/kg
BR 15%, Tsh 0.60/kg
Average: Tsh 1.05/kg
The cotton price is fixed by Government and in spite of expected reductions
in world prices of cotton lint it is anticipated that prices to growers in
Tanzania will be maintained at the current level (Annex 12), by use of the
Price Assistance Fund. The introduction of regular spraying should reduce
the proportion of stained cotton sold by Project farmers. The following
prices and outturns are assumed in the budgets:
AR 90%. Tsh 1.13/kg
BR 1IZ. Tsli 0.60/kg
Average: Tshi 1.Od/kg
Maiz 
15.       Yields.  The average yield of unimproved maize in Geita district
is probably no more than 550 kg/ha, and for the better farmers who would
enter the Project it is estimated at about 850 kg/ha. With composite seed,
fertilizer and DDT dressing farmers should rapidly achieve yields in the
region of 2,000 kg shelled maize/ha, and with further dressings higher yields
are possible.  For budget purposes it has been assumed that Project farmers
will take two years to reach 2,000 kg/ha and will stay at that level.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
16.       Prices.  Until 1972 the "into-store" price payable by NAPB for
maize was fixed by Government: the producer price was the into-store price
less a variable level of costs and levies deducted by the Cooperative Unions
and Societies who act as agents for NAPB. In 1972/73 the NAPB into-store
price of Tsh 390.00 per metric ton yielded producers Tsh 0.26/kg in the Geita
area.  A new policy o  fixing producer prices has been introduced: for 1973/74
that for Geita district and other 'non-priority' areas is Tsh 0.30/kg ant
for 'priority' areas it is Tsh 0.35/kg. World maize supplies and prices
have been extremely volatile in recent years, and this tendency has been
especially marked in Eastern and Central Africa. In real terms, however,
prices are anticipated to average close to 1972 world market levels (about
US$54/ton f.o.b. Gulf Ports) over the next decade. This is close to Tsh 300/ton
at farmgate, the price that has been assumed in the budgets.
October 10, 1973






TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Input Requirements under Project -- Bro.kdown by Phase
PROJECT YEAR                                        YO          Yn            Y2           Y3           Y4           Y5            Y6           Y7           Y8            Y9           n1o          Yll
CROP SEASON                                       1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79       1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83       1983/84.     1985/8n
PHASE I AREA
Sulfate of Asonia (tons)                                       580          1,315        2,206        2,974         3,035        3,098        3,159        3,222         3,282        3,345        3,345
Triple super-phosphate (T.S.P.) (tons)                         255            578          969        1,306        1,334         1,362        1,389        1,417         1, 444       1,472        1,472
Cotton Spray Endosuiphan  (000 liters)                          42             96          161          217          221           225          229          233           237          241          241
D.D.T. Dust (tons)                                              11             26           43           58           60            tI           63           64            65           67           67
Maize Seed (tons)                                               57            129          217          2912 299                   31           313          320           327          333           333
Cotton Sprayers
Total number of sprayers in operation          187          752          1,707        2,859         3,851        3,923        3,998        4,o70        4,144         4,216        4,291         4,291
Number of sprayers purchased                                565          1,142        1,717        2,134         1,789        2,209        1,861        2,283         1,933        2,358         1,933
PHASE II AREA
Sulfate of Ammonia (tons)                                                                  522        1,258        1,909         2,156        2,200        2,243        2,288         2,333        2,378
Triple super-phosphate (T.S.P.) (tons)                                                     229          553           839          947          967          987         1,007        1,027        1,047
Cotton Spray 9ndosulphan(OOO liters)                                                        38           92           139          157          160          163           166          169           172
D.D.T. Dust (tons)                                                                          10           25            37           42           43           44            45           46            47
Maize Seed (tons)                                                                           51           123          187          212          217          222           227          232           237
Cotton Sprayers
Total number of sprayers in operation                                      136          678        1,632         2,475        2,790        2 843        2,894         2,947        3,000         3,051
Number of sprayers purchased                                                            542         1,090        1,385        1,405        1,438        1,456         1,491        1,509         1,545
PHASE III AREA
Sulfate of Aenonia (tons)                                                                               794        1,735         2,429        2,745        2,803         2,859        2,915        2,972
Triple super-phosphate (T,S,P.) (tons)                                                                   349         762         1,067        1,206        1,232         1,257        1,282        1,308,
Cotton Spray Emdosulphan (000 liters)                                                                    58          127           177          200          204           207          211           215
D.D.T. Dust (tons)                                                                                        16           34           48           54           5r            57           58            59
Maize Seed (tons)                                                                                         78          170          239          270           27'          283          289           295
Cotton Sprayers
Total number of sprayers in operation                                                   171         1,030        2,251        3,147        3,552         3,622        3,686        3,752         3,822
Number of sprayers purchased                                                                          859        1,392        1,755        1,797         1,825        1,861        1,891         1,931
TOTAL. DISTRICT
Sulfate of Ammonia (tons)                                      580          1,315        2,728        5,026        6,679         7 683        8,104        8,268         8,429        8,593         8,695
Triple super-phosphate (T.S.P.) (tons)                         255            578        1,198        2,208         2,935        3,376        3,562         3,636        3,708        3,781         3,827
Cotton Spray Endosulphan (000 liters)                           42             96          199           367          487          559          589          600           610          621           628
D.D.T. Dust (tons)                                              11             28           56            99          131          151          160           163          167          171           173
Maize Seed (tons)                                               57            129          268           493          656          757          800           818          83y          854           865
Cotton Sprayers
Total number of sprayers in operation          187          752          1,843         3,708        6,513        8,649        9,935       lo 464        lo,660       10,849       11,043        11, 17
Number of sprayers purchased                                565          1,278        2,430         4,083        4,566        5,369        5,096         5,564        5,285        5,758         5,409
/ Assumptions;
- Fertilizer/spray annual application       Cotton   Maize
Sulfate of Ammonia (kg,/ha)     t25      100
T. S.P  (kg/he)                   50      50
Cotton Spray (L/ha)               15       -
D.D1 . Dust (kg/ha)                -       5
Maize Seed (kg,/ha)                -      25
- One cotton sprayer (and related equipment) per 3.75 ha of cotton.
_ Life of sprayer - 2 years.
July 127, 1973



TA ZANIA
GEITA ( OTTON PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - ONSOLIDATED AND UJAMAA FARMERS (IndividuaI Income)
12/
FARMER YEAR
13/         13/          13/          13/         13/          14&/         15/          16/
YR. 0       YR. 1        D. YR. 2         3       YR. 4        YR. 5        YR. 6        YR. 7       YR. 8      onwards
Crops (ha)
Cotton                                           1.25         1.5         1.5          1.5          1.5          1.5         1.5          1.5          1.5
Maize                                            1.00         1.25        1.25         1.25         1.25         1.25        1.25         1.25         1.25
Yield (kg.)
Cotton 3/                                        625          1,050       1,240        1,350        1,425        1,500       1,575        1,615        1,650
Maize  2/                                        850          1,875        2,500       2,500        2,5no        2,500       2,500        2,500        2,500
Cost of Production (T.Shs)
Fertiliser - Cottoni/                             -           90.0        90.0         90.0         90.0         90.0       120.0        150.0        180.0
Fertiliser - Maize4/                              -           66.25       66.25        66.25        66.25       66.25        88.30       110.40       132.50
Insecticide - Cottoni/                            -          121.50       121.50      121.50       121.50      121.50       161.0        202.50       243.0
Insecticide - Kaize6/                             -           12.50       12.50        12.50        12.50       12.50        i6.65        20.80        25.0
Sprayer  - Cotton27                               -           16.80       16.80        16.80        16.80       16.80        16.80        16.80        16.80
Batteries  -  Sprayer9/                           -           22.80       22.80        22.80        22.80       22.80        22.80        22.80        22.80
Cleaning Materials10/                             -            3.00        3.0O         3.00         3.00         3.00        3.00         3.00         3.00
Seed 8/                                           -           19.40       19.40        19.40        19.40        19.40       19.410       19.40        19.40
CultivationsiLV.                                  -          396.0       396.0        396.0        396.0       396.0        396.0        396.0        396.)
Interest                                          -           48.00       48.oo        48.oo        48.00       48.00        52.70        60.o         65.10
Total Cost                      -          796.25       796.25      796.25       796.25       796.25      896.65    1,001.70    1,103.60
Farm Income (T.Shs)
Cotton (T.Shs 1.08/kg)                           675          1,134.00    1,339.20    1,458.0       1,539.0      1,620.0     1,701.0      1,744.20    1,782.0
Maize (T.Shs 0.30/kg)                            255            563.50       750.00      750.00       750.00       750.00      750.00       750.00       750.00
Total                 930         1,696.50    2,089.20    2,208.00    2,289.00    2,370.00    2,41l.00    2,494.20    2,532.00
Net Caih Incomv  :.' )i                            930            900.25    1,292.95    1,411.75    1,492.75    1,573.75    1,554.35    1,492.50    1,428.40
Increased Income %                                -              (3)          39         52           60            69          67           60           54
Return on Input %                                 _               -           45         61           71            81           70          56           45
1/ Based on average yield of:- Yr 0, 500 kg/ha Yr 1. 700 kg/ha Yr 2. 825 kg/ha Yr 3. 900 kg/ha Yr 4. 950 kg/ha Yr 5 1,000 kg/ha Yr 6. 1050 kg/ha Yr 7. 1075 kg/ha Tr 8. 1100 kg/ha
B/ Based on average yield of: - Yr 0. 850 kg/ha Yr 1. 1500 kg/ha Yr 2. orwards 2000 kg/ha
at 125 kg/ha Sulphate of Ammonia, 50 kg/ha T. Superphosphate.
4/ at 100 kg/ha Sulphate of Ammonia, 50 kg/ha T. Superphosphate.
§/ 15 liters/ha per year at T.Shs 10.80/liter.
6/ 5 kg/ha 5% DDT Dust at T. Shs 3.85/kg.
7/ Cost price T. Shs 126.0 shared by three farmers and renlaced in Yr 3, Yr 6, Yr 9 etc.
9/ Maize seed - 25 kg/ha at T. Shs o.62/kg.
7/ 16 per annum with replacement sprayer water.
10/ Paraffin for cleaning sprayer.
V**/ 8½er annum - 9 months only for inputs.
_/ Number of years the farmer has been in the project.
t/ Inputs with 50% subsidy.
l4/ Inputs with 1/3 of subsidy removed.
/  Inputs with 2/3 of subsidy removed.
T5/ Inputs with no,subsidy.
7/ 2.75 ha at 11 tractor hours at 36/-/tractar hour.



TAN i I.NIA
GEITA 0 TiON HROJECT
Farm Budget - UJnconsolidated Farmer
FARM4ER YEAR 12/
YR. 0        YR. 131    YR. 2 1/       YR. 3 1/     YR. 4 13     YR. 5 3      YR. 6 1/      YR. 7 1      YR. 8 1/onwards
Cros (ha)
Cotton                                             1.25         1.25         1.25         1.25         1.25         1.25         1.25          1.25         1.25
1Maize                                             1.0          1.0          1.0          1.0          1.             01)1.0                                1.0
Yield (kg.)
Seed C?)ton-                                      625           875          1,030        1,125        1,190        1,250        1,315         1,31b5       1,375
'iaize -                                           850        1,500          2,000        2,000        2,000        2,000        2 ,0'Y)       2,000        2,000
Cost of Produrtion (T.Shs.)
I/
Fortiliser  Cottonv                   ~~-         75.0          75.0         75.0         75.0         75.0       100.0           125.0        150.0
Fertiliser      MaizetOr-                           -          53.0          53.0         53.0         53.0         53.0        77.0            88.0        106.0
Insecticide -Cott  5/                               -        101.25         101.25       101.25       101.25       101.25      135.0           168.75       202.50
Insecticide -Kaixe17                                -          10.0          10.0         10.0         10.0         10.0        13.0            16.0         19,25
Sprayer         Cotton.?!                                      16.80         16.80        16.8o        16.80        i6.80       16.80           16.80        16.80
Batteries       Spr-ayd9/                                      15.20         15.20        15.20        15.20        15.20       15.20           15.20        15.20
Cleanj7g  Materialsi2/                              -           2.0           2.0          2.0          2.0          2.0         2.0             2.0f         2.0
Seed 8/                               ~     ~ ~~~~~- 15.50      15.50        15.50        15.50        15.50       15.50           15.50        15.50
Loan  Interest 11/                                  -          18.81)        15.80        18.80        18.80        18.80       2Li.20          28.85        33.90
Total Cost                   -         307.55        307.55       307.55       307.55       307.55      398.70          4i76. i r    561.15
Fans Inoojw (T.Sha.)
Maize 9 T.Shs. 0.30/kg                             255.0     L1So.0         6oo.0r       600.0        600.0r       600.0       600.0           6oo.0o       600.o
Cotton 0 T.Shs.1.08/kg                             675.0      916.0       1,112.I40    1,215.0      1,285.20    1,350.0    1,h?0.20         1,K57,60    1,b85.0
Total                 930.0   1,395.0        1,712.h0      1,815.0      1,885.20    1,950.0    2,020.20         2,052.60    2,085.0) 
Net Ch noe(T.She.)                                   930.0   1,0M7.L5       1,L04i85    1,507.45S   1,577.65    i,6i2.L45   1,621.50           1,576. 50    1,523.85
Increased Income %                                  -          17            51           62           70           77          7Li             69           6
Return on Inputs %                                  -51                    iSLi          187          211          232         173             136,         106
1/ Based on average yield of:- Yr 0, 500 kg/ha Yr 1. 700 kg/ha Yr 2. 825 kg/ha Yr 3. 900 kg/ha Yr 4i. 950 kg/ha Yr 5 1,000 kg/h,a Yr 6. 1050 kg,/ha Yr 7. 1175 kg/hia Y;- 5.i'
f/Based on average yield of:- Yr 0. 850 kg/ha Yr 1. 1500 kg/ha Yr 2. onwards  2000 kg/ha.
at 125 kg/ha Sulphate of Ammonia, 50 kg/ha T. Sunerphospbate.
at 100 kg/ha Sulphate of Ar%imonizz, 50) kg/ha T. Supernhosphate.
~/15 liters/ha per year at T.Shs 10.80/liter.
iS  kg/ha 5% DDTl Dust at T. Shs 3.85/kg.
T/ Cost orice T. Shs 126.0 shared by three farmers and replaced in Yr 3, Yr 6, Yr 9 etc.
IT/ Maize seed - 25 kg/ha at T. Shs 0.62/kg.
~/ 16 per annum with replacement sprayer water.
10/ Paraffin for cleaning sprayer.
11/ 830per annum - 9 montla only for inputs.
1-2/ Number of years the farmer has been in the project.
IYI Inputs with 50% subsidy.
i/Inputs with 1/3 of subsidy removed.                                                                                                                                                                   j
~/Inputs with 2/3 of subsidy removed.                                                                                                                                                                   7
1/Inputs with no subsidy.






ANNEX 6
Page 1
TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Mechanization
A. Tractor Costs and Use
1.        Tractor costs are based on the following information obtained in
Geita by the mission:
(a)  Tractors, capable of delivering the equivalent of 60 BHP at sea
level, would cost about Tsh 37,000 delivered, and would be written
off over 5 years.
(b) Fuel consumption gauged at 7.25 liters per hour, at Tsh 1.14/liter.
(c) Lubricants at Tsh 2.00 per hour.
(d) Spares and maintenance at 150% of tractor purchase price, or
Tsh 11,100 per year.
(e) License (Tsh 40.00 a year) and comprehensive insurance with the
National Insurance Company.
(f)  Interest charges:  8-1/2% on Tsh 37,000 over five years = Tsh 1,990
a year.
(g)  Drivers wages have been assumed at Tsh 5,000 per annum.
2.        In the budgets the minimum objective for tractor use of 1,400 hours
a year of useful running has been assumed. The relationship between usage
and costs is given in the following tabulation:



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Tsh/hr
Hours
600        1,000     1,400       1,800
:Jepreciation                       12.35        7.40       5.28        4.11
Li e'l                              9.13        8.27       8.27        8.27
Lubricants                           2.00        2.00       2.00        2.00
Spares, Maintenance                 18.50       11.10       7.94        6.16
License, Insurance                   0.66        0.39       0.28        0.22
Interest                             3.32        1.99       1.42        1.10
Sub-Total                      45.96       31.15     25.19       21.86
Driver                               8.33        5.00       3.57        2.78
Total                          54.29       36.15      28.76      24.64
B. Tractor Operation Program
3.        To ensure that tractors do sufficient useful work each year to be
viable, a number of conditions for their operation have been established.
These are:
(a) There should be a minimum of 240 ha of land in the area intended
for tractor cultivation within 5 km of the tractor base;
(b) The land should be fully cleared of bush and stumped before the
start of the season, and should be in blocks of a minimum of 5 ha
aligned to facilitate cultivation along the contour;
(c) Mechanization must be comprehensive if it is to be effective.
Land preparation, ridging and fertilizing would, therefore, all
be by tractor;
(d) Cultivation would start immediately after the previous harvest
to allow as long a season as possible before the optimum planting
dates - November 2 for maize and December 5 for cotton;
(e) Speed of work will be increased by replacing ploughing (0.24 ha/hr)
with two runs of a nieavy-tiuie cultivator (each 0.89 ha/hr);



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(f)  Operations have been assuxied to be for 10 hours a day (of which
one is used for fuel, water, grazing and equipment preparation),
6 days a week. This is a minimum for peak-season operations. A
70% efficiency factor used in tractor costing allows for travel,
running and rest time.
C.  xoration and Mechanization Plan
4.        The rotation proposed initially in the Project is Fallow - Cotton -
Maize - Cotton - Fallow.
Block 1      Block 2       Block 3       Block 4       Block 5
1st year       Fallow        Fallow        Cotton        Maize         Cotton
2nd year       Cotton        Fallow        Fallow        Cotton       Maize
3rd year       Maize         Cotton        Fallow        Fallow        Cotton
4th year        Cotton       Maize         Cotton        Fallow        Fallow
5th year       Fallow        Cotton        Maize         Cotton        Fallow
Mechanization Plan
5.        Two deep cultivations would be followed by ridging.  In the case
of cotton, superphosphate would be placed at the time of ridging and a
nitrogen top dressing applied after planting. Maize land would be ridged
and both superphosphate and basal dressing of nitrogen would be added at
time of ridging.
Rotation 1: Maize to Cotton
Cultivation:   Two crossings with deep cultivator
Output:         0.44 hectares/hour
Cultivation:   Ridging and fertilizing
Output:         0.60 hectares/hour
Hectares
prepared:    80



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Time:           Hours of working time
Tilling   80/0.44   182 hrs.
Ridging   80/0.60   134 hrs.
316 hrs.
Rotation 2: Fallow to Cotton
Cultivation:   Two crossings with heavy cultivator
Output:         0.89 hectares/hour   0.44 hectares total output
Cultivation:   Ridging and fertilizing
Output:         0.6 hectares/hour
Hectares
prepared:    80
Time:          Hours of working time
Tilling   80/0.44   182 hrs.
Ridging   80/0.60   134 hrs.
316 hrs.
Rotation 3: Cotton to Maize
Cultivation:   Two crossings with cultivator
Output:         0.44 hectares/hour
Cultivation:   Ridging and fertilizing
Output:         0.5 hectares/hour
Hectares
prepared:    80
Time:          Hours of working time
Tilling                  80/0.44   182 hrs.
Ridging & Fertilizing   80/0.50   160 hrs.
342 hrs.
6.        The total working time involved in preparing and fertilizing the
cotton-maize-cotton rotation on a 240 ha block of land would therefore be:



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Fallow to cotton                    316 hrs.
Maize to cotton                     316 hrs.
Cotton to maize                     342 hrs.
Total working hours                 974 hrs.
It is calculated that the efficiency ratio between working hours
and total hours would be about 0.7. Therefore, the expected annual tractor
hours would be 1,400. The most time restricted section of the rotation would
be the cotton to maize section, as the cotton would not be cleared until
September 15, and the maize should be planted by November 2. In this 7-week
period of peak tractor use, a second driver would be needed. If the start
of cultivation could be brought forward to September 1, a reasonable proposi-
tion if the crop is planted early, this peak could be flattened out consider-
ably. Cultivation of fallow land should start by mid-May and it is recom-
mended that maize be planted by November 2, and cotton by December 5.
7.        The cultivation timetable would be as follows:
(a) Mid-May - Commence cultivation of fallow land for cotton. Two
passes require 5.5 weeks. Completion by end of June.
(b) Start cultivation of maize to cotton land: two passes with the
cultivator taking 5.5 weeks. Completion beginning of August.
(c) Ridge the fallow to cotton land and apply superphosphate. This
will take four weeks and be completed about the end of August.
(d)  About September 1, work should commence on the cotton to maize
section of the rotation: two cultivations and ridging to be
carried out by November 1.
8.        This program allows nine weeks in which to carry out 342 hours
of work - equivalent, at 70% efficiency, to 489 hours. This is equivalent
to 55 hours work/week or nine hours work per day. An hour a day would also
be needed for service maintenance and refueling.



AiNEX 6
Page 6
D. The Mlechanization Section
'echanization would require changes in the pattern of production,
.X;d to assist Ujamaa farrms in adapting to this regime, the Mechanization
-Section would be responsible for:
(a)  training drivers who would be selected by the village
from among their members to drive and maintain their tractors,
measure plots and keep records;
(b)  advising and assisting villages on mechanical cultivation
techniques and on tractor and implement care and main-
tenance;
(c)  setting hire changes and advising on hire operations;
(d)  providing for movable workshop or field repairs as appro-
priate;
(e)  confirmation tihat credit conditions are met by potential
tractor-owner villages; and
(f)  ensuring tractors, implements and spares are available.
October 31, 1973



ANrTE 6
Table I
TANZAIIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Build-Up of Tractors, Cultivation Imple ents and Additional Storage
PROJECT YEAlR                            YO          nl         y2          Y3         Y4         Y5         Y6          Y7          Y8         Y9         n10         51l        Y12
CROP SEASON                             1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86
PHASE I AREA
Total number of tractors/ploughs/
ridgers/tillers in opertion            1           4          9           19         31         44          ,7         69          82         94        107         107        107
Number of units purchaxed
Tractors                                      3          5           10         12         14         16          17         23          24         27          16         17
Plougbs/rldgers                               3          5           10         12         13         14          15         18          22         25          13          14
Tillers                                       3          5           10         12         13          13         13         16          17         23          12         13
Additional Storage
Seed Cotton Store.                            3          6           8           9          6          6           4          4           4          4
Fertilimer Stores                            31                                  3
Insecticides Stores                          31                                  3
P3ASE IT ARFA
Total nuetber of trmetors/plousghs/
ridgers/tillers in operation                                  1            3          9         17         26          35          44         53         62          71         71
Nmber of units purchased
Tractors                                                              2          6          8           9         10          11         15         18          la         10
Ploughe/ridgers                                                       2          6          8           9          9          10         UL         15          17           9
Tillers                                                               2          6          8           9          9           9         10          11         15           8
Additional Storage
Seed Cotton Stores                                                    3          5          7           6          4           3          3           3 
Fertillizer Stores                                                   31                                 3
Insecticides Stores                                                  31                                 3
PHASE III AREA
Total number of tractors/ploughs/
ridgers/tillere in operation                                               1          4         12          22         34          45         57          68         80          91
Number of units purchased
Tractors                                                                         3          8          10         12          12         15          19         22          23
Plougbe/ridgers                                                                  3          8          10         12          11         13          14         20          21
Tillers                                                                          3          8          10         12          11         12          12         13          19
Additional Storage
Seed Cotton stores                                                               4          7           9          7           5          4           4           4
Fertilizer Stores                                                               46                                 4
Insecticides Stores                                                             46                                 4
TOTAL DISTRICT
Total number of tractors/ploughs/
ridgers/tillers in operation            1           4         10          23         44         73         105        138         171        204         237        258         269
Number of units purchased
Tractors                                       3          5          12         21         30          35         39          46         54          64         56          50
Plougtshridgers                                3          5          12         21         29          33         36          39         46          54         5o          44
Tillers                                        3          5          12         21         29          32         34          36         39          46         40          4u
Additional Storage
Seed Cotton Stores                             3          6          11         18          20         21          15         12          11         11           8
Fertilizer Stores                             31                     31         49                      3          4
Insectilides Stores                           31                     31         49                      3          4
One tractor (ar- related cultivetton impleento) per 240 ha. onoo idatm  < unodr cottor or    e
-  Life of eqoip-eet  - tractors            5 years
_ plougho/ridgers    6 years
- tillers            7 years
-  )n? addtio.a- Seed Cotton Store for every 200 Tons Of extra seed cotton prod-ct,on (ni' caparity  If '1 1In  .'ii 1 a 4;5)
-  One Fertilicer St-re and one Insecitcide Store per Cooperative with a rosldx.nI at tbe tine of sato-atil  in e_cb pin.c
JulA  0, IS



TANZANIA
GEITA COITrON PROJECT
Mechanization Section - Build-Up of Worksh,!s and Tractor Handling Capacity
(Unit: number of tractors handled)
PROJECT YEAR                               YO          n1         Y2          Y3          Y4         Y5           6         Y7          Y8          Y9         no           111
CROP SZASCNI                              1973/74    1974/75    1975/76     1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85
Central Workshop (Geita)
First Stage                                                     14         14          14         14          14         14          14          14         14          14
Second Stage (expnsion)                                                                           14          14         14          14          14         14          14
Third Stage  (expansion)                                                                                                             22          22         22          22
Moveable Workshops
Kazn"                                                                                                         14          14         14          14          14         14
8engerems                                                                                                                14          14          14         14          14
Biluliumo                                                                                                                                        14         14          14
Mobile Units
/U no.1                                                         11         11          U          11          11          U          11          11          11         11
M/U no.2                                                                               U           1U         11          11         11          11          11         11
M/U no.3                                                                                          U           U           U          U.          U           U          U
M/U no.4                                                                                                                  U          U           1           U          U
M/U no.5                                                                                                                             U           U           1          11
M/u no.6                                                                                                                                         Ui         11          11
W/U no.7-8                                                                                                                                                  22          22
MNU no.9-10                                                                                                                                                             22
Total Tractor Handling Capacity                                    25         25          36         61          75        100         133         158        180         202
Based on number of used tract*rs in operation (more than one year of age).
July 12, 1973



ANNEX 7
Page 1
TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Road Study: Terms of Reference
1.        The Geita Peninsula in Mwanza Region has become one of the most
important cotton growing areas of Tanzania. Cotton production has increased,
mainly due to an expansion of acreage, but the Government envisages that
production increases in the future will depend more on the introduction of
improved farming methods; it therefore plans an intensification program
including increased extension services to the farmer and new inputs available
on credit. In order to be successful, this program (planned for implementa-
tion in three phases as outlined below) will need an adequate network of
roads for transporting cotton from buying posts to ginneries and from there
to railheads. Present movement of cotton is, however, expensive because most
of the secondary roads and cotton tracks in the District are in poor state of
repair. Many are impassable during the rainy season when cotton movement
is still taking place. The provision of a network of all-weather roads in
the area would reduce total mileage and lower unit vehicle operating costs.
It would also facilitate distribution of inputs and the assimilation of new
techniques.
Phase     Areas to be Developed                           Starting Date
(crop year)
Bukoli, 1wingiro, Karumwa,                      1974/75
Bukwimba, Kakora, Nyangwale,                     through
Ihamilo, Bulela (sub-divisions), and            1975/76
Kalangalala (division).
II.      Busanda, Butundwe, Bugando,                      1976/77
Kahunda, and Sima (sub-divisions).
III.      Kazunzu, Nyakalilo, Kasenyi,
Kasungamile, Nyamatongo, and                    1977/78
Bukura (sub-divisions).
A. Objectives
2.        The purpose of the study is to (i) identify the roads and tracks
needed to support cotton production in the Geita district, and (ii) carry out
such engineering as is necessary to satisfy the needs identified, including
detailed proposals for the execution of the works and any necessary bidding



ANNEX 7
Page 2
_i_fS to enable the Goverrnent to call for bids for the proposed improve-
.ien;s.  Tne study area will consist of all of the Geita District except the
exi3ting Buyagu cotton zone and other corridors within the District which
; --- cGvered in studies carried out in 1966 by Sir William Halcrow and Part-
ners, Consulting Engineers.
B. Scope of Consulting Services
General
3.        The Study shall have two parts and shall give priority to the area
included under Phase I of the development program:
Part 1 shall include a determination of the technical and economic
feasibility, based upon typical per km costs for construction, and
maintenance and vehicle operating costs suited to the alternatives
under consideration of either improving the existing roads and
tracks needed to support cotton production in the Geita district
or constructing new ones;
E'art 2 shall include the carrying out of such engineering as is
necessary for the improvement or construction of the roads and
tracks identified as necessary under Part 1, making detailed pro-
posals for their construction, including if necessary the prepara-
tion of the appropriate bidding documents to enable the Government
to call for bids for the proposed works. The services comprising
Part 2 shall not be commenced until specific instructions have
been issued by the Government to carry out these services.  The
service under this part may be delayed, deleted or reduced in
scope, or carried out under separate arrangements at the option
of the Government.
4.        The consultants shall perform all field engineering work, economic
studies, and other related works as required to attain the objectives described
above, even though they have not been expressly set forth in these terms of
reference.  In the conduct of their work, the consultants shall cooperate
fully with the Central, Regional and District Government ministries and
departments responsible for agriculture, transport and development planning,
and with the Tanzania Cotton Authoritv. The Government will provide the
consultants with available data. The consultants shall be solely responsible,
however, for the analyses and interpretation of all data received and for
the conclusions and recommendations in their reports.
Part 1:   Technical and Economic Feasibility Studies for the
Improvement of the Existing Roads and Tracks or the
Construction of New Roads and Tracks needed to Support
Cotton Production in the Geita District



ANNEX 7
Page 3
5. Selection of Alterr.ative Routes and Design Standards. The consultants
shall determine the technical and economic feasibility of either improving
the existing roads and tracks or constructing new ones to serve their areas
of influence. The consultants shall first review any studies already carried
out on development of roads in the District, evaluate possible alternative
routes and select the most advantageous alignments, construction and mainte-
nance standards to serve the existing and proposed development in the District
on the basis of (i) traffic forecasts, (ii) reconnaisance field surveys,
(iii) construction and maintenance cost estimates based on typical per km
costs, and (iv) preliminary economic analysis. Studies of alternative routes
shall commence with an evaluation of existing roads and tracks and include
the possibilities of upgrading them by relocating short sections to improve
drainage, widths, curvature, grades and surfacing.
6.        Based on a review of available maps, aerial photographs, existing
facilities such as seed cotton buying posts and ginneries, and proposed
development plans for the areas of influence of the roads and tracks, the
consultants shall determine the type and amount of any additional engineering
studies to the extent necessary for establishing preliminary cost estimates
of alternative solutions under study. The cost estimates shall be based on
typical construction costs of bridges and culverts and per km construction
cost of road ror the construction and maintenance standards appropriate to
the anticipated traffic on each section of the roads.
7.        To determine the type and volume of future traffic for each of
the alternative alignments under study, the consultants shall analyze all
available data on traffic in the areas of the zones of influence of the
alternative alignments including estimates of figures on production of cotton
in Geita. If the consultants find that additional traffic counts and origin
and destination studies are required for the purposes of their study, the
necessary additional counts and field investigations shall be undertaken by
the consultants with the assistance of the Government. In addition, the
consultants shall identify, describe and quantify existing and potential
traffic generating sources in the areas served or to be served by the road
alignments under investigation. Such identification shall take account of
the existing development and the proposed Geita Cotton Project and an esti-
mate of future demands for road transport resulting from:
(a) development of agricultural and other production in the
Geita District; and
(b) anticipated growth in population, local trades and social
activities.
8.        The consultants shall make a preliminary economic analysis for each
alternative alignment under study, using the methods outlined below and the
traffic forecasts and construction cost estimates described above. On this
basis, the consultants shall make recommendations as to alignments, design
standards and methods for the improvement or construction of the roads and
tracks identified as necessary to support cotton production in Geita. The



ANNIEX 7
Page 4
ltants may concluce that improvements of some or all of the roads or
sc.o.ns may be so simple as to require only 'type' engineering in which
c sucn type engineering and the extent to which it should be carried
ouz shall be described.
9,        Economic Ana1ly.Xsis.  The economic analysis of major alternative
ahignients shall incluce:
(a)  estimates of the volume and identification of origin and
destination of traffic entering or leaving the areas
of influence of the roads;
(b) estimates of induced agricultural and other traffic on
the roads under study, assuming the increased production
envisaged under the Cotton Project;
(c) estimates of costs of construction, maintenance and
administration for the economic life of the proposed
road improvements;
(d)  estimates of present and future transport costs with and
without the proposed improvements using unit costs of
owning and operating typical vehicles on the existing road,
and estimated future costs of vehicle operation on the
existing and proposed improved roads; and
(e) estimates of other economic benefits, if any, including
reductions in road maintenance costs and increase in the
net value of agricultural or other outputs resulting from
the proposed road improvements.
The net benefits of the proposed road development assessed to be required to
meet the transport needs of the area shall be compared with the costs of pro-
viding those roads. For each alternative, net present values discounted at
rates of 10%, 12 1/2% and 15% shall be calculated. On the basis of these
calculations, the optimum solution to the transport problems of the area
shall be determined.
rart 2: Preparation of Engineering and Bidding Documents
10.       After review and approval by the Government and the Association
of the consultants' recommendations in Part 1 above, the consultants may be
called upon to prepare such engineering and other documents as are necessary
for the optimum solution proposed for the transport needs of the area.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
11.       For this purpose, the consultants shall carry out such engineering
work as is necessary to attain the objectives set forth above. The consul-
tants may conclude that improvements of some or all of the roads or sections
may be so simple as to require only 'type' engineering, in which case such
engineering and the extent to which it should be carried out shall be described.
The consultants shall riake recommendations as to how any subsequent construction
or imaprovement works shall be executed; the possibilities, advantages and dis-
advantages of the following alternatives should be particularly investigated
and dliscussed: (i) international competitive bidding; (ii) force account;
or (iii) local bidding. In carrying out such work the consultants will:
(a)' carry out further topographical, geotechnical,
hydrological and material surveys necessary for the
engineering of the roads;
(b)  establish the center line of the proposed roads on the
gLround, making any changes considered necessary after
agreement with the Government;
(c) take such additional levels and cross sections as are
reqLxired to prepare any necessary engineering for the
roads and locate benchmarks at suitable intervals;
(d)  locate and design drainage and other structures includ-
ing ally necessary calculations of waterways areas;
(e) prepare any documents necessary to enable the Government
to proceed with the works including conditions of
contract, specifications, drawings (to an appropriate
scale), bills of quantities and forms for bid bonds.
In preparing any such documents consideration shall be
given, t:o the extent possible, to specifications
existing in the country. However, if alterations to
such specifications are considered necessary, they shall
be included and reasons given;
(f) prepare detailed estimates of the cost of construction;
(g) calculate foreign and local currency costs in detail
for each item in the bills of quantities.  The foreign
exchange component of cost shall comprise such items
as depreciation of imported equipment, imported materials
and supplies, foreign exchange component of wages of
expatriate personnel, overhead and profit of foreign
firms and also the principal forei-n exchange element of
locally produced materials incorporated in the works; and
(h) precualify bidders if required to do so.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
C. Data, Local Services and Facilities to be
Provided by the Government
Data
12.       The Government shall provide the consultants with the following:
(a) all reports or previous studies on production and movement
of cotton in the Geita district;
(b) appropriate highway traffic counts, origin and destination
surveys, and any national or area traffic statistics;
(c) all available user costs information for all modes of transport;
(d) records or information on recent costs of road construction
and maintenance for various types of roads in Tanzania; and
(e) assistance in undertaking additional highway traffic counts
and origin and estimation surveys.
In connection with work by the consultants which requires the cooperation
and/or assistance of other Government agencies, the Government shall provide
proper liaison and shall ensure that the consultants have access to all
information required for the adequate conduct and completion of the studies.
Local Facilities
13.       The Government shall provide certain facilities to be defined at
negotiations to help consultants in performing the services in Tanzania. The
Government shall assist and guide consultants in locating satisfactory and
appropriate accommodation for personnel.
D. Reports and Documents
Part 1
14.       The consultants shall furnish the Government with the following
reports, all in English:
(a) Inception Report - a summary of initial findings of the
consultants, and detailed proposals (in view of prelimi-
nary findings) for the conduct of the study;



ANNEX 7
Page 7
(b)  Bi-monthly Progress Reports - (copies to the Government,
the Association and to PMEA) after the submission of the
Inception Report giving a statement of all work performed
during the reporting period;
(c) Interim Report - containing consultants' findings, con-
clusions and recommendations in respect of road require-
ments of the area under Phase I of the development program
including, if agreed by the Government, any recommendations
that would be necessary under Part 2 of the study for the
roads and tracks;
(d) Draft Final Report upon completion of Part 1 of the
study, summarizing all work performed, and findings,
conclusions and consultants' recommendations. This
report shall be presented in edited form, complete
with all relevant materials, maps, graphs, diagrams,
plans and tables which support the Final Report, for
comments by the Government and the Association;
(e) Final Report of Part 1 of the study, incorporating
all revisions deemed appropriate by consultants after
receipt and discussion of comments on the Draft Final
Report with the Government.
Part 2
15.       Should the consultants be called upon to undertake Part 2 of the
study, they shall, in addition to the Part 1 Report, furnish to the Govern-
ment the following:
(a)  Inception Report summarizing any revised findings by
the consultants and detailed proposals for conduct of
the studies;
(b) Bi-monthly Progress Reports - in a format to be agreed
with the Government, summarizing all work performed
during the period under review, new findings and recom-
mendations bv consultants, and a record of all important
decisions made regarding the design or other aspects of
the work (number of copies to be decided by the Government);
(c) Draft Final Report - on completion of detailed engineering
and tender documents, copies of all relevant engineering
and soil tests reports, engineering calculations, any
revised cost estimates based on final engineering, and a
revised economic assessment if costs are significantly
different from those in the Part 1 Final Report; and
(d) Final Report - complete set of tender documents and support-
ing technical reports.



ANNTEX 7
Page 8
E. Time Schedule
The consultants shall begin the studies for Part 1 within 30 calen-
.ar .iavs of the effective date of the contract and shall submit the Reports
.aen,ioned in Section IV above, within the following time schedule:
Part 1
Inception Report - within 30 days of contract effective date;
progress Report - bi-monthly during progress of the Study;
Interim Report - within 4 months of contract effective date;
Draft Final Report - within 12 months of contract effective date;
Final Report - within one month of receipt of comments on Draft
Final Report from the Government and the Associa-
tion which comments shall be presented and discussed
no later than 45 days from the date Draft Final
Report is submitted to the Government and the
Association.
Part 2
Inception Report - within 30 days of receipt of instructions
to proceed with Part 2 of the Study;
ProgressReport- bi-monthly during progress of the work;
Contract Documents - within the time stipulated in the
consultantst agreement.



TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs
(TSh'OO0)
Y1        Y2         Y3        Y4        Y5         Y6         Y7    Total Cost over
1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   3.977/8   1978/79   1979/80   1       8 Project Period
Farm Credit
Seasonal Credit               1,111     1,420      2,7L4     4,428      3,174     1,919        808     15,574
Medium-term credit
- sprayers                    109       174        291       602       525        531        664      2,896
- tractors                    117       186        540       751      1,022     1,215      1,313      5,144
- implements                   65       106        254       442        6o4       666        750      2,887
Cultivation credit               59        74        192       325        429       474        488      2,041
Sub-total               1,461      1,960     3,991      6,548     5,754      4,805      4,023     28,542
Project Investment
Vehicles                        295        17         90       115        308        34         87        946
Storage                       1,609       180      2,619     2,941        600       777        646      9,372
Buildings                       412         -          -        52         52        52        204        772'
Housing                       4,209       568        820       189        235       188         50      6,259
Equipment                       535        35         60        95        115       276        236      1,352
Ginnery water supply            369                                                                        369
Road survey                   1,892       571                                                           2,463
Road construction             2,749     5,102      6,532    12,0014     8,738                           35,125
Health facilities               700       700        700       700                                       2,800
Schools                       1,128     2,363                                                           3,491
Sub-total              13,898      9,536    10,821    16,096    10,048       1,327     1,223      62,949
Project Administration
Wages and salaries            3,064     3,277      3,896     4,196      4,394     3,712      3,732     26,271
Operating costs                 332       397        431       489        513       411        406       2,979
Sub-total                3,396     3,674      4,327     4,685      4,907     4,123      4,138     29,250
Total                   18,755    15,170    19,139    27,329    20,709    10,255        9,381    120,741
Conitingency Allowances
Physical                      2,013     1,772      2,941     3,333      2,50O     I ¾0f'r      938      13,83'
Price                         1,313     2,185      4,307     8,472      8,325     5,128      5,678      35,408
Total Project Cost           22,081    19,127    25,687    39,134    31,542    16,409    16,000    169,98C,



ANNEX 8
Tale2
TAOIAOA
GISTA COTOOT PiorT
A=u^l Costs of PrJeet He! rr  and Mechanization Section
ProJect Period
PROJECT/YEAR                                       Yl         Y2          Y3         Y4          Y5         16         Y7      *   Y3         Y9          no         Yn2
1974/75    i75/76    1976/77    1977/78    w78/79    1979/80    1960/81    1981/82    1983/83    1983/84    19984/85
A. Bildings sAd Equipsnt
Project R!s4a586ftE!
3intitraiioti              - buIldings          100
- lquiwet             90                                           40                                            40
- Total                                                            40                                            4o
R ee arh Unit            _ Buildings           160
r- Equipent          230                                                      115        115                                           115
_ Total              39°                                                      115        115                                           115
Soil AnalYtical Lb.      - Buildings                                                                                                                             11
- Equiprent          120                                           4o
-Total               220                                           40
land Ue Planning Unit   - Equipent                       .                                             44               ,                                        4
Visual Aid (cinma vn and aMso, equip.)           1                    60
Total Headquarters        - Buildings          360
_ Equipment          485                    60                     80         159        115                     4 4                   159
- Total              845                    60                      so        159        115                     4o                    159
ischenioation Section
Getta Centrml Works-hop   - Buildings          52                                52v                               152
- Equipment           50                                6o                     50         40                     60                     50
- Total              102                               112                    50         2:     |                60                     50
Mo-eabls Workshops       -vil&ing.                                                           52        37          52
- Equipment                                                                   39          39         39          35'                    39
Mobile Units               P                              28                     28          4          '         -           j                       83         j
-  wlpnast                      7                      7          7                     14          7          14         21          1
-Total                                                                        28          42         62          69        104          97
Total M1ehanization Section
- Buildings           52                                52         52         52         204
- Euipent             50         35                     95         35         117        121        101         168        1o4         186
- Total              102         35                    147         87         169        325   *    101         168        104         186
3  Housing                                       3,630                     55         22         135        1           5          10           30         30          -
C. Vehicles  /                                     220                                           220                                          220
D. Salswien
QSa      nt/ 1                                  8LP        BSo         Sos        sSo        580         160        160        o160         160        160        160
Finxucial Section                             230        230         230        230        230          60         60   '    60           60         6o          60
Project Emaluation Unit                       286        266         286        302        302         132        132         132        132        132         132
Research Unit                                 608        628         628        418         418        20B        208         208        208         208        208
Soil Analytical Lab.                          340        340         340        130        130         130        130         130        130        130         130
Iand Use Planning Unit                        185         185        185        185         185        185        165         185        185         185        185
Ancillary Staff and Drivers                   147        147         147        147 -1.&7              147        147         147        147        147         147
M- d ation Sectinn                        15         50         5°          69        10,         163       236        278         350        376         412
Total'                                    2,643     2671       2,671       2,061      2           1,185      1,258      1,3C0       1,372      1,398       1,434
1L Sunnir  oDens
WorksEn Esef                                               61         61         81         103        111        140         161        190        232         274
OtberaT J300                                             300         300        300        300         300        300         300        300        300         300
Total Tnvestixnt Costs                        4,797          35        115        182        522         478        490         251        458         134        345
Total Recurrent Costs                         2 943      3,032       3,032      2,442      2,499       1,596      1,698       1,761      1,862      1,930       2,00B
Total Costs                                 7,740      3,067       3,147     2,6o4       3,021       2,074      2,188      2,012       2,320      2,064       2,353
Total Costs with Physical ContingsnciesW      9,056      3,816       4,170      3,699       4,537      3,318      3,731       3,658      4,496       4,266      5,186
Iludes 15 Ofice sces and storage.
2/ Invetmt cost of eight four-beel-Drive vhicles for Project headquarters' Staff.
Includes provision for 5 year expenses on expatriate procuremnt epecialist within
T.R.D.S. (annual salary Tgh 210 000; annal housing alloance TSbl5,000; initial
training in Washington TSh7,0005
/ O3ita workshop: Ti 40,000/yer; Moveable workshops : TSh 8,000/yesr;   obil units:
TB?, 20,900/year.
Includes F.IVD. eAd cnwea vn operations costs (TSh 20,000 per unit) snd others
(TSh 140,000) such as farm costs for research activities and eiscmllanous tools
andl materials.
Cunnulattre price contingenqY of 7% anneaLY and 10% physinal contingsncits..



TAUZANIA                                                                                          AR3LX s
CITA C00        PRO=                                                                                    Table 3
Annual Coets of ImPAut, 3wmot,ato? , ts mn and Credit Se             as -         n by Phae
Projct 8.Period
PBOJ15CT/?RAK IAR
PRO=1PROM"~ ~ ~                        Y2R yl3               Y4         15          Y6         Y.         Y8         Y9         Y2o        ml
,197-I1s5    1.9 176    1976 -7 19.7 78   1978/79      1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/35
PHASE I AREA
Inputs aw Equi^ent
Input.                             1,111      1,420      1,712      1,476        118         114        117        15         110         }9          -
Cotton  prayers                       109       174         189        2'4        181         220        257.       212       203         287       187
Tracto.s                              117        186        460        410        438         556        585        876        872        923        544
Plough./ridgerm/tillers               65        106        209        251        266         264         314       382        499        580        326
Storwe                               1,609        180        240        417        180         180        120                   3.12  120  120         6G
Extension and credit services
smlarie,                             421        606        812        975        778         804        813        830        848        865        865
lHoueing                              579         86         71          -          -           -          -  ,       -         -           -         -
Vehicles                              75         17         15         17         60          12         16         16         41          9         12
Running expenses
Tractors                               59        714        14.0       177        193        192        177        192        177         193         -
Vebicle,                              32         36         38          40        38          58         38,        38         38         38         3b
Total Investment Sost,               2,554        749      1,184      1,369      1,125       1,232      1,292      1,606      1,735      1,9}9      1,129
Total Recurrent Corte                1623       2,136      2,71       2,668      1,127       1,148      i,165,  1,175         1,173      1,215        903
Total Costo                          4,177      2,885      3,854      4,037      2,252       2,380      2,437      2,781      2,908      3,134      2,032
PASE II AREA
Inputs nd Rquipsnt
Inpurns                                                  1,002      1,422      1,244         475         86  ,      86         86         85         84
Cotton sprers                                              102         168        136        157        280,    142           162         L85       147
Tractors                                                    0o        224        287         303        301  ,    361         594        694        649
P1ougghe/ridgers/tillers                                    45        126        168         187        185  ,    184         226        334        402
Storage                                                    1,609        150        210         327        120,        90         90         90         60
Extension and credit services
Salaries                                                   413        584        729         778        650        659        676        676        694
Housing                                         1482        74         65         32           -          -          -          -          -          -
Vehicles                                                    75          13         12         10         56  ,      13         18          8         43
Running expenses
Tractors                                                     44        89         118         134       133  '    133         133        133        133
Vehicles                                                     32        34         36          38         38  ,      38         31         33         33
Total Investment Costs                            482      1,985        746        845         984        942        790      1,090      1,311      1,300
Total Recurrent Costs                                      1,491      2,129      2,127       1,425          5  ,    9114        931        932        949
Total Costs                                      1482      3,476      2,87       2,972       2,409      1,847,  1,704         2,021      2,243      2,249
PHASE III AREA
'-,ts and Equipsnt
Inputs                                                              1,530      1,832       1,330        607        109        101        107         .08
Cotton spraers                                                        160        208         153        228        222        160        233        230
Tractors                                                              117        297         356        427'    354           493        724        812
Plough./ridg.r/till-rs                                                 65        170         215        251  '    221         237        284        433
etorage                                                               2,374        210         270        4C6  '    150         120        120        120
Extension and credit services
salaries                                                              576        791         945      1,011        848        866        875        852
Housing                                                    620         89         68          38          -          -          -          -          -
Vehicles                                                               85         16          12         15         56         19         24          9
Running expenses
Tractor                                                                59        118         148        178        164        177        162        178
Vehicles                                                               34         36          35         30'        38         38         38         38
Total Inve stmnt Costs                                       620      2,890        969       1o,44      1,327      1,003      1,029      1,385      1,604
Total Recurrent Costs                                                 2,199      2,757       2,458      1,826      1 159      1182       1,182      1,216
Total Costs                                                  620      5,089      3,726       3,502      3,153      2,16259    2211       2 567      2,B20
TOTAL DISTRICT
Inputs and Equipt
Inputs                             1,i11      1,420      2,7114     4,4e8      3,174       1,919        808  ,    308         295        311        192
Cotton sprayers                       109       174        291        602         525        531        664  .    575         526        705        564
Trctor                           .4  117         186        5140      751      1,022       1,215      1,3133     1,591       1,959     2,341      2,005
Plougbu/ridgers/tillers           -   65         106       2514        442       604         666        750  *    787         962      1,198      1,160
3tor-gs                              1,609        180      1,849      2,941        600         777        646        360        330        330        240
ttesnion end credit services
Salaries                             421        606      1,225      2,135      2,298       2,527      2,474  '  2,337       2,390      2,416      2,451
Houing                                579        568        765        354        10           38         -        '                       -          -
Vehicles                              75          17        90        115         88          34         87         85         78         41         64
Running sep50.,.
Trwctor.                              59          74        192        325       1429         474        488        489        487       488         311
Vehicles                              32          36        70        108        110          .11       106        114        114        1.14       114
Total Invegtment Co ts               2,554       1,231      3,789     5,005      2,939        3,261     3560       3,398      3,855      4,615      4,033
Total Recurrent Costs                 1,623     2,136       4,201     6,996      6,011       5,031      3,876      3,248      3,286      3,329      3,068
Total Costs                          4,177       3,367     7,990     12,001      8,950       8,292      7,436      6,646      7,141      7,944      7,101
Total Costs with
Continncies                         4,887      4,188     10,587    16,921    13,443       13,266    32,680      12,085     13,837     16,420     15,622






ANNEX 9
'PNZZAhIA
GEITA COTTON PfOJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year       End of            Cumulative               Balance
and Wuarter          Quarter         Amouht Disbursed (US$      of Cedit
0                                        17, 500
1974/75                 1
2
3                    400                 17,100
4                    800                 16,700
1975/76                 1                  1,200                 16,300
2                 1,700                  15,800
3                  2,300                 15,200
4                  2, 800                14,700
1976/77                 1                  3,300                 14,200
2                 3,800                  13,700
3                  4,300                 13,200
4                 4,900                  12,600
1977/78                 1                  5,500                 12,000
2                 6,200                  11,300
3                  7,000                 10,500
4                  8,000.                 9,500
1978/79                 1                  9,000                  8,500
2                10,000                   7,500
3                11,000                   6,500
4                11,900                   5,600
1979/80                 1                 12,700                  4,800
2                13,400                   4,100
3                14,100                   3,400
4                14, 600                  2,900
1980/81                 1                 15,100                  2,400
2                15,600                   1,900
3                16,000                   1,500
4                16, 400                  1,1o0
1981/82                 1                 16,800                    700
2                17,200                     300
3                 17,500






Tabex  0
TANZANIA
CEITA COTION PROJECT
Build-U'J and Unit Costs of Staff
Number      Period in Program       Unit Salary     _Unit_Housng_Cost        Transpor_ t
A.  PRCJECT HEADWUARTERS
Msnseant
FrnJect Manager (exp,)                            1             n1  - Y5             250,000                150,000
Deputy Project Mwnager                            I 1  - Y20                         4o,ooo                150,000
ChIe.f Sesion Officer                             I             n1  - Y20              40,000               150,000
Chief Credit Officer                              I 1  - y20                         40,000                150,000
Chief Mechanization Officer - exp.                1            n1  - Y5              210,000                150,000
- local               1            Y6  - Y20              40,ow                   _u
Transport                                                                                                                    27,500 (8 units>2/
Financial Section
Accountant - exp.                                 1             n1  - Y5             210,000                150,000
- local                                1            Y6  - Y20              40,000                 -
Accounts Clerk                                    1             n1  -  Y20             20,000               100,000
TecbniLal Services                                                                        h' 
Evaluation Unit                                                                                                                         .
kg-rTcMtu`ralEconomist - exp.                   1            Y1  - Y5           q  210,000                150,0COo-      i                i d
- local                  1            Y6 -  Y20              40,000                 -
Statistical Assistant                           1            n  - Y20               20,000               100,000 -
Fare Survey Officer                             1.           Y1  - Y20              20,000                100,000 -
Data Clerks                                     2            Y1  - y3                8,750'               20,000
3           Y4  - Y20                -                     -
Senior Enuserators                              2            n1  -  Y3               8,750                20,000
3           Y4 - Y20                 -                     -
Research Unit
Research Officers - exp.                        2            Y1  - Y3              210,000                150,000
- exp.                        1            Y4  - Y5                -                     -
- local                       1            ni  -  Y20             25,000               150,000
Diplaste                                        1            Y1  - Y20              20,000               100,000
Field Assistants  - Gr. I                       7            n1  - Y20              13,750                20,000
- Gr. II                      7            Y1  - Y20               8,750                20,000
Tractor Driver                                  1            yn  - Y20               6,250                  -
Soil A    cal Lab.
Professional Officer - exp.                     1            Yl -  Y3              210,000               150,000
local                    2            n1  - Y20              30,000               150,000
Lab. Assistants                                 8            Yl - Y20                8,750                20,000
&nior T=6  gl4     1ci  Iic                     1            n      Y20             30,000               150,000
Graduate Planning Officer                       1            n1  - Y20              25,000               100,000
Diplomates                                      2            n1  - Y20              20,000               100,000
Senior Topographer                              1            Yn  - Y20              25,000               100,000
Dr-fts-en                                       2            Y1  - Y20              15,000                20,000
Field Assistants                                4            n  - Y20                8,750                20,000
Ancillary Staff and Drivers
5            Y1 _  120               8,750                20,000
Typists                                           6            Y1  - Y20               6, 000                15,000
Drivers                                           8             n  -  Y20              6,250                  -
laborers                                          5            yn  - Y20               3,500
B. OPERATIONAL SERVICES
Exteno-n Services               )
Field Officerc               )                                                        21,250                100,000            27,500 23 unit.)J
Aesistact Field Officers I   )                                                        13,750                20,000              4,o00 oo
Assi6t6nt Field Officers II  )                                                         8,750                15,000e/              500 J
Drivers                           See                                                  7,000                 -
)-Build-Up
Credit Collection Services      )   on Table  2
Senior Credit Of'icers       )                                                        21,250               100,000            27,500   units)4v
Credit Officers              )                                                        13,750                20,000                500
Drivers                                                                                7,000                  -
Mechanization Unit
Insap-e-torF                                                                         V15,000                100,000
Forenan                                                                               12,000                20,000
Field Officers                                                                        21,250                100,000            27,500 (3units)-
Store Clerks                                                                           7,000                15,000
Mech. Cr. 1                                                                           10,000                20,000
Mesh. Gr. 2                                                                            8,000                15,000
Nech. Gr. 3                                                                            6,ooo                   -
Mach. Gr. 4                                                                            5,000 
/ Includes basic salary, pension fund end allowances.
Housing provided to 20% of A.F.O. II.
Pool of Four-Wheel drive vehiclds hared between Managent and Technical Services.
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles.
Motorcycles.
BJ Bicycles.
JulY 17, 1973



TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Build-Up of Extension, Credit Collection and Mechanization Staff
PROJECT YEB                                       YO             n              Yp            Y3            Y4             Y5             Y6             Y7             Y8             Y9            nlo            Yll
.CROP SEASON                                    1973/74        1974/75        1975/76       1976/77        1977/78        1978/79        1979/80       1980/81        1981/82        1982/83        1983/84        1984/85
PHASE I AREA N /
Extension
Field Officer                                                1              1              1             1              1              1              1              1             1              1              1
Assistent Field Officers I                    1              1              3              4             5              4              4              4              4              4             4              4
Assistent Field Officers II                   5             15             33             55            72             51             54            55             57             59             61             61
Credit Colloction
Senior Credit Officer                                        1              1              1             1              1              1              1             1              1              1              1
Credit Officers                               5             16             16             16            16             16             16            16             16             16             16             16
PASh 11 ABm /
Extension
WITe- ffier                                                                               1              1              1             1              1              1              1              1              1
Assistant Field Officers I                                                  1              1             2              3              4              3              3             3              3              3
Assistant Field Officers II                                                 4             14            32             47             51             38            39             41             41             43
Credit Collection
Senior Credit Officer                                                                      1             1              1              1              1              1             1              1              1
Credit Officers                                                             5            16             16             16             16            16             16             16             16             16
A   III ARM  I/
lxtension
Wre8fficer                                                                                               1              1              1              1              1             1              1              1
Assistant Field Officers I                                                                 1             2              3              4              5              4              4             4              4
Assixtant Field Officers II                                                                4            20             43             59             65             48             50            51             53
Credit Collection
Senior Credit Oricer                                                                                     1              1              1              1              1             1              1              1
Credit Officers                                                                           7             23             23             23            e3             23             23             23             23
TOTAL DISICT
Extension
Field Oficers                                                1              1             2              3              3              3              3              3             3              3              3
Asaistant Field Officers I                     1             1              3              5             9             10             12             12             11             1                            11
Assistant Field Officers II                    5            15             33             69           124            141            164            158            144           150            153            157
Credit Collection
Senior Credit O,ctcers                                       1              1              2             3              3              3              3              3              3              3             3
Credit OfficeJ                                5             16            16             32             55             55            55             55             55             55             55             55
Itechanization JY
Inspector                                                                   1(G)           1             1              1              1              1                             1              1              1
Foremen                                                                                                                 l(G)           1              1              1              111
Meebanicel Field Officers                                                                                                              1(K)           1(S)                          1(B)
Store Clerks                                                                1(G)           1             1              1              2(K)           3(S)           4(G)          5(8)           5              5
Mechanics - Grade I                                                         1(G)           1              1             1              2(K)           3(S)           4(G)           5(B)           5              5
_ Grade II                                                       1(M/U)         1              2(M/U)         3(M/U)        3              4(M/U)         5(M/U)         6(M/U)         8(M/u)        10(M/U)
_ Grade III                                                                                    1(G)           1             2(K)           3(S)           5(G)           6(N)           6              6
_ Grade IV                                                       2(G,M/U)       2              3(M/U)         6(2G,lM/U)    9(K)          13(3S,lM/U)   14(M/U)         18(3B,lM/U)   20(M/U)         22(M/U)
Total Mechanics                                                             4              4             7             11             16             23             28             35             39             43
I/   n each phase, both the extension service end the credit collection service have one driver.
v  Symbol between parentheses refers to type of mechonical unit to vbich stsff addition is made in year concerned:
G         Geita Central Workshop
X         KarXuma Moveable Workshaop
S    ,    Sengeremn Moveable Worksbop
B         Bilulumo Moveable Workshop
M/U        Mobile Unit
July 19, 1973



TANZANIA
GETA COTPLE PROJT
Incremental Production or Seed/ldnt and Haize from Project /VI
PlJFT YEAR                                              YO           n1          Y2          Y3           4          Y5          Y6          7    Y      Y8          Y9 no                    nl
CMOP SE160F                                           1973/74      1974/75     1975/76     1976/77     1977/78     1978/79     1979/80     1980/81     1981/82     1982/83     1983/84      1964/85
PHASE I ARgA
Cotton
7CGant Production   Seed Cotton (toea)                6,880
Lint (bales)                 12,540
Incr. Production  : Seed Cotton (tons)                           590        1 720       3,350      5,180        6,480       7520        8,420       9 250       9,900      10,390      0L,590
Lint (bales)                              1,080       3,i40       6,1.o       9,440       11,810      13,no       15,350      16,860      18,050      18,940      19,310
W e
errnt Production (tons)                             9,360
Incr. Production (tons)                                        1,520        4,640       8,530     12-,490      14,480      14,97o      15,520      16,07O      16,620      17,160      17,300
PRAE II ARIA
Cotton
Current Production:  Seed Cotton (ton)              4,950
Lint (bales)                  9,020
Iner. Production :  goed Cotton (toas)                                                    530       1,530       2,990       4,110       4,940       5,660       6,290       6,850        7,280
Lint (bales)                                                        970       2,790        5,45o       7,490       9,010      10,320      11,470      12,490       13,270
Hai..
Frent Production (tons)                             6,730
Iner. Produetion (tons)                                                                 1,370       4,370       7,630       9,720      10,510      10,900      11,3u       11,700       12,100
PHASE III AREA
Cotton
Curient Production:  Seed Cotton (tons)            6,300
Lint (bales)                 11,480
Incr. Produe*tic     S seed Ceeton (tone)                                                             81o       2,290       3,940       5 320       6 37)       7,280        8,080       8,770
Lint (bales)                                                                   1,480       4,180       7,180       9,700      12,61)      13,270      14,730       15,993
Ti=rent Production (tons)                           8,550
Incr. Production (tons)                                                                             2.090       6,180      10,000      12,4o0      13,410      13,920       14,420      14,930
TOTAL DISTRICT
Cotton
Current Production: Seed Cotton (tona)            18,130
Lint (bales)                  33,040
Incr. Production  :  Seed Cotton (tons)                          590        1,720       3,880       7,520      11,760      15,570      18,680      21,280      23,470       25,320      26,640
Lirt (bales)                              1,080        3,140       7,080      13,710      21,443      28,380      34,060      38,790      42,790       46,160      48,570
Maize
Currer.t Production (tons)                         24,640
Incr. Production (tons)                                         1,520       4,640       9,900      18,950      28,290      34,690      38,430      40,380       41,840      43,280      44,330
"Current Production" refer. to tbe total current production on the Par-s oxOcted to Join the ProJect.
I Quantitien of Lint are expressed in 181 kg. bales.
/  Yield.s re eAtla'ted aI.:
Fanner', year  10             Y2   _3       Y4    Y5    Y6       Y7    Y8
Cotton (kg/ha)  500   700   825    900   950  1,000  1,050  1,075  1,100
Maine  (kg/ha) 850  1,500  2,000  2,000  2,00  2,000  2,000  2,000  2,000
JTly 20, 1973






A\NNEX * 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Markets and Prices
Cotton
1.        World demand for cotton remained weak throughout the late sixties,
particularly in developed countries, where the general stagnation of the
textile industry and strong competition from artificaL fibers have limited
cotton consumption. This effect was only partially offset by an increase in
the utilization of cotton in developing and centrally planned countries.
Between 1966/67 and 1971/72, world cotton production grew at an average
annual rate of 0.9%, compared to 2.2% per annum in the preceding 11 years.
2.        Worlu cotton consumption is projected to grow at an average annual
rate of 1.6% during the next ten years. This growth, although modest, pre-
supposes that some further improvement in the quality composition of cotton
and progress in promotional activity would take place and, furthermore, that
no breakthrough in the production of artifical fibers would occur. World
cotton production is forecast to grow at between 1.5% and 2.0% per annum
through the 1970's, depending on possible cotton production policy changes in
the two major producing countries, the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R.
3.        Cotton consumption in the Tanzanian textile industry is still only
about 15% of total production. The bulk of lint production is therefore ex-
ported, mainly to Hong Kong, Mainland China and Japan. As Tanzanian cotton
is of the medium-long fiber type, it appears unlikely that Tanzania will be
able to greatly diversify its foreign clientele and the three above-mentioned
countries will probably remain the main outlets.
4.        Due to a temporary supply shortage, cotton prices begarn to rise
during the 1971/72 season. When at the beginning of the 1972/73 year it
became apparent that world cotton supply was going to be abundant, prices
started to fall again. Later in the year, under the combined impact of a
strong demand (the textile cycle had again turned upward) and unexpected
heavy purchases from the People's Republic of China (an extra 1 million
bales over previous levels), prices began to move up once more. Monetary
uncertainties reinforced the speculative component already present in the
cotton markets and prices reached Korean-war peaks towards the end of the
1972/73 season. Prices are expected to remain high in 1973/74 since, at
the grower stage, cotton appears to be generally faced with its most severe
competition in many years and unfavourable weather conditions in some key
producing countries are likely to further reduce total cotton supply in
the next season. The prevailing high cotton prices, however, are to be
viewed as a temporary phenomenon, caused by a number of random factors which



ANNEX 12
Page 2
upset the normal developments of world cotton demand and supply. It is
therefore expected that the overal'l market balance will gradually improve
beginning in 1974/75 and that equilibrium will be re-established at lower
prices.   eva  -'ion purposes, it was assumed that the 1974/75 c.i.f.
price for Tanzania cotton would be around T151 per lb in current terms.
5.        By the end of the decade, cotton prices, in terms of Mexican
SM 1-1/16 - a representative grade of medium-long staple cotton which usually
accounts for over 60% of world cotton output - are expected to be some 5-7%
below 1971/72 - ;972/73 levels. In 1980 dollar terms, Mexican SM 1-1/16
cotton pric.s are forecast to be around 38 US i/lb, c.i.f. Liverpool. Ex-
pres6±u in 1973 conscanc dollar terms, this would correspond to a price of 29
US 4/1b. It can be reasonably assumed that a similar trend will be followred
'2 anzanian cotton, for its quality is basically the same and past prices
-._ve Daeen vl-rtuaily inentical.  These prices have been used in the analysis.
The price of cotton seed charged to the millers by the Cotton
Au_'-nntity is tied to the ruling international price of cotton seed cake and
the  oaa1. price of cotton seed oil.  The ex-mill price of oil has been fixed
at Tsh 2700 per ton by the Government, which is roughly 20% above the inter-
national price. International prices of cotton seed oil are expected to drop
to US$274 per ton by 1980 from the present level of approximately US$300 per
ton. Demand for cotton oil in Tanzania and neighbouring countries will remain
high in the future and marketing of Tanzanian cotton seed oil should therefore
not be a problem.
7.        An anlysis of probable trends in handling, ginning and marketing
costs has indicated that, given the foregoing price projections for lint and
cotton seed oil, and on the assumption that annual production of lint would
expand from its current level of 400,000 bales to 600,000 bales in 1980, the
price to the farmer of seed cotton could be maintained at its present level
in current terms over the period. For evaluation purposes, therefore, the
price to growers has been kept at its present level of Tsh 1.13 per kg for
AR and Tsh 0.60 per kg for BR over the Project period.
Maize
8.        Over the last ten years, maize production in Tanzania has fluctuated
around 600,000 tons per year and direct on-farm consumption has traditionally
been the most important outlet for the product. It is estimated that, on the
average, only about 25% of total production is marketed through the National
Agricultural Products Marketing Board (NAPB), leaving an unknown but probably
substantial volume of illegal sales. The high costs associated with the
official marketing chain, which is characterized by a large number of inter-
mediary links and a complex pricing structure, has created a large differen-
tial between producer and consumer prices. For the 1972/73 season, NAPB
purchased maize from the Cooperatives at Tsh 390/ton and charged Tsh 460/ton



ANNEX 1 2
Page 3
to the millers. The average price to the producer was Tsh 250/ton, while the
processed product was made available to the consumer at about TJ75/kg
(Tsh 750/ton). This situation has undoubtedly provided an incentive for the
farmer to sell his product through unofficial channels.
9.        Until recently, marketed production has been broadly in balance
with commercial consumption. There are indications, however, that commercial
demand is now growing faster than production marketed through NAPB and it is
e:pected that the growth of such demand will remain close to the present level
of 4.5% per annum. In current terms, the international price of maize is
expected to decline from today's high levels caused by current world shortages
in food grains to about US$63/ton f.o.b. (Tsh 440) by 1980. This is still
about 13% above NAPB's current purchasing price from Cooperative Unions and
26% above the equivalent farm-gate price fixed by Government for priority
areas of Tsh 350/ton. For non-priority areas, such as Geita, the price has
been set at Tsh 300/ton. These levels are expected to be maintained in the
future.
10.       The Mwanza region is not self-sufficient in maize products and some
shortages have occurred recently partly because of the illegal sales to Kenya
of maize produced in the Mara region, traditionally the main supplier of the
Mwanza region. Geita is the main maize producing district in the Mwanza
region and great demand for incremental production there can be foreseen.
Even at the high marketing costs prevailing on the official market, such maize
could be made available at prices highly competitive with maize imported from
other regions or from abroad. As suggested earlier, direct sales call for
selling prices higher than those which can be secured on the official market
and the new official producer price for maize of T4 30/kg may be an under-
estimation of what the farmer will actually be able to secure.






TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Government Incremental Cash-Flow Projections from Progres
(Ts '000)
Project Period
Y1           2            Y3           Y4           Y5            6            Y7           Y8           Y9            Y10          Yll          Y12           n13
1974/75      I97W6        1976/77      7777          97M9        T9757 ~   1900/1             l9ol/o2    1952/53       1953/44      19c54/55      1955/56      l9c16879
1. Inflow
IDA funds
Incremental credit (through T3DB)          1,709        2,438        5,288        9,233         8,642        7,685       6,859
Direct Project expenditures
(through TCA)                           10,123        5,053        6,915        6,459        4,487        5,878        4,o86
Roads and social facilities                4.742        66.                      12 6.494
Sub-total                            17             ,5                                    2_2 23       135_          10,945    j
Interest and principal repayments
from loan to TRDB                             72          197          261          478          726        3,959         3,959    | 3,959           3,99         3,959        3,959         3,959        3,959
Export duties on incremental
cotton lint production from
Projectj/                                    144          391          BIB        1,417        2,021         2,518        3,022        3,44i         3,796        4,095        4,309         4,40o        4,4co
Indirect taxes on farmers'
incremental Project earningso                 35          167          427          866        1,426         1,920        2,277    3 2,44            2,511        2,427        2,252         2,021        2,021
Income tax - Project wages and
salariesr                                    546          601          751          831          892          746           750    i     730          757           768          784           790          790
Total Cash Inflow                     17.371       1524         21,210       32,045       27,688       22,710        20,953       10,570       11,023        11,269       11,304        11,170       11,170
2.  Outflow
Disbursement of IDA funds above             16,574       13,885       18,953       28,453        22,623       13,567       10,945    3
Government direct contribution to
Program&
- Incremental credit
(through TRDB)                                                                                                                   ,   2,702        2,719         2,909        1,873        1,045           -
- Project expenditures channelled
through TCA                              3,042        1,682        2,572        2,535        2,952         2,842        3,055    1   6,602         7,138        6,856        7,184         7,132        7,000
- Roads and social facilities              2,465        3,560        4,162        8,i46        5,967
Subsidies to TRDR  for farmers'
seasonal and short-term  inputs              -            58 1    1 414           A            5,964         8,373        8.7          8.242        6 720         4h 4,638                   1,0?
Sub-total                              5,507       3BS3          oM1U        13,768          3         11,215        11,767       17,546       16,577        1u,010                     9,
Service charge - IDA credit                     21           93          136          264          407           579          743          886           936          936          928           919          909
IDA credit repayments .                                                                                                                       _                    ___            1,250        1,250         1,250
Total Cash Outflow                    22,102       19,801       27,237        42,485       37,913      25,361    2      55        18,432        17,513       14,946       13,873          371         9.159
Net Cash Flow                              ( 4,731)     ( 4,560)     ( 6,027)      (10,440)     (10,225)     ( 2,651)     ( 2,502)      ( 7,862)     ( 6,490)     ( 3,697)      7 2,569)     (  201)        2,011
Cumulative Net Cast Flow                     4 6,731)   ( 9,291)     (15,318)      (25,758)     (35,983)     (38,634)     (41,136)      (48,998)     (55,488)     (59,185)      (61,754)     (61,995)    (59,944)   /
3/ At 10% of TCA's incremental sales.
2' Indirect taxes are at 12% of incremenital earnings.
/ Income taxes are, on average, at 18% of wages and salaries paid.
It is assumed that Government meets full Program expenditures beyond year 5.
By/ B  yesr 13 TRDB will have aceumulated assets amounting to Tsh 41.4 million as a result of the project. Also, it can reaonnably
be assumed that, in the absence of the project, approximately 50% of total expenditures on roads and social facilities
(Tsh 20.1 million) would have taken place anyway. This implies a real net cumulative cash inflow to Government of Tsh 25.6 million
by year 13 as a result of the program, or Tah 31.5 million if one accounts for the cumulative surpluo_es at that time of both
TCA and TRDB.
October 16, 1973






ANNEX" 14
Page 1
TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Rate 3f Return and Sensitivity Analysis
A. Rate of Return
1.        The internal economic rate of return of the Projcct over a twenty-
year period is estimated to be 14%. The cost and benefits used in this
calculation are set out in Table 1. In calculating the economic rate of
return, it is assumed that all incremental cotton lint production would be
exported. Projected prices of lint c.i.f. Liverpool less freight and in-
surance are used, deflated by 5% a year from current prices. The returns
are shadow nriced at US$1.00 = Tsh 10.00 to reflect the value to Tanzania
of foreign exchange earnings. The TCA sales price has been used for cotton
seed. Cotton seed oil is assumed to be consumed domestically. Maize is
assumed to be produced for the internal market and is costed at farm-gate
prices.
2.        An element of savings on the cost of transporting cotton and nmaize
as a result of road construction has also been included. Direct savings of
Tsh 0.30 per vehicle km for 7-ton trucks are assumed on the basis of consult-
ants' calculations for Tanzania conditions, and a 20% reduction of distance
travelled is based on assumed improvements in road alignment. A 65% foreign
exchange component is estimated for vehicle operating costs.
3.        Costs exclude the costs of educational and health facilities,
and 50% of the costs of road construction and the road survey. The benefits
attributable to road construction represent only the direct saving in running
costs of cotton and maize vehicles. Road user benefits are not included.
4.        Physical contingencies of 10% are allowed on all investment costs,
except for road construction where a 15% contingency allowance was used, and
foreign exchange components are shadow priced. Labor is not shadow priced:
there is no underemployment of the relatively skilled labor employed in the
Project, and no costs are attributed to family labor used on farms. The
only tax adjustment required is removal of income taxes on personal emoluments
of Project employees. Costs have been taken as constant at estimated 1974
levels.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
B. Sensitivity Analysis
,.        The sensitivity of tne internal economic rate of return of the
Proiect to changes in some of the basic parameters used in the evaluation is
shown below:  these rates should be compared with a Project return of 14.5%.
Variation                                        Rate of Return
1.   Schools and health facilities included           13.12%
2.   100% of the cost of roads included               10.25%
3.   All costs increased by 5%                        11.00%
4.   All costs increased by 10%                        7.57%
5.   All costs decreased by 5%                        18.00%
6.   All costs decreased by 10%                       21.73%
7.   All benefits increased by 10%                    21.03%
8.   All benefits decreased by 10%                     6.78%



TAWZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
Bconomic Rate of Return
(TSh '000)
Project Period
PROJECT/PROGRtAM YE AR                         Y1        Y2         Y3        Y4         Y5         Y6        Y7    *  Y9                     Yno        Yl1      Y 12-20
-1974j75   19f/76   197t677   1977/77   197d/79   19790         *W7r<   ,     /W7   l7F    T 7            !745    l9a5_94
A. Costs
Direct Project Costs
1. Seasonal Inputs                         1,475     3,362      6,966    12,847    17,061    19,609    20,683  , 20,683    20,683    20,683    20,683    20,690
2. Medium-term credit                        460       903      2,o64     3,973      5,808      7,779     9,877  , 6,538       7,781      9,419    10,779    10,780
3. Capital costs                           8,381       879      4,003     3,726      1,433      1,j22     1,431  ,   639       1,036        551        808        810
4. Recurrent co.ts                         3,272     3,550      4,172      4,524     4,738      3,97f     3,988  , 4,102        4,275     4,389      4,472      4,480
5. Physical contingencies                  1,359       869      1,721     2,507      2,904      3,289     3,598,  3,237         3,458     3,626      3,821      3,824
Sub-total                             14,947      9,563    18,926    27,577    31,944    36,175    39,577  , 35,199    37,233    38,668    40,563    40,584
Related Costs
1. Road survey .2/                         1,223       369
2. Road construction 3/                    1,759     3,266      4,181     7,683      5,593
3. Physical contingencies                    385       526        627     1,152        839
Sub-total                               3,367     4,161    14,         8,835 68i432 
Handling. ProceSsing and .uLrketing
costs of seed cotton 3n                    278       782      1,699     3,178      4,794     6,346      7,615  * 8,674       9,567    10,321    10,860    10,969
Total Costs                               18,592    14,506    2.51433    39,590    43,170      42,521    47,192  * 43,873    46,8          8        514423    5_553
B. Benefits
1. Lint sales 2.!                          1,931     4,997      9,976    16,505    22,493    28,016    33,626    38,294    42,245    45,570    47,948    48,987
2. Cotton seed iles  /                       193       562      1,269     2,466      3,869      5,122     6,146      7,001      7,722     8,331      8,766      8,009
3. Maize sales .1                            436     1,270      2,588      4,731     6,746      8,272     9,165      9,630      9, 978    10,322    10,572    10,572
Sub-total                              2,560      6,829    13,833    23,702    33,108    41,410    48,937'   54,925    59,945    64,223    67,286    67,568
4. Transport savings -/                        -          -       250        750     1,900      2,100     2,300      2,350      2,45o     2,500      2,550      2,550
Total Benefits                             2,560     6,829    14,083    24,452    35,0083   43,510    51,237   , 57,2'.75    62,395    66,723    69,836    70,118
~~~~~~~=_=f_Y_  =_--_  _ __-                          ~      :       r     =     Z.-
Rate of Return: 14.45%
F Foreign exchange component shadow priced at TSh 10 to the US$ (market rate is at TSh 7.14 per IJS$).
B Net of incoze taxes on salaries paid (18% of total wage amount).
3/ 50, of totFl cost of road constn.ction and the road survey included.
4 Costs to So-teties, Unions (covered by levies and ginning fees) and to T.C.A. 'Ilhese costs are- not covered ly th-' Project.
5_ F.0O.B. pri,e Da,-es-SajsaR based on expected international prices of lint, assooidog insura_re/freight costs expressed in
1973/74 prices of TSH 112 per bale.  It is assured that all incremental lint production fror Project jould he exp-ortpd ard
eo -$ e rfA.\a;   sales bavc therefoare 1.-. sbiclow priced at above shadow foreigT. exch,angIe rateL E'rpcrt d, oyf ,P 0of  TCA'F
s-:L i-    i :  .l,'r?.                                    ,                                                                                                              I,
6/ Based or TCA's ecuTrelF. selling price for cotton seed of 450'2h/ton.  It is assnred that 93 of the cottoue s-ed geoestei                                               5,,!
by ti. P       W-- wt Jd tL sold to the tailleis for -rushing and that 50% of the corresponding revenues would h- in foreigr  erchn.-
7  At currox,t farsgr.te pri.:e of TSb 300/ton.                                                                                                                              F F_'-
Tentative, pesling eonroltants'findinop sand irciudes only direct savings on cocx's per fis. of cottor. and Maize transportation
and savings fr,a e'i,_ned distances travelled (20%) on new roads.  Derived from estimated annial prDrodLetion, and use of 7 tor
trucks at Ion        z'-r vebiele kn. before improvement, and 1.25 per km. after iwp-ov;r - t'  For; ign exhangee comp,conent 65%.






TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
I~ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ITANZANIA RURAL
TANZANIA COTTON AUTHORITY  -                      DEVELOPMENT BANK I
(T-CA---_ _ _
TAN--OR-ANIZATION                                                 GENERAL MANAGER               'nn,
LTANU ORAIA0       NI,ftt
S   gX        r___L~~~~~______                                                .L...__           '       't----
.                 I   DIVISIONS OF TCA                                  ITCA ACCOUNTS DIVISION                  COOPERATIVE UNION
,  | PROJECT U,N
DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT - iUlllllhtUlllUll_b.-PROJECT MANAGER
COUNCIL           I
I OORDRNATING, SUBCOMMAITTEEI:
jAC GEITA IChUBCOMMITTI                         DEPIITY PROJECT MANAGER
JGM TC A 
IDIST CHAIRMAN. TANU
DDD GEITA
|RADO MWANZA                       LAND PLANNING UNIT
1GM NCU
PROJECT MANAGER
-__        _        _  1           EVALUATION UNIT                 P  INANCE SECTION
EXTENSION SERVICES|    MECHANIZATION
SECTION     |         SECTION            CREDIT SECTION
DISTRICT COMMITTEE'uuESmEhIUSEUEumm.tmuuu.Ehuuguuu, CHIE EEXITCENRSION ,,,,,CHI EF MOECFHAENIZAT ION.EI.,., lCHIEFF CCREEDIT  THORl,      NCU5|  W   Z I'''''''(Er
CETAS
I WORKSHOPS
WARDS                                        FIELD          FIELD OFFICER MECHI      SENOR CREIT
OPFl ERS                                    OFFICERS
|VOEILE UNITS 
.,,ASSISTANT  EL D    ASS FIELD OFIERS    .r 
'o OFCERS                                      OFECFI*                 SOIEIE
a               BALOZI 2 *s..p...fl......                   ...m  *
UJAMAA V I LLAGES                               COOPERATI_E
_~~~~~~~~~~ _SOCI
CONSOLIDATED
FARLMERS
FjOTHER COTTONI
L    GROWERS
I IPRJECT ORGA  ZATION
S =:NON PROJECT ORGANIZATIONS
LINES OF COMMAND
1*||Bl CO ORDINArlON/coOPERATIoN                                       o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CC,a,d fSe pIann,ng SOS uat on dnd esearch ,fl,ts
ISS**** CO-ODRINATION,C.OOERATION                                                               EaIn-       an,
Woo- Ha-,-219






TANZANIA
GEITA COTTON PROJECT
-.  .     .  Terntrid KWn Roo k              -       f Ptse Boundries
D#w ftds, MoWeined by Ck:t   s 3XMT tinm *  Gen'Tram  )**sb   SiRe
-L AKE           VICTr       R.A                                                                  (OMtsUnk RadedTrts-                         GinneryZIs
Coo tlhxRAciOfigntRtent Snrtiei                      Girmtes
,.  -hrd way H*  t(Pr CeAt 25'TA)    *    Co(trn Bulong Stores
.. C? .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R. o XRwafy .                                                                                    Tfode Ceters
*                                                                                                                                                              . : . . ;-  i  <  / ;   )  .Z7  9 1  *   E xrsbr   U trrsncil    eV ~il 3e geE l( A R P h ie ss)
*  rN   .   j   t  t:00:  y  r_ ;n 4 / 43 (, .... .. Dlstritl d3undefies~~~~~~~~~~. .                                         .      Ditrit   B urW rie
.4?WJ '-vMwoom                                                                     (                          *                                                   F ,o ( \9: a ; hreF tReserves
,-n *.)                                 ;:f: : \  < Bst> tsi "ond
g~~~~~~~~ 2   fi                              \\          ;;                       - Island .SUFtAMA                   ,G
Ru *on4q                                                                                      lslandESlJIAMA
V,-\a          )'-K .AH UD_,3
*  EMJN~~~~~~~~KOEc NIN
2B0   I HKSN                                                                                                                                                                               NZ R2  '3AO O      *     ,6-_-MIE   t
.UI       I                                                                           Y                        YRUA,s                       .         IOiEfS2
PA.H A                                                                          4                   NoM,AAMAG
K    A   H   A   M    A                                                       * - - - - -  . -                               A            V OD.O e.an        rtiLA
ENEREMA 
UJKIRI(GUR
(AGRICULTUA
GEITA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAIN
WAKACOMBA                                                              NGO                  M         W     A    N    Z     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OOA k
B I HARA MU L                       KATORO
T .  .                                                      NY                         5 G            MILES oO
-3'30' 32'ao'32'3a' *UE                                                                                                                          v- .~              }        (0_   _.__.vmofma 1 K
*                                                                                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~       ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. B-g.1- .~ 
T. LLSg.y.                                                                   T IAN  Z A NI A
K A H A M A                                                                                                                                     $
3' 30                                       T2;00'                                                                      32 30                          **                   ZMI



