CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 454 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Geita Cotton Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 17, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 454 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Geita Cotton Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 17, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 1974, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Certain Parts of the Project will be carried out by the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank (hereinafter called TRDB) as a financial intermediary and
procurement specialist and by the Tanzania Cotton Authority (hereinafter called
TCA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to TRDB and to TCA the equivalent of a portion of the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association, TRDB and TCA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association,
TRDB and TCA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TRDB pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement,
as tho same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the Loan to be made by the Borrower to
TRDB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Cooperative Society" means a Cooperative Society established or to
be established under the Cooperative Societies Act, 1968, of the Borrower;
(e)   "Cooperative Societies' Credit" means a credit provided or to be
provided by TRDB to Participating Cooperative Societies (as hereinafter defined)
under Part A.1.(a) of the Project;
(f)   "Participating Cooperative Society" means a Cooperative Society to
which TRDB makes a Cooperative Societies' Credit;
(g)   "Farmers' Credit" means a credit provided or to be provided by a
Participating Cooperative Society to a Participating Farmer (as hereinafter defined)
under Part A.2. of the Project;
(h)   "Participating Farmer" means farmer growing cotton, or cotton and
maize, as the case may be, or a group of such farmers, to whom a Participating
Cooperative Society makes a "Farmers' Credit";
(i)   "Ufamaa Credit" means a credit provided or to be provided by TRDB
to a Participating Ujamaa Cooperative (as hereinafter defined) under Part A.1.(b)
of the Project;
(j)   "Participating Ujanaa Cooperative" means a registered  Ujamaa
Cooperative established or to be established under the Cooperative Societies Act,
1968, of the Borrower to which TRDB makes an Ujamaa Credit;
(k)   "Project Unit" means the project unit to be established and maintained
by TCA under Part B.1. of the Project; and
(1)   "Soil Laboratory", "Rural Health Cent-r" and "Community Education
Center" mean the respective facilities included in Part D. of the Project.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million five hundred thousand
dollars ($17,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
May 15, 1984 and ending November 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out,
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, technical, agricultural, educational and public health
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required therefor.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower (i) shall cause TRDB and
TCA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and,
in the case of TRDB, of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, all the obligations therein
set forth, (ii) shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
TRDB and TCA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph
(b) above, the Borrower shall relend to TRDB under a subsidiary loan agreement
such portion of the proceeds of the Credit as shall be disbursed by the Association
for the purpose of (i) assisting TRDB in financing the cost of the Procurement
Officer included in Part F. of the Project and (ii) enabling TRDB to make the
Cooperative Societies' Credits and the Ujamaa Credits included in Part A.1. of
the Project.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)   Without any limitation or restriction upon conditions of paragraph (b)
above, the Borrower shall make available to TCA, in the form of yearly grants,
such portion of the proceeds of the Credit as shall be disbursed by the Association
for the purpose of assisting TCA in financing the carrying out of Parts B., E.
and F. of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower undertakes:


﻿7
(a)   to establish and maintain such incentives as may be necessary, including
but not limited to the use of a subsidy program for fertilizers and pesticides, so
as to encourage cotton farmer participation in the Project, and to ensure that
sufficient funds are made available for this purpose;
(b)   to make available 25 hectares of unoccupied suitable land near Geita,
such land to be used by the Project Unit's Research Unit to carry out agricultural
trials;
(c)   to grant to the Project Unit priority in the use of the services of the
Soil Laboratory included in Part D.3. of the Project;
(d)   to make available appropriate staff and medical supplies to the Rural
Health Centers included in Part D.1. of the Project;
(e)   to make available appropriate teachers and funds for recurrent
expenditures to the Community Education Centers included in Part D.2. of the
Project;
(f)   to make available to the Project Unit such graduates of the Ukiriguru
Research and Training Center and of the Cooperative College of Moshi as shall
be required;
(g)   to employ a qualified instructor to strengthen the standard of
instruction in land planning at the Nyegezi Training Institute;
(h)   to adequately maintain the roads included in Part C. of the Project;
(i)   to employ such additional staff at the Western Research Center of
the Borrower as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association; and
(j)   to establish and maintain a sub-committee of the Geita District
Development Council to ensure coordination at working level of the agencies of
the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the Project. Such sub-committee
shall be chaired by the Area Commissioner, Geita and shall include the District
Chairman, Tanganyika African National Union (TANU); District Development
Director, Geita; General Manager, TCA; General Manager, Nyanza Cooperative
Union (NCU); Regional Agricultural Development Officer, Mwanza and the Project
Manager or such other members as shall be agreed from time to time between
the Borrower and the Association.


﻿8
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall othrwise agree, in order to
assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C.I. of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for its respective Parts of the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.03
of this Agreement, enable the Association's representatives to examine the Project,
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when required all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association the terms and
conditions of service and transfer which shall have been established for TCA staff.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Ciedit
Agreement, the performance by TRDB and TCA of their obligations under the
Project Agreement, the performance by TRDB of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition
of TRDB and TCA and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its administrative subdivisions
and of any agency of the Borrower or of any such administrative subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of TRDB and
TCA and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations Linder the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance by TRDB and TCA of their obligations under
the Project Agreement or the performance by TRDB of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿10
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   TRDB or TCA shall have failed to perform   any of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that TRDB or TCA will be able to perform their respective obligationq
under the Project Agreement; and


﻿11
(c)   the organization, powers or responsibilities of TRDB or of TCA shall
have been altered so as to affect adversely the execution of the Project.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
any event specified in Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
TRDB and TCA have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action; and
(b)  The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and TRDB, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, TRDB and TCA, respectively, and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of i'RDB and TCA, respectively, in
accordance with its terms; and
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and TRDB,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
TRDB in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date April 30, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿12
Section 7.04. The provisions of Sections 6.02 and 6.03 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are zpecified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below   sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Incremental cost               1,900,000          100% of foreign
of seasonal inputs                               expenditures or
including fertilizers,                           70% of local ex-
insecticides, seeds                              penditures
and equipment operat-
ing expenditures
II.  Agricultural equip-            1,700,000          100% of foreign
ment including                                   expenditures or
sprayers, tractors,                              70% of local ex-
ploughs, ridgers,                                penditures
tillers and TCA
vehicles and equip-
ment
III.  Construction of               5,700,000          70% of total ex-
roads, houses,                                   penditures
buildings, schools,
health centers and
water supply
IV.   Expatriate person-            1,500,000          100% of foreign
nel under Part F                                 expenditures
of the Project and
consultants for
Part C.1. of the
Project
V.   Project Unit                   1,800,000          70% of local ex-
operating expendi-                               penditures
tures
VI.   Unallocated                   4,900,000
TOTAL        17,500,000


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower;
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures; and
(d)   the term  "incremental cost of seasonal inputs" means such portion
of the expenditures for such inputs included in Part A of the Project and to be
financed hereunder as the Association shall reasonably determine from time to
time to be required by TRDB to finance the purchase of such inputs, over and
above any amounts prev'ously disbursed from the Credit Account for such purpose.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above


﻿16
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association s reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the Borrower's program to increase the production of cotton
and maize in the Borrower's Geita District. Except as the Borrower and the
Association may otherwise agree, the Project will be carried out in three Phases
in different Divisions of the Geita District as follows: Phase I will be carried out
in the Nyang'wale, Kalangalala and Msalala Divisions and in the Bukoli Subdivision
of the Busanda Division (beginning of implementation scheduled for the 1974-75
crop season); Phase II will be carried out in the Bugando Division and the Busanda
Division less its Bukoli Subdivision (beginning of implementation scheduled for
the 1976-77 crop season); and Phase III will be carried out in the Karumo and
Nyakalilo Divisions (beginning of implementation scheduled for the 1977-78 crop
year). The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:     Agricultural Credits
1.    The provision by TRDB (a) of Cooperative Societies' Credits to
Participating Cooperative Societies for the purpose of financing their
carrying out of the Parts of the Project set forth in paragraph 2.
hereinafter, and (b) of Ujamaa Credits to Participating Ujanaa
Cooperatives to finance (A) the purchase and operation of tractors,
ploughs, ridgers and tillers, (B) the purchase of seasonal inputs for
cotton and maize, and (C) the purchase of ultra-low-volume insecticide
sprayers and necessary spares.
2.    The provision by Participating Cooperative Societies of Farmers'
Credits to Participating Farmers to finance (a) the purchase of seasonal
inputs for cotton and maize, (b) the purchase of ultra-low-volume
insecticide sprayers and necessary spares and (c) the hire of tractor
services.
Part B:     Project Unit, Extension and Ancillary Services
The establishing and maintaining by TCA of a Project Unit as a division
within TCA with headquarters in the Geita District, such Project Unit
to consist of an Extension Section, a Mechanization Section, a Credit
Section, a Research Unit, a Land Planning Unit and a Project
Evaluation Unit.
2.    The construction and equipping by TCA of such workshop, housing,
storage, office and laboratory facilities and the provision of such


﻿18
vehicles as shall be required by the Project Unit for the carrying out
of the functions set forth or referred to in paragraph 4. below.
3.   The construction by TCA     of storage facilities for Participating
Cooperative Societies and Participating Ujamaa Cooperatives.
4.    The carrying out by the Project Unit of such extension and ancillary
services in the Geita District as are set forth in Annex A to this
Schedule, as such Annex may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
5.    The preparation by March I in each year of an annual detailed plan
of operations for execution of the Project to be agreed with the
Association by May 1 in each year.
Part C:    Roads
The carrying out by the Borrower of the following:
1.   A survey for the purpose of establishing recommendations (including
detailed estimates of costs and benefits) for the construction,
realignment or improvement of about 800 km of secondary roads and
spur roads within the Geita District.
2.    Such road construction, realignment or improvement works as shall
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association based on the
recommendations of the survey referred to in paragraph 1. above.
Part D:    Health, Education and Soil Laboratory Facilities
The carrying out by the Borrower of the following:
1.   The construction and equipping of Rural Health Centers at Kibingo
and at Chinfunfu, or at such other locations in the Geita District as
may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
2.    The construction and equipping of four Community Education Centers
in the Geita District, the location of such centers to be agreed upon
between the Project Unit and the regional education authorities.
3.    The establishing, equipping and staffing, at the Borrower's Ukiriguru
Research and Training Center, of a Soil Laboratory and the carrying


﻿19
out by such laboratory of soil tests to enable the Project Unit to
improve its fertilizer recommendations.
Part E:     Water Supply
The construction and equipping by TCA of a pumped water supply
system to serve the ginnery at Nyamililo and nearby domestic users.
Part F:    Staff
1.   The employment, by the respective agencies or organizations, of such
professional, managerial and technical staff members as are listed in
Annex B to this Schedule, as such Annex may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
2.    The carrying out by the Project Unit of a training program for the
staff members of TCA.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿20
Annex A to Schedule 2
EXTENSION AND ANCILLARY SERVICES TO BE CARRIED
OUT BY THE PROJECT UNIT
(see Part B.4. of the Project)
1.    Extension Section
The Section responsibilities include the provision of intensive extension
coverage for cotton and maize production in the Geita District, assistance with
the maintenance of sprayers.
2.    Mechanization Section
The Section's responsibilities include:
(a)   training tractor drivers selected by Participating Ujamaa Cooperatives
to drive and maintain their tractors, measure plots and keep records;
(b)   advising and assisting Participating Ujanaa Cooperatives on mechanical
cultivation techniques and on care and maintenance of tractors and
related equipment;
(c)   setting hire charges and advising on hire operations;
(d)   providing for movable workshop or field repairs as appropriate;
(e)   confirmation that credit conditions are met by Participating Ujamaa
Cooperatives applying for credits; and
(f)   ensuring that tractors, related equipment and spares are available as
and when required.
3.    Credit Section
The Section's responsibilities include the supervision of the consolidation of
annual input requirements for Participating Cooperative Societies and Participating
Ujanaa Cooperatives and the training of their staff in the distribution of inputs;
and helping ensure credit repayments.


﻿21
4.    Research Unit
The Unit's responsibilities include the development and execution of an
adaptive research program designed to improve the efficiency of insecticides and
fertilizers on cotton and maize in the Geita District.
5.    Land Planning Unit
The Unit's responsibilities include the demarcation of physical and soil
boundaries on consolidated Ujamaa farms and the larger consolidated holdings and
the development of an associated land use program; the planning of farm track
alignments, soil conservation layouts and village layouts; and the assessment of
water supply needs for Participating Ujamaa Cooperatives.
6.    Project Evaluation Unit
The Unit's responsibilities include data collection to maintain and evaluate
progress of the various components of the Project; farm management research to
assist planning; and preparation of future projects.


﻿22
Annex B to Schedule 2
EMPLOYMENT OF STAFF
(see Part F.1. of the Project)
1.   Project Unit
The employment by the Project Unit of, inter alia, the following
staff members:
(a)   Project Management: A   Project Manager, a Deputy Project
Manager, an Account's Officer, a Chief Extension Officer, a Chief
Mechanization Officer and a Chief Credit Officer, provided that
such staff members shall be employed after consultation with
the Association.
(b)   Extension Section: One Field Officer to be in charge of each
of the three areas of implementation of the Project, each such
Field Officer to be assisted by adequate and competent support
staff.
(c)   Mechanization  Section: One    Field  Officer per movable
workshop, each such Field Officer assisted by necessary
mechanics and drivers.
(d)   Credit Section: One Credit Officer for an average of each two
Participating Cooperative Societies and Participating Ujamaa
Cooperatives respectively.
(e)   Research Unit: One Entomologist, one Agronomist and two
Trainee Professional Officers.
(f)   Land Planning Unit: One Senior Planning and Conservation
Officer and one team of four Assistant Field Officers, such team
to be supplemented by two more such teams during the course
of implementation of the Project.
(g)   Project  Evaluation  Unit:   One   experienced  Agricultural
Economist, one Statistical Assistant in charge of data processing
and one Farm-survey Officer, together with the necessary Data
Clerks and Senior Enumerators.


﻿23
2.   Soil Laboratory
The employment by the Soil Laboratory included in Part D.3.
of the Project of one Senior Analytical Chemist, one graduate Chemist
and four Laboratory Assistants, such staff to be supplemented in the
fourth year of implementation of the Project by the hiring of one
additional graduate Chemist and four additional Laboratory Assistants.
3.    TRDB
The employment by TRDB of a Procurement Officer.


