Daw.uit of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4507-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 16.6 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
April 9, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofiacil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQOIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as intervention
currency. On November 20, 1986 the official exchange rate was set at
Tk 30.77 buying and Tk 30.83 selling per US dollar.
Weights and Measures
Metric System
GLOSSARY
Aman         -  Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested
in November or December.
Aus          -  Rice planted during February or March and harve2ted during
June or July.
Boro         -  Rice transplanted in December to January and harvested in
April to May.
Beel         -  Low-lying area subject to flooding by rain or river water.
Khal         -  Natural channel.
District     -  Administrative unit in the charge of a Deputy Commissioner
comprising a number of upazilas.
Upazila      -  Smallest administrative unit of the Local Government.
ABBREVIATIONS USED
ADP          -  Annual Development Program
BADC         -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BARC         -  Bangladesh Agriculture Research Council
BRDB         -  Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BWDB         -  Bangladesh Water Development Board
MOA          -  Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MOF          -  Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
MOI          -  Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control
PMU          -  Project Management Unit
UNV          -  United Nations Volunteer
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
B4N6LADB8H
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
:  The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount          :  SDR 16.6 (US$20.0 million equivalent)
Termg           :  Standard
Proiect
Description   :  The main objectives of the project are:  (a) to protect
against crop losses, loss of life and property damage
due to floods; (b) to enhance the physical environment
to allow farmers to adopt improved agricultural
practices; and (c) to strengthen the Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB). The project would cover an
area of 63,100 ha under flood control and drainage.
About 34,500 farm families or about 210,000 people would
benefit.  The project would include:  (i) the
construction and rehabilitation of embankments, water
control structures, drainage channels, and the
construction and upgrading of roads; (ii) institutional
support to BiDB and the Ministry of Irrigation, Water
Development and Flood Control; and (iii) preparation of
programs for further development of crops, livestock and
fisheries within the project area and three adjacent
polders.
Risks           :  A possible risk facing the project would be delays in
land acquisition and preparation of engineering designs.
Arrangements have been incorporated into the project
design to minimize this risk through timely provision of
funds for land acquisition and technical assistance and
training for BiDB staff to strengthen their
implementation capacity. A furthcr possible risk would
be the potential decrease in production in natural
fisheries within the project area.  The project would
provide for appropriate design of engineering works to
minimize this effect, and for preparation of a follow-up
development program aimed at increasing crop, livestock,
and fish production in the project areas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



URoL2ett Estiiated
Cogt& I/                                         Local   Foreign
Cost    B agj    bjll
-VS$ Million Equivelent-
Land Acquisition                            3.7       -          3.7
Civil Works                                10.8      2.0        12.8
Equipment                                   0.4      0.4         0.8
Surveys & Investigations                    0.1       -          0.1
Studies                                     0.3      0.2         0.5
Design & Implementation Monitoring          0.4      0.5         0.9
Engineering & Administration                2.1       -          2.1
Technical Assistance & Studies              0.4      0.5         0.9
Operation & Maintenance                     0 A                  0.6
Total Base Costs          18.8      3.6        22.4
Physical Contingencies                      1.1      0.2         1.3
Price Contingencies                         30.8                 3.8
Total Costs               22.9                 27.5
LI  Includes about VS$0.8 million in duties and taxes.
IiRmL Plan
Local   Foreign
Cost    la.^hanae   I;#j
-US$ Million Eqnivalent-
0OB                                         6.4       -          6.4
IDA                                        16.0      4.0        20.0
BBC                                         0.5      0AL         1.1
Total                                           4.6       27.5
Xstimated Disbursemeut of IDA Credit:
FY87 PY88 ZY89 nY90 .1Y91 mn2 U23_
_--___--__- - U-S--- $ Million--
Annual       0.4   1.8   5.4   6.8   5.2   0.2   0.2
Cumulative   0.4   2.2   7.6  14.4  19.6  19.8  20.0
lAte of jutga: 182



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMKENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO TEE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJdCT
1.      I submit the folltwing report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 16.6 mil-
lion (US$20.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Fourth Flood Control and Drainage project. The EEC would provide parallel
financing in the form of a grjqnt of US$1.1 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
1.      A Country Economic Report, "Bangladesh: Promoting Higher Growth and
Human Development' (6616-BD dated March 10, 1987) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 16, 1987. An Economic Indicators Table is
attached.
Background
2.      Bangladesh has a very high population density, limited natural
resources and widespread poverty. Annual per capita income is currently only
about $150; its continued high rate of population growth remains a major
constraint on development.
3.      Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, accounting "or about half
of GDP and three quarters of empluy-:ent and exports. Despite good progress
in agriculture, food production remains vulnerable to natural disasters, and
the country continues to require annual foodgrain imports of about one tenth
of total consumption. In addition, agriculture has not been able to fully
absorb the rapidly growing labor force, nor to generate adequate foreign
exchange earnings. Therefore, growth in industry, which accounts for about
10 percent of GDP, and expansion in labor-intensive exports have become
important development objectives. However, Bangladesh's labor force is
largely unskilled and lacks the education, health and nutrition necessary
for this transition. The adult literacy rate is only about 26M, and per
capita public expenditure on education is among the lowest in the world.
Other constraints on industrial development include weak infrastructure
(power, transportation), inefficient public enterprises, restrictive trade
and payments policies and a weak domestic financial system.
4.      The economy is also characterized by very low savings, which in part
reflects the low level of incomes, and by a large structural payments gap.
National savings, which have averaged about 13X of GDP in recent years,



-2-
finance less than half of total investment. Export earnings cover only one
third of the import bill, with raw jute and jute goods still accounting for
over half of total merchandise exports. The capacity to finance imports can
be severely affected by external factors (e.g., falling jute prices, declin-
ing remittances) largely beyond the Government's control. Inadequate growth
in domestic resources also seriously constrains the financing of key public
investments as well as the operation and maintenance of existing assets.
5.      Despite these constraints and repeated disruptions caused by natural
disasters, Bangladesh has made significant progress in the 1980s. Notably,
policies designed to strengthen the agricultural, industrial, and export
sectors have been adopted, permitting the economy to grow by about 4% per
year during the Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85).1/ Foodgrain production
growth averaged 3.5% per year during the same period despite adverse weather
conditions; this was faster than in the 1970s and significantly above the
rate of population growth. Industrial output, which stagnated in the early
1980s, has rebounded, led by efficient import substitution and export
oriented, labor-intensive activities. Non-traditional exports have grown on
average by over 20% per year in the 1980s, and development of domestic com-
mercial energy supplies, especially natural gas, has increased rapidly,
enabling relatively high growth in the power and fertilizer sectors and
significant import substitution of petroleum products.
Recent Economic Developments
6.      The Government has continued to make progress during FY86 and FY87
towards creating a stable and undistorted economic environment. Monetary
expansion has been brought under control, and in response to prudent demand
management, the balance of payments and budget deficits have been brought
down to manageable levels and the rate of inflation has fallen to about 10%.
The official exchange rate has been adjusted frequently in small steps to
improve and maintain competitiveness; the real effective exchange rate
depreciated by 12% in FY86, although a small appreciation of 4% occurred in
the first six months of FY87. In addition, the authorities have expanded the
share of the transactions conducted at the (free) secondary market rate, and
the gap between the official and secondary exchange rate has narrowed from
15% in FY85 to an expected 7% in FY87.
7.      Interest rates continue to be maintained at positive real levels,
and while there is a need to increase the flexibility of the interest rate
structure, their general levels are sufficient to encourage savings and the
appropriate allocation of loanable funds. Agricultural pricing policies are
also more efficient than in many other countries. For the most part, domes-
tic farmgate prices reflect international prices, providing appropriate
1/ Almost all data in Bangladesh refer to the financial year (PY) which
runs from July 1 to June 30.



-3-
signaLs to farmers. Finally, trade and industrial policies (tariffs, quotas,
restrictions and licenses) have been improved markedly since 1982, but espe-
cially in FY86 and FY87. However, these improvements are only the first step
in a phased program, and distortions in the trade system, especially those
brought about by high and variable tariffs, are still excessive.
8.      The last two years have also witnessed some disappointments.  Overall
GDP growth in FY86 was 3.91, lower than the previous two years and well below
the Third Five-Year Plan (July 1985-June 1990) goal of 5.41.  Industrial
expansion of only 1X in FY86 was well below the 9% annual rate of the pre-
vious two years, and the agricultural sector appears to be losing its growth
momentum; foodgrain produccion, fertilizer consumption, agriculture credit
and investment in irrigation equipment all fell in FY86 for the first time in
many years. In addition, the deterioration in credit recovery rates for both
agricultural and iv*ustrial loans permitted serious resource misallocation
and harsh inequities. Aware of the seriousness of this situation, the
Government has recently taken strong steps to restore financial discipline,
and data for the July 1986-February 1987 period show an encouraging
improvement.
Development Stratel!
9.      The alleviation of poverty remains the cornerstone of the
Govc-nment's development strategy. In the first ten years of Independence
(1972-i081), the proportion of the population in extreme poverty (those
unable to afford enough food to live a reasonably active life) rose from 431
to 501. Real wages fell, and the quality of the diet worsened. Since 1982,
this deterioration appears to have been arrested. More food has been made
available to lower income groups, partly through the rapid expansion of
Food-for-Work and Vulnerable Group Feeding programs, and real agricultural
wages have risen, recovering to their pre-Liberation levels in 1986 for the
first time. The incidence of poverty appears to have declined slightly,
although the absolute number of poor has continued to increase and the mag-
nitude of poverty remains overwhelming.
10.     The Government has recognized that sustaining and extending these
modest gains in poverty alleviation will require progress on two fronts.
First, overall economic growth must be raised, and second, increased emphasis
must be given to human development programs and special interventions to aid
those who tend to be by-passed by overall economic growth.
11.     The Government's Third Five-Year Plan seeks to raise the GDP growth
rate to over 5% per year. This will require raising both investment and
savings as a proportion of CDP by about 2 percentage points each year over
the five-year period and increasing the efficiency of investment. The
Government's policy priorities were described in its Policy Framework Paper,



-4-
discussed by the Committee of the Whole on January 29, 1987.1/ Six areas of
particular emphasis were described:
- restoring the momentum of growth to the agricultural sector
through improved service delivery;
- extending the process of industrial reform initiated under
the New Industrial Policy through deregulation, trade
liberalization, privatization and promotion of non-traditional
exports;
- ensuring international competitiveness and balance of
payments stability through flexible exchange rate management
and prudent borrowing policies;
- strengthening the domestic financial system through
rehabilitation of the Development Finance Institutions, stern
action against defaulters and the gradual establishment of
a more autonomous, accountable banking system;
- mobilizing additional public revenue through an enhanced
tax effort, subsidy reductions and public pricing policies; and
- improving the efficiency of public expenditure through expanded
operation and maintenance allocations, stricter evaluation of
investment projects and improved project implementation
capacity to use available external assistance more effectively.
12.     Overall economic growth, even if over 5% per year, will be insuffi-
cient to ensure adequate alleviation of poverty. Special interventions to
provide economic opportunities to the most vulnerable, including the landless
and women, are a necessary complement to sound economic management. A number
of innovative approaches involving the provision of credit, functional train-
ing and market information to groups of poor men and women have recently
yielded encouraging results. Non-Governmental Organizations are playing an
especially important role in this regard, and the Government is currently
exploring the scope for improved partnership with the NGOs in the expansion
of these programs.
13.     The Third Plan also gives a higher priority to human development
programs than in the past. Health and education indicators remain unaccep-
tably low, and performance in Bangladesh continues to compare unfavorably
with other countries at a similar stage of development. Child and infant
mortality rates, for example, are twice the average rates in low-income
countries, literacy rates are among the lowest in the world, the population
per nurse is still over three times the average in low-income countries in
1/ See "Bangladesh: Policy Framework Paper for the Period July 1986- June
1989" dated January 15, 1987 (IDA/SecM87-12).



Asia and the Pacific, and easily avoidable diseases still account for a
substantial proportion of deaths.
14.     Assisted by IDA and other donors, the Government is giving a high
priority to both expanding the coverage and improving the quality of human
development programs. In health and family planning, emphasis needs to be
given to improving internal efficiency and program management, strengthening
mother and child health care, improving coverage in urban areas and harness-
ing the unique strengths of the IGOs. In education, further efforts must be
made to reduce wastage and expand non-formal education opportunities.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
15.     Cumulative Bank Group commitments to Bangladesh total US$3,689.89
million.  This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits (US$154.41
million) made to Pakistan before 1971 as well as a consolidation loan
(US$54.90 million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.45 million) approved in
1975 to cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior to
independence.  The Bank has approved 96 new credits since Bangladesh became a
member in 1972. Of the total IDA commitments, approximately 201 have been
for agriculture, irrigation and rural development, 91 for industry, 171 for
power and energy, 61 for transportation and telecommunications, 81 for educa-
tion and technical assistance, 31 for population control, 31 for urban
infrastructure, and 34X for imports program support. Since Bangladesh became
a member of IFC in 1976, five investments have been approved.
16.     IDA chairs the annual Bangladesh Aid Group meeting which provides a
forum for donor consultation, and IDA's Resident Representative chairs
regularly scheduled donor meetings in Dhaka to exchange views on policy
issues, project implementation and aid coordination. In November 1986, IDA
chaired a special meeting of donors and Government representattives, hosted
by the Federal Republic of Germany, to review programs to assist the rural
poor in Bangladesh.
17.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the Third
Plan's priority development objectives (para. 11). IDA lending has
emphasized agriculture, with particular importance attached to increasing
food production by augmenting the supply of essential inputs such as irriga-
tion equipment, fertilizer and improved seeds, the development of extension
services, research programs and rural cooperatives, the provision of agricul-
tural credit and the promotion of input and output pricing policies that
allow adequate incentives to farmers to increase production. IDA has also
supported the Government's efforts to encourage greater private sector par-
ticipation in the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. Finally,
IDA's lending program has promoted agricultural diversification through
increased production of fish and forestry products.



-6-
18.     IDA assistance to Bangladesh's industrial sector is intended to
enhance the sector's capacity to contribute to a higher, sustained level of
economic growth, provide productive employment for a rapidly growing work
force and improve the country's external trade and payments position on a
sustained basis. IDA has assisted Bangladesh's industrial sector through
program credits (para. 23) as well as specific projects to increase fer-
tilizer production, rehabilitate the jute and textil a industries, strengthen
development finance institutions and promote small-scale industries. A
proposed Industrial Sector Credit, scheduled for Board presentation in late
FY87, would constitute the first of a series of policy-based credits intended
to support industrial and trade policy reforms, export promotion efforts,
enhancement of public enterprises efficiency and financial sector reforms.
This Credit would also provide a policy framework for future industrial
credits and specific industrial investment projects.
19.     IDA's power and gas lending has been designed to expand the use of
natural gas in substitution for imported oil, promote conservation and more
efficient energy use and encourage further gas and oil exploration. IDA is
also financing projects to expand the country's power generation and trans-
mission capabilities and rural electrification system. Recognizing the
critical shortages in traditional fuels, IDA is financing investments in
forestry to increase the supply of fuelwood.
20.     IDA has supported projects to improve the inland water transport
system as well as the road network. Bangladesh's road network is extensive,
but the roads are in poor condition and inadequately maintained. IDA's
future transport lending will concentrate mainly on supporting the
Government's programs to rehabilitate deteriorated roads and to improve
maintenance standards, techniques and expenditure levels.
21.     In the education sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on primary
education and skills development. Lending for primary education supports the
national goals of achieving universal primary education, reducing illiteracy,
expanding access to education and upgrading quality. Projects for vocational
and technical education promote the training of craftsmen, technicians and
engineers.
22.     To help alleviate the severe economic and social pressures created by
the extremely high population density and the continuing population increase,
IDA and other donors are assisting the Government in implementing accelerated
family planning and maternal and child health care programs. Bangladesh's
urban population is expected to increase from about 16-18 million in 1985 to
between 35-40 million by the year 2000. IDA is already financing water and
sanitation improvements in Chittagong and Dhaka, and future projects are
planned to provide IDA support to help the Government address the problem of
providing low-cost shelter and infrastructure services to the urban poor.



-7-
23.     Because of the urgent need for sustained transfer of substantial
financial resources, a significant proportion of IDA's annual lending to
Bangladesh has been in the form of fast disbursing program credits. In
addition to providing much-needed foreign exchange and local counterpart
financial support, annual program credits have provided a useful vehicle for
addressing a wide range of sectoral and macro-economic policy issues.
Bangladesh will continue to need substantial fast disbursing foreign exchange
resources, on highly concessional terms, because of the large structural
imbalances between the country's export earnings and import requirements, and
its domestic savings rate and investment nteds. To assist Bangladesh in
addressing these structural problems, IDA plans to focus its future policy
dialogue on measures designed to improve the efficiency of the industrial
sector (para. 18), strengthen the financial system, encourage development of
the country's domestic energy resources, and address policy and institutional
issues in education. IDA's support in these areas would likely be through
fast disbursing sector adjustment credits. IDA will also continue to provide
support for adjustment policies designed to mobilize more domestic financial
resources in the publ.c and private sectors and more efficient resource
utilization through m2asures to increase public sector revenues, enhance the
efficiency of the public sector enterprises and improve the planning of
public expenditures and investment.
24.      Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of domes-
tic financial resources, but also by weak development institutions, limited
managerial capacity and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA, in consult-
ation with other donors, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with the
Government on ways to improve project implementation. In support of broader
institutional reform, IDA is: (a) providing technical assistance for project
preparation and implementation, (b) financing proje ts to train civil ser-
vants and other managerial and technical personnel, and (c) encouraging the
Government to introduce administrative reforms and improve the structure and
management of the civil service.
PART III - FLOOD CONTROL, DRAINAGE, AND IRRIGATION
25.     Agriculture plays a dominant role in Bangladesh's economy, generating
over half of the nation's GDP, employing about three-fourths of the labor
force, and contributing over 80% of export earrings. Agriculture is
dominated by the crop subsector, which accounts for 701 of the agricultural
value-added, compared to about 151 from livestock, 10% from fisheries and 5%
from forestry. In both its Second and Third Five-Year Plans, the Government
has given high priority to increasing foodgrain production as a means of
meeting minimum nutritional standards for the country's growing population,
and has emphasized the development of irrigation facilities and the construc-
tion of flood control and drainage works.



-8-
26.     Production Environment.  Bangladesh is situated on the deltas of
three major rivers, the Ganges, Brahmaputra, and Neghna.  The terrain is
crisscrossed by some 24,000 km of waterways. Alluvial floodplains occupy
about 80X of the total land area. During the monsoon season (Nay/June to
October!November), approximately two-thirds of the cultivable land (9.1 M ha)
is subject to flooding. Overbank flooding occurs along the rivers, and
elsewhere heavy rains and the relatively flat terrain cause extensive
drainage congestion. Despite the apparent overall abundance of rainfall,
serious droughts can occur in some areas, even during the rainy season.
27.     Nearly all the arable land in Bangladesh is under cultivation.
Average cropping intensity is about 150X, although effective irrigation could
raise cropping intensity to well over 2001. The most important crop is rice,
which is cultivated on three-fourths of the cropped area. Jute, the prin-
cipal export crop, is grown on about 6X of the cropped area. Other crops
include wheat, pulse, oilseeds, sugarcane, tea, spices, and vegetables.
Nearly 251 of the cultivated area is irrigated, although an identified water
resource potential exi ts for irrigating about 50%.  In the absence of flood
control and drainage f&cilities, most of this area has been unable to shift
from the long-stem low-yield rice varieties to the short-stem fertilizer-
responsive high-yielding varieties.
28.     Although the average landholding is about 1.4 ha, over 251 of farm
families own less than 0.4 ha, and one-third of rural households own no land.
The proportion of rural households who are landless or functionally landless
(owning less than 0.2 ha) is increasing. Because of this trend, combined
with limited nonagricultural employment opportunities, the percentage of the
rural population living below the poverty line (defined as a daily intake of
2,100 calories) rose from 651 in 1964 to an estimated 751 in 1982.
29.     Policy Framework.  Government development policies in the agriculture
sector under the Third Five Year Plan are aimed primarily at: (i) achieving
foodgrain self-sufficiency ond reducing the need for food imports;
(ii) expanding employment opportunities in agriculture by higher rates of
growth; (iii) improving land use and conservation; and (iv) better management
of the water regime and expansion of the irrigated areas. The strategy for
realizing these objectives includes: (a) input and output price policies to
promote the efficient use of resources for accelerated output, including a
reduction in subsidies on fertilizer and irrigation equipment; (b) an
increased role for the private sector in making technology available to the
farmer, e.g. in the sale and distribution of minor irrigation equipment,
fertilizer, and pesticides; (c) an expansion in the availability of agricul-
ture credit; and (d) crop diversification through intensive cultivation.
30.     The Government faces several major constraints in achieving a sus-
tained growth rate in foodgrain production and in its effort to diversify
agriculture. In the area of foodgrain production, continued expansion of
irrigation facilities and maximization of benefits from existing investments
are key areas which need further attention. This will require, in part,



-9-
better coordination among agencies involved in providing agricultural support
services to farmers. The diversification of agricultural production will
require that the Government, through appropriate pricing and marketing
policies and the provision of basic infrastructure, ensures an environment in
which the private sector can assume a more effe-tive role, particularly in
the areas of fisheries and livestock.
31.     Major Institutions.  The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MOA),
the Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock (MOF), and the Ministry of
Irrigation, Water Development, and Flood Control (MOI) are the policymaking
bodies for all matters pertaining to agricultural development in Bangladesh.
Two major semi-autonomous agencies are responsible for planning and
implementing water-related development programs. The Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation (BADC), which reports to the NOA, is responsible for
the development of minor irrigation systems, (low-lift pumps and hand,
shallow, and deep tubewells). The Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB),
which reports to MOI, is responsible for planning, implementation, and opera-
tion and maintenance qf flood control and drainage schemes, and medium and
major irrigation systdms.
32.     IDA's Role in Water Resources Development.  Reflecting the country's
needs and its priorities, IDA lending to Bangladesh has emphasized the
agricultural sector. Particular emphasis has been placed on developing -ater
resources (irrigation, flood control and drainage), strengthening agricul-
tural services (technology development and supply, credit and marketing), and
developing complementary infrast-uctural facilities in other sectors (roads,
power, industry, etc.). Ongoing IDA-supported projects in the agricultural
sector that aim to expand irrigation and water control include: Muhuri
Irrigation (Cr. 725-BD), Drainage and Flood Control I and II (Credits 864-BD
and 1184-BD), Hand Tubewells (Cr. 1140-BD), Deep Tubewells II (Cr. 1287-BD),
Agriculture Credit (Cr. 1147-BD), Rural Development I and II (Credits 631-BD
and 1384-BD), Small-Scale Drainage and Flood Control (Cr. 955-BD), BWDB Small
Schemes (Cr. 1467-BD), and the Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
(Cr. 1591-BD).
33.     In addition, IDA has participated in a number of joint studies with
the Government. Of special significance was the Land and Water Resources
Survey (1972), which led to a change in water resources development strategy
in favor of low-cost, quick-yielding, irrigation and water control schemes.
More recent joint studies include assessments of BWDB (1979) and the Niuor
Irrigation Sector (1982). Finally, IDA is the executing agency for the
UNDP-financed National Water Plan Project. These studies have helped to
support a series of Imports Program Credits and accompanying policy reforms
in agriculture, including such important policy decisions as:
(i) privatization of procurement and distribution of irrigation equipment and
other farm inputs; (ii) rationalization of the Covernment's approaches to
foodgrain procurement and farm input pricing; and (iii) the creation of
favorable conditions for improved access to institutional credit.



-10-
34.     Experience with Past Lending.  The design of the proposed Fourth
Flood Control and Drainage Project reflects the experience gained from both
past IDA-supported projects in the water sector and other BWDB water develop-
ment schemes. 1/ Projects being implemented by BWDB have been hindered by:
(a) a slow land acquisition process; (b) limited institutional capacity
within BWDB, particularly in the area of design; and (c) delays in procure-
ment of goods and services. Important lessons reflected in the design of the
proposed project include: (i) recognition of water transport (country boats)
and fish migration pattern requirements; (ii) provision for preparation of an
agricultural development plan for intensification of crop, livestock and fish
production following the completion of flood protection works;
(iii) introduction of measures, including organized consultations with
beneficiaries and elected local officials, to address past difficulties
encountered in land acquisition; (iv) the design and construction of embank-
ments which would minimize operation and maintenance costs; (v) the early
preparation of tender documents to facilitate procurement; and (vi) provision
of technical assistance and training to strengthen BWDB's project
implementation, design1 and construction monitoring capacity.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.     The project was prepared by BWDB with the assistance of consultants.
It was appraised in June/July 1985. A timetable of key events relating to
the project and special conditions of the credit are listed in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington in September 1986. The Government of
Bangladesh was represented by a delegation led by Mr. Mohammed Ali,
Secretary, Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control.
Project Objectives
36.     The main objectives of the project are:  (a) to protect against crop
losses, loss of life and property damage due to floods; (b) to enhance the
physical environment to allow farmers to adopt improved agricultural
practices; and (c) to strengthen the Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB). The project would include: (i) the construction and rehabilitation
of embankments, water control structures, drainage channels, and the con-
struction and upgrading of roads; (ii) institutional support to BWDB and the
Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control; and
(iii) preparation of programs for further development of crops, livestock
and fisheries within the project area and three adjacent polders.
1/ There have not as yet been any Project Performance Audit Reports
prepared for FCD type projects in Bangladesh.



-ll-
ProLect Description
37.     The project would provide for:  (i) constructing facilities for flood
control and improving drainage to arrest further deterioration in the culti¢-
able areas in the Baranai area of the Rajshahi and Natore Districts in the
northwestern region of Bangladesh; (ii) improving BWDB's institutional
capability; (iii) strengthening MOI's existing capability for managing inde-
pendent monitoring and evaluation of the impact of investment programs in the
water sector, and strengthening uonitoring capabilities within BWDB; and
(iv) studies and surveys.
38.     The project is based on the "simple polder" concept, which consists
of an embankment constructed around an area with water control structures to
permit the discharge of internal runoff by gravity flow when the river water
level is low and to prevent overbank flooding when the river water level is
high. This technique is suitable in areas that experience shallow to medium
flooding and do not require high embankments or pump drainage. The project
would cover a gross area of 63,100 ha of which about 48,300 ha are
cultivable.  The project area is prone to annual flooding as a result of
overbank spillage from the Baranai river and local rainfall runoff that
accumulates in low areas owing to poor drainage. During the pre-monsoon
season (April-May), floods damage the aus crop at the tillering stage and
the maturing boro crop. Floods also reduce yields of broadcast aman (the
most flood-tolerant crop) and can lower the sugar content of sugarcane.
39.     The criteria used in selecting the subprojects included:  (a) the
total irrigation investment per net ha was not to exceed US$620 (at 1980
prices) and the per ha drainage and flood control investment was not to
exceed US$500 (at 1980 prices) including cost of land acquisition; (b) each
subproject was to be at least 8,000 ha net; (c) the project area was to be
located primarily in shallow flooded areas; (d) beneficiaries should have
indicated support for the project; (e) embankments would provide protection
against 20-year flood#, depending on the location, and against 100-year
floods if significant loss of life might occur; (f) due consideration was
given to the potential effect of proposed improvements on flood conditions in
adjacent areas, on navigation, and on fisheries; and (g) the project works
would, where possible, be constructed by labor-intensive methods, utilizing
as far as possible, indigenous materials. Although the Baranai River is a
tributary of the Atrai River, which is an international waterway, the works
proposed under this project would not adversely affect any riparian
countries.
40.     Flood Control, Drainage and Related Improvements.  Under the project,
approximately 45 km of new flood control embankments would be constructed
along the Baranai River and an additional 10 km would be improved or
resectioned. Drainage systems within the project area would be improved tc
allow the runoff water from the project area to be evacuated before floods
occur in order to create a storage capacity for the period when drainage is
hampered by high river water levels. These improvements would also make it



-12-
possible to conserve water during the pre- and post-monsoon periods to allow
maintenance of a high groundwater level for supplementary irrigation. About
30 km of new canals would be excavated. Most drainage canals (about 435 km)
would follow existing channels (khals) which would be excavated. The project
would also provide for the construction of 25 road bridges, 60 foot bridges,
60 culverts, 4 railway bridges, one highway bridge, and for the improvement
of 2 existing road bridges. Regulators-cum-inlet sluices would be located at
the outfall of drainage channels in the Baranai River. These structures
would be designed to drain runoff into the river, to retain water in Rhals
during pre- and post-monsoon periods, to allow intake of water from the river
by gravity for supplementary irrigation, and to allow fish to migrate into
areas permanently submerged. The project would provide for about 26 drainage
regulators, 25 water control structures, 2 water control structures-cum-
bridges, 50 irrigation inlets and 200 cross-regulators. Road improvement (60
km) and new road construction (7 km) would be undertaken to facilitate con-
struction and subsequent operation and maintenance of project facilities.
Provision would also be made for the construction of field offices and divi-
sional staff housing and for the improvement of the regional BWDB workshop.
41.     Since previous flood control efforts experienced considerable dif-
ficulty in enforcing adequate compaction during the construction of earthfill
embankments, construction supervision would be improved and appropriate
equipment supplied to ensure controlled compaction for the embankment fill
and proper backfilling behind structures. BWDB will appoint additional staff
as necessary to enable its field Division to carry out adequate supervision
of construction activities. Moreover, when contractors apply for reimburse-
ment against construction of embankments, the Executive Engineer would be
required to certify in writing that compaction was properly executed and
that embankments constructed meet required safety standards. Experience has
also shown that it is difficult to control unplanned use of embankments by
farmers for the construction of dwellings, grazing, or the cultivation of
crops, all of which hamper maintenance activities. Planting of the proper
tree species on flood embankments has been proven to be an effective preven-
tive maintenance measure and a source of valuable fuelvood, fodder, and fruit
for rural communities. BHDB would therefore, under an embankment preventive
maintenance pilot program to be financed under the project, provide funds to
the Forestry Department to supply seedlings of appropriate species.
Interested local families, including landless families, would be entrusted
with planting the trees and caring for them on a defined length of embankment
and would be given the right to the benefits from the plantings for a
specified number of years. BWDB would submit a special report on this
embankment preventive maintenance pilot program at the end of each construc-
tion season, starting with the fourth year of the project.



-13-
42.     Technical Assistance and Studies.  Ongoing IDA financed projects J/
provide for initiating actions aimed at strengthening BiDB's project
implementation and design and construction monitoring capabilities.  The
proposed project would continue these efforts and would include efforts to
upgrade monitoring and evaluation functions  A Project Management Unit
(P1U), which was established under the Third Flood Control and Drainage
Project to plan, coordinate, and monitor project isplementation, would assume
responsibility for the same functions under the proposed project (see
paragraph 46) PNU would be assisted by a local consulting firm with limited
international consultancy input in undertaking detailed engineering designs,
construction monitoring, and preparation of Operation and Maintenance
Mauals.  The consultants will be appointed by July 31, 1987 to assist P1U
with design and implementation monitoring. The project would also provide
for strengthening BVDB's Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) Unit and the Planning
Cell in the Ministry of Irrigation. Technical assistance to the two cells
would consist of two internationally recruited M&E specialists vho, over a
period of 18 months, would assist BWDB in establishing an operational manage-
met information system and would assist the Planning Cell of MOI in develop-
ing procedures for evaluating the impact of investments in the water sector
and in developing a capability for administering and managing this evaluation
program.
43.     Studies and surveys to be financed under the project would include:
(i) benchmark surveys that would be undertaken through a contract with a
local university or local consultants and that would provide information to
serve as the basis for subsequent evaluations of project facilities and
benefits; (ii) a techeical evaluation of flood control and drainage programs
in polder areas adjacent to the project area and preparation of a rehabilita-
tion program to improve the use of existing flood control and drainage
facilities and to realise the full production potential, both to be under-
taken by B1DB with consultant input and in cooperation with field divisions;
(iii) preparation by KOI, which will coordinate inputs fTom the various
concerned agencies, of crops, livestock and fisheries development programs to
be implemented following the completion of flood control and drainage works;
and (iv) preparation of a project completion report by a local
university/institute or local consultants under the supervision of MlI's
Planning Cell. Consultants to prepare the benchmark survey would be
appointed no later than July 31, 1987 and no later than June 30, 1988 to
prepare a rehabilitation program for adjacent polder areas. Consultants to
prepare programs for intensification of crop, livestock and fish production
would be appointed no later than June 30, 1989.
J  The Second Flood Control and Drainage Project (Credit 1184-3D). MB3D
Small Schemes Project (Credit 1467-3D) and the Third Flood Control and
Drainage Project (Credit 1591-3D).



-14-
44.     Operation and Maintenance.  The project would provide funds for the
Operation and Maintenance (06M) of completed facilities during the construc-
tion period as well as during two additione' years while necessary measures
are taken for insuring that any deficiencies in design or construction of
project facilities are identified and corrected. Operation of completed
facilities would involve: (i) regular inspections of embankments and major
drainage khals; and (ii) operation of regulating gates and water control
structures. Provision would also be made annually for repairs resulting from
flood damage and the erosion of embankments. OM duties would be the respon-
sibility of BUDB's field division. Preventive and annual maintenance works
could be executed through small contracts under the supervision of field
divisions. The Government would allocate the necessary funds to ensure
proper operation and maintenance of project facilities. IDA would provide
reimbursement for O& expenditures on a declining basis under the proposed
project.
45.     Land Acquisition.  Land acquisition would involve about 560 ha.  The
Deputy Commissioners have already accepted land acquisition plans submitted
by BWDB for land needed during the first-year construction program and in
future years, BWDB would submit the land acquisition plans at least nine
months before the land is needed for construction. Actual possession by BWDB
of the land for the first year would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
The project would provide the necessary resources (funds, equipment, and
transport) to further facilitate land acquisition, and BWDB would make the
resources available to Deputy Commissioners and would ensure that they would
be used exclusively for undertaking project-related land-acquisition
activities. The Government would provide funds for the purchase of land
under the proposed project.
Project Management
46.     BWDB would implement the project through the Project Management Unit
(PMU).  PMU's responsibilities would include:  (i) assisting field divisions
with planning the implementation of the project, overseeing the preparation
and processing of tender documents, and award of civil works contracts;
(ii) monitoring progress in project implementation; and (iii) seeking par-
ticipation by local government and farmers' representatives to identify
mutually acceptable solutions to local problems hindering project
implementation.  P W would be supported by a local consulting firm (assisted
by two internationally recruited specialists in the fields of design,
hydrologyt and construction), which would be responsible for: (i) assisting
PMU in planning the implementation of the project; (£i) supervising the
necessary surveys and engineering investigations, and preparing detailed
designs; (iii) assisting in the preparation and processing of tender docu-
ments for equipment and overseeing the award of contracts for civil works*
studies, and equipment; (iv) monitoring progress in the construction program;
(v) quality control; and (vi) the preparation of an 06M manual. At the field
level, project implementation would be the responsibility of an Executive



-1S-
Engineer, under the supervision of the zonal Chief Engineer and the
Superintending Engineer. ,
47.     In order to fulfill its project management responsibilities, PMU
would require timely information. Npnthly, quarterly, and annual progress
reports would be submitted to the Project Manager, who would forward them to
BWDB's Chairman and Board Members. These reports would serve as a basis for
monitoring progress in project implementation and undertaking corrective
actions. PMU would submit a work program to IDA no later than September 30
of each year to allow discussions prior to the start of the construction
season.
Project Costs
48.     Total project costs are estimated at US$27.5 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$4.6 million or 17  of total costs.  Estimates are
based on actual mid-1986 contract prices. The average cost of land in 1986
is estimated at US$6,600 per ha. Project costs include US$0.8 million in
taxes and duties and the cost of land. Physical contingencies (101 of the
base cost of civil works) amount to US$1.3 million, or about 5.81 of project
base costs. Price contingencies amounting to US$3.8 million (171 of project
base costs) are estimated on the basis of expected rates for local and inter-
national inflation over a period of seven years as projected by IDA. Local
inflation rates are estimated at 91 per annum for FY88, and 8Z per annum
thereafter. International rates of inflation are estimated at 6.81 for FY88,
7.0X for FY89, 7.11 for FY90, and 4.01 thereafter.
Project Financing
49.     An IDA credit of SDR 16.6 million (US$20.0 million equivalent) would
cover 751 of total project costs, excluding taxes and duties. EEC would
cofinance with IDA the technical assistance and studies component. EEC's
contribution would amount to US$1.1 million, or 41 of project costs, net of
taxes and duties. The effectiveness of the EEC grant agreement would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. The Government would finance the balance
of project costs of US$6.4 million, including taxes and duties and land
purchase, through annual budget appropriations in conformity with the project
implementation schedule. In order to allow for timely project startup,
preconstruction activities had to be undertaken after July 31, 1985, prior to
credit signing; the IDA credit would, therefore, include approximately
SDR 300,000 equivalent for retroactive financing. Approval of the Project
Proforma 11 by the Government would be an additional condition of credit
effectiveness.
1/ An internal Government document, the approval of which is a prerequisite
for the release nf funds and the hiring of staff.



-16-
Procurement
50.     Civil Works would not be suitable for international bidding because
the major portion of the works are relatively small, labor-intensive,
geographically scattered in areas with difficult access, and spread over a
period of six years. The works would, therefore, be carried out under con-
tracts let through local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable to
IDA. Tender documents and bid evaluation would be sent to IDA for review
before contracts are awarded for civil works estimated to cost more than
US$150,000. Force account work in respect of earthwork would be permitted,
but is expected to be limited to O&N activities and would be restricted to
amounts under US$5,000 equivalent for each individual case. Force account
work in respect of fabrication and installation of gates would be limited to
US$5S,000 for each structure. The use of force account in civil works would
be limited to an aggregate amount of US$600,000. Surveys and Investigations.
would be undertaken by contract under LCB or by BWDB via force account. R5DB
and the Deputy Commissioner would be responsible for processing land acquisi-
tion. Equipment and Vehicles would be procured through ICB. A preference
limited to 15Z of the cif price or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
Small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 for each contract,
which are needed urgently, could be procured by prudent shopping after com-
paring bids from at least three independent suppliers. Such procurement
would not exceed a cumulative total of US$150,000. Consultants services
would be procured in accordance with the principles and procedures described
in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency' as published by the Bank in August
1981. Technical Assistance and Studies would be financed by EEC.
Consultants to assist in detailed design and implementation monitoring would
be recruited in accordance with Bank Guidelines.



-17-
METHODS OF PROCKlMED13f
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method /a
Project Cmpoent                        ICB       LCB      PA/Other       Total
Land Acquisition                        -         -         4.00          4.00
Civil Works                             -       15.64       0.90         16.54
-     (14.34)      (0.60)      (14.94)
Tecanical Assistance & Studies /b       -         -         1.10          1.10
Surveys and Investigation               -        0.04       0.12          0.16
(0.04)     (0.12)        (0.16)
Polders A, B, C                         -        0.54        -            0.54
(0.54)       -           (0.54)
Equipment                             0.40        -         0.50          0.90
(0.40)      -         (0.10)       (0.50)
Engineering and Administration          -         -         2.46          2.46
-        -         (2.36)       (2.36)
Design & Implementation Monitoring      -        1.01        -            1.01
-      (1.01)        -          (1.01)
Operation and Maintenance               -         -         0.79          0.79
-        -         (0.49)       (0.49)
0.40    17.23        9.87        27.50
(0.40)  (15.93)      (3.67)      (20.00)
/a Figures in paren:heses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
rb Financed by BEC.
Disbursements
51.     Disbursements from the IDA credit would cover:  (a) 90X for civil
works and construction material; (b) 1OOZ of foreign expenditure and local
expenditures (ex-factory costs) and 70X of local expenditures for equipment
and vehicles; (c) 1001 for investigations, surveys and consultancy services
for design and implementation monitoring; (d) 100l for stuaies; (e) 951 for
engineering and administration costs; and (f) 1OOZ of OEM costs during FY89
and FY90, 80Z during FY91, 601 during PY92, and 401 during FY93 and
thereafter. Full documentation would be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications except for items (e) and (f) above, and for works executed under
force account and small civil works contracts costing less than the equiv-
alent of US$20,000 each. For these items, applications would be supported by
statements of expenditures certified by the Chief Engineer and the Project
Accountant. In order to facilitate disbursement of the IDA credit, a Special
Account would be established in the Bangladesh Bsank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. The initial deposit into the Special Account would be
SDR 1.5 million equivalent.
L,



-18-
Cost Recovery
52.     As in many countries, protection against flooding in Bangladesh is
considered to be Government's resporsibility, and the accepted view is that
beneficiaries should not be directly charged. Moreover, benefits from flood
control and drainage work vary from one plot to another, depending upon the
topography. In the case of some high landowners, the benefits can actually
be questionable. Unless cost recovery is done through a land productivity-
based system, it appears very difficult to design an equitable system of
direct cost recovery. GDB's current view, which is accepted by IDA, is that
cost recovery on drainage and flood control projects is not feasible at this
stage.
Project Benefits
53.     The proposed project would promote increased agricultural production
and would help to alleviate rural poverty through increased income for
owners-cultivators and the creation of employment opportunities for the
landless. About 34,500 farm families would directly benefit from the
project. About 50X of the project beneficiaries fall under the relative
poverty income threshold for the rural poor, estimated at 40X of per capita
CNP. Assuming equal returns to various income groups, the proportion of
total net benefits accruing to those farmers currently below the relative
poverty income level would remain constant under the project, but the actual
benefits they would receive would increase by 26% in absolute terms.
54.     The project's incremental output of paddy, wheat, and sugarcane would
substitute for imports while inc4eased jute production would generate direct
foreign exchange earnings. The incremental output from the project area
would generate a net present value of direct and indirect foreign exchange
earnings/savings equivalent to about US$6.0 million, accounting for losses
foregone and assuming a discount rate of 12%. About 2.4 million man-days of
additional on-farm employment would be generated. In addition, the project
would provide employment opportunities equivalent to about 9.6 million man-
days during the construction of project facilities and would require an
estimated 2,200 laborers (for five months) per annum, for the operation and
maintenance of such facilities. The economic rate of return of the project
to the economy of Bangladesh is estimated at 18%. At full development, the
annual net incremental benefit would be about US$4.7 million. The net
present value of incremental benefits over the life of the project discounted
at 12% (the opportunity cost of capital) is about US$6.0 million.
Project Risks
55.     A possible risk facing the project would be delays in land acquisi-
tion and preparation of engineering designs. Arrangements have been incor-
porated into the project design to minimize this risk through early provision
of funds for timely land acquisition and technical assistance for design and



-19-
implementation monitoring. A further possible risk is that production from
natural fisheries within the project area might be reduced. The project's
engineering works would be designed to minimise this impact, and a follow-up
development program would be prepared with a view to increasing crop,
livestock, and fish production in the project area.
PART V - REOOMNENiMATION
56.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber S. Conable
President
Vashington, D.C.
April 9, 1987



-20-                              AXMt I
Page 1 of 4
T8B sTATUs oF BANK GROtP OPEnATIONS IN B_GMLAU= /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of Sentember 30. 1981)
Amounts
Loan or                                                         (less cancellations)
Credit                                                      _       8$ Nillion /b
Number    Year  Borrower                Purpose                k             Undisbursed
One loan and 46 credits fully disbursed                     54.90 1,638.09        -
864       1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control         -      19.00       2.13
890       1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisberies            -       6.00       0.70
912      1979 Bangladesh  Vocational Training                -      25.00       9.53
934       1979 Bangladesh  Greater Rbulha Power
Distribution                   -      28.00       2.07
955       1979 Bangladesh  Sall-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                  -      25.00       6.28
964      1979 Bangladesh  Highways II                        -      10.00       1.11
1001       1980  Bangladesh  Chittagoug Water Supply 1I       -      20.00       3.80
1023       1980 Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 -      29.00       5.88
1032       1980  Bangladesh  Jute Induotry Rehabilitation     -      20.00       6.39
1042      1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation            -      11.00       4.55
1054       1980 Bangladesh  Education IV (Primry Education) -        40.00       9.12
1065L/     1980  Bangladesh  Smll-Scale Industry III          -      35.00       7.43
l096/L    1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport              -      25.00      10.33
1117/c    1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II         -      26.37       2.59
1140Lc     1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubevells                   -      18.00       8.61
1147L£    1981  Bangladeshb  gricultural Credit               -      40.00       6.98
1184&      1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II      -      27.00      20.43
i204/c    1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer        -      15.00       2.82
1205/L    1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -       30.00      25.31
1215/c    1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II           -      27.00      16.30
12471c     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                  -      60.00      57.68
1254/c    1982  Bangladesh Asbhugan4 Thermal Power            -      92.00      71.78
1262/c    1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification             -      40.00      14.57
1287/c    1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubevells It                 -      44.17      30e06
1301L£     1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)                -        6.00       0.53



-21-
Page 2 of 4
A. lank Loans and IDA Credits to Banpladesh (continued)
*           v~~~mounts
Loas  or                                                          (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              Vs$ million lb   
Numb*X    -TAU   B9rrover                Purpose             _ank       IDA    Undisbursed
1318/c     1983  Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training            -       7.80       5.88
13211,     1983  Bangladesh  Telecoumunications III            -      35.00       22.91
13491S.    1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training asd Personnel
Management)                     -      12.00       8.21
13571,    1983  Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
'  I   Refinery Rehabilitation      -      28.50       24.15
1384L/     1983  Bangladest  Rural Development II              -      100.00      92.27
1396 S     1983  Bangladesh Agricultural T-aining II                    8.10       6.56
1399k      1993  Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                -        20.00     16.81
1402/c     1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -         23.00     12.48
1440ILg    1984  Bangladesb  Fifth Technical Assistance        -        25.00     28.34
1455L/     1984  Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research      -        24.50     27.17
1467LS     1984  Bangladesb  Water Development Board           -        41.50     44.04
1477J-s    1984  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II        -        23.00     26.21
F0221j.    1984  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II        -        22.00     25.12
1490L      1984  Bangladesh  Teebnical Education               -        36.00     35.34
1504-0 LI  1984  Bangladesh  SAP  725 BD                       -        10.00      7.32
1504-1 LI  1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1023 SD                       -         5.00      2.41
1504-2 L   1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1247 SD                       -        7.00       1.52
1504-3 LI  1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1262 BD                       -        8.00       3.20
15741-.    1985  Bangladesh  Second Primary Education          -        78.00     87.75
1586Lk     1985  Bangladesh  Second Gas Development            -       110.00    130.69
1587kL    1985  Bangladesh  Flood Rehabilitation               -       30.00      18.04
15911sC    1985 bangladesh  Third Flood Control & Drainage   -         U.00       56.70
1633.Ls    1986  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification II          -       79.00      89.07
16341      1986  Bangladesh  Second Forestry Project           -       28.00      30.46
M648  ld  1986  Bangladesh  Power Trans & Distribution         -        56.00     63.46



I -22-    .       
ANUX"; I
Page 3 of 4
A.  Bank Loans a_d IDA Credits to BaElade,sh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Nillion lb
luber      Yea-r  Borrower               .Pugse               _Bak       IDA    Undisbursed
1649L1 .i_  1986  Bangladesh  Population & Family Healtb III   -         78.00      91.49
1651lS  le 1986  Bangladesh  Shrimp Culture                     -        22.00     25.00
I655/c     1986  Bangladesh  Imports Program XIII                -      200.00    125.23
1734Lg6 LI                                                               30.00     32.03
Total                                                      54.90  3,552.03  1,466.90
of which baa been repaid                                 3.00      14.54     -
Total now outstandin'                                     51.90  3.537.49
Amount sold                                              0.00       0.00
Total now held by Boak and IDA                            51.90  3,537.49
Totel undisbursed                                                           1,466.90
La  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a septirate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to theEzecutive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Lk  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
Li  IDA Sixth and Seventh Replenishments Credits denominated in SDRs.  The principal
smounts are shown in U.S. dollars equivalent at negotiations as showa in the
President's Reports. The undisbursed amounts are calculated at the rate of exchange
on September 30, 1986.
.1g 8ffective October 14, 1986.
L¢  Not yet effective.



-23-
AM
Page 4 of 4
B. 1TATEMENT OF IFC INVE8TMENTS (as of Snptember 30. 1986)
Fiscal                -                                            Amounts i U$ Million
X.ear,         Oblizor                Tvae of Bu in.es            Ia   Anit3E   Total
1969   Karnaphuli Paper Mills Ltd.   Pulp & Paper Products         5.60    0.63      6.23
1979    Highapeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                 1.20     0.36      1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of        Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.              Finance Compasy               -        1.05     1.05
1985186  Bata Shoe Co.                Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.            and Tannery                  4.46     0.51     4.97
1985     Industrial Development
Leasing Co. of Bangladesh
(IDLC)                       Capital Market               2,59      Q.1    2.76
Total gAross comdtments                                           1385        216.57
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales           7.21     0.63      7.84
Total now held by IYC                                              6.64.
Total undisbursed                                                   .34      0.08     3.42



-24-
Page 1
IAN%DADMUNM  I
FOURTH FLOOD omm  LD DLIRME PROJBCT
Suopleweitarv Proiect Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Tim taken to prepare project:
Twelve sonths.
(b) Agency preparing the project:
BiDE
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDAt
NI/A
(d) Date of departure of apprasal mission:
June 1965.
(e) Date of coapletion of aeotiation.s
September 25, 1986.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days following signatudv.
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Action:
None.
Section lIll  Conditions of Effectiveness area
(a) Possession by bUl of the land nede  for the first
year construction progrm (paragraph 45)s
(b) Government approval of Project Proforma (paragraph 49);
and
(c) Effectiveness of EBC grant agreement (paragraph 49).



-25-
AMEX II
Page 2
Other Condltions are:
(a)  Consultants would be appointed no later than July 31.
1987 fox assisting PMU with design and implementation
monitoring (paragraph 42);
(b)  Consultanta would be appointed no later than
July 31. 1987 for undertaking the benchmark survey
(paragraph 43); and
(c)  Consultants would be appointed no later than June 30.
1988 for preparing a rehabilitation program for polders
As B, C (paragraph 43);
(d) Appointment of consultants to prepare programs for
intensification of crop, livestock and fish production
no later than June 30. 1989 (paragraph 43).



A.k                                                                                              aA  NGLDESH )  
l ( 1l ,1 f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1[wX~~~~~~~243
-PMczO"d PRect ,<4' 
hnst plQ@ct _      
, SecodProrect                                                                                       .>         'tJ
Thkd ProOct B
e  SlMClN5 o ~~~~~~~~~P SuktmdlghlHmf~~~~~~hi                                             A13 1 
o   s  so  t5  20  2s                              ,f6-Xa                  > ~~~~~ ~~~~~A12 3
WLOME XM- a.nd  ",y
-24*ao     8t3s                                               <      M~~~~~~~~~ ~          ~ ~~aupora  A1- J 
-----w . (IS CO~MPARTM/ENFIT
wd"~<X\i;                                             >     r               A9            61 15 ha,,3       
"dO. Cn                                                                        kf B.,_.,_  
__z; r "I" >\.A Qz  
-,_,,>,;,,          g                    X                                        A10A1Oc
/ Son Pj11u,ou~~~~~~~~~~~i6 ' 
bf                                                       \ td*E1                                                  =      F1          1     3
2425'\    COMPARTMENT A1   ns A3 Y                                                               E1' 1i'E3A        CON
\                 ~~~~7200 ha.,                                                                                           6<
\                                  ,'/                              c~~~~~~~ ~         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 -: ~ ~ ,/ E5
~~~~~~1_                                                               14&V 



IBRD 19282
BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
BARANJ PROJECT
Proposed Project                            Drolage Canols
-~   ~.=Embcff rnents                  Project Bounda
A    strctues                  -     - Compartnent Boundaries
jg   Rives or Esting Khats             Roods
2*ww                                        -   to be Improved I                Railroads
cv Water Control Structures             Tracks
Roads to be Imprved              Built-Up Areas
Emibanments to be
NOIE Gross protected area 6aX ha
-it   Bridges to be Lmproved      Net cutffable area  4&300 ha
b O @rd khdo tude d slect CMAy to be fo4 
~~~~O  >-/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~TO Rongpur
-f l-:3ilp 'fi  0de           @         °    1    2    3    4    5
//r<--             \83               67
gngo, v~~ Mothuropu
/C O       PARTMENt B                                  ,i6rp - j   'ur1 Satgashpara
5512 ha                                          )C8
2ON  E  -,COMPARTM  ) D--qq
.!g- .    D2vi
EIA  J                                    -          /fE23duol     
E1     C
/G                                  /           D11 /  h                            _.
J/~~~~~~                                  ~~~ -.,  Dh..api
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
)         X        h SSvrdf ft    -      '   - -   ---                                - 
yfsffi g ~~~-                                       A95 -                              -- >      - 'EkdarOta
Cil~~~i
/~~~
2~~~~~~1                                                     D2                               I
NOVEME 1f985



