Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C   ,?q-e2s
Report No. 5916-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
April 9, 1987
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation I Division
This document has aI resricted distribution :nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwvise be disclosd without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$1   = Taka 30.3
Taka 1 = US$O.033
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations Used
ADP     - Annual Development Program
BADC    - Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BRDB    - Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BWDB    - Bangladesh Water Development Board
b.      - When preceding a crop means broadcast
DAE     - Department of Agricultural Extension
DPSI    - Department of Planning Schemes I
ECNEC   - Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
EEC     - European Economic Community
FA      - Force Account
FCD III - Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
COB     - Government of Bangladesh
HYV     - High Yielding Varieties
ICB     - International Competitive Bidding
IDA     - International Development Association
IPC     - Imports Program Credit
LCB     - Local Competitive Bidding
M&E     - Monitoring & Evaluation
MOA     - Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MOF     - Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
MOI     - Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control
O&M     - Operation and Maintenance
PEC     - Project Evaluation Committee
PSA     - Project Special Account
PP      - Project Proforma
t.      - When preceding a crop means transplanted



FOR OMCI4L USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Aman       -   Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested
in November or December
Aus        -   Rice planted during February or March and harvested
during June or July
Boro       -   Rice transplanted in December to January and harvested
in April to May
Kharif     -   Summer cropping season (Hay through October)
Rabi       -   Winter cropping season (October through May)
Monsoon    -   Period of rains starting in June and ending in October
Beel       -   Low-lying area subject to flooding by rain or river
water
Khal       -   Natural channel
District   -   Administrative unit in the charge of a Deputy
Commissioner comprising a number of Upazilas
Upazila    -   Smallest administrative unit of the Local Government
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance,
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUM K R....        ........................................   i-
I.*  BACKRGOUND. ........................... ................................ 1
A. Rationale for IDA Involveent ...1
B. Project Background 2...... o...... ......                             2
C.  Agriculture Sector Background ...........................            2
D.  IDA's Role in Water Resources Development ...............            5
E.  Ezperience with Past Lending ...........................             6
II*  The PROJECT.   ...    ......................... . ......... .. ...       6
A.  Project Concept ........ ....................... o .........         6
B.  Project Objectives ......................................            7
C.  Project Description............... ......................            7
D.  Project Works ........................................ 12
E.  Implementation Schedule ...........                  .........    16
III.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT,
DISBURSEMENT AND ACCOUNTS.......ooo.. .................. .              16
A.  Project Costs ..............o ......... o....................    16
B.  Project Financing .......... ...........................    17
C.  Procurement ....................... .                  .....        18
D.  Disbursement .........................................o ...............    20
E.  Accounts and Audits ...................................    21
F.  Special Account..............................    ...........    21
IV.  PROJECT NANAGEMENT..........................................            22
V.  PRODUCTION,  MAURETNG AND FARM BUDGET ANALYSISo............ ..    24
A.                                Podcin................................. 24
B.  Marketing and Prices....................................            27
C.  Farm Budget Analysis..o ............... .......o.............    29
D.  Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact.........................    30



VI.  BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ..........................    30
A.  Project Benefits .................... ....................    30
B.  Economic Ang'vsis ......... ......................... .    32
C.  Sensitivity :.aalysis and Risk ...........................    33
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............................    34
ANNEXES
Annex I  -  Criteria for Project Selection .....................    36
Annex 2  -  Technical Assistance ....................  ..........   37-46
Annex 3 - Studies                  ..............  47-64
Annex 4  -  Preventive Maintenance: Tree Planting ..............   65
Annex 5  -  Implementation Schedule               ..                 66
Annex 6  -  Detailed Cost Tables ...............................   67-74
Annex 7  -  Financing Plan .....................................    75-76
Annex 8  -  Procurement .......................................    77-86
Annex 9  -  Disbursement Schedule . ...... .....................    87
Annex 10-  Farm Budget Anelysis ...............................    88-95
Annex 11 -  Economic Analysis        ....................    96-106
CHARTS
-  Economic Cash Flow              ...............    107-109
-  Project Headquarter Organization ............................    110
-  Project Field Organization .... .......... ....................    110
MAPS
Map 1 - IBRD 19289 Project Area and Project Location



ci)
BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower           : The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount              : SDR 16.6M (US$20.0 M Equivalent)
Terms              : Standard
Project Description: The main objectives of the project are: (a) to
protect against crop losses, loss of life and
property damage due to floods; (b) to enhance
physical environments to allow farmers to adopt
improved agricultural practices; and (c) to
strengthen the Bangladesh Water Development
Board (BWDB). The project would cover an area of
63,100 ha under flood control and drainage (FCD).
About 34,500 farm families or about 210,000 people
would benefit. The project would include: (i) the
construction and rehabilitation of embankments,
water control structures, drainage channels, and
building and upgrading of roads; (ii) institutional
support to BWDB and the Ministry of Irrigation,
Water Development and Flood Control (MoH); and
(iii) preparatioa of programs for further develop-
ment of crops, livestock and fisheries within the
project area and three adjacent polders.
Risks                 One possible risk facing the project is implementation
delays in the processing of land acquisition and
preparation of engineering designs. Arrangements have
been incorporated into the project Cesign to minimize
this risk. A further possible risk would be the
potential decrease in production from natural fisheries
within the project area. The project would provide for
appropriate design of engineering works to minimize
this impact, and for preparation of a follow-up
development program aimed at increasing crop livestock
and fish productions in the project area.



(Xi)
Project Estimated Costs: 1/
Local     Foreign
Cost      Exchange      Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Land Acquisition                              3.7           -           3.7
Civil Works                                  10.8          2.0         12.8
Equipment                                     0.4          0.4          0.8
Surveys & Investigations                      0.1           -           0.1
Polders A, B and C                            0.3          0.2          0.5
Design & Implementation Monitoring            0.4          0.5          0.9
Engineering & Administration                  2.1           -           2.1
Technical Assistance & Studies                0.4          0.5          0.9
Operation & Maintenance                       0.6           -           0.6
Total Base Costs                          18.8          3.6         22.4
Physical Contingencies                        1.1          0.2          1.3
Price Contingencies                           3.0          C.8          3.8
Total Costs                               22.9          4.6         27.5
1/ Including US$0.8 million in duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:
Local         Foreign
Cost          Exchange          Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
GOB                                    6.40             -              6.40
IDA                                   16.00            4.00           20.00
EEC                                    0.50            0.60            1.10
Total                              22.90            4.60           27.50
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit:
FY            1987      1988      1989       1990      1991       1992      1993
(USs 000)
Annual       365.2   1,844.2   5,440.2   6,817.8   5,165.8        196.2     170.6
Cumulative   365.2   2,209.4   7,649.6  14,467.4  19,633.2  19,829.4  20,000.0
Rate of Return:       18X



BANCLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.01     Bangladesh suffers from a chronic shortage of foodgrains.  The
country achieved an annual growth rate in food production of 2.9Z over the
past ten years compared to a population growth rate of 2.4Z, and a target
annual production growth rate of 7Z needed for achieving food self-
sufficiency in the 1980s. In addition to the institutional and resource
constraints holding back production growth, most increase in production has
to come from intensification since available cultivable land is already fully
utilized. Intensification, however, is hindered by flooding of varying
intensities and by limited access to irrigation by the majority of farmers.
Of the 9.1 million ha under cultivation (at least during part of the year),
over two-thirds are subject to damage due to flooding. The absence of flood
control and drainage facilities has been the source of major suffering due to
destruction of crops and property. It has also prevented diversification of
cropping patterns and a shift to more productive crop varieties, and has
delayed increase in cropping intensity and development of irrigation.
1.02     IDA has been supporting flood control and drainage (FCD) type
programs in Bangladesh on the basis that they are prerequisites for any
investment programs aimed at alleviating hunger and poverty among a major
proportion of the country's farmers.  Controlling floods would result in
substantial increase in production by simply aecreasing the extent of damage
to crops, thus at least ensuring farmers their daily food. Under conditions
of controlled water flow, intensification of agriculture through investments
in improved infrastructure, technology and agricultural services becomes a
logical subsequent step.
1.03     Presently, about 3 million ha have drainage and flood control
facilities of varying quality. There still remain about 4 million ha needing
such facilities. Based on past experience, resources required to meet the
country's flood control and drainage needs could reach US$2 billion.l/ Given
the magnitude of the resources needed, IDA's financial input will continue to
be required regardless of foreseeable contributions by other agencies and
investment by the Government over the next decade. More importantly, IDA has
to continue its critical role in assisting Bangladesh with: (i) selecting
technically and economically viable and socially acceptable approaches to
water development, including flood control; (ii) initiating agricultural
development in areas protected from floods and equipped with drainage
1/ This is based on GOB's estimate of US$500 per ha for controlling floods
and improving drainage in shallow flooded areas.



-2-
facilities; and (iii) promoting the development of institutions capable of
ensuring that FCD-type investment programs provide the intended services to
their clientele.
B. Project Background
1.04     The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has requested the International
Development Association (IDA) for assistance in financing a flood control and
drainage project covering an area of about 63,108 ha in the districts of
Rajshahi and Natore. The proposed project is similar in its objectives and
design to several ongoing projects, including three supported by IDA credits
(Cr. 864-BD, Cr. 1184-BD, and 1591-BD). The proposed Fourth Flood Control
and Drainage Project :FCD IV) reflects GOB's comitment to promote full use
of the productive potential of the country's scarce land resources by con-
trolling floods, improving drainage and increasing access to irrigation. In
addition to their direct benefits, these actions are viewed as a
pre-condition to expanding farmers' access to the benefits from GOB's other
agricultural development efforts, particularly those related to the provision
of agricultural services, such as research, input supply, extension and
credit.
1.05     The project was prepared by the Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB) assisted by the Netherlands Development Consultants (NEDECO). Funding
for feasibility studies was provided under IDA's fourth technical assistance
credit. An IDA appraisal mission comprising Messrs. S. Cafsi, P. Aklilu, and
G. Schokman visited Bangladesh in June/July 1985. Ms. Shohreh Beiglari-Mahan
provided computational assistance and Ms. Laurel Jesudass was responsible for
typing the report. This report is based on the findings of the appraisal
mission.
C. Agriculture Sector Background
Agriculture in the Economy
1.06    The agriculture sector generates over half of Bangladesh's GDP.  It
employs about three-fourths of the labor force and contributes over 80% of
export earnings. Agriculture is dominated by the crop sub-sector where over
70% of the agricultural value-added originates, compared to about 15% from
livestock, 10% from fisheries and 5% from forestry. The Second Five-Year
Plan (SFYP FY81-85) gave high priority to increased foodgrain production as a
means to meeting minimum nutritional standards for the country's increasing
population. The main thrust of the SFYP with regard to agriculture was to
help farmers acquire more control over their production environment through
development of irrigation facilities, construction of flood control and
drainage works, reduction in market related uncertainties, and widespread use
of productivity increasing practices. The Third Five Year Plan (TFYP),
presently under preparation, would continue past programs with emphasis on
addressing the poverty syndrome through employment creation, technology
development and skill formation as the means to improve the productivity of
the two nain resources--land and labor.



-3-
Production Environment
1.07    Bangladesh is situated in the deltas of three major rivers - Canges,
Brahmaputra and Meghna. The terrain is criss-crossed by some 24,000 km of
waterways. Alluvial flood plains occupy about 80% of the total 144,000 sq km
land area. During the monsoon season (May/June to October/November),
approximately two-thirds of the cultivable land (9.1 million ha) is flooded
deeper than 0.3 meters for three to five months. Areas along the rivers
suffer from overbank flooding, while elsewhere heavy rains and the relatively
flat terrain cause extensive drainage congestion. The average annual rain-
fall varies from about 1,270 mm in the western part    the country to about
5,000 m in the northeast. Rainfall is characterized by wide seasonal fluc-
tuations, with about 90% occurring in the monsoon period. In spite of an
apparent overall abundance of rainfall, serious droughts occur even during
the rainy season. This makes supplementary irrigation in the wet season
(June-October) and irrigation in the dry season (November-May) a necessity
for successful cropping over most of the country.
1.08     Nearly all arable land in Bangladesh is under cultivation.  Average
cropping intensity is about 150%, although it is well accepted that irriga-
tion permits a cropping intensity of well over 200Z. The most imporcant crop
is rice which is cultivated on over three-fourths of the cropped area. Jute
- the principal export crop - is grown on about 6% of the cropped area.
Other crops, in order of importance of acreage, include wheat, pulses, oil-
seeds, sugarcane, tea, spices and vegetables. Less than 20% of cultivated
area is irrigated as compared to an identified water resource potential for
irrigating about 50% of the cultivated area using the known potential for
surface and groundwater supply. The absence of flood control and drainage
facilities on a major part of that area has prevented a shift from the
long-stem low-yield rice varieties to the short-stem fertilizer responsive
varieties. Moreover, inadequate moisture content in the soil during the dry
season has prevented a possible increase in cropping intensity in the absence
of irrigation facilities.
1.09     Although average land holding is about 1.4 ha, over 25% of farm
families own less than 0.4 ha, and over one third of rural households own no
land. Mostly as a result of population pressure and the absence of oppor-
tunities for horizontal expansion, the proportion of rural households who are
landless or functionally landless (owning less than 0.2 ha) has been increas-
ing. This trend, combined with limited non-agricultural employment oppor-
tunities, has led to an increasing percentage of the rural population below
the poverty line (defined as a daily intake of 2,100 calories) from 65Z in
1964 to an estimated 75% in 1982. This widespread poverty in rural areas
limits investment in required on-farm development and production inputs. In
addition, transport infrastructure (roads and water transport facilities) and
agricultural services (research, input supply, seed production, marketing,
credit, and pump maintenance) remain inadequate vis-a-vis the existing needs.



-4-
Policy Framework
1.10    Development efforts in the agricultural sector are aimed primarily at
achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency. Since the mid-1970s, foodgrain produc-
tion has been rising at close to 3.5Z per year. This has been largely due to
an expansion of the area under irrigation and availability of fertilizer and
improved variety seeds to both rice and wheat producers. Government has
sought to improve the effectiveness of the input supply system through an
increased reliance on private sector initiative. They also have initiated
efforts aimed at the elimination of economic distortions in the allocation of
productive resources in the agricultural sector. Such efforts include
measures to: (i) encourage private ownership of irrigation equipment and
private participation in the fielding of such equipment; (ii) reduce sub-
sidies on fertilizer and irrigation equipment with the aim to progressively
eliminate them; (iii) increase the availability of and farmers' access to
agricultural credit; and (iv) motivate farmers to increase production in
response to favorable prices for foodgrains.
Major Institutions Serving Agriculture
1.11    The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MOA), the Ministry of
Fisheries and Livestock (MOF), and the Ministry of Irrigation, Water
Development and Flood Control (MOI) are the policy making bodies for all
matters pertaining to Agricultural Development in Bangladesh. Two major
semi-autonomous agencies are responsible for planning and implementing water
related development programs. The Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation (BADC), which is linked to the MOA, is responsible for the
development of minor irrigation systems: low-lift pumps and hand, shallow and
deep tubewells. The Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), which is
linked to MOI, is responsible for planning, implementation and operation and
maintenance of flood control and drainage schemes, and medium and major
irrigation systems.
1.12    Several agencies provide agricultural services in support of water
development programs. BADC has been the major supplier of farm inputs
(fertilizer, seeds, irrigation equipment). Some of these responsibilities
are being progressively transferred to the private sector. IDA has supported
these privatization efforts in the context of successive imports program
credits, agricultural credit and water development projects. The Bangladesh
Agriculture Research Council (BARC) coordinates the research activities of
specialized research institutions covering rice (BRRI), jute (BJRI), sugar
(SRI), forestry (FrRl), fishery (FsRI), tea (TR1), livestock (LRC), and other
crops and horticulture (BARI). IDA has supported the establishment of BARC
under Cr. 828-BD and is supporting the funding of applied research programs
under Cr. 1215-BD. The Department of Agricultural Extension of MOA provides
extension services supported nationally under Extension and Research II
Project, Cr. 1215-BD. Institutional lending for agriculture is directed and
coordinated by the Bangladesh Bank and channeled through comuercial and
cooperative financial institutions. Institutional credit has been utilized
by less than 20% of farmers, leaving the others dependent on their own
limited resources or on non-institutional forms of lending. The issues
affecting the availability of credit and farmers' access to it were addressed



in a joint GOB/IDA Review of Agricultural Credit. Operational constraints
interferring with adequate and timely flow of credit to farmers are also
being addressed under IDA Cr. 1147-BD and the thirteenth Imports Program
Credit. The Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB) promotes the growth of
farmer cooperatives under the UCCAIKSS system (Upazila Central Cooperative
Association and Krishi Samabay Samitiya). These cooperatives collect thrift
deposits, promote group management of minor irrigation equipment and provide
credit and inputs to small farmers. Support to BRDB and the UCCA/KSS system
was provided under IDA Credits 631-BD and 1385-BD.
D. IDA's Role in Water Resources Development
1.13    IDA lending to Bangladesh has emphasized the agricultural sector,
reflecting the country's needs and its priorities. Particular emphasis has
been on water resources development in general (irrigation, flood control
and drainage), and with particular emphasis on investments with short
gestation period and high yield, on strengthening agricultural services
(technology development and supply, credit and marketing), and on the
development of complementary infrastructural facilities in other sectors
(transport, power, industry,etc.). Increased food production - particularly
rice and wheat - has been the target of IDA's lending in agriculture. Ongo-
ing IDA supported projects in the agricultural sector are addressing con-
straints to the expansion of irrigation and water control: Muhuri irrigation
(Cr. 725-ED), Drainage and Flood Control I and II (Credits 864-BD and
1184-BD), Hand Tubewells (Cr. 1140-BD), Deep Tubewells II (Cr. 1287-BD),
Agriculture Credit (Cr. 1147-BD), Rural Development I and II (Credits 631-BD
and 1384-BD), Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control (Cr. 955-BD), BWDB Small
Schemes (Cr. 1467-BD) and Third Flood Control and Drainage Project
(Cr. 1591-BD).
1.14    In addition, IDA staff have participated with Government staff in a
number of joint studies. Of special significance was the Land and Water
Resources Survey (1972) which led to a change in water resources development
strategy in favor of low-cost irrigation and water control schemes. More
recent joint studies include assessments of the Water Development Board
(1979) and the Minor Irrigation Sector (1982). Finally, IDA is the executing
agency for the UNDP-financed National Water Plan Project. These studies
helped support a series of Imports Program Credits and accompanying policy
reforms in agriculture, including such important policy decisions as the move
towards: (i) privatization of procurement and distribution of irrigation
equipment and other farm inputs; (ii) rationalization of Government
approaches to foodgrain procurement and farm input pricing; and (iii)
creating favorable conditions for improved access to institutional credit.
These studies also helped in bringing to the attention of decision-makers in
Bangladesh the urgency of policy action on such outstanding issues as funding
and organization of the functions of operation and maintenance for completed
infrastructural facilities, and the recovery of the cost of operation and
maintenance works as well as of the initial capital costs from beneficiaries.
These and other issues continue to be a part of the substance of the ongoing
dialogue between the Government and IDA.



-6-
E. Experience With Past Lending
1.15    Implementation of projects by BWDB has been hindered by (a) slow land
acqu'isition process, (b) limited institutional capability within BWDB,
particularly in the area of design, and (c) delays in procurement of goods
and services. Although no Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) have
been prepared for FCD type projects in Bangladesh, past experience was
brought to bear on the the design of FCD IV through supervision of IDA
credits in support of the water sector, available PPARs on projects in the
agricultural sector, and a review of BWDB's experience in non-IDA supported
flood control and drainage improvement schemes in the country. Important
lessons reflected in the design of this project include: (i) explicit recog-
nition in the design of FCD IV for requirements of water transport (country
boats) and fish migration patterns. (ii) provision for preparation of a
comprehensive plan for intensification of crop, livestock and fish production
following the completion of flood protection works; (iii) introduction of
measures, including organized consultations with beneficiaries and elected
local officials, to address past difficulties encountered in the process of
land acquisition; (iv) introduction of the practice of designing and building
embankments with an explicit view at minimizing the cost of operation and
maintenance; and (v) introduction of measures to encourage effective and
timely implementation of construction activities.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept
2.01    The project is based on the "simple polder" concept which consists
uf an embankment constructed around an area with water control structures to
permit the discharge of internal runoff by gravity flow when river water
level is low and to prevent overbank flooding when river water level is high.
This technique is suitable in areas with shallow to medium flooding, not
requiring high embankments or pump drainage. The area included under this
project belongs to this category. Other criteria underlying the selection of
the project area are given in Annex 1. In the country context, control of
flooding and improved drainage are regarded as: (i) interventions necessary
for lowering the crop losses due to high incidence of floods -- this being a
means to reducing food shortages in areas covered by the project: and (ii) a
prerequisite for making feasible the initiation of irrigation development and
other agricultural programs aimed at the intensification of crop, fish and
livestock production practices.
2.02    The project is, therefore, conceived as the means for dealing with
the iumediite need of protecting crops from flood damage while creating an
environment more conducive to intensification of agricultural product:on.
Although the project does not directly provide for such intensification, it
does provide for the preparation of programs for making use of the newly
improved production environment to increase the production of crops, fish and
livestock (para 2.21). The project also provides for strengthening BWDB by
complementing programs initiated under other IDA-supported projects. The two
functions particularly targeted are construction supervision and monitoring
and evaluation.



-7-
B. Project Objectives
2.03    The primary objective of the FCD IV would be to protect cropped
areas, as well as people and their properties from floods, to make further
development in agriculture and fisheries possible, and to promote increased
food production. In addition, the project supports on-going efforts aimed
at: (i) promoting future integration of water and agricultural development
programs; (ii) improving the project implementation process,-(iii) improving
the existing capabilities for monitoring and evaluation within BWDB and MOI
respectively; and (iv) preparing a rehabilitation program for polders A, B
and C adjacent to the Baranai area.
C. Project Description
2.04    The project area (IBRD Hap 19289) is located in the Rajshahi and
Natore Districts in the North-Western Region of Bangladesh. It is bound by
the Baranai River to the North, the Rajshahi-Pabna highway to the south, the
North-western railway line to the East, and the Karnahar Beel Project to the
West. The project is within the Upazilas of Durgapur, Paba, Bagmara, Puthia
and Natore. It covers a gross area of 63,100 ha of which about 48,300 ha are
cultivable. The topography is irregular, but generally slopes in a
north-eastern direction towards the Baranai River. The project area is
annually prone to inundation as a result of overbank spillage from the
Baranai River and local rainfall runoff which accumulate ii low areas due to
impeded drainage. During the pre-monsoon season (April-May), floods
adversely affect the aus crop at the tilling stage and the boro crop at the
maturing time. Pre-monsoon floods though, at times minor in nature, cause
delays in planting of crops. Floods can also reduce yields of broadcast aman
(the most flood-tolerant crop) and often result in less sugar contents in
sugarcane if soils remain poorly drained over an extended period.
2.05    Project works would include construction/improvement of embankments
and hydraulic structures, re-excavation of khals and excavation of secondary
drains, and upgrading of roads needed to facilitate construction of project
facilities and their subsequent operation and maintenance. Although the
Baranai River is a tributary of the Atrai River, which is an international
waterway, the works proposed under this project would not adversely affect
any riparian countries.
Flood Control and Drainage Improvement
2.06    The project would provide for construction of new embankments,
improving and/or resectioning of existing embaniments, construction of water
control structures, rehabilitation of existing regulators, re-excavation of
khals, and excavation of new secondary drains. It would also provide for
upgrading the road network (including road structures) to the extent
necessary for construction of project facilities and for their subsequent
operation and maintenance.  IBRD Map 1S289 shows the location of project
facilities. No investments are planned for the Qpecific purpose oi irriga-
tion development, except for the installation of water retaining structures
on drainage canals. This would allow storage of water for supplementary
irrigation during drought periods in the wet season, for irrigation of rabi



-8-
crops, and for irrigation of a limited area of boro and early aus crops. In
addition, the project would provide for operation and maintenance of
facilities as they are completed, including any corrective measures to ensure
that all facilities are suitable for the purposes for which they were
intended and that they meet local needs.
2.07    Flood Embankments and Protection Works (Base Cost US$1.50 million).
Embankments would have a crest that can cope with flood levels with a return
period of 20 years. Flood embankments would be constructed along the Baranai
River. This would include about 45 km of new embankments and 10 km of
embankment resectioning.
2.08    Drainage Canals and Appurtenant Structures (Base Cost US$5.60 mil-
lion). Drainage systems would be improved to allow evacuation of the runoff
water from the project area before inundations occur and before the period
when the Baranai water level starts rising in order to create a storage
capacity for the period when drainage would be hampered by high river water
levels. The drainage system would also allow conservation of water in the
project area during the pre-and post-monsoon periods, when river water levels
tend to be low, in order to maintain a high groundwater level and enable some
supplementary irrigation. Host drainage canals (about 435 km) would follow
existing channels (Khals) which would be re-excavated to meet local require-
ments. About 30 km of new canals would be excavated. The project would also
provide for construction of 25 road bridges, 60 foot bridges, 60 culverts, 4
railway bridges, one highway bridge, and for improvement of 2 existing road
bridges.
2.09    Hydraulic Structures (Base Cost US$4.70 million).  Regulators-cums-
inlet sluices would be located at the outfall of drainage channels in the
Baranai River. These structures would be designed to drain runoff into the
river, to retain water in the Khals in the pre-and post-monsoon period, to
allow intake of water from the river by gravity for supplementary irrigation,
and to allow a continuation of fish migration into area permanently sub-
merged. The project would provide for about 26 drainage regulators, 25 water
control structures, two water control structures-cum-bridges, 50 irrigation
inlets and 200 cross regulators.
2.10    Roads and Buildings (Base Cost US$1.0 million).  Road improvement (60
km) and new road construction (7 km) would be undertaken at an early stage in
the project implementation peri4d to facilitate construction and subsequent
operat.on and maintenance of project facilities. Provision would also be
made for the construction of field offices, divisional staff housing and
improvement of the regional BWDB workshop.
Technical Assistance
2.11    On-going projects provide for initiating actions aimed at
strengthening BWDB's project implementation capability in general and their
design and construction monitoring capability in particular. Such actions
consist of a combination of training and technical assistance. FCD IV would
provide for a continuation of such actions and for complementary actions



-9-
aimed at upgrading the implementation monitoring function within BUDB and the
project impact evaluation function within NOI.
2.12    The Project Management Unit (PMU) established under FCD III to plan,
coordinate and monitor project implementation would also be responsible for
FCD IV. It would be assisted by a local consulting firm with limited inter-
national input for undertaking FCD IV related detailed engineering designs,
and implementation monitoring (Annex 2-A). PHU staff appointed under FCD III
will be further strengthened by one senior design engineer, one senior
planning engineer, two junior planning and design engineers and the necessary
support personnel. Agreements were reached with COB during negotiations that
consultants will be appointed no later than July 31, 1987 to assist PMU with
design and construc,ion monitoring.
2.13    BWDB's field divisions have primary responsibility for planning and
implementation of construction programs. The quality of construction works
has suffered, often as a result of inadequate construction supervision and,
at times, due to poor survey work. The effectiveness of water control struc-
tures has also suffered because of inadequate attention to the manufacture
and installation of gates. The reasons include: (i) limited resources
(transport, equipment, construction materials), (ii) limited staff skills and
experience combined vith a lack of training, (iii) delegation of
responsibility for construction supervision and survey work to lower level
technicians, and (iv) the absence of systematic procedures for regular and
reliable verification of the adequacy of survey work and the quality of
construction. To remedy this situation, BWDB will appoint 12 surveyors in
FY87, to be increased to 18 surveyors starting FY88 until the end of the
construction period. In addition 20 work assistants will be appointed in
FY87, to be increased to 36 in FY88 for the remainder of the construction
period. This would ensure that proper survey work and adequate construction
supervision are done.
2.14    MOI has allocated to BWDB the responsibility for Monitoring for
purposes of managing project implementation. Responsibility for monitoring
and evaluation for purposes of assessing the impact of investment programs in
the water sector was given to the Ministry's Planning Cell. The project
would provide for strengthening BIDB's monitoring capability and MOI's
evaluation capability (Annex 2-B).
2.15    Monitoring of project activities for the purpose of manAging project
implementation is the responsibility of the M&E Unit, in the office of the
BWDB Chairman. This Unit functions in close cooperation with B1DB field
offices and headquarters units in charge of various projects. The project
would provide for strengthening this M&E Unit to allow it to better meet BWDB
management's needs for information for timely decision making. The Unit
would establish a management information system and would work closely with
project management units and field divisions to ensure timely flow of project
related information to BWDB management through that system and timely
feed-back of management's decisions to field divisions and headquarter staff
in charge of individual projects. The M&E Unit would normally get their
information from field divisions and project management units. In addition,
they would engage in primary information gathering in case of persistent



-10-
implementation problems, when the need for a change in project design becomes
apparent, or when requested by the Ministry, BWDB management, or field divi-
sions to undertake a specific project implementation review.
2.16    Evaluatior of the impact of investment programs in the water sector
would be organized and managed by the Planning Cell of the Ministry.l/ This
Cell would be responsible for: {i) preparing terms of reference for a bench-
mark survey and a subsequent monitoring program for individual projects;
(ii) entering into a contract with a university/institute or local consult-
ants for undertaking the evaluation of projects' outcome; (iii) supervising
such work through periodic reports and/or field visits; (iv) identifying and
disseminating the lessons learned; and (v) issuing completion/evaluation
reports for individual projects.  The Planning Cell would 4ase its M&E
programs on an inter-disciplinary approach, i.e., engineering, agriculture,
fisheries, social and institutional concerns, local government and local
power structure.
2.17    The project would provide for improving the staffing of BWDB's M&E
Unit and the Planning Cell in the Ministry (Annex 2-B). It would also
provide for technical assistance, training and equipment for both cells. The
technical assistance would consist of two internationally recruited
specialists who, over a period of 18 months, would assist BWDB in estab-
lishing an operational management information system and assist the Planning
Cell of MOI in developing evaluation procedures suitable for investments in
the water sector and in introducing the necessary practices for administering
and managing the evaluation program.
Studies
2.18    Studies would include:  (i) benchmark surveys in the Baranai area;
(ii) a technical evaluation of the flood control and drainage programs in
Polders A, B and C 2/ (adjacent to the FCD IV Project area) and preparation
of a rehabilitation program, (iii) preparation of crops, livestock and
fisheries development programs to be implemented following completion of
flood control and drainage improvement measures in the Baranai area and in
Polders A, B and C; and (iv) preparation of a project completion report on
the basis of monitoring work supervised by the Planning Cell of MOI and on
the basis of an evaluation of the project implementation process and project
results.
1/ These arrangements would not apply to alternative ones already made for
completed projects for which evaluation studies and/or completion reports
are underway.
2/ Flood control facilities in these polders were built using resources from
the Food for Work Program. Some water control structures were built with
resources from IDA credit 955-BD and other sources of external financing.
Both flood control and drainage improvements are not completed and some
rehabilitation/improvement of the existing facilities would be required.



-11-
2.19    The Benchmark survey should lead to a consolidation of available
technical information and to supplementing existing data on both physical and
socio-economic characteristics of the project area. This would serve as a
basis for a subsequent evaluation of the suitability of project facilities
for intended purposes and of the net benefits resulting from the project
following its completion. The benchmark survey would be undertaken through a
contract with a local university or local consultants (Annex 3-A). Govern-
ment assurances were otbtained during negotiations that consultants would be
appointed no later than July 31, 1987 for undertaking the benchmark survey.
2.20    The technical evaluation of FCD facilities in polders A, B and C
would provide a basis for preparation of a program for their rehabilitation.
Such a program would include corrective measures leading to an effective use
of the flood control and drainage facilities already built and a realization
of the production potential in the area. This evaluation would be undertaken
by BWDB with limited consultant input and in cooperation with the field
division concerned (Annex 3-B). In addition to preparation of a program for
the rehabilitation of Polders A, B and C, this component aims to give BWDB
staff an opportunity to assume fuller responsibility for an evalua-
tion/feasibility study as an input into improving their project preparation
capability. Government assurances were obtained during negotiations that
consultants to prepare the rehabilitation programs would be appointed by June
30, 1988.
2.21    Programs for crop, livestock and fisheries development in the Baranai
area and in Polders A, B and C would be prepared along the lines proposed for
other areas under DFC I, DFC II and FCD III (Annex 3-C). They would serve as
a basis for mobilizing complementary resources and services (farm inputs,
extension service, credit, promotion of beneficiary associations, etc.)
necessary for making optimum use of the newly-improved production environ-
ment. Preparation of such programs would require cooperation among MOI, MOA,
MOF, local authorities and beneficiaries. HOI would be responsible for these
studies and will coordinate the inputs of various agencies in the preparation
of such programs. Procedures for implementation of these programs would be
agreed between Government and IDA following a review of proposals in these
development programs. Goveriament assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that consultants to prepare these programs would be appointed no
later than June 30, 1989.
2.22    A project completion report would be prepared under contract with
a local university/institute or local consultants under the supervision of
the Planning and Evaluation Cell of MOI. It would be based on the benchmark
survey, monitoring data obtained by the Planning and Evaluation Cell
(directly, through consultants or through BWDB) in the course of project
implementation (para 2.14-2.16) and evaluation 9f project results (Annex
3-D). The project completion report would provide an assessment of project
achievements (physical, economic, social, institutional), the adequacy of its
design, the extent to which its objectives were found compatible with local
needs and other development programs, and factors which facilitated or
hindered project implementation.



-12-
D. Project Works
Status of Project Preparation
2.23    The present status of engineering and design provides an adequate
basis for ensuring that cost estimates are reasonably accurate and are
expected not to create any hindrance to the timely initiation of first year
construction activities. Feasibility studies identified alignment of embank-
ments and location of structures. They also provided bill of quantities for
earthworks and corresponding cost estimates based on existing maps. First
year work program would involve the construction of limited sections of
embankments for which detailed designs have been completed, engineering
surveys, foundation investigations and land acquisition for the second and
third year construction programs.
Civil Works
2.24    Civil works would include a combination of the following elements:
(i) construction of new embankments and improvement/resectioning of existing
ones; (ii) excavation of new canals, re-excavation of existing khals and
construction of appurtenant structures; (iii) construction of hydraulic
structures such as regulators, flushing sluices, cross regulators, and
delivery outlets and rehabilitation of existing regulators; (iv) construction
and improvement of roads; and (v) buildings.
2.25    Embankments would be adequately compacted and would have a free board
high enough to secure them from wave action, subsidence of the crest due to
shrinkage and subsoil settlement,and erosion due to human and animal use.
Computed future flood levels for these conditions have been calculated at the
feasibility phase on tIe basis of a mathematical model for the Atrai River
system developed by Nedeco in 1980 (Water Balance and Hydrological Study
"DFC") with the available hydrological data and using a number of steady
state computations for selected peak discharges and changes in channel
geometry, including full confinement of the Baranai River. Following past
practice in Bangladesh, the design water level is based on a return period of
20 years and the design level of the embankment would have a free board of
0.9 meters above this design level.
2.26    One major difficulty experienced under other IDA-financed flood
control projects was that associated with the enforcement of adequate
compaction during the construction of rtarthfill embankments. Although the
specifications described in contract agreements have been quite clear about
the method to be adopted to obtain the required degree of compaction,
ineffective field supervision by BWDB staff resulted in sub-standard work.
Sub-standard embankment construction would be a hazard to local population
and could jeopardize all investments in the project area. Accordingly,
provision is made for improving construction supervision and for the
appropriate compaction equipment to ensure controlled compaction for the
embankment fill and proper backfilling behind structures. To further high-
light the necessity of compaction, tender documents would provide for two
rates: (i) one for excavation and transport of earth from borrow and placing
it in layers of 15 cm (inclusive of stripping of top soil in embankment base



-13-
and borrow area and turfing of embankment slopes); and (ii) a separate rate
for breaking of earth clods, levelling, watering if needed, and compaction by
labor-intensive techniques such as medium weight hand tampers, and
manually-operated pneumatic compactors. In view of the necessity of ensuring
a high standard of construction, each time applications for reimbursement are
made against expenditures on construction of embankments, BWDB Management
would introduce the practice of requesting the Executive Engineer to certify
in writing that compaction was properly done and that embankments constructed
meet required standards for safety.
2.27    Experience has shown that it was socially difficult for biiDB to
control unplanned use of embankments by farmers for construction of dwelling.
grazing or cultivation of crops, all of which hamper maintenance activities.
Planting of the proper tree species on flood embankments has been demon-
strated to be an effective preventive maintenance measure and a source of
valuable fuelwood, fodder and fruit for rural communities. The Forestry
Department has a list of shallow rooted trees suitable for embankment plant-
ing and recognized to be of value by local communities (Annex 4). As a pilot
preventive maintenance program, BWDB intends to initiate a tree planting
program on embankments built under FCD IV and intends to seek the cooperation
of Local Government and local leaders to develop procedures for managing such
preventive maintenance activities. BWDB would provide funds to the Forestry
Department to supply seedlings of appropriate species. Interested local
families, including landless families and those who may have been negatively
affected by the project, would be entrusted with planting the trees and
caring for them on a defined length of embankment. Those families would be
given the right to the full benefits from the plantings for a specified
number of years on the condition that they maintain their stretches free from
any other uses and that they follow the instructions given by BWDB and/or the
Department of Forestry. It would be made clear to all participants that BWDB
would reserve the right to withdraw access to benefits from tree planting
from any participant who would fail to follow the agreed rules and/or whc
would in any way endanger the safety of the embankment. BWDB would work
closely with Upazila officials in selecting and supervising families for
participation in this program. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that PMU would submit a special report on this pilot activity at the end of
each construction season starting in the fourth year of the project period.
2.28    Drainage Systems capable of releasing a runoff of 10 days rainfall
with a return period of five years with a submergence duration not exceeding
three days and with a submergence period not exceeding six days for a return
period of 10 years would be designed. The tail water level at drainage
structures, which determines the discharge through the vents, was determined
from the stage hydrograph for the critical period of the project area. The
outlet works would be constructed on the dry and would have the standard vent
size of 1.50 m X 1.80 m. The drainage system would generally follow existing
khals and old river courses, resulting in relatively low investment costs.
New canals and re-excavated Khals would be unlined and have stable side
slopes.
2.29    The drainage pattern under preproject conditions during low flows in
Baranai River is towards the north direc.ly into the Baranai and partly to



-14-
the east, towards Godai Nadi and Narod Nadi and eventually to Gur River about
70 km below the project area. Drainage improvements would ensure that during
high stages of the Baranai River, all drainage would be through the east and
southeast into Godai Nadi and Narod Nadi. During the low stages of Baranai
River, drainage of the compartments adjacent to the flood embankment along
Baranai River would be into the Baranai River and for the remaining pro2-ct
area, drainage would be into Godai Nadi and Narod Nadi. The proposed pattern
will have no adverse affect on adjacent areas and would resolve the existing
drainage congestion inside the project area. The drainage of the adjacent
Polders A, B, C and D will not be adversely affected as gravity drainage from
these polders is possible only during low river stages of Atrai, Baranai and
Fakirni.
2.30    Chalan Beel Polder D, Subproject under DFC II, Cr. 1184-BD has been
designed for a return period of 100 years, and as such the project will not
be adversely affected. Chalan Beel Polders A, B and C have not been designed
for a 20-year return period and will be affected adversely, although the free
board allowed may be adequate to accommodate a flood with a return period of
20 years. BWDB have confirmed that proposals will be prepared to improve
the polders to be a-le to withstand a flood of 20-year return period.
Implementation of the proposed improvements would be programmed to enable all
works to be completed ahead of the completion of Baranai subproject. The
Simulation Modelling Program to be conducted under FCD III, Cr. 1591-BD and
*the impact assessment study of Polders A, B and C would assist in the deter-
mination of more accurate design levels and would enable the preparation, if
needed, of a project for further improvement/rehabilitation of these polders.
2.31    In deciding the drainage pattern to be adopted, the following options
were studied: (i) compartmentalization of the project area with all compart-
ments to drain into Baranai River; (ii) no compartmentalization with southern
drainage into Baral River and eastern drainage to Godai Nadi, (iii) no com-
partmentalization with eastern drainage into Godai Nadi, southeastern
drainage to Narod Nadi; and (iv) all drainage in a southerly direction to
Baral River. Option 1 is not feasible as maximum water levels in the project
area would be 0.75 m higher than preproject levels, mainly as a result of the
full confinement of Baranai River at full development of the Atrai Basin.
Option 4 is not acceptable due to the expected adverse affects on the
proposed Baral River Irrigation Project, and also it involves major modifica-
ticn of the highway bridge together with excessive excavation of the Musakhan
River (the main drain of this option) and excessive land acquisition. The
option selected is Option 3, together with the proposal to construct a new
canal connecting Musakhan to Narod Nadi designated as Option 5. This option
minimizes the excavation depth at Musakhan, it follows the existing drainage
pattern in respect of Musaklhn, Godai Nadi and Narod Nadi and it minimizes
Land acquisition. The proposed system also gives the minimum depth of water
in the project area in August, which is the peak period for high river stages
in Baranai River.
2.32    Roads to be improved and embankments to be paved were selected on the
basis of need for accessibility to construction sites and for use during the
operation and maintenance of the project. Roads and embankment pavement



-15-
would have a width of 2.4 m of herringbone brick paving, in accordance with
established local standards for rural roads.
2.33    Navigation within the project area is possible only during the wet
season.  This too is limited to the beel areas adjacent to the Baranai River.
Discussions with the GOB officials and beneficiaries of the project during
preparation and appraisal revealed that no adverse affects on navigation
within the project area would result after completion of the project
infrastructure. Road communications would improve as a result of the road
development program envisaged under the project and the provision of bridges,
culverts and foot bridges across reexcavated khals and new drainage canals.
Project facilities would not have any adverse affects on navigation and road
communication in the adjacent polders.
Land Acqusition
2.34    Land Acquisition would involve about 560 ha or 0.9% of a total gross
area of about 63,100 ha. Land base costs are estimated at Tk 200,000 per ha.
Belated land acquisition has been a major reason for delay in project
implementation. Early initiation of the land acquisition process would
contribute to minimizing delays in project effectiveness. Accordingly, land
acquisition plans were submitted by BWDB for land needed during the first
year construction program. Actual possession by BDB of that land would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. In order to further facilitate the land
acquisition process, the project would provide the necessary resources
(funds, equipment and means of transport) which BWDB would make available to
Deputy Commissioners and would ensure that such resources would be used
exclusively for undertaking project-related land acquisition activities.
Government assurances to that effect were obtained during negotiations.
Moreover, it was agreed that: (i) 25% of the total land acquisition funds
required for FCD IV which would cover the cost of land for the first two
years would be provided in the revised FY87 Annual Development Program (ADP),
and (ii) the remaining allocation for land acquisition would be provided as
follows: 50Z of the total funds in FY88 ADP and 25% in the FY89 ADP.
Operation and Maintenance (OEM)
2.35    The project would provide for the O&M of completed facilities during
the construction period as well as during two additional years .o complete
the project. The project would be considered completed when: (i) the neces-
sary measures are taken for ensuring that any deficiencies in design or
construction of project facilities would be identified and corrected; (ii)
O&M manuals acceptable to IDA are completed, and staff trained in their use;
and (iii) potential beneficiaries and local agencies serving farmers are well
informed on how project facilities could be taken advantage of in order to
improve production practices.
2.36    Operation of the project would involve: (i) regular inspections of
embankments and major drainage khals; and (ii) operation of regulating gates
and water control structures. Preventive maintenance would include routine
repairs to embankments (such as filling up runnels in slopes, low spots in
embankment, returfing, etc.), painting of gates, servicing of their lifting



-16-
mechanisms, minor repairs to gates, rubber seals and structures protection
works, removal of man-made constrictions such as fish fences in major khals
and repair of potholes in roads. Annual maintenance would involve clearing
of water hyacinth and desilting of khals, replacement of gates if needed and
repairs to regulators. Provision would also be made annually for repairs
resulting from flood damage, erosion of embankments by rivers and wave
actions. O&M duties would be the responsibility of BWDB's field division.
Preventive and annual maintenance works could be executed under the field
divisions' supervision through small contracts. Assurances were obtained
that Government would allocate the necessary funds to ensure proper operation
and maintenance of project facilities. Annual operation and maintenance
costs are estimated at about Tk 250/ha for flood control and drainage works.
E. Implementation Schedule
2.37    The disbursement profile for water projects in Bangladesh has been
nine years.  However, in view of the concrete measures agreed for this
project to avoid the 2-3 year delays in land acquisition that have occurred
in the past (para 2.34), the project period is estimated at seven years.
Preconstruction activities commenced in FY86 while the actual construction
would begin with embankment works in FY87.  Project construction works would
be completed in FY91 (Annex 5).  O&M of project facilities would begin as
required during the construction period and continue until the end of FY93,
with a progressively higher share of the funds required coming from BWDB's
revenue budget (para 3.12-f).
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND ACCOUNTS
A. Project Costs
3.01    Total project costs are estimated at Tk 929.0 million (US$27.5 mil-
lion) with a foreign exchange component of US$4.6 million or about 17Z of
total costs (Table 3.1). Estimates are based on mid-1986 contract prices.
The average cost of land in 1987 is estimated at Tk 200,000 (US$6,600) per
ha. The estimates of quantities provided in the feasibility reports were
verified with BWDB's field officers during appraisal. The estimates of
quantities of earthworks are based on cross sections and on longitudinal
profiles derived from surveys conducted during the preparation stage. Unit
cost estimates for embankments earthwork assume that bidding documents would
specify the requirement for controlled compaction and that B1DB would verify
that it is done before final payment is made to contractors. Costs of
hydraulic structures and bridges were estimated from type designs with foun-
dation conditions to be ascertained during preconstruction surveys and soil
investigations. The costs of engineering and administration activities are
estimated at 15% of the value of civil contracts, and 10% of the cost of
other items.
3.02     Project costs include US$0.8 million in taxes and duties.  Physical
contingencies (10Z of the base cost of civil works) amount to US$1.3 million
or about 5.8% of project base costs. Price contingencies amounting to US$3.8
million (16.9% of project base costs) are estimated on the basis of expected



-17-
rates for local and international inflation over a period of seven years as
projected by the Bank.l/ Detailed cost tables are given in Annex 6.
Table 3.1: Project Cost Estimates a/
Local   Foreign           Local  Foreign          Z Foreign
Cost    Exchanga  Total  Cost   Exchange  Total  Exchange
Tk Miilion-   -  -      US$ Million
Land Acquisition         112.0        -      112.0    3.7      -       3.7       -
Civil Works              327.8      59.6    387.4   10.8      2.0    12.8       1S
Surveys & Investi-
gations                   4.5        -       4.5    0.1       -       0.1       -
Equipment                 10.3      12.7      23.0    0.4     0.4      0.8      50
Engineering & Admin.      64.2        -       64.2    2.1      -       2.1       -
Technical Assistance
& Studies                14.4      12.6      27.0    0.4     0.5      0.9      56
Polders A, B and C        10.2       4.5      14.7    0.3     0.2      0.5      40
Design & Implementa-
tion Monitoring          13.3      13.7     27.0    0.4      0.5      0.9      56
Operation & Maint.        18.3        -       18.3    0.6      -       0.6       -
Physical Contin-
gencies                  32.6       6.0      38.6    1.1     0.2      1.3      15
Price Contin-
gencies                 172.2      40.1    212.3    3.0      0.8      3.8      21
Total Costs         779.8      149.2    929.0   22.9      4.6    27.5       17
a/  Differences between this table and the detailed cost tables in Annex 6
are due to rounding of numbers.
B. Project Financing
3.03    An IDA credit of SDR 16.6 million (about US$20.0 million) is proposed
to cover 75Z of project costs, excluding taxes and duties. The IDA credit
would include SDR 300,000 for retroactive finAncing. EEC would finance the
technical assistance and studies component. EEC's contribution would amount
to US$1.1 million or 4Z of project costs, net of taxes and duties. Govern-
ment would finance the balance of project costs US$6.40 million, including
taxes, duties and the cost of land through annual budget appropriations in
conformity with the project implementation schedule. Table 3.2 summarizes
the project financing plan by project component (details are given in Annex 7).
1/ Bank estimates of local inflation rates in August 1986 are: 9S for FY88,
and 8% thereafter. International rates of inflation are estimated at
6.8% for FY88, 7.0Z for FY89, 7.1Z for FY90 and 4.0% thereafter.



-18-
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
GOB      EEC        IDA        Total
Land Acquisition                       4.00        -          -         4.00
Civil Works                            1.60       -         14.94      16.54
Surveys and Investigations              -         -          0.16       0.16
Equipment                              0.40        -         0.50       0.90
Engin:-ering & Administration          0.10        -         2.36       2.46
Technical Assistance & Studies          -         1.10        -          1.10
Polders A, B and C                      -         -          0.54       0.54
Design & Implementation Monitoring      -          -         1.01        1.01
Operation and Maintenance              0.30        -         0.49        0.79
Total            6.40       1.10      20.00       27.50
C. Procurement
General
3.04    A review by IDA of procurement procedures in Bangladesh and discus-
sions during appraisal indicated that BWDB's procurement procedures generally
follow IDA guidelines. Deviations from these guidelines (Annex 8) were
discussed with Government and the understandings reached were reconfirmed
during negotiations.
Civil Works
3.05    Civil Works (US$16.00 million excluding taxes and duties) would not
be suitable for international bidding because the major portion of the works
is relatively small, labor-intensive, geographically scattered in areas with
difficult access, and spread over a period of five years. The works would,
therefore, be carried out under contracts let through standard local competi-
tive bidding procedures (LCB) (See Annex 8 for agreements reconfirmed at
negotiations in relation to GOB's LCB procedures). Contracts for earthwork
would be awarded in reaches, while each major structure would generally have
a separate contract. Contracts for structures would generally include con-
struction materials. Ho-wever, in cases where BWDB is in a better position
than contractors to procure and transport materials to construction sites on
time, it would supply contractors with construction materials procured under
LCB. In this case, the contracts for structures would exclude construction
materials that would be supplied by BWDB. When contractors are qualified,
BWDB would have the option of including in the civil works contracts the
fabrication and installation of gates, including the embedded parts. If
these have not been included, BUDB would award separate contracts under LCB
procedures to contractors specialized in this type of work or execute the
work on force account (FA) basis utilizing the services of their mechanical
engineering unit.



-19-
3.06    For civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$150,000
tender documents and bid evaluation would be sent to IDA for review before
contracts are awarded. This would involve about one third of expected
contracts and would capture about 80% of the value of civil works contracts.
For contracts estimated to cost US$150,000 or less, the tender documents and
bid evaluations should be retained by BWDB and made available to IDA repre-
sentatives upon request. FA work in respect of earthwork would be permitted
but is expected to be limited to O&M activities and would be restricted to
amounts under $5,000 equivalent for each individual case. FA work in respect
of fabrication and installation of gates including embedded parts would be
limited to $50,000 for each structure. The use of FA in civil works would be
limited to an aggregate amount of US$600,000.
Surveys and Investigation
3.07    Surveys and Investigation (US$160,000 excluding taxes and duties)
involve engineering surveys and foundation investigation for the embankment,
hydraulic structures, road and railway bridges and preparation of land
acquisition plans. These would be undertaken by contract under LCB or by
BWDB via FA.
Land Acquisition
3.08    The staff of BWDB and the Deputy Commissioner would be responsible
for the processing of land acquisition. The government would finance land
costs (US$4.00 million, excluding taxes and duties).
Equipment and Vehicles
3.09    Equipment and Vehicles (US$0.50 million excluding taxes and duties)
include construction equipment, transport vehicles, office and drawing equip-
ment and supplies, and workshop equipment. Spares amounting to approximately
152 of the value of equipment and vehicles would be procured along with the
equipment and vehicles. Table 3.3 specifies the method of procurement which
would be used in accordance with the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement Under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits". For procurement under
ICB, a preference limited to 15% of cif price or the prevailing customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evalua-
tion of bids. Bids will be considered separately for each schedule, but no
bid will be considered for only part of the items within a schedule or for
any lesser quantity of an item than that specified in the schedule. Small
off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 for each contract, which are
needed urgently, may be procured by prudent shopping after comparing bids
from at least three independent suppliers in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. Such procurement would not exceed a cumulative total of
US$150,000. Tender documents for procurement of equipment and vehicles and
advertising procedures would be reviewed by IDA before issuance by BIDB, and
bid evaluations would be reviewed by IDA before contracts are awarded.



-20-
Technical Assistance and Studies
3.10    Technical Assistance and studies (US$1.10 million, excluding taxes
and duties) would be financed by EEC.  Consultancy services for detailed
designs and implementation monitoring (US$1.01 million excluding taxes and
duties) would be financed by IDA. These services would be provided by a
local consulting firm with input from two internationally recruited
specialiets. Recruitment of these consultants would be in accordance with
principles .qnd procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by 'Iorld Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
as published by the Bank in August 1981.
Table 3.3.  Methods of Procurement
(USs Million)
Procurement Method /a
Project Component                       ICB        LCB      FA/Other    Total
Land Acquisition                        -           -         4.00       4.00
Civil Works                             -         15.64       0.90      16.54
-       (14.34)     (0.60)    (14.94)
Technical Assistance & Studies /b       -           -         1.10       1.10
Surveys and Investigation               -          0.04       0.12       0.16
-        (0.04)      (0.12)     (0.16)
Polders A, B and C                      -          0.54        -         0.54
-        (0.54)       -         (0.54)
Equipment                              0.40         -         0.50       0.90
(0.40)       -        (0.10)      (0.50)
Engineering and Administration          -           -         2.46       2.46
-          -        (2.36)      (2.36)
Design & Implementation Monitoring      -          1.01        -         1.01
-        (1.01)       -         (0.01)
Operation and4 Maintenance              -           -         0.79       0.79
-          -        (0.49)      (0.49)
0.40      17.23       9.87       27.50
(0.40)    (15.93)     (3.67)    (20.00)
a/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
bI  Financed by EEC.
D. Disbursement
3.11    The Disbursement of IDA funds would extend over the period of 1986 -
1995 in conformity with the disbursement profile for water projects in
Bangladesh. Disbursement would cover:
(a) 9OZ of expenditures on civil works, including construction
materials;



-21-
(b) 100X of the foreign expenditure on construction equipment, tran-
sport vehicles, hydrological or morphological equipment, and
office equipment;
(c) 1OOZ of the ex-factory price of equipment manufactured within the
country or 701 of local expenditures (off-the-shelf);
(d) 1OZ of foreign and local expenditures on surveys and investiga-
tion, studies and Technical Assistance for design and implementa-
tion monitoring;
(e) 95Z of expenditure on engineering and administration during the
construction period, which would be based on 15Z of the cost of
implemented civil works contracts and 1OX of the other costs; and
(f) 1002 of 0&M costs in FY89 and FY90, 80X in FY91, 602 in FY92 and
40% thereafter.
3.12    Full documentation would be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications except for items (e) and (f) above, for works executed under FA
and small civil works contracts costing less than the equivalent of US$20,000
each. For these items, applications would be supported by statements of
expenditures certified by the Chief Engineer and the Project Accountant. The
relevant documentation would be retained by BWDB at a central location and
made available for review by IDA representatives on request. In addition,
this documentation would be subject to audit.
3.13    The disbursement schedule (Annex 9) reflects the anticipated sequence
of activities in project implementation and is based on the assumption that
disbursements for work done in a quarter would be completed within the next
two quarters.
E. Acco'nts and Audits
3.14    BWDB would maintain adequace records to identify physical progress
and financial transactions relating to the project. Individually identifi-
able accounts would be kept for all expenditures for which credit withdrawals
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (para. 3.13).
Separate project accounts would be kept by BWDB. Auditors acceptable to IDA
would audit these accounts and statements of expenditures, where applicable.
Audited accounts, together with auditors' comments, would be sent to IDA
within nine months of the close of each fiscal year. At present, BUDB's
accounts are audited by the Controller and Auditor-General and by BUDB's
Internal Directorate of Audits. These arrangements are satisfactory to IDA.
F. Special Account
3.15    Project works would be carried out by a large number of small con-
tractors whose construction capability dependa heavily upon the speed at
which they receive progress payments, and by force account.  To facilitate
payments, to ensure availability of funds and to reduce the number of
withdrawal applications submitted to IDA, the Government would open and



-22-
thereafter maintain a Special Account in U.S. dollars with the Bangladesh
Bank in Dhaka. The initial deposit into the Special Account would be
US$0.4 million representing an estimated four month IDA financed expenditures
including those retroactively financed. The Special Account would be
replenished through reimbursements on a monthly basis and would be used
exclusively for IDA's share of financing.
IV. PROJECT MANACEMENT
4.01    BWDB would implement the project through the Project Management Unit
(PMU) established under the Third Flood Control and Drainage Project. PMU
in cooperation with their consultants would be specifically responsible for:
(i) assisting field divisions with planning the implementation of the
project. This will include the preparation of an implementation
schedule on the basis of SAB targets;
(ii) supervising consultants in charge of engineering surveys, founda-
tion investigations, detailed designs, construction monitoring,
and preparation of O&M and construction supervision manuals;
(iii) overseeing the preparation and processing of tender documents by
field Divisions and award of civil works contracts;
(iv) preparation and processing of tender documents (with assistance
from consultants) and the award of contracts for procurement of
equipment, vehicles and consultancy services for the studies
related to the Baranai project;
(v) monitoring progress in project implemenation on behalf of BIDB
management and timely reporting of any shortfalls in program
execution along with alternatives for making up such shortfalls;
(vi) seeking pazticipation by local government and farmer's repre-
sentatives to identify mutually acceptable solutions to local
problems hindering project implemenation;
(vii) overseeing project accounts;
(viii) ensuring timely submission to IDA of disbursement requests;
(ix) monitoring the allocation of funds among categories of expendi-
tures; and
(x) overseeing the adherence to design specifications and accepted
standards of quality in the work carried out by field Divisions.
PMU's implementation monitoring function will be based on frequent visits to
work sites and on exchange cf views with the field Executive Engineer in
charge and his staff, followed by a briefing of the field Superintending and
the Chief Engineers concerned. Local Government officials and farmers'



-23-
representatives will be briefed and their views will be sought during
quarterly meetings. Findings of quarterly meetings will be submitted in
writing to BMDB's Chairman and Board members, to concerned Ministries and
agencies, as well as to IDA for information and possible follow-up action.
4.02    PHU would be supported by a local consulting firm assisted by two
internationally recruited specialists in the fields of design, hydrology and
construction (Annex 2-A). This firm would be responsible for:
(i) assisting PNU in planning the implementation of the project;
(ii) supervising the necessary surveys and engineering investigations
and preparing detailed designs;
(iii) preparing and processing tender documents for equipment and
overseeing the award of contracts for civil works, studies and
equipment;
(iv) monitoring progress in the construction program;
(v) quality control; and
(vi) preparation of an O&N manual.
4.03    At the field level, an Executive Engineer, under the supervision of
the zonal Chief Engineer and the Superintending Engineer would be made
responsible for the daily conduct of construction and O&M activities in the
project area: organizing and supervising the surveys and investigations
necessary for land acquisition; cooperating with District Land Acquisition
Officers to arrange for verification of land acquisition plans; preparation
of tender documents; selection of contractors and award of contracts; supply
of construction materials and equipment when needed; construction supervision
and quality control; implementation of works under force account; and
accounting and detailed financial control. The Executive Engineer would
supervise three Sub-divisional Engineers (two for construction supervision
and one for procurement and contracts), and a revenue officer for land
acquisition activities (Chart 1).
4.04    Given the short construction season in Bangladesh (about six months),
efficient project implementation would depend heavily on proper scheduling
and timely execution of complementary and interdependent activities.
Critical activities requiring advance planning include:
(i) staffing and allocation of responsibilities among PNU
staff, BIDB field division and the consultants;
(ii) scheduling of project activities on the basis of
consultations between PMU, its consultants, field
division and local authorities;
(iii) scheduling of surveys and studies; topography, soil, sub-soil
and groundwater investigations, benchmark survey, location



-24-
and alignment of project works including resolution of possible
conflicts between project requirements and local private
or public interests, agricultural and fisheries studies;
(iv) land acquisition: preparation of plans, field verification,
placement of funds, transfer of titles and compensation
of previous owners;
(v) proper scheduling of procurement and design activities; and
(vi) continuous monitoring to ensure timely implementation, to
verify the suitability of facilities to local needs, and to
provide a basis for modification, repair or upgrading of
facilities if found defective.
4.05    In order to manage these activities, PHU would require timely infor-
mation on progress in the implementation of various tasks. Resources are
provided under this project and under FCD III to ensure that PHU has adequate
means to perform its functions. An annual work program would define work
targets and allocate the necessary resources to achieve such targets during
the year. Monthly, quarterly and annual progress reports would be submitted
to the Project Manager who would forward them to BIDB's Chairman, Board
Members and IDA. These reports would serve as a basis for monitoring
progress in project implementation and undertakin, corrective actions, if and
when found necessary.  To that end, the Project Manager would be responsible
for identifying and highlighting, in writing, any issues in progress reports
which PMU could not address within its own administrative jurisdiction, and,
in consultation with field staff and/or local officials, he would be respon-
sible for suggesting alternative courses of action. If a problem remained
unresolved for three months, the Project Manager would write a special report
to BWDB's Chairman, copied to IDA, suggesting ways to avoid a stalemate, and
measures to be taken, including, if necessary, drastic actions such as
rescheduling of project activities or changes in project design. PMU would
prepare an annual work program, monitor its implementation and report in
writing to BWDB Chairman and IDA on problems encountered and on progress
made. Assurances were obtained that PMU would submit a work program to IDA
no later than September 30, of each year to allow discussions prior to the
start of the construction season.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARM BUDGET ANALYSIS
A. Production
5.01    The prcject covers a net cultivable area of 48,300 ha located in
shallow (0.3-0.9m) and medium (0.9-1.5m) flooded zones. Crop production,
cropping practices and cropping intensity vary in relation to the level of
flooding and the degree of drainage congestion. Without the project, the
confinement effect due to flood control and drainage improvement measures in
adjacent areas would extend floods to presently flood-free areas and would
increase the level of flooding in presently flooded areas. With the project,
the proposed facilities would mitigate the flooding and drainage losses



-25-
substantially, although about 13X of the area would continue to be affected
by shallow flooding conditions. The incremental crop production due to the
project would be the result of a decline in water related crop losses, and
changes in agricultural practices (cropping pattern, cropping intensity,
production practices and input use) as a result of the more favorable produc-
tion envirotment, using presently available technological practices and
agricultural services. Optimum utilization of the improved agricultural
conditions to be promoted by the project would be contingent upon the
implementation of the crop, fisheries and livestock development program to be
prepared under the project (para 2.21).
Cropping Practices
5.02    Cropping practices in the Baranai area have been conditioned by the
water regime based on excess water during June to August and shortage in
November through March. A typical crop calendar is given in Annex 10. The
principal crop season starts in March with land preparation for broadcast
aus, aman and jute. Draft animals provide sole power for land preparation,
cultivation, threshing and transport. Inputs-seed, fertili7:.r, plant
protection-are used with widely variable degree of effectiv_ess.  The only
mechanized crop is sugarcane for which services are provided by sugar
refineries. Given the present underground water extraction rate and the high
density of shallow tubewells in the project area, no further development of
groundwater resources would be expected, but an increase in the use of
supplementary irrigation would be made possible through water storage in
reexcavated drainage canals. Therefore, changes in cropping practices,
attributable to the project, would be confined largely to shifts from broad-
cast to transplanted paddy. Further improvements required for integration
and intensification of crop, fisheries and livestock production would be
identified under the agricultural development program being prepared for the
project and arrangements would be subsequently made for their introduction in
the project area.
Cropping Intensity
5.03    The present cropping intensity in the project area is 144Z compared
to about 150% in Bangladesh as a wbole. The overriding constraints to
increasing cropping intensity relate to excess water inundating saucer-like
depressions and long dry spells. Paddy is the predominant crop in both the
shallow and medium flooded areas occupying 59Z and 76% of cropped areas
respectively. The average cropping intensity in the medium flooded compart-
ments is 131%. In the shallow flooded areas, the cropping intensity reaches
148Z. Without the project, the confinement effect, resulting from completion
of embankments of other polders along the Atrai River, would lead to a rise
in the water level in the project area resulting in a decrease in cropping
intensities in both the shallow and medium flooded compartments to 137% and
119% respectively. With the construction of the flood control structures and
improved drainage, inundation levels are estimated to decrease in the range
of 0.3 m to 0.9 m. As a result, the average cropping intensity for the
entire project area would reach 150%.



-26-
Crop Damages
5.04    About 84% of the shallow and 36% of the medium flooded compartments
are categorized as non-flooded areas. However drainage congestion is
pronounced over the whole area and affects agricultural production. Table
5.1 suimmarizes the distribution of flood-free areas under the present and
future without and with project conditions. Aus and broadcast aman are the
most vulnerable paddy crops sustaining high levels of damage. In 1971 (a
year with severe floods), about 18% of aus and 48Z of broadcast aman outputs
were lost. In the subsequent years, losses due to floods varied from 1 to
15% (except in 1980 for aus where the loss amounted to 21%), of total produc-
tion in the district. Actual crop damages between 1971 and 1982 in Rajshahi
District due to flooding and drainage congestion are presented in Annex 10.
While a large proportion of crop losses can be attributed to high water
levels, shortage of water for supplemental irrigation of transplanted aman
also depresses crop yields. The proposed project would meet the need for
crop protection against floods and drainage congestion, as well as for
conserving surface water in drainage canals for supplemental irrigation.
Table 5.1 Distrib.ution of Flood Free Areas (Ha) 1/
Flood Zone         Present (Z) 2/   Without (Z) 2/   With   (Z) 2/
Shallow            31864   (84)      26807   (71)      35669  (95)
Medium               3805   (36)      2520   (24)       6444  (61)
Total         35669   (74)      29327   (61)      52113  (87)
1/ According to field observations and topographic information, the actual
inundated areas are underestimated since many isolated depressions in
relatively higher areas are badly drained and experience flooding during
the monsoon.
2/ Percent in the respective zone and total project.
Crop Yield and Production
5.05    Average paddy yields in the project area are higher for the local
paddy varieties and lower for the high yielding varieties than average yields
for the country as a whole. The relatively low yields attained in the
project area reflect limited appl _ation of technological inputs due to
unfavorable cropping conditions. Expected increases in crop yields resulting
from the project are shown in Annex 10. These increases over the project
development period would range from 200-7G0 kg per ha (10 to 20%), depending
on the season. T. aman yield would increase from 2.9 to 3.5 ton per ha and
boro (HYV) would reach 4 ton per ha from the current yield level of 3.3 ton
per ha. Yield increases are phased over six years following completion of
project works in a given drainage compartment. These increases would result
from improvement in flood and drainage conditions, a more widespread use of
improved agricultural practices, already in use in flood-free areas, and
supplementary irrigation. Yield increases recorded in the on-going Drainage
and Flood Control I and II project areas demonstrate the attainability of the
projected crop yields under the project. As a result, crop production in the



-27-
project area would increase as indicated in Table 5.2. The distribution of
output between the shallow and medium flood zones with and without project is
given in Annex 10.
Table 5.2 Crop Production
(Tons)
Present   Without Project   With Project   Incremental
(i)   (ii)     (iii)        (iii   I i
Paddy                  81,700         78,200          101,300         23,100
Wheat                   14,400        15,200           18,600           3,400
Jute                    2,800          2,100            5,200          3,100
Sugarcane             388,000        265,300          456,900        191,600
Pulses                  4,800          4,800            5,400            600
By Products 1/        159,500        145,300          191,900         46,600
1/ Include paddy and wheat straw and sugarcane tops.
Input Requirements
5.06    Improvement in the production environmer'. would lead to increased
demand for fertilizer, labor and bullock power (Table 5.3). Paddy seed
requirements in volume terms would decline due to shifts to HYV varieties
having seeding rates lower than traditional varieties.
Table 5.3 Input Requirements
Fertilizer          Unit           Present    Without      With    Incremental
(i)       (ii)       ( iii)    (iii-ii
Urea                ton              1900       1586       3130       1944
TSP                  it              1106        845       1765        920
MP                   "                536        432        995        563
Hired Labor   ('000 man days)        6793       5595       7979       2384
Bullock       ('000 pair days)        418        384        484        100
Short term credit to finance incremental input requirements (fertilizer, seed
and hired labor) would be made available through existing agricultural credit
arrangements for which IDA has been providing support under credit and rural
development projects.
B. Marketing and Prices
5.07    Adequate marketing channels, storage and processing facilities are
available to meet the requirement of the project area. In 1984, the project
area population was estimated at 410,000 people of which 83X are rural. With
the present population, the project area is not self-sufficient in foodgrain.
Per capita foodgrain (rice, wheat) availability is about 135 kg compared to
the national per capita consumption of 168 Kg. Despite the increase in total



-28-
production expected from the project, at full development (1998) per capita
foodgrain availability would decline to about 120 kg, assuming a population
growth rate of 2.42 and assuming no further development programs. Therefore
the incremental food production would likely be consumed in the project area,
supplementing transfers from other surplus producing regions pending the
implementation of follow-up development programs aimed at intensification of
agriculture.
Marketing Channels
5.08    The primary marketing chAnnel for paddy is the private trader.
Farmers often transport their produce to established marketing centers or
directly to millers. Government procurement program provides an alternative
marketing outlet for paddy and wheat. However, because government procure-
ment prices tend to be lower than open market prices, only a small share of
farmers' marketable surplus passes through government procurement agencies.
For sugarcane, the sugar mills have established purchasing centers fir
farmers to deliver their produce. Similarly jute mills in Rajshahi district
have mobile collection centers competing with private dealers.
Storage and Processing
5.09    Storage capacity in the project area is adequate to absorb the
incremental production. Large scale storage with a capacity of 9600 tons for
paddy and wheat is available throughout the project area. Existing milling
and processing facilities in the project area have excess capacity. There
are three sugar refineries with a capacity of 45,000 tons of sugar per year
and a jute mill with a capacity of 800,000 tons per year. Rice mills are
scattered all over the project area.
Agricultural Prices
5.10    GOB recognizes agricultural commodity and input pricing as an instru-
ment for stimulating production. Guaranteed support prices have been in
existence for paddy, wheat and sugarcane. GOB sets agricultural prices
annually for these comodities and for inputs. The official government
procurement price for paddy is based on production cost plus an allowance of
20% of production cost for farmers' return to management and nominal tran-
sport charges. Support prices tends to be lower than open market prices.
Moreover, in relation to paddy, farmgate prices set by the government for
local and HYV paddy varieties do not vary sufficiently to reflect differences
in their respective costs of production. Nevertheless, compared to other
countries in South Asia, the food grain/fertilizer price ratio in Bangladesh
is highly favorable, even for the high production cost crops like tran-
splanted aman and boro.  Agricultural inputs-seeds seeds, fertilizer, water
and irrigation equipment-are subsidized.  GOB's policy has been to reduce
input subsidies. Fertilizer subsidies have been reduced from about 70% in
the early 1970's to 13Z in 1984. HYV paddy seeds are also subsidized to the
extent of 16 to 26% of present cost of production. However, since BADC
supplies less than lOZ of paddy seed requirements, subsidies are not substan-
tial. Both rental and sales of minor irrigation equipment have been highly



-29-
subsidized. However, since 1981 COB has been reducing the subsidy with a
view to reach full cost pricing.
C. Farm Budget Analysis
5.11    To illustrate the returns to farmers in the project area attributable
to the project, two representative farm models have been analyzed. These 1.4
ha owner operator farms (the predominant form of land tenure) have been
selected on the basis of their topography and associated flood depth - shal-
low and medium.  The results of the farm budget analysis are summarized in
Table 5.4. Details of the farm budgets are presented in Annex 10.
Table 5.4 Estimated Farm Income
(Tk.)
Without     With
Present               Project   Incremental
-i)        (ii                 (iii-ii)  X
Shallow Flooded Zone
Net Cash Farm Income             13,360     12,070    16,620      4,550    38
Per Capita
Per Family Member 1/            2,230      2,01G      2,770       760    38
Per Agric. Employed 2/          8,910      8,050    11,080      3,030    38
Per Agric. Employed (Daily)        99         89        123        34    38
Medium Flooded Zone
Net Cash Farm Income             11,950     10,880    15,560      4,680    43
Per Capita
Per Family Member 1/            1,990      1,810      2,590       780    43
Per Agric. Employed 2/          7,970      7,250    10,370      3,120    43
Per Agric. Employed (Daily)        88         81        115        34    43
1, Average family size of 6.
2/ Equivalent of 1.5 family members fully employed in the family farm.
The above estimated income for present and future scenarios demonstrate the
positive financial impact of the project on the beneficiaries. The rela-
tively higher income in tte shallow flood zone is attributable to future
availability of larger (95Z) flood free areas than for the melium flood zone
(only 60Z). According to National Statistics (Bangladesh Bureau of Statis-
tics), about 40% of the on-farm labor requirements are met by family labor.
On that basis, average daily income would increase by 37% for farmers in the
shallow flood zone and 43Z in the medium flood zone. As a result, income per
family labor employed at full development would be about six times the
present average daily wage rate in agriculture. If the farmer is an owner
cum tenant in equal ratio, under the current landlord-tenant rental terms,
50% of the gross income is paid to the landlord and the tenant absorbs 100%
of the operating cost. Under these terms, the net cash income for an owner
cum tenant farm household would be 60Z of that of an owner cultivator, and
daily income to fully employed members would be over three times the present
agricultural wage rate.



-30-
D. Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
5.12    Cost recovery from the beneficiaries of flood control and drainage
works is a complex issue. As in many countries, protection against flooding
in Bangladesh is considered to be Government's responsibility, and the
accepted view is that beneficiaries should not be directly charged.
Moreover, benefits from flood control and drainage work vary from one plot to
another, depending upon the topography. In the case of some high land
owners, the benefits can actually be questionable. Unless cost recovery is
done through a land productivity-based system, it appears very difficult to
design an equitable system of direct cost recovery. GOB's current view,
which is accepted by IDA, is that cost recovery on drainage and flood control
projects is not feasible at this stage.
5.13    The project's fiscal impact stems from the required government
budetary appropriations for: (i) GOB's share of the project cost; and (ii)
the cost of the annual operation and maintenance of project works. The
present value of these government expenditures discounted at 12Z over the
life of the project is estimated at US$5.4 million. GOB is expected to
terminate the fertilizer economic subsidy in 1986 as planned. GOB may also
introduce project cost recovery mechanisms following the implementation of
the crop, livestock and fisheries development program to be prepared under
the project.
VI. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC JUJSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
6.01    The proposed project would promote increased agricultural production
and income and would generate employment in line with stated development
objc_cives in Bangladesh. It should be recognized, however, that while FCD
projects create some of the necessary conditions for intensive agricultural
development, optimum utilization of the improved agricultural environment
would require integration of crop, livestock and fisheries activities, com-
plementary agricultural inputs and services, and timely and adequate opera-
tion and maintenance of project facilities. About 50Z of the project
beneficiaries fall under the relative poverty income threshold for the rural
poor, estimated at 40Z of per capita GNP. With the project, assuming con-
stant returns to scale, the proportion of total net benefits accruing to
those farmers currently below the relative poverty income level would remain
constant, but the actual benefits they would receive would increase by 26Z in
absolute terms. The project would contribute towards alleviation of rural
poverty through increased income for owners-cultivators and the creation of
employment opportunities for the landless. The project's incremental output
would also generate net foreign exchange savings for the economy.



-31-
Foreign Exchange Impact
6.02    Incremental output of paddy, wheat and sugarcane would substitute for
imports, while jute would generate direct foreign exchange earnings. The
incremental output from the project area would generate a net present value
of direct and indirect foreign exchange earnings/savings equivalent to about
US$6.0 million assuming a discount rate of 12%.
Employment Impact
6.03    The project would generate employment opportunities during implemen-
tation and as a result of increased on-farm labor requirements. About 2.4
million mandays of additional on-farm employment would be generated (Annex
10). In addition to increased on-farm labor requirements, the project would
provide employment opportunities equivalent to about 9.6 million mandays for
construction of project facilities and would require an estimated 2200
laborers (for five months) per annum, for operation and maintenance of such
facilities.
Project Beneficiaries
6.04    About 34,500 farm families would directly benefit from the project.
Land tenure structure in the project is skewed, with 77% of farm households
owning only 46% of the project area, with average holdings of less than 2.0 ha.
While the project does not create income-generating opportunities specifi-
cally for the landless, it would nevertheless create employment opportunities
in project implementation, operation and maintenance and on-farm activities
which would benefit the landless. The project would, however, negatively
affect those earning part of their income from natural fisheries. Alterna-
tive mechanisms to develop fisheries in the project area would be identified
in the context of the crop, fisheries and livestock development program
provided for under this project. Despite the overall positive impact of the
project on income across all sections of the population affected, the dis-
tribution of benefits among rural households would be influenced by relative
access to land and the size of holdings. The existing income gap between
small and larger land holders and between the landless and landowners would,
thus, remain.
Project Externality
6.05    While FCD projects create improved conditions for intensive agricul-
tural development, some negative consequences are likely to emerge. The
primary externality would be in the form of losses in production from natural
fisheries. Fish culture within the project area is mainly practised in
ponds, which are in a derelict stage and overgrown with weeds, and in the
beels, which during the wet season cover an area of 15,000 ha and during the
dry season cover an area of 2,500 ha. The estimated production loss during
the monsoons is 17G tons and during the dry season 70 tons. The loss during
the monsoons could be controlled through proper design of regulators to allow
for fish migration from the Baranai River. Appropriate regulator gate opera-
tional methods would be adopted. The implementation Consultants would be



-32-
made responsible for the preparation of appropriate gate designs and opera-
tional system. The fisheries development study proposed to be done under the
Credit would include the collection of data on condition of existing ponds
and would provide recommendations for increase in fish production both in
ponds and beels.  With the introduction of these measures, no negative
environmental ccnsequences can be foreseen as a result of the Project.
B. Economic Analysis
6.06    The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project to the economy of
Bangladesh is estimated at 18%. At full development the annual net
incremental benefit is about US$4.7 million. The net present value (NPV) of
incremental benefits over the life of the project discounted at 12% (the
opportunity cost of capital) is about US$6.0 million.
6.07    The following key assumptions and parameters were used in estimating
the ERR and NPV:
(a) Investment Cost. The total project cost in constant FY86 terms
is Tk 20,000 per ha of net cultivable area. To reflect the real
resource cost of the project, transfer payments within the
economy (cost of land acquisition, taxes and duties), and price
contingencies were excluded. Local costs were further adjusted
by a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8 applicable to
Bangladesh. With these adjustments, the average economic invest-
ment cost is Tk 9,500 per ha.
(b) Operation and Maintenance costs per ha are based on the prevail-
ing rates in Bangladesh. At full development the estimated
financial O&M cost is Tk 250 per ha. To derive the economic O&M
cost, about 60% of O&M cost, constituting the labor component, is
adjusted by the labor conversion factor of 0.75, reflecting the
degree of unemployment in rural areas, and the balance by the SCF
of 0.8.
(c) Project Execution. Pre-construction activities would start in
FY86. Construction activities would commence in FY87 and wculd
be completed in FY91. The completion schedule for work-. in
various drainage compartments is given in Annex 11.  isne overall
project has an estimated life of 25 years.
(d) Agricultural Development. The critical variables affecting the
project's viability are cropping intensity, cropping pattern and
crop yields. The projections made are discussed in Chapter V
and the coefficients used are presented in Annex 11.
(e) Input-Output Prices. All tradeable inputs and outputs are valued
at border prices based on the Bank's August 1986 comodity price
forecasts. The non-tradeable items are converted into border
price equivalent using the standard conversion factor and
specific conversion factors. Details on financial and economic
prices used in the project anAlysis are presented in Annex 11.



-33-
(f) The project economic analysis did not include an assessment of
the potential impact on the project of floods with recurrence
period over 20 years, because no statistical basis exists for
predicting such floods.
6.08    Detailed economic cash flow is presented in Annex 11 along with
Charts A and B which plot the present values and undiscounted values respec-
tively of incremental benefits and costs. The project's ERR is in line with
the expected returns from FCD type projects and compares favorably with the
)RR estimated for the Naogoan FCD subproject in the same Region financed
under FCD III Project.
C.  Sensitivity Analysis and Risk
6.09    To test the Project's resilience to possible changes in the critical
variables, a series of sensitivity tests has been conducted. The sensitivity
analysis indices, given in Table 6.1, indicate the percentage change from the
appraisal values to generate an ERR of 12% (opportunity cost of capital).
Chart C in Annex 11 illustrates the locus of benefit cost switching values at
the opportunity cost of capital.
Table 6.1 Sensitivity Analysis Indices
Appraisal Value     Switching Value
Index                Index
Incremental Cost                               100                   145
Incremental Benefits                           100                    80
Without Project Cropping Intensity              100                  107
With Project Cropping Intensity                100                    91
Paddy Yields (Incremental)                     100                    30
Paddy Price                                    100                    50
Lagging Start of Incremental Benefits         FY89                  FY91
6.10    The above results conclusively demonstrate the project's resilience
to changes in the critical parameters. It is very unlikely for .he project
to face a cost overrun in excess of 45%, even with possible delays in
implementation. Similarly, the assumed changes in crop yield, ctopping
intensity and cropping pattern are based on experience with similar FCD
projects which makes unlikely a 20% reduction in incremental benefits. The
project's economic viability also withstands the unlikely event of both the
without and the with project intensities remaining constant as at present.
In the without project situation (para 5.03) flooded areas and flood depth
would increase which would negatively affect the cropping intensity. In the
with project situation the cropping intensity would increase following
implementation of flood prevention meAsures and drainage improvements as
evidenced in similar FCD projects. Because of the importance of prices in
estimating incremental benefits, the project is also tested for sensitivity
to changes in the price of paddy. Between 1970 and 1985 the international
price of rice in constant 1985 dollars declined at the rate of 4% per annum.
However the latest commodity price projections assume 0.8% annual increase in



-34-
real terms between 1986 and 2000. The sensitivity analysis shows that a fall
in the real price of rice by 50% would be required to depress the ERR to 12%.
Finally, the project remains viable even with a lag of two years in the
stream of incremental benefits and production costs.
6.11    A possible risk for the project is a potential conflict among
beneficiaries occupying lowland and highland areas and those adjacent to the
river. Such a conflict could arise from competition among interest groups to
operate flood gates to maximize their own benefits, possibly at the expense
of others. Under extreme circumstances, some beneficiaries may even resort
to breaching embankments to protect their individual interests. Such events
can only be averted by the beneficiaries themselves through active participa-
tion in the operation of the facilities with strong technical backing by
BWDB. Consultations with local of icials and intended beneficiaries during
project preparation and appraisal have enhanced the understanding of the
project concept and objectives, and promoted commitment, at the local level,
to successful implementation and operation of the project. Beneficiary
participation would also be encouraged during detailed survey and design.
IDA has also recently completed a review of various aspects of O&M of water
resource projects in Bangladesh and is discussing with Government issues of
local participation in planning and implementing O&M activities in water
projects.
6.12    In the event project implementation could be completed in five years
instead of seven, project costs would be reduced by 10% or from US!27.5
million to US$25.0 million. While contributions from IDA, UNDP and GOB would
be lowered accordingly, GOB's annual budgetary allocation for the project
would double during the first two years of project implementation. Although
higher investment costs would be incurred earlier, faster completion of
project works would also accelerate the flow of benefits and would increase
the ERR form 18% to 19%.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01    Credit effectiveness would follow:
(i) Possession by BWDB of the land needed for the first
year construction program (para 2.34);
(ii) Approval of the Project Proforma by GOB; and
(iii) Signing of the EEC Grant Agreement.
7.02    In addition, the following assurances were obtained during
aegotiations:
(i) Consultants would be appointed no later than July 31, 1987
to assist PMU with design and construction monitoring
(para 2.12);
(ii) Consultants would be appointed no later than July 31, 1987
for undertaking the benchmark survey (para 2.19);



-35-
(iii) Consultants would be appointed no later than June 30, 1988
to prepare a program for rehabilitation of Polders A, B and C
(para 2.20);
(iv) Appointment of consultants to prepare programs for
intensification of crop, livestock and fish production
would be no later than June 30, 1989 (para 2.21);
(v) PNU would submit a special report on the embankment preventive
maintenance pilot program at the end of each construction
season, starting with the fourth project year (para 2.27);
(vi) BWDB would make available to Deputy Commissioners the necessary
resources (funds, equipment, transport) for undertaking land
acquisition related activities and would ensure that such
resources be used exclusively for that purpose (para. 2.34);
(vii) Government would allocate the necessary funds to ensure proper
operation and maintenance of project facilities (para 2.36);
and
(viii) PMU would submit a work program to IDA no later than September
30 of each year to allow discussions prior to the start of
the construction season (para. 4.05).



-36-                       Annex I
BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
CRITERIA FOR PROJECT SELECTION
1.  The total irrigation investm*nt per net ha shall not
exceed US$620 (at 1980 prices); the per ha drainage and
flood control investment shall not exceed UR$500 (at 1980
Prices) including cost of land acquisition;
2. Each sub-project shall be at least 8,000 ha net;
3. In this early phase of the program, drainage is to be by
gravity or tidal outlet;
4. The project will be primarily located in shallow flooded
areas. Along 80Z of the length of the embankment
alignment, the normal flood depth shall not be in excess
of 1.4 m and along the remaining 20% not in excess of 1.8
m. Submersible embankments should also be given
consideration in areas such as Sylhet;
5. Beneficiaries should indicated support for the project.
6. The embankments shall give protection against 20 years
floods, depending on the location, and against 100 years
floods if significant loss of life may occur;
7. Due consideration given to the potential effect of proposed
improvements on flood conditions in adjacent area, on
navigation and on existing fisheries.
8. Each sub-project shall be self contained even if such a
project is a phase of an envisaged bigger project.
9. The construction of project works shall, if possible, be by
labor intensive methods and by utilizing as far as possible,
indigenous materials, consistent with sound engineering
practices; and
10. The economic rate of return shall not be less tnan 15X for
flood control and drainage works and not less than 20X when
irrigation development is added.



-37-
Annez 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A. CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR DETAILED DESIGNS AND IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING
1.      The consultancy services would include a careful review of project
documents (appraisal report, PP, feasibility reports) and field visits for
familiarization with investigations done and data collected during project
preparation. The consultants would be responsible for:
(i)  review of survey work and investigations carried out by BIDB
along with field checks to ascertain the accuracy of the results
reported;
(ii) reevaluate the hydraulic capacities of drainage str-ctures and
drainage canals and the design levels on the basis of updated
hydrological and morphological data and the results of the
simulation model of Atrai River basin (if available);
(iii) assist as required the Roads and Highway Department and the
Bangladesh Railvay authorities in the planning, design and
construction of the Highway Bridge and the 4 railway bridges;
2.      Following the review and discussions with relevant agencies, includ-
ing the Highway and Railvay authorities, detailed work program and schedules
for additional survey work and foundation investigations would be prepared.
These would include, but not limited to:
(a)  longitudinal profiles of the natural ground along the proposed
routes of the embankments and drainage canals;
(b)  cross-sections and longitudinal profiles of outfall channels if
needed; and
(c)  geo-technical and detailed topographical surveys and location of
the structures including the Highway and Railway bridges.
3.      Subsequently, Consultants would prepare detailed engineering docu-
mnts.  This task would consist of:
(a) checking and finalizing location of the structures viz drainage
regulators, water control structures, irrigation inlets,
bridges, etc.;



-38-
Annex 2
Page 2
(b)  preparation of the layout of the embankment, structures, etc.,
including the land acquisition plans acceptable to the Deputy
Comissioners;
(c)  establishing civil engineering design criteria with due atten-
tion to appropriate technology taking into account prevailing
conditions in Bangladesh;
(d) designing and preparation of detailed drawing for structures.
The drawings should be to acceptable standards and detailed
enough to permit construction without the need of detailing in
the field. Special attention would be paid to the design of
flapgates including anchoring arrangements and the design and
fabrication of vertical gates and lifting arrangements to avoid
eccentricity during lifting operations and to ensure a
reasonable degree of water tightness.
(e)  preparation of detailed technical specifications, bill of quan-
tities and the schedule of rates;
f) preparation of the tender documents for civil works, equipment
and vehicles and assistance in the evaluation of bids for
procurement of equipment and vehicles;
(g) preparation of a detailed manual on operation and maintenance
and a simplified standing order for operation of gates for use
by gate operators;
4.      During construction of project infrastructure, the services to be
performed would include:
(a) preparation of a proposal for ensuring effective supervision
during implementation, proposal would specify responsibilities
of BDB (PKU and field divisions) staff, those of consultants'
staff in relation to quality control, responsibility during
setting out, driving of sheet piles, erecting framework, fixing
reinforcements, concreting, backfilling behind protection works,
installation of embedded parts, fixing of rubber seals in verti-
cal and flap gates and the installation of gates;
(b) detailing the records to be maintained at sites and monitoring
of such records;
(c) assisting PHU in the preparation of work programs (to serve as a
basis for project allowance in the annual development program)
in conformity with targets established in the project implemen-
tation schedule and the approved project proforma (PP). The
approved work program should also reflect availability of ADP
resources, progress in pre-construction activities such as land



-39-
Annex 2
Page 3
acquisition, engineering surveys and foundation investigations,
detailed designs and drawings, award of contracts and procure-
ment of equipment and materials;
(d) ensuring the availability of reference points for control of
alignment and levels.  Quality control would be assured by
enforcing construction procedures and inspection standards which
would be watched by BWDB staff; and
(e) identification of low pockets with impeded or no drainage
facilities and provision of drainage canals and/or regulators
for effective drainage of such low pockets.
5.      BWDB, through PMU, would provide the following services:
(a) all available data, contour maps, mouza maps, aerial
photographs, previous reports, and all such relevant materials;
(b) hydrological and morphological data on the Atrai River and its
tributarics, the results of the simulation model of the Atrai
River basin (if completed) and the rainfall data;
kc) standard design manuals and type plans for hydraulic and other
civil engineering structures and buildings;
(d) strengthening of the PMU with additional staff composed of one
deputy director, adequate support staff to ensure timely
approval of the designs and drawings and to keep to the agreed
and approved work program;
(e) BWDB's specialized teams would carry out the topographical
surveys and foundation investigations required for detailed
designs. If BWDB's services are not available, tia surveys and
investigations would be carried oat under contract awarded
according to LCB procedures;
(f) transport for specialist consultant staff: As a minimum, two
four-wheel drive vehicles and one car provided under the IDA
credit would be allocated. If the vehicles are not available
for allccation at the time of award, the consultants would be
permitted to rent one four-wheel drive vehicle for which a
provisional rental rate should be included in the financial
proposal;
(g)  adequate office accommodation, office and drawing office accom-
modation and residential accommodation, for the internation-
ally-recruited staff would be the responsibility of the consult-
ant.



-40-
Annex 2
Page 4
6.      The duration of the consultancy services would be 60 months.  It is
estimated that during this period, 30 man-months of internationally-recruited
staff, 156 man-months of local consultant staff and 120 man-months of support
staff (accountants, secretaries, clerks and drivera) would be required. In
addition, a senior design engineer, a senior planning engineer and 2 junior
planning and design engineers from PKU would be assigned to work with the
consultants' team on a full-time basis.
Category                      Experience                    Man-Months
I. LOCAL EXPERTS
Senior Professionals:
Team Leader           Extensive technical and managerial          60
experience in Flood Control, Drainage
and Irrigation Projects
Two Design            Experience in comprehensive planning        60
Engineers            of river basins and !xtensive expe-
rience in designs of hydraulic struc-
tures and drainage systems
Programning and       Extensive experience in construction        24
Construction          and knowledge of computers for
Monitoring Engineer   monitoring project implementation.
Mechanical Engineer   Experience in the design of gates for        12
hydraulic structures and installation
of these gates
156
II. INTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED
Associate Team        Extensive experience (preferably under      30
Leader                Asian conditions specifically Bangla-
desh) in the management of Flood Control,
Drainage and Irrigation projects, and
be capable of giving advice and guidance
to the local design engineers and the
monitoring engineer. Also have adequate
experience in operation and maintenance
30
7. The consultant would keep PMU informed on progress in project implementa-
tion, including any problems which may cause delay and alternate ways to
address them. In particular, they would submit:



-41-
Annex 2
Page 5
(a) an inception report, three months following the projects start-
ing date. This report would include a detailed work plan
(nature and sequence of operations and the parties responsible
for their implementation) a review of the preconstruction works
completed and any need for complementary or corrective measures,
a statement of expenditure eligible for retroactive financing, a
review of the feasibility report, with specific comients of
design criteria adopted, hydraulic calculations for determining
ventage of and design levels of regulators, with available
hydrological data, an assessment of the resources required and
recommendations for mobilizing such resources, specifications
for field surveys and foundation investigations yet to be comr-
pieted for the first and second year's programs, a review of the
program of work as described in the SAR and PP and specific
instructions for records to be kept in the field and at the PMU;
(b)  brief monthly reports and detailed quarterly reports;
(c) annual work program for submission in time for use in the
preparation of the annual development program;
(d) operation and maintenance manual;
(e) proposal for construction supervision; and
(f) project completion report.
B. IOMITORING AND EVALUATION OF WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
8.      Objectives.  The project would make provisions for strengthening the
Monitoring and Evaluation Cell of BWDB and the Planning Cell of the Ministry
to achieve the following objectives.
(a) Assist project management to allow early identification of
implementation problems and appropriate actions to solve them.
(b) Building up a data base for eventual evaluation of project
impact. This aspect of monitoring would take place during
preject implementation to record quantitative and qualitative
changes in the project area taking place as a result of project
intervention. Such changes could relate to infrastructure,
cropping intensity, crop yield, employment, operation and main-
tenance of project facilities, institutional changes, sociologi-
cal changes, economic changes.
(c) The above monitoring activities will culminate in an evaluation
of project impact against a set of indicators (specified in the
benchmark study), including production, employment, distribution
of benefits, beneficiary participation, and technical and



-42-
Annex 2
Page 6
organizatinal indicators viz., quality of the infrastructure,
effectiveness of implementation, adequacy of other service;:, and
replicability of the project.
9.      Organization and Staffing Requirements.  While BWDB would focus
primarily on monitoring of project implementation, MOI would focus on the
evaluation of project impact. Both BWDB and the Miaistry have organizaLional
units designated to administer M&E activities. The organizational charts are
presented in Appendices 1 and 2. Due to staff constraints, monitorint of
project implementation has not been integrated effectively in BWDB's manage-
ment process. Similarly, although NOI's capability to systematically iden-
tify lessons from completed projects has improved, further strengthening
would be needed to assist in improving the design and implementation of
future water resources development projects. The project would, therefore,
provide for (i) posting of additional staff in the M&E Cells of BWDB and the
planning cell of MOI; (ii) hiring of local consultants; (iii) recruitment of
a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist and a Management Information System
(MIS) Specialist; (iv) staff training and (v) procurement of computing equip-
ment.
10.     BIDB's  Monitoring and Evaluation Cell, recently placed under the
office of the Chairman of the Board, would be strengthened with two addi-
tional economists, an internationally recruited MIS Specialist for a period
of 18 months and computing facilities. The primary objectives wouid be:
(a) design and establish a MIS to serve BWDB Management;
(b) systematize the flow of project specific monitoring
data/information into the HIS;
(c) establish procedures for effective use of the MIS for improved
management and dacision making within 8WDB and establish proce-
dures for collaboration between headquarters and field staff and
clarify their respective roles and responsibilities in the
performance of the monitoring function; and
(d) establish procedures for regular and timely reporting to BWDB
management and other relevant GOB agencies for action or infor-
mation.
11.     MOI's  Monitoring and Evaluating unit within the Planning Cell would
organize and manage the evaluation of completed projects. Staff limitation
and the absence of accepted evaluation methodology and procedures have
prevented the performing of this function on a regular basis. To prevent
this in the future, provision is made for: (i) posting of four additional
staff for the Planning Cell for a period of five years; (ii) funding for
local Consultants/university to carry out the evaluation of FCD IV impact;



-43-
Annex 2
Page 7
and (iii) appointment of an internationally recruited Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Specialist for a period of 18 months.  The functions of the Planning
Cell would initially consist of:
(a) With the assistance of the M&E Specialist, design and implement
a system for monitoring and evaluation of water projects;
(b) Participate in preparation of terms of references for
feasibility studies of water development projects to insure the
requirements for bench mark surveys are fully met;
(c) Prepare project specific terms of reference for selection of
local Consultants/University to carry out the evaluation of FCD
IV and other water projects;
(d)  Supervise local Consultants/universities implementing specific
monitoring and evaluation activities;
(e) Ensure that lessons drawn from evaluation studies are properly
identified and disseminated to all relevant GOB agencies;
(f) Prepare working papers on policy implications of the findings of
evaluation reports;
(g) Maintain data bank based on monitoring of project impact to be
used for detailed studies by GOB or donor agencies; and
(h)  Liaise with the Monitoring and Ev,.uation Cell of BWDB for
exchange of information, assistance with methodology and trans-
fer of lessons learnt.
Local Consultants assisted by the H&E Specialist would:
(a) Design a project spec.fic monitoring and evaluation system;
(b) Based on the benchmark surveys select parameters and samples
to be monitored during project implementation and collect the
data/information needed; and
(c) Carry out evaluation of project impact after project completion
and prepare the Evaluation and the Completion reports. Separate
funding is provided for MOI's Monitoring and Evaluation cell to
recruit local consultants for undertaking the above activities.
Detailed outline of the scope of the evaluation study is given
in Attachment 2 of the supplementazy volume.
12.     M&E and Management Information System Specialists would be recruited
internationally for a period of 18 months each and would be responsible for:



-44-
Annez 2
Page 8
(a)  Reviewing the functions, staffing, training needs of the evalua-
tion Cell in MOI;
(b) Preparing a work plan for the evaluation Cell and job descrip-
tions for its staff;
(c) Preparing terms of reference for the local consultants to be
employed by the Ministry for evaluation of project impact;
(d) Establishing a computerized data bank system in the evaluation
Cell;
(e) Drawing up a training program for staff responsible for project
evaluation; and
(f)  Preparing an S&E manual designed specifically for water sector
projects.
i3.     The project would also provide funds for purchase of computing
facilities.
14.    The staffing, consultant and equipment requirements would be as
follows:
No.      aD
Senior Evaluation Specialist (Internationally Recruited)           1      18
Senior MIS Specialist (Internationally Recruited)                  1      18
Local Consultants                                                  -      18
Local Staff                                                        6     240
Non-Expendable Equipment                                   US$90,000      -



-45-
Annex
_-
Appendix 1
MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION WATER DEVELOPENT AND BLOOD CONTROL
I INISTER I
-I__
I SECRETARY I
ISECTION CHIEFI
I PLANNING CELL I
I-
l                                      II
I                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
IDY. CHIEFI                        I DY. CHIEF EVALUATION I
I (WATER) I                        I   & MONITORING    I
I                                      I
I                                      I
IASST. CHIEF|                        IASST. CHIEF (E & 11)1
I                                      I
I                                      I
I ~~~~~~III
I  ~~~~~~III
ASST. ENGINEER I RESEARCHF OFFICER I I RESEARCH OFFICER I I RESEARCH OFFICER I
I   (E&iO  I I  ~(E &M)     I
I~~~~~~



"~~~~~~ - -
"II                                      --1I1
H~~0    Ig ---l-|ii
t          im j    ~ ~~~T l-- Ii.        -4 g
1                i 1           - 
I El*ia _I               _
___ g I~



-47-
Annex 3
Page 1
BANGLADESR
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
STUDIES
A. BENCH MARK SURVEY
1.      The benchmark survey should be undertaken with the objective of
providing or verifying data on engineering, agricultural and socio-economic
aspects prevailing prior to project implementation. The engineering data,
most of which would be available in the feasibility reports, would include
existing flood control, drainage and irrigation infrastructure, the flooding
condition in the project area and adjacent polders, impact of floods on road
accessibility, on buildings and homesteads, and extent of past relief work
including Food For Work (FFW) programs for rehabilitation made necessary by
floods. The agronomic and socio-economic data collection would cover crops,
livestock, fisheries, minor irrigation equipment, surface water irrigation,
population, land tenure, land acquisition for project infrastructure, market-
ing, transport and communication, prices and agricultural and institutional
support services. More specifically the survey would cover:
Engineering Aspects
2.      (i)  inventorizing the existing infrastructure such as embankments,
regulators, water control structures, irrigation inlets and
comments on their operative condition. The structures shall be
located on a plan;
(ii) the preparation of a polder plan indicating the shallow medium
and deeply flooded areas for normal annual floods and above
normal floods experienced over the last 10 years;
(iii) information on present flooding conditions of the adjacent
polders, including, overbank spill (average and maximum height
above bank level), discharge through inoperative or non-existent
regulators of khals, damage due to flooding, the level of
existing embankments (average), breaches or reaches of
embankment not yet constructed and structures to be completed;
(iv) the road network in the polder, accessibility condition during
the wet and dry season (usability by car, four wheeled drive,
rickshaw, bicycle and pedestrians). Condition of the bridges,
culverts, foot bridges. The plan prepared for item (i) above
should include the road network;



-48-
Annex 3
Page 2
(v) assessment of damages to educational buildings, markets and
homesteads caused by normal annual floods and above normal
floods. The report should include years of abnormal floods,
height and duration; snd
(vi) assessment of cost of relief work needed for rehabilitation of
roads, resectioning of embankments, desilting of khals, etc.
Agro-Socio-Economic Aspects
3.      Data would have to be collected through sample surveys.  These sur-
veys would include information on representative farms in different flood
zones on cropping patterns, yields, cultivation practices, production,
employment, cost of-production, income levels for various classes of project
beneficiaries. This information would serve as a basis for an assessment of
the present agricultural and socio-economic conditions and of agricultural
potentialities in the project area. The surveys would also seek information
on marketing channels used by various categories of farmers, characteristics
of the local population (family size, family labor), land tenure system, land
fragmentation, relative importance of crops, livestock and fisheries
activities aE a source of income/subsistence, local institutions serving
agriculture and their effectiveness, the extent of developmuent of rural
infrastructure, and the quality of soils. The following approach to data
colle:tion is provided by way of example:
(a) total number of village in the project area is stratified
for example on the basis of population, predominant
topography, land tenure system.
(b) a weighted sample of 10 of villages would be selected by
random sampling method without replacement.
(c) a sample of 25% of the household in each selected village
would be chosen by random sampling.
4.      BUDB would be responsible for the iollowing services:
(i) installation of staff gauges in flood plains, reading and
recording in accepted formats; data collection will commence in
May 1986; and
(i)  the supply of all available maps, data, reports information,
etc, in respect of the project and the adjacent polders.
5.      Consultants selected by the MOI's Monitoring and Evaluation Cell
would be responsible for the survey work needed. They would provide their
own transportation, office accomodation, equipment, report printing and
reproduction. The Consultants shall maintain full and continuous liaison



-49-
Annez 3
Page 3
with OI's Monitoring and Evaluation Cell and would prepare and submit the
following reports:
(i) an inception report in 10 copies detailing their work plan
within 2 months of the award;
(ii) a progress report in 10 copies 3 months after the contract
signing, for review by the World Bank and M0I;
(iii) list of farms with location and address for possible
re-identification;
(iv) draft final reports in 20 copies; and
(v)   questionnaires, relevant papers along with the final reports.
Reports prepared and submitted by the consultant shall be reviewed in joint
meetint' among BuDB, 1OI and IDA. The consultant shall take note of the
decisions of these meetings and reflect them in the final report.
6.      It is envisaged that the consultancy shall be for a period of 15
months involving about 64 man-months of local professionals. The categories
and estimated man-months are given below:
Category                         Man-month
Chief economiet (Team Leader)                  12
Agronomist 2 NOS                               12
Economist                                       6
Sociologist                                     4
Senior Soil Scientist                           8
Irrigation Engineer                             9
Fisheries Specialist                            3
Senior Surveyor                                 6
Institution and Credit Specialist               4
64
B. ASSESSMENT OF CHALAN BEEL POLDERS A, B AND C
7.      Chalan Beel Polders A, B and C are located in the Rajahahi and Natore
Districts (see IBRD map). The polders have a gross area of 105.500 ha
(polder A -30,700 ha, polder B -32,800 ha, polder C -42,000 ha).  Implementa-
tion with GMB financing commenced in FY80. In addition, some hydraulic
structures (regulators and water control structures) have been constructed
between FY82 and FY85, under the Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control
Project (Cr. 955-BD) and under Canadian and Dutch bilateral grants. Earthwork
(embankmunts and drainage canals) have been undertaken under the FF1 program.
A few hydraulic structures and a major portion of needed improvement to



-50-
Annez 3
Page 4
drainage canals remain to be completed to ensure the effective operation of
the polders. Due to financial constraints the planning and implementation of
the polders  !frastructure have not been conducted to required technical
standardb. As a result the effectiveness of the polders in their present
state aprears to be questionable. Funds are, therefore, provided under FCD
IV for a technical assessment of these polders to serve as a basis for
preparation of a rehabilitation plan. This assessment would include: (i)
examination of the effectiveness of the flood control and drainage facilities
in their present state; (ii) identification of constraints to achieving
planned objectives; (iii) suitability of existing f&^ilities for purposes of
development of crops, livestock and fisheries; (iv) compatibility of existing
facilities with water transport requirements; and (v) compatibility of the
design of existing facilities with expected hydrological changes due to
completed, ongoing and proposed flood control and drainage projects in the
Atrai River Basin.
8.      The Study would include:
(a) review of all relevant previous engineering, agricultural and
economic studies, reports, construction drawings, operation and
maintenance manuals and available hydraulic or hydrological
information;
(b) identification of technical causes of present under performance
of the polders related to inadequacies in planning, design,
construction or operation and maintenance;
5c) assessment of water resources (surface and groundwater) and of
the development potential with irrigation and improved water
management;
(d) evaluation of the impact of existing facilities on boat traffic
and fisheries and possible measures to remedy any detrimental
effect;
(e) taking inventory of minor irrigation equipment LLP, DTW and STU
operating in the project area; estimation of the effective area
covered by these equipment compared to the design co mmand area;
identification of technical, social and economic constraints
associated with under-utilization of irrigation capacity, if
any;
(f) identification of alternative arrangements, procedures and
financial requirements for completion and effective operation
and maintenance of the polders;
(g) assessment of land ownership status, holding size farm and
non-farm employment incomes, distribution and estimation of
likely changes as a result of completion of project works;



-51-
Annez 3
Page 5
(h) assessment of needed contribution of various support services,
(agricultural extension, credit institutions, input supply
agencies) to ensure project effectiveness;
(i) examination of likely means to ensure farmers' involvement and
participation in the use and maintenance of project facilities;
(j) estimation of additional funding requirements to bring polders
to a productive state; and
(k) detailed assessment of construction works needed to complete the
polders to meet sound design criteria (including repairs, minor
remodelling or realignment, replacement of installed equipment,
additional regulators to drain out localized low pockets,
re-excavation of khals, excavation of new drainage canals, and
construction of water control structures).
9.      Works to be Undertaken
(a) Survey Work
Cii adequate detailed site surveys of the structures to be
rehabilitated or modified and the proposed new structures;
(ii) adequate cross-section and longitudinal profiles of
existing embankments or proposed new alignment, outfall
and internal water supply/drainage channels at identified
sites requiring rehabilitation; and
(iii) identification of low pockets and engineering surveys for
improved drainage.
(b) Foundation and Site Investigation. For major structures where
structural failures occurred and, wherever needed, carry out
foundation and soil mechanics studies to evaluate the cause of
such structural distress; for new structures carry out
foundation investigations.
tc)  Hylraulics.  Hydrological assumptions, design levels, flow
capacities and arrangement of hydraulic structures including
erosion protection will be reviewed and possible amendments
recommended (with the help of the simulation model for the Atrai
River Basin expected to be compleued in FY87).
(d) Protection from Wave Action. Study the erosion due to wave
action in sections exposed to long stretches of the Atrai River
and recommend appropriate low cost protection measures.



-52-
Annex 3
Page 6
(e) Completed Structures. Report on the quality of concrete works,
installation of gates and lifting arrangements, condition of
the rubber seals and the operation of the gates. Make
appropriate recommendations to ensure the effectiveness of such
structures.
(f) Assess the effectiveness of earthworks undertaken under the FFH
program, with particular reference to compaction standards.
(g) Preparation of operation and maintenance manuals for the 3
polders and associated organizational arrangements.
(h) Collection of relevant and up-to-date information on population,
employment, land tenure, cropping patterns, crop production, use
of farm inputs, rental and sales of irrigation equipment, use of
agricultural credit, etc. from statistical sources and
agricultural support services operating in the sub-project
areas.
xi) Conduct group interviews with village leaders and farmers in all
villages in each polder in order to assess in qualitative (and
to the extent possible, quantitative) terms all changes, both
positive and negative, since inception of flood protection works
in the area.
(j) Detailed interviews would be held with about 200 farm households
in about four representative villages in each polder. In each
survey village a stratified random sample of about 50 farm
households would be selected on the basis of land ownership
status and farm sizes. Factual information on cropping patterns
cropping practices and crop production, use of labor (family
and hired) inputs and credit would also be collected.
(k) Farmers' opinion would be sought on: (i) likely changes in
cropping patterns and cropping practices (including the use of
irrigation water) which, in their view, could become possible
because of project investments; (ii) any problems that have been
created because the project remained not fully completed, and
proposals to solve such problems; {iii) assistance received or
needed from government support agencies, such as DAE, BRDB,
BADC; (iv) actual participation and/or willingness to
participate in, or contribute to, the operation and maintenance
of project facilities.
10.     The duration of the study is estimated at 18 months.  It would be
undertaken by DPSI assisted by consultants, including an internationally
recruited experienced project evaluation specialist who would be designated
as the associate team leader. It is estimated that about 90 man-months of



-53-
Annex 3
Page 7
professional staff services will be required along with the necessary support
staff.
(i)  Team Leader : (DPSI)                               = 12 Man-month
(ii)  Associate Team Leader (internationally recruited) = 12
(iii)  Planning engineer : (DPSI)                          =  6     "
(iv)  B.esign Engineer : (Local Consultant)               =  6
(v) Op2ration and -(aintenance Engineer : (DPSI)        =  6
(vi)  Mechanical Engineer : (Local Consultant)            =  6
(vii)  Economist     (2 nos) : (DPSI)                      = 12
(viii) Agronomist    (2 nos) : (DPSI)                       = 12     n
(i=)  Sociologist   (2 nos) : (Local Consultant)         = 12      "
(x)  Fishery ezpert : (Local Consultant)                =  3
(xi)  Institution Specialist : (Local Consultant)         =  3
90
Support staff including surveyors, field
supervisors, junior economists, agronomists,
statistical officers, enumerators, data
processing officers
11.     Consultants would work under the supervision of DPS 1.  In particular
they would:
(a)  help prepare an inception report (20 copies) within 2 months
following the starting date of the study. The report would
include: (i) coments on the terms of reference and recommenda-
tions regarding any appropriate changes; (ii) a work plan
indicating the sequence of operations and the method of ezecu-
tion; (iii) an assessment of the survey and foundation inves-
tigation requirements, cost estimates and time schedule for such
works; (iv) assessment of data availability and data gaps
together with proposals for obtaining the required data;
(b) help prepare brief monthly and quarterly progress reports; and
(c) help prepare draft final report.
12.     The reports prepared and submitted by the consultant should be
reviewed at tripartite meetings with BWDB, IDA and the consultant. The
consultants shall take note of the decisions at these meetings and prepare
the final report in 30 copies on the basis of agreed decisions.
13.    B3DB would provide the consultant with needed document, facilities
and services, including:
ti) available information of relevance to the project; such as,
identification and feasibility reports, statistical data,



-54-
Annex 3
Page 8
contour maps, mouza maps, aerial photographs, hydrological
data, groundwater studies conducted by BADC, MPO and BWDB,
simulation model results conducted under FCD III (Cr. 1591-BD),
and benchmark surveys of Chalan Beel polder D, Naogaon Polder
1 and Baranai Project.
(ii) standard design manual and type plans for hydraulic and
other civil engineering structures and the design notes,
approved plans and as constructed plans of the polders.
(iii) results of surveys and foundation investigations.
(iv) transport facilities, design equipment, office accomodation,
and office supplies if such items are not included in the
consultancy service's contract.
C. AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
14.     The preparation of programs for agricultural and fisheries develop-
ment would require:
(a)  a determination of the likely sustainable potential in the area
in terms of crop, fish and livestock production;
(b)  identification of the prerequisites for realizing that sus-
tainable potential: technological practices, institutional needs
(marketing, technology development, technology transfer, input
supply and services), infrastructure (roads, irrigation,
aquaculture), policy measures (eliminating hindrances to the
adoption of the optimal mix of crops, to integration of
crop/fisheries/livestock activities, and to the promotion of
agricultural practices which are compatible with the social and
economic objectives selected for each area); and
(c)  preparation of an operational timetable for bringing about the
changes necessary for achieving the production potential in each
area. Proposed steps would have to be consistent with (i) the
need to protect beneficiaries against the risk inherent in
unproven innovations or those perceived to be associated with
fast changes, and (ii) the requirement that complementary chan-
ges or actions would have to be carefully coordinated.
15. The programs for agricultural and fisheries development and/or phases
thereof suggested for immediate implementation would be subjected to the type
of evaluation normally undertaken in the context of a feasibility study. This
would include:



-55-
Annex 3
Page 9
(a)  review and analysis of available information on agriculture and
fisheries in the area, including information on on-going
development programs;
(b)  define existing cropping practices, extent of use of known
improved technological practices and reasons for lack of use, if
that is the case;
(c)  identify proven technological practices available in the country
but not used in the area;
(d)  review the existing institutional capability in the area and
identify and justify any required improvements;
Ce)  assess the area's needs as perceived by local people and their
representatives (local government);
(f)  prepare cost estimates for proposed development programs;
Cg)  provide an economic and financial analysis of proposed programs
along with an assessment of the likely risks;
(h)  prepare an implementation plan, including annual work programs;
and
(i)  prepare proposals for managing the planned development programs.
16.     The preparation of fisheries development programs would require an
assessment of the production potential of natural fisheries and alternative
for developing aquaculture. Investigations would need to be undertaken in
order to determine:
(a)  Species and composition of fish and prawn inside the floodplains
in each project area and their relative importance;
(b)  water current velocity limitations for fish end prawn to swim
through the regulators and other structures when opened, and
other requirements for fish migration; and
(c)  specific periods of time when movement and migration of
fish/prawn into the project areas reach peak level.
17. An alternative for compensation for loss of fish from natural fisheries
would be to provide support to aquaculture in ponds and-other permanent -
waters within each project area. To achieve this, investigations are neces-
sary on:
(a) number of ponds, their total water area and extent of culturable
area;



-56-
Annex 3
Page 10
(b) determination of the total number of hatchlings and fingerlins
of fish needed to stock annually all available culturable
waters;
(c) determination of size, capacity and structure of fish hatcheries
and rearing stations with recommendation on suitable sites to
locate these in each project area; and
(d) identification of fish culture potential and desired enhancement
programs.
18.     The studies would also look into possibilities of reducing potential
losses from natural fisheries in the process of providing flood control and
drainage facilities. Such loss of fish production can be partially reduced,
if the regulators and sluice gates are so designed and operated as to ensure
smooth entry of fish and fislh fry from rivers into the available waters
within each project area by opening them for pre-determined periods of time
during fish breeding season (i.e. between May and early August). During the
recession of monsoon waters, the regulators and structures may be opened
again for predetermined short periods of time, to allow exits of fish seeking
entry into rivers and khals outside each project area.
D. EVALUATION STUDY AND PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
19.     In order to facilitate the preparation of the project completion
report, an evaluation study would be undertaken, starting in the 7th year of
the project implementation period. At that time, drainage compartments A,
C, and D would have been operating for over two years, enabling a realistic
assessment to be made of the impact of project facilities. The project
completion report (PCR) should review comprehensively the extent to which the
objectives and expectations, on the basis of which the project was imple-
mented, have been or show promise of being achieved. It should examine the
reasons for deviations from plans and attempt to assess their significance
critically. Its purpose is not to record a comprehensive history of the
project, but to consider in the light of what actually happened up to that
time, whether in retrospect the project was worth doing and what lessons are
to be learnt from this experience. The principal questions that should be
addressed are of the type "if not, why not?" questions such as the following:
(a)  Project Objectives.  Were the objectives of the project
appropriate and clearly defined? Were the project objectives
realized? In realizing or failing to realize the objectives,
what were the major weak points, or strong points, of the
project?
(b) Economic and Social Impact. Are the economic and social effects
of the project likely to reach the expected level? Was the
distribution of project benefits by region or income group as



-57-
Annez 3
Page 11
expected? If the PCR cannot answer these questions or offer
meaningful comment on them so soon after completion, when should
a re-evaluation of the project be scheduled?
(c) Institution Building. How was the question of institutional
development addressed in conjunction with the project? Was the
institution building strategy adopted appropriate and effective
in relation to the project and its broader sector context? Have
agreed programs been carried out, and have such programs been
successful? Were the project management arrangements satisfac-
tory?
(d) Financial Performance. Have the financial objectives, including
cost recovery and self-financing of investment been fulfilled?
(e) Implementation. Were the project and its principal components
fully completed, on time, and within cost estimates? Were final
unit costs reasonable? What changes were made during implemen-
tation, and why? Did the PMU and the consultants perform as
expected?
(f) Efficiency. Could similar projects be prepared, appraised and
implemented in future more quickly or economically without undue
risk to project and sector objectives?
(g) IDA Contribution. How does the Borrower perceive IDA's involve-
ment with this project? Were IDA's diagnoses of the problems
related to sector and project, and the resultant definition of
loan objectives and covenants appropriate in retrospect? Did
IDA influence the project design or implementation, and was this
influence constructive in retrospect?
(h) Other Considerations. Did the project have unintended social,
economic, or environmental effects? Is the project likely to be
replicated?
Particular emphasis should be placed on the project's contribution to the
country's development, and on the Borrower's view of the project experience
and the World Bank's participation in it.
20.     The Project Completion Report should be selective in the depth to
which particular questions are pursued so that the crucial facts may be
brought out and the lessons drawn.
21.     The specific objectives of the evaluation study would be to examine:



-58-
Annex 3
Page 12
(a) the effectiveness of the flood control and drainage works; assess
any adverse effects the works may have had; and if appropriate
recommend rectifications and/or additional works necessary to
improve efficiency; and
(b) collect data on Agro-Socio Economic aspects to compare to the
data collected during the Benchmark surveys and determine the
impact of the project works on agriculture social and economic
development in the area. Also prepare estimates on likely
further changes in the near future as a result of project
investment;
22.     The study would:
(a) Review all relevant previous engineering, agricultural and
economic studies, the benchmark survey, reports, drawings
(construction and as constructed) the operation and maintenance
manual and data on present hydraulic or projected hydrological
changes that may affect the project due to development of polders
in the Atrai Basin.
(b) Identify the technical causes of any under performance related to
inadequacies in planning, design, construction and operation and
maintenance.
(c) Identify all water resources, surface and groundwater and assess
the development potential with respect to possible modification
of the scope and purpose of the project including irrigation and
water management.
(d) Define the inventory of minor irrigation equipment LLP, DTW and
STW operating in the project area, establishing the effective
area covered by this equipment and compare it with the designed
command area. Identify the technical, social and economic
constraints associated with under-development, if any, and make
recommendations as appropriate.
(e) Identify the socio-economic, budgetary constraints and management
problems on O&M and other causes of under-performance and/or
problems related to the operations of the project, and project the
effects of such underperformance and/or problems to the future
period. Suggest alternative arrangements, procedures and annual
financial requirements for effective O&M.
(f) Classify households by land ownership status and holding sizes
and examine the direct effects of the project works to date on
crop production, farm level employment, and farm incomes.



-59-
Annex 3
Page 13
(g) Examine the contributions to the effectiveness of the project of
various support services, i.e., agricultural extension, credit
institutions, input supply agencies (including irrigation) and
recommend measures to improve their effectiveness; and
(h) Examine the farmers' involvement and participation in the use of
maintenance of project facilities, and if necessary recomsend
measures to increase their involvement.
23.     It is envisaged that Agro-socio-economic data collection would be
undertaken in two phases. During the first phase the study team should:
(a) Collect relevant and up-to-date information on population,
employment, holding sizes and land tenure, cropping patternsf
crop production, use of farm inputs, rental and sales of
irrigation equipment, use of agricultural credit, etc., from
statistical sources and agricultural support services operating
in the sub-project areas.
(b) Conduct group interviews with village leaders and farmers in a
geographically well distributed and representative sample of at
least 25 villages in order to assess in qualitative (and to the
extent possible quantitative) terms all changes, both positive
and negative, due to the project.
24.     During the second phase detailed interviews would be held with about
250 farm households in about five representative villages in each sub-
project. In each survey village a stratified random sample of about 50 farm
households would be selected on the basis of land ownership status and farm
sizes. Factual information on cropping patterns, cropping practices and crop
production would be collected.
Additional information needed to prepare before and after project farm
budgets; for example, on use of labour (family and hired), inputs and credit
would also be collected. The farmers' opinion would be sought on the
following subjects:
(a) planned changes, not yet realized, on cropping patterns and
cropping practices (including the use of irrigation water) made
possible because of the project investments;
(b) any problems that have been created because of the project and
suggestions to solve such problems;
(c) assistance received from government support agencies, such as
DAE, BRDB, BADC; and



-60-
Annez 3
Page 14
(d) actual participation and/or willingness to participate in, or
contribute to, the operation and maintenance of project
investments.
25.     The duration of the study would be about 15 months and the study
would be undertaken by a local consultancy firm/university. It is estimated
that the study would require about 73 man-months of local professionals
comprising the following:
Category                        Han-month
Chief economist/team leader                       15
Irrigation Engineer                               6
Operation and Maintenance Specialist               4
Agronomist 2                                      18
Economist                                         12
sociologist                                       2
Fishery Expert                                     1
Institution Specialist                            6
Environmental Specialist                          2
Senior Soil Surveyer                              2
Total                73
It would also require support staff including junior economists, agronomists,
surveyers, statistical officers, enumerator, data processing officers and
field supervisors.
26.     The local consulting firm would work under the advice and guidance of
the MOI's Planning and Evaluation Cell which would be responsible for the
conduct of the study. Regular meetings would be held with the consultants to
assess progress, and address problems which may cause delay in conducting the
study. The consultant would submit the following reports which would be
discussed at meetings with the Planning and Evaluation Cell, BWDB repre-
sentatives and IDA.
(a) an inception report (10 copies) within 2 months following start-
up. The report would include comments on the terms of reference,
work plan indicating the sequence of operations and the method of
execution and comments on the benchmark survey, etc.
(b) brief monthly progress reports (10 copies) and detailed quarterly
progress reports (20 copies) within 2 weeks of the end of the
reporting period.
(c) draft final report (20 copies) one month before the end of the
consulting services; and



-61-
Annez 3
Page 15
(d) all documents such as questionnaires, relevant papers with the
final report.
27.     The final report shall be submitted to the Planning and Evaluation
Cell within two weeks of the review meeting. The report should include the
decisions reached at the review meeting.
28.     BWDB would provide the consultant with the available information of
relevance to the project: identification, feasibility and appraisal reports,
the benchmark survey report, construction and as constructed drawings for
the project civil works, the operation and maintenance manuals, details of
FFN done in the project area, results of simulation model studies done,
hydrological data and engineering survey plans.
29.     The consultant would be responsible for transport, office accouoda-
tion, office and drawing equipment, printing and reproduction of reports.
30.     The Planning and Evaluation Cell may consider following the outline
below in organizing and preparing the project completion report:
(a) Introduction
- Location
- Irrigation Development in the project district (major, minor)
- Role of project in irrigation development of the district
- Expected contribution of project to GOB's objective of food
self-sufficiency, and employment
(b) Project Identification, Preparation, Appraisal
- Who identified project: role of GOB, IDA, consultant, PAO/CP
- Assessment of project preparation - alternative designs, etc.
- Description of project components (planned/actual)
- Objectives of the project and its innovative features as
appraised
- Involvement of beneficiaries during the planning phase.
(c) Project Implementation
- Problems encountered during start-up
- Problems during implementation - how they were resolved
- Reasons for delays in implementation (4 years)
- Was the original implementation schedule realistic
- FF1 Program involvement
- Comments on IDA procurement procedure
- Project cost estimate - accuracy - actual vs estimated
reason for cost overrun or underrun
- Problems with disbursements



-62-
Annex 3
Page 16
- Performance of consultants, suppliers, contractors
- Involvement of beneficiaries during implementation
(d) Operating Performance
-Quality of project civil works (embankments, hydraulic
structures, roads and drainage canals)
-Incomplete works and affect of such works on operation
of project
-Additional works and the need for additional works
- Impact on fisheries, navigation, and environment
(e) Institutional Performance and Development
- Performance of project unit and consultants
- Arrangements made for operation and maintenance,
including source of funds
-Proposed cost recovery mechanism
-Performance of BRDB, Agricultural extension service,
Banks providing credit, Cooperatives, etc.
- Availability of credit for rental, purchase of pumps
and other inputs
- Assessment of marketing channels and transport facilities
(f) Agricultural Impact
-Increases in acreage, yield and production
-Overall income increase of beneficiaries attributed
to project
-Farm budget analysis, using representative farm sizes
by type of tenure, location, LLP owner vs rental farm
groups
-Cropping intensity, cropping pattern
-Cropping technology
(g) Economic Evaluation
-Based cn actual benefits/costs (with and without project
situations) and forecasts to recalculate the economic
rate of return in constant border prices
-Employment impact during project implementation and
development
-Impact on distribution - comparing land distribution and
ownership during appraisal and now landless, small
farmers, large farmers
-Social upliftment (housing, transport, audio visual
equipment, etc.) due to increase in income
(h) Bank Performance



-63-
Annex 3
Page 17
- During project preparation, appraisal and supervision
- Did the targets set at appraisal take account of insti-
tutional constraints and social problems
- Problems encountered with IDA procedures
- Quality of supervision, monitoring and evaluation
(i) Lessons Learned
- Lessons for future project preparation and design
31.     The suggested data to be collected are:
(a) Project Area
- Land size
- Distribution by typa of tenure (owner, sharecropper,
landless (lease))
- Distribution by size of farms (landless, small,
medium, large)
- Farm population - in agriculture and non-agricultural
occupations
(b) Project
- Actual project cost by component by year
- Disbursement by project component by year
- Local and foreign cost distribution
- Procurement list - value
(c) Agriculture
- Survey of representative farms for farm budget analysis:
- yield (kg/ac)
- cropping intensity (Z)
- cropping pattern (ha)
- share of production marketed
- inputs used per ac. (qty) e.g., seed (variety),
fertilizer, pesticide, labour, etc.
- input/output prices
charges per ac.
- actual water charges collected for OEM
- command area per cusec of LLPs under rental,
sales programs
- output prices
- labour costs
(d) Economic Rate of Return



-64-
Annez 3
Page 18
- Derivation of border equivalent price for inputs and
outputs fr- traded goods or use of standard conversion
factor for non-traded goods
- Adjusting investment cost to reflect real resource
cost, i.e., ezcluding taxes, subsidies, etc.
- 011 cost of project



-65-
Annex 4
BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE: TREE PLANTING
1.      Planting of selected species of trees on the slopes (both sides) of
flood embankments has been demonstrated to be a suitable preventive main-
tenance measure. Planting of trees in old borrow pits is not possible as
water logging is not conducive to the growth of the desired species of
plants. Planting could be in rows 2m apart and at a plant spacing of 2m
(staggered). The first row could be spaced at a distance of between one to
two meters from the crest of the embankment. On an average height of embank-
ment, it should be possible to have 3 rows on the country side and four rows
on the river side. Apprcximately 1200 trees can be planted in an acre of
embankment. In some areas, a live fence could be permitted on the edge of
the crest of the embankment. The fence could be of peas, like Toor Dhal,
which grows to a height of about 1 to l.5m.
2.      Selection of Species and Nurseries:  Trees recommended `or the pur-
pose are to directly benefit the rural community.  They would consist of fuel
wood, fodder or fruit bearing trees and the produce should be available
within a maximum period of seven years. Trees for fuel wood or fodder should
be shallow rooted coppicing species.  The recommended varieties are as fol-
lows:
BOTANICAL NAME             LOCAL NAME               USES
1.  Acacia Auriculiformes       Australian Babla         T, Pp
2.  Acacia Nilotica              Babul                   T, Fo
3.  Areca Catachue               Supari                  T, F
4.  Cajanus Cajan                Arhar                    Fo
5.  Cassia Siamea                Nin?iri                 T
6.  Cocos Nucifera               Narikel                  T, F
7.  Dalbargia Sisso              Sissoo                  T
8.  Eucalyptus Camaldulensis    Eucalyptus                T, Pp
9.  Leucaana Leucocaphala        Ipil-Ipil               T, Fo, Pp
Notations:  T - Timber, F - Fruit, Fo - Fodder, Pp - Paper pulp.



-66-
BANGWDES
FOURIH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
LRANA PROJECT
Implsmentato   Schedufior PrqoecComfponentond
Completion Schedule d Dralnage Compolmn1s
C.m Y   19W 19  71          49         j9I    I            94 19"    I        4 I      I 
w    *s49/    1987/8B   1s19ww    496/9o  I .long      491/92    .s3       49
w  * 23   1123 341121344 q 2341234   2  1                      4        23 34            2 213  7
&-  _ - AC                         _I     _l  
=g-&~~~I I   L.IIX   
Rm*m
AWbAm&Fudm Dovbmwonn                                     E       ...
APmmT,uVPodmAD&C                             E    U      E
AQW cC-nipWk3n oposit &
EwokKMCdu
E~~~~~cA~~~~~ X
knb kSLnay
COWAMcvkwDlEEld  EKE
IcModkxAIIIsW.~cEa1MII
A ShGMoWodmd6&115 No
Al. ShoowRooded 7.21 Ho                       C
2. D.spRood.d562 Ha                                                         C
C. D.spRaod-d5.133Ho                                    C
0. SholaRoodmd 7.4M Ho                             mm        = c
E Sh~olow  adO17.M5H Nom
roIt  AL320 Ho                   7    a    121 i    O67 ~              a 4oo
NamK Cdewxiomsou4If
VkM8oi*-27879



BANIGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONThOL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Baraaai Proeact
Detailed Cost Table
ownitY                                                                     UN Costs
Ik.it    37a 3     39 s9                 92   93     TotaltInit Cost        37       N       IR                  95 n      2      93    Total
mm           _    _3~                 in8   33333   g           3     S5              2      :            w_
I. IWM PnI COSTS
A. LA3 O0I3IT2U
2.f ilms10                                    SW                   -              -        -     -       -                  50.0   150.0    250.0       50.0                 -             5- 0.0
2      MTI                                             56   160     7        56       -    *    -    50            200  2200.0 33600.0   60000  2220.-0                      -       -112s.000
h-Tstul L   1mUSItiK 1o12sM.0 33,750.0  56,250.0  14250.0                                                                                                               -       -       - 1125000.
S. sW    1 IIIn1AIION
1. SITlT  H    127 M3                         NA      5,4  16.2      27    5,4        -    *      -     54           5      27.0    U1.0    135.0       27.0             -           -    270,0
2. LS I CM  KCtS   10                        10      55.2 165.6    276   55.2         -    -      -    552           4    220.3       2.4   1104.0    220-.          -       -       -  2W20I
3, FOUIIIN I6MSIIATION                      KU          -          -    -    -       -    -                               1 250.0   450.0    750.0    150.0                            t.seo.o
Sb-Toul 9AY  t 116E1 121ATO                                                                                                   397.3  12293.4   1M.0    397.l            -       -       -  3,m.
c. W11  I rL= Wfl Wm
1. runsm
NE  45 KM)                               1000     250  250    5         1000     500    -      -  21500       15.054   3763.5 3763.5  7M526.9  M5OM533   7526.9           -       * 3734
ENI0imi   210 029                        1000       50 50   30    100      -       -    -      -                                         W 23.047  652.3  4.5663   2.304.?  -  -  -  -  6.523,3
hlotal DW iAMS                                                                                                           4015.4   3329,3   1431.6  15.053,1  7,526.9         -       -  4157.9
2. p1ICIKcf Ms
PMW3Pi                                     I            -          -      25      25           -      50      1.706         -                  -      42.7     42.7               -       5.3
fWIlilTE I                                 KR        -    -    13,3   26,2        2      -            54          2                  -      21.6      32.4     54.0       -       -    101.0
Rh-Totl MITICIIOU USI                                                                                                          -        *      21.6      75.1     96.7       -       -    293,3
3. Il. CAKS I Wt. ITO.
REIXCAIIU 24353K)/a                      2000N3       -  9O   2,700   3,0oo  l20O        -    -  9.e             12         -I2030.0  320400.0  43,20.0  22o60.0          -       - IU.000
NV CAes  230 3                           20001 3      -    -             250    420    -       *    700          20         -        -         -  2.300,1  4,200.0        -       -  79M.0
3W 021                                     No         *  2.5       5    7.5       0o     -     *      25    232.26               7M.3  124106.  2215.9  2,321.2           -       -  7.tS29
rU     *iis                                Ko        -    6       22    1i        24    -    -         0     20.151              120.9    241.8    362.7    413.L         -       -1201
Ot.t. I                                    K          -    6       s      I3      is    -      -      60    230.93          -      5.9  2.357,7  2.357,7   2,257.7        -       -
M   im    fin.                        l          -  0.2    0.4    0,6   O.         -    -        2   I2s02.25         -   203.0    406.0    609.1    312.1          -       -  2,030.2
MAILIS  MINE 126.                          K          -    -    0.6    1.6    1.6    -    -            4   76213,36         -        -     M.0907  M22IN    124131.4     -       - 20,453.4
oiCmI  aimi                                l          -    -    0.2    0.4    0.4        -     -       1   7.613,36         -        -   1.522.7  3.0e5,3  3,045.3        -       -  7.623,4
MTa  me UJ I   . IW           .  -S2225.2  44429.5 u66n2.   4M7502.3                                                                                                         -       -  71217.9
! fJI



Owtit9                                                                          list Costs
ShOt      7    n      n3       9       9      92n   9       lot2 l    Ihit Cot     37       a         n9        9         91        92 n           Ttal
,mm       mas      s s * iig  amawg,C-e guiE.aimDE:gz:*3              DsIDU4    fzhf   aI             asases..DanmI  *uawaua  lEaEa    a 
10. KSATU     I  IT /b                        No         -   0.9      1.3     2.7      3.      -     -       9   2015115             -  1,313.6   3,27.2   5440,3   79254.4          -        -  131136.4
U. 111    3  I113 IMI  I _IUWdUdJ             1              0.2      0.0     0.4     0.6      -              2   39224. 64               M.o   2.5793   129.7   3934.5              -        -   6.66.4
No RE3  4 WITS INI                            No          -  -        0.2     0.i        -     -     -        I   400.229            -        -       6.o    3224.2          -        -       -   4o0M0o2
as. Mel S Ym  t13 1                           N0        -   0.3      0.2     0.      0.1      -     -        I   55416              -    554.2  1310.3   3324,9         34.2        -        -   5541.4
i, Koo mo.t WM) I i                           No0        -      I       -       -        -     -     -        1     302,26?          -    302.3                    -    -        -        -         302.
m. K13. we1 WTS 3131313                       No          -     -       I       -        -     -     -        I     201.512          -        *     20125                    -                -     241.5
l2ot 3Ko. 36.144 QW 3lIlUIMe                  No         -         -    -       I           -        -        I     503M            -                   -      503,0         -       -        -     501,1
We   .1o7 YU11121 CWl Lltl                    No0        -   02       0.3     0,3      0.2     -     -        1  10.075.574          -  2,015,3   3,022.7   3,022.7   2015.1         -        -  10w073.4
W. KIgI.  FU UI       I SUcUll UIITI          No0        -         -  2.4     3.2      2.4           *        *    1,40,53               -        3,25.4   4,5113.9   31A4           -        -  R1A2M4A6
N. El, m,43 WMU    NI) 9 hIIt                 NO         -      -       -       -        I     -              1 2  20152                                                        - 201.5             231.1
1A115 UtO   L I lw SE                        No         -      -     75       10      7.5     -     -       25   221.626            -        -  116247  22#fU,3.  f3U4.7            -        -  X.415.7
Ni   eI. Sm100fulto                           W          -      -     e06     o.3      0,6     -     -        2   2,513,f13          -        -   1.5113   2.315,1   1,511.3          -       -   5107.
111imIT      ES                               50         -      *       -      25       2      -     -      50       40.302          -        -         -   15,07.6   1.076.         -        -    l.035,1
ctSS MUWIOTI                                  W0         -      -                       00060               200     110031           -49.9   6 9.9t   056,5                          -        -  22.663
tl N4IC ITNCES                                                                                                                          -  5330.0  39561.4  51,151,   43,s.2             -       -1414360.3
*Toa  MAi           I FIf' CN1M   5 e                                                                                               40455.  26.2749  92,799l . 34.959,7  91"0.l             -       - 3].9     S
un-w
I     l.   I M                                   P1         -    12       12      24       32     -            60  e03.023             -  4.336,3   4.463    9,672A.   4.336            -        -  24s .4
2, EN                                            P1         -      -     5       3.5        -     -     -        7     503,7)*                   -   2.U43M        U.6          -        -       -      3l5
To    MWA   m                                                                                                                              -  4.363   7MOW.  10.4.2   4163                  -       -  277077.0
E. NIU1S
1. 13. 31t312 OFFICE                             M2         *   275      U7S       -        -     -     *     350        2.015         -    352,       352.6          -         -       -        -     7M5.3
2. IICII. WUIC                  112 *                            154     150       -        - I                300       2.315               302.3     302.3          -                          -     64,5
3. EI1EKIIUL                                     M2         -   125      125       -        -     -     *      250       3.02           *    377.3     377.8          -         -        -       -     7.
4. uwUo     IWSAI                                II         -      -       -       -        -        -      -               -                3- 26     3526.          -         -       -        -     7M5,
-Totu  3220                                                                                                                               -  I.N.4    2.35.4            -          -       -       -   2,770,6
r. 1. Uflt 3 sw1su
1, t  WoIM AIU aUIISSIT
__..._. ...... .
two M M (7/10                                 NO                        6       -        -     -     -        6     26.0             -        -                                                   I.54.-    -  -  -   154s5
MM      CU        V3WATUE2  UiM               No                       12       -                            12      51- 616         -        -     619,4          -         -        -       -     41A.4
AM  CM     U   (W  CFN                        No          -             2                -     -     -        2     76.911           -        -   2,27.9           *         -        -       -   1.5V7,
tLo5   M        , 3 M 115 31ATU               0                 -       4       -        -     -     -        4   1,02,367           -        -   46129.5               -        -        -       6 4.1295
d31C.  3MM     32*1                           NO          -             I                                     1 -   -  -  I  206.473  -           1,5143                -             -       -   3.063
Me    T O 1131. 1o                                       -              I       -        -     -     -        I     M.657            -        -     MJ.-                              -                 J 722.7
UUIU  11t1. Flo  Om1,                       No          -     *        3       -       -            -       3      20643                     -     619.4                    -       -        -     6194
M.  WI CU                                     10         -             12       -        -     -             1 32    51.61          -        -     619.4          --                 -       -     69,4
3*-Total U   EIIIU         UUIT_                                                                                                       - ---- -2;1.4                                             -  1.42.
fit!



haWI1,T                                                                    3.,. Co{st
mAt      P        a   9      0 n     9     n    n  Siut        (At            U                39                  n        2       n       you]
2. U
4-      15W                                1                        3       -      *    -    -         3    373A.2          -        -  1.115,0          -         -       -       -    ,1W15.
7-1  P1IC r     f TM 1                                *     -       I      -       -    -    -         I      619.42        -        -     U.t           -         -       -      -    63U
N MW hIaw                                  U          *    -        I       -      -     -    -        I    29.02           -        -    25t.1          -         -       -      *    29.1
VW   ATS14 n1                              U                -      2       -       -    -    -         2    154.            -              309.7         -         -      -       *       .
go31 M UEK  4W)                            U          -  2,5    2.5         -      -    -    -         5     154.5           -    We7t    371            -         -       -      -    n71
uum r                                                 - c11   s     s      -       -    -    *        io      sz.aie        -    m1        asa           -         -       -      -    562
Sits                                                        I -            -       -                  1 -  36   4,13        -    33,        33.e         -         -      -       -      U.I
MU MUD                                     U          -    -       I       -       -     -           -  I   3.032.167       *        -  I.pn.4           -         -      -       -
*-ra1  awLIS                                                                                                                    -   873.3  4.032-3                                    -  4,61.
3. NM   I  FICE WI     e.
15-IUUlEiET                                1          -    2        2              -    *    *         4     103.2          -    2065      206.5         -         -          -         412.9
T I1    1                                  U          -             I      *                           2     1541           -    13549    154.9          -         -      -       -    39
nl "I1T3 (EKUAIEU                          U          -    -        I      -       -    -    -         I  1 445.1l1         -        *  14U,1            -         -       -      -  1,41.3
Utl1 lEIWI                                 E          -    -        -          -      -    -       -              -              516.2    514.2          -                *       -  1,032.4
htu3          I   1 OFFICE                                                                                                     -    77.5  2,w22.8           -         -       - *        12e00.
LATE wax  312 lINE)                         o         -    -               -       -    *              1  1342,077          -        -  1Wa2d1           -         -      -       -  1.142.)
ND   mriN  n12 M)                          1          -    -        I      - M-                            1,4242077        -        *  1,342.1          *         -      *       -  12,1
m     SaE                                  N          -    -        I      -       -    -    -               206.473        -        -    20.5           -        -       *       -    246
W&1551511                                  U          -    -        I      .       .    -    -         I      6d39.4                 -      W6.4         -        -               -    619.4
MNIPlAllaIOS                                                                                           1  -    -  I -  -  -    -  I    2.473  -   6      -   -         -          -    2.1
M*TgWI iY uutawma.                                                                                                                -  3,U   2104900                                        2,4,
of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Tim  min__     _w   _
I. 115.   1. S 31131
1to SIN1s I EUIMTIUM2                                                                                                                         3 9 -    -  -  -  -    -    *  -,59.2  6,176    7t"i.0  -  -  15s92.0
2. M1 w. 51011  IVMION 31T1                   Em               -   -      -       -      -    -       -                        -        -                   -         -      -1,5.4   limi40t
111C4 FM    NM                               $M         -    -        -      -       -    -    -         --  1,5027   3,506,2                              -         -      -       -  5,06,0
4. MUC.S Fil   KY. H.M noi                                  -         -       -       -    -    -                                       -  2,517,9   2517,9           -      -       -    5.9
srit    lie. MN   1M   I $113                                                                                                     - 3,10    12,421,0  10M5U1M           -       -* 10000  27036.9
No FMh       l    NM                                        -    -        -      -       -    -    -                              - 7s13.6   71373,                         -       - -     4t157.2
1. h1Uh311 1a1111                               L,.        -    -        -       -       -    -    -                        1,195,3t5   5,  .1 9 3S .1   5.391.1  5.311,1       -       - 26P971.6
J, EIEID a MAhUTIU                               EM7 -    -              -       -       -    -    -         -2.4  ,370.3  19,3711. 22,37905  150425                            -   100,0 U,17.7
Tita  IN1MX  NMI                                                                                                               22,121.1 9O,741.7 221763.2  195419.2 12=4m.          -1,100.0  MOM2U1
0
tas#   _o    o o  _  *ssz    _          _        _~~~~~~~~3
a.gl



ha1Iltw,                                                                   lsam  Costs
vit    e7 a           9              91    92   93  Total    Lit Const         7      U        n          0        9        92      93    total
I . M  IIU I   I EM
1.  Ef~
DOIT                                                 -    -       5       5      27   27   38    102             13        -        -      65,0    6u         351.0  351.0  414.0  19326.0
1t11n   9.s                               KR         -            -      91      91  22   m         628          It        -        -         -  1,00s.0  1,001.3 2150,O 2,5060  7M0130
E  C S                                    KM         -    -       -       -       9          24      42          5         -        -         -         -      450    O.A    200       210n
WA PAITS                                  Km         -    -       -      13      13      0 0        106          3                                  1 -  -  2040  104  0320.0320M0     1460
*-Tstul okra                                                                                                                  -        -      65,0   1,170.0  I15.0oA 3,224.0 2M42,0 I 9402.0
2. fllUlt
mm  EE       s                            lo N            -       2       4       6   10   10        32        0oo         -        -    200.0    4oo.o    600o.  1000.0 1.00.0 3o20.0
nuais  1ums                               No         -    -       1       2       2    4    4        13         40                         40.0      3o0.      Bobo   WA e0 0e60       5o2
OLWITS                                    No         -    -       6      12      18   30    3        9 6          5        -        -      30.0      40.0      90.01 50.0  150.0    430.0?
MIms                                      N0         -            2       5       3   12   12        3t          10        -        -      20,0      50.0       0,0  1200 120.0    190.o
rint                                      NO10       -     -      6      12      to   30   30        96           1        -        -       6.0      12.0      13.0   30.0   30.0    6*0o
ATUOC.sa         ma =0  IlKee             No         -    -      23      45           114  11    3U4             5         -              115,0    225.0    340.0  570.0  570.   g.MO
lub-Total ITlUClS                                                                                                             -        -    41s.0      f70   120.0 2,030.0 2M0M.0   v6,1.0
3. USUIUI       M 3, t%VMt                   SUI          -      -           -       -    -         -              -              -_          71.4   M2.        406.4   7.1   20.1  2#36.2
6drlet.l UM1I0   I dNIIUWI                                                                                                       -              547,   2M2I6A  3,1155. 64M2s1 dM.o  13,294,2
Total EUWN  CSTS                                                                                                                     -        -    547.4   24216,6  3115.4  0421t 6929rd.1  16,214.2
s-ffvw m-m           -                                              -.1m 1 mu
Ttal                                                                                                                           22d2l1 90,742.7 22430.6 139.245.8 127,324.3  .0422l 7,.3 6 I.M7S3
_         -       -       -      -  -z o  _  _               m_
/a   MI       1 C MSoI  44500 MIM UN  EiS  C Id    2    4200 uITS)i
hb LOCAT13 At PJLIW  I MWW, IWAS. MAYFrI. IUMLIAD NMWIA, MTlIWW,                                IATYDAA MD NfEWDI
ktb.w  1. 19    075                                                                                                                                                                                       I
0::1



FOURTH FLOOS CONE.M NO11IM E PICT
b
w fv kccouats bv Year
Totals Includind Cantird in                                      Totals Imludird Catlwwlfs
(II '000)                                                       (U$III'00
67       e        9        0         1       9        3    lotal       37                           91    92    3    Tsua
1 IN'ASfNT MST9
A. LNIS ACUI.CImN                          11,704.0 318069.0 68,560.1  14,69.0          -      -        -133162.1  3775 1168.4  20.   434.            -    -    - 4,039.1
Is CIVIL  MS
I.  AId  AN FLOOD CONTROL
EARMMS                                5M062.4  23m5.7  554600.4  U.971.0  52,44.1         -       - 226005C  163.9  733,J 16697 2M609.1 1495    -    - 6,674.5
S1BRTICN                                    -  t S005.0  70482.0 109,623.7 1046501.2      -       - 293,612,0     -  276,2 2,11646 31214,3 2915,7     -    - 3o593.3
Sub-Total  AIMIiE AND FLno   CONTROL    539A4  32t910,7 126,092,7 193,594.3 1569947,2        -       - 51A17.6  163,9 1009.5 3766.1 5,23.9 4U44.2    -    - 15o267.
2. am06                                        -  6.093,4  IOf1,.2  15,602.0   772.9         -       - 39626.6       -  16       306.5  457.5  220.7    -    - 1,171.7
3. IUILDINGS                                   -  1,741,5   1689.9         -                -                             53.5   56.8       -      -    -    -   110.3
SdrTotal IlL VI S 5M0S2,4  40,749.6 138,177.7 2144196.7 166731                                 -        - 5629879,7 1U.9 12500 4149,5 64281,4 4,7049        -    - 16.5498
Co TEICICM  MSISTTM  I SIIDS                    -     O5822  155690  14,5194          -      - 1,6456 35,356,5        -  109.9  468.1  425.8        -    - 46.5  1,010.3
D. SUT ANl IlISAT1ATOION                      448,0  1522.9  2741.2    5921            -      -        -  5324#1  15,1   46.7   62.3   17.4          -    -    -   161.5
E. EWIJE                                          -  1,40.4  27,733.0          -        -       -       - 29.5n,4       -   56,5  t3S          -       -    -    -   5.3
r. CSIUM I COST. UNITRII                    563    6,25.6   616,0  7#406,3  6,011,9            -        - 34,165,1  183O   1922   20.4  217.3  22a9         -    -  1,025.6
6.  Lm  AK                                        -  6,4161   91M995          -   -            -        - 17,687.6      -  260,4  276.3        -      -    -    -   536,6
H. EISIEIEI   I W11N$.                        692,2  64546  23470.  30,250,6  22.130,5         -   166.6  M33654   22,3  204,1  7043   87,1   32.3    -  4.7 2,415.4
Toal IWAESTINT CMOTS                          23619,3 107,192,4 29e277.5 291,776. 194,915.6       -  1,e32e2 901,513,  761,9 329.1 3,M77.1 6263.2 5564.2       - 51,2 26,707.7
11, KOaAN CTS
A. W.RATIIN I AtNWCE                                            6 -    670.2   30U.   4448,7 9318.4 10,41.5 27,955.4   -       -   20.1   89.0   27l 260.3 2s    7094
Total KCLOI COSTS                                    -        -    670.2  3,036,6   4448,7 9,316,4 10,4615 27,955,4        -      -   20.1  8G.0  127.1 260.3 M2         739.
Total PSOECT COSTS                             23619.3 107,192,4 M9247.7 24B12, 199f264,3  ,31,4 121307 M94673  761s? 3J2181 86797.2  ,352.3 5,469.3 260,3 344.0 2749791
Octoer 1.196  07119



FXITH FLO  CMT     0 59E           MP CT
mwm V Wm AL01fI
(TK '000)
{tl OX}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l.u
gn. Cts                            ft,iltal Cwtirnein                         9,Plt trA4 rIn                             total Irwi. Cet.              CWA. PiW
---  PE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?C CVt. bw  Cests I
Local uEual. Aits I                       Loal Ixel. Miss I                        LocIl hod, bMt" I                         Local (1x=, mAi" I             U   kiel   Pric, CSt.
F.. Ex(h.   tax")    timr  Total    ror., Exc,   tm)    Terns   Total   (at. W.   loM.                    To      Total     rop. nc.   Tarn)    Tarn    Tota            CnA.     olrk    Coto
in8,n.:U,e,s'sa.s'. .fl,n.* ,u.......  a5M -     .ft             ..       U....   UflU          *n.8m    man....  SS*S83lSS Sa mS                   C  S..  C             S       S
_. 1021   .COT
A, L      minsitai                                  -   uaz. .           , --                              *       -        -          *    219102,1        - 21.142,1            -   131.2,1         -  3310.1             -      133,t12.1
s, nvE mi
is wzsu As n.m to,.
U1     0                                 4, ,   315955.0            - 1191.79        55,6      11140.0          1519151     1.4w.     49,24.5         - 10.92,1      0.102.3   212363,5         - 2210o5.1    20194,6        Ml."
lT     tl                               4,0514    131,124.1 V%O1.1 197s771,        4,017.0 ,% 20125    00.9 199777,2   22.735,    40524,2  3453,2 70.9.2    704.9   320511 14,602.0 293.012                     200920       206.110,0
WY"Tal  AWI    AN rIN  CQU1FL             53,310.1   202124., tl.03  3092.1    5P331 ,0    29,32n1    9.9 3.n93 0    24,4241              "97.7-7  3.      120.05.)    ina            2 41,6.0 H.11.6 5191.17.6    471223.0     472.37t.0
2, 00                                       91,Y04    2e.uso,  1345.4  27107.0          50.7      2elU2.5   130.1  2.120       2.3,0       uom26    47.4  9n147.9        355.2    210.721 10.913 29,1.6    1302.4                 .241          -a
3. mIUIM                                      19.7      2.02us    231.5  2.7o            57,0       200.3    139   277.1         152.2       400.0   729,4    1?7.         770.9     2074.7   161.0   2,03.4          212.s       3.34.9 
TotIa CIVL *111                               19 33.    310.412.4 11,412.5 3170.4       5P.9,3    31.041,2  1141.3 3,070.8   21,0    145.4.2  4.9.9 10730.6    92,426.2    431.009,1 2,43.7 142,670.7    512110.9                 511,711.6
C. Tr CML 010MC  I1S2I82                      1224.4    14.430.0         -2703.9              -            -       -              4- 3.           3.1322    * .39.6    10M1.           1.3111.2       - 3356.3              -         63.3.
. 0At"  Mi IN TIGSTIWS                               -     47410   *         4.4      *                             -                           040. *      -    040.*                  s.324.1       5-124.                -        1,34.1
C. 10260                                      12719.0      21#39,4 1n,2 2,140.6                            -       -        -    30n,2          m.2  2.1411   6.120.    2416.2    103l1.7 11,133,0  2017314              0.0       217M.4
Fs Mlin  I M .$   ITUIN                      1u7m25       13.302          * 210n.9             *           -       -        -    4.1337       312.99        -   7.269      17,5.3       l.35,- 34.115,1                    3-10 1H
0. "M  MC                                      4o.7.2     1.22.00        - 124752             *            *   -            *     1,101.      1    6        -  2,93,4       1,311,     22.6041,       - 17.067,             *        7,107.6
NI. co  UOmt  I WIN.                                 -                    *4,220,7            ---4.7               -        -          -    19111tfU5       -    1.7              *3.35,4              * 03    .4           -305dd.4
ftal tIAMu  el1                                1032112.0   530,369 i.1   m.?07 0112.1    21,15.3    310441.2  I.41.13  .7401   40l,27.5   lZill.t  .435.4 262.60.0   149,W7.7    7S241. 26377.3 9 1.1                   1     .        6 .
li,t tm can
6.    "tirxsS 665611661 9016153144.2                                      i1f294.2           -            -       *        -          -      0,,2          *  9.1.2                   2705.4         - 27.s.4              -       2.95.4
tlal         T C 7S                                    *    2629P4.2        * 11264.2            -           *        *       *           *       ,061.2       -  9.U612             -    27.9s.,        - 27.95.4             -       2.95.4
tal                                             202,12.0       9400.7 20.407   0l, l    So6.3    31.041.2 I2.41.3 1170,04    10#1975   2U.419.3  0W.63 215422.152.2   149327.7   751.704 2 20,377.3 M9,49.3    312701.9                17932.4
.mi  1.16  97112



FaTN FLOM WO1iL Ad 616K MrCT
ow X um, ccns
0141 '0001
fimical CmtI.i,,wln             PrcCntilumcI                                                         rh
gu Csts                                                                                              Toa- tol Irl. Cant.            W. H        kw Cats t
Local                          Lwcl.                   -                                           is WA, Prlee Cst.
Local (Excl. PA    I           Fop.  (E,xl. Mias A            fot.  (Exl. Miss A                        Locl (CMl. MIAi  I            in fluul              ame
rot. Cxah.    ans)    two   Total   Eahd. huus)  Iajcus  Total   CU. tax)  1ms   Total   For. Ch.   Ims                         Two   Total          Cae.         Cant,
I. IMTw   CUTS
A. Lii 6UISTIU                                              3,6tO.         - 3,66.4        *       -           -          -  342.7             3427           -      49031          - 4,39.1             -       4.0391
I. CIVIL V
1.  tAI     IA  FUI  C WoN
ENMIK                                       150.4      5,102.3          1 * 5,7   11.0  510.2        -  521.3  34.1   52A4               1 965      1".5       6.47540        -  WM74,5         4 06.          77
3TNK113                                   1,4490.2     4.51,4   326.4  6,527.1  164.9  459.2    32.   652.7 4.2   179,6    70.7 14135    2W2S3.                5.4    429.7  t59.3             7M.2        7.52.1
sToI  N l4        I  FWoS CTi                l,759.6      9699    326.4 11-M.9 7O.   994              32.6 1.1,0  497.3 1742.1    70.7 2,310.0    2,432.8    12.40053    429J.7 11247.5         l,6.0  s 2.
2, No                                          1115.0      6.7    45.7   914.4   13          He.1      4.6   91.4  46.7  110.6        6.3  165.1       253.5        65.       5.6  1,171.7       l.s         1,365.1       r
3. hhISII                                       13.6        63,1      4.6    91.4    1,9    6.3        0.5    9.1   2.9      63       0.5    9.7        23.6        3112       5.5   1103          13.6         too3
SW-Ttol CIVIL  MS                               166.4    10,442.7   376,7 121795.7  196,4 I.43          37.7 10273.6  546.9 n1.91      79.42 .MO       2,710,0    13,346,l   493.8 16.4,          1,504.5      J15045,
C. TICIUICAL AISTIICEI AtlO1E1                    416.1        476.2       *    92.        -       -        *      -  39.0   69,0          -   151.0     5us.1         5f4.2        -  WSJ0,3            -       105.J
I, S1S  NG INSII6ATISI-                                       147.1        -    147,       -       -       *       *      -    13.7        *   13.7           -        161.5        -   16145            .         161.
E. TIUm                                           419.1        44.2   296.6   760,6        -       -                   73.6    4.9    50,2  123.7         493.4         49.1   346.   659.3              -              3
F. NIIU  1 CMT. MITUIU                            453.0        437.s       -   390.3       *       *               -  13.0   52.5          *   135.5      53.60        09.6         -  11025.1           -       3tM25
I.   M   AKc                                      149.7        337.3            4 7.0      -       -                   2.3   233           *   4.6        171,1        365.             5 336,6                    53^4
, ru11      lN1 6A IN.,                                     2111.1         - 2.116,1       -       -               -      -   337.2            372                   2.45.4         - 245.42 -                   2l.4
Total IVnT       sT Cis                            3,405.0    17.700,0    1.3  2.77Xs3  196.6 1.044,3    37.7 IW2O.6  513, 2707.4   129.6 3,0,9    4415l5l    21.4OW              540.6 26707,7        ,504,5     23,0.2
11.  -Ol     tis
A.  IAIIM  I MITINCE                                 -       603.         *   N3.5        -       *        *      -      -   15.6         -   15.16                   73.4         -   7M9.4            -         7me4
Total  IT   CoSTS                                       *        603.1        -   603.        -       -       *       *      -   1656         -   165.6          -        7M.4         -   73.4             -         79.4
Tout                                                3.4050    13,303.1   6n.3 22,2.1  1966 1,044.            37.7 1274  313,9 2.393,0   129,6 3.136,4       4415,       22.241,0    40.6 27,497.1      11514.5      21,92.5
Octoer 11956  07113 



-74-                                             ^Axnne  6
Table 5
FMUTH FLOID COIRDL S   AIINU  MJECT
-IY Im  COST 51M
(IX '000)                                (ion 'C00)
Z Total                                 I Total
I Foreign I.                            Z Fovuign la
Local   Foreign  Total   Ed,a e    Costs   Lcal  Fareig  Total  Exchae  Costs
1. NBTNENT CMSS
A. LAN AUISITMON                         112400.0        -112,"00.0        -      17  3S9Y6.4      - 3,696.4        -     17
B. CiIL E(
1. DAINAIE uMM FM  CIOTROL
EABTIRTSI                          154,600.0  4.57.9 159Y157.9        3     23  59102.3  150.4 5,252.7        3      23
SINEUKS1                            149,013.4 49,753.1 1979771.6     25     29  4,917.9 1409.2 6,527.1        25     29
Sb--Total NAIMROE AiN FLOOD CNrTRL    303,613.4 53,316.1 3569929.5      15     53 19OO20.2 19759.6 11,779.9     15      53
2. RIOS                                22.010.4  54697.4 27,707.8       21      4    726.4  199.0   914.4       21      4
3. BILD11NS                             2,201.0    569.7  2,770.8      21       0     72.6   18.8    91.4       21       0
Sub-Total Clui VI S                      327,924.9 S59583.3 387,409.1     15    57 10,919.3 1966.4 127W95.7        15     57
C. TEOUICL ASSISTN C   STIIIES            149430.0 12,606.9 27,036.9      47      4    476.2  416.1   992.3        47      4
3. SErTs AN  ITINAEIOnS                    4,478.0       -  49479.0        -       1    147.8      -   147.8        -      1
E. EWDRIT                                 10,327.6 12,719.0 23,046.6      55       3    340.8  419.9   760.6       55      3
F. DESIWN ICd6T. OUWR6ING                13,250.0 13,725.6 26,975.6      51      4    437.3  453.0   90.3         51      4
-. PILER ABC                              10,220.0  4.537.2 14v757.2      31       2    337.3  149.7   407.0       31      2
B. ENGINEERI9S IAWIN.                    649179.7       - 6179.7          -      9  2,119.1       - 2,119.1        -      9
tal IIMSNT COSS                             556,710.1 103172.0 6539,92.1     16     97 19373.3 39405.0 210778.3       16     97
Phical Cotinumces                         3279M2.5  5995B.3 33,740.8      15      6  1,061.9  196.6 1.27B.6        15      6
Price Cm tirnu is                        162,693.5 40,197.5 202M191.0     20      30  2,937.0  813.9 3.650.9       22     16
Total DllIIID  CONTINIENCIES                752,196.1 149,327.7 901,513.9    17    133 22,292.2 4,415.5 26,707.7      17    119
II. IECIET COSTS
s. WlFRTIIO I SIINIEIWIICE               19294.2        - 1,294.2         -      3    603.8       -   6W48         -      3
Totai ECKIT COSTS                            19,294.2       - 18394.2         -      3    603.B       -   603.6        -      3
Price Ctinwienies                          9,661.2       -  9661.2         -       1    195.6      -    S5.6        -      I
Total INCLUDING CNINBENCIES                 27,955.4        - 27,955.4        -      4    709.4      -   709.4        -       4
Total NELIE COSTS                           575,04.3 103,172.0 6789176.3      15    100 18,977.0 3i405.0 22M392.1     15    100
Plsical CAntirimnes                        32,79.5  5,958.3 39,740.8       15      6  14OA1.9  196.6 19279.6        15      6
Price Catinjncis                          172,354.7 40197.5 212,552.2      19    31  3.022.6  813.9 3.36.4          21     17
Total PIECT COTS                            780,141.6 149327.7 9299469.3      16    137 23,091.6 4,415.5 27V497.1     16    123
Ort         -                 -      --    --          -      ---
ketbobr It 1996 07:21



-75-
Annex 7
Table i
BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange / Local / Taxes
(US$ Million)
INTERNATIONAL     EUROPEAN       GOVERNMENT
DEVELOPMENT      ECONOMIC           OF
ASSOCIATION      COMMUNITY      BANGLADESH   TOTAL
AMOUNT          AMOUNT         AMOUNT     AMOUNT
_ ~~~~~~ =
I.  Foreign                  4.00            0.60             -         4.60
II.  Local (Excl. Taxes)     16.00            0.50            5.60      22.10
III.  Taxes                     -               -              0.80       0.80
20.00            1.10           6.40      27.50
October 3, 1986



-76-
Am=g 7
Table Z
BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
FINANCINC PLAN
Technical Assistance And Studies
(US$ Million)
INTERNATIONAL       EUROPEAN
DEVELOPMENT        ICOmOIIC
ASSOCIATION        coNKUIIT
Assessment of Polders A, B & C                0.54               -
Consultancy Services for Design and
Implementation Monitoring                  1.01
Technical Assistance and Studies
Monitoring and Evaluation (TA)              -               0.60
Agricultural & Fisheries
Development Plan                         -               0.06
Benchmark                                   -               0.17
Evaluation Study and Comple-
tion Report                              -               0.17
TOTAL                  1.55             1.10
.~~~ 



-77-
Annez 8
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
PROCUREMENT
The understanding listed below would make BWDB's procurement proce-
dures in conformity with IDA's guidelines:
(1) No numerical limitations will be placed on qualified firms which
may be registered, and all qualified firms from Bank member
countries and Switzerland (except as in 3 below) will be per-
mitted to bid even though they may not be registered;
(2) The deposit of earnest money to be submitted with tender shall be
in one of the following forms: (a) cash, (b) government
securities, (c) bid bond issued through a local or foreign bank,
and (d) a local or foreign bank guarantee. Foreign bonds or
guarantees would be duly endorsed by a local bank;
(3) All Bank member countries and Switzerland will be accepted as
eligible source countries, except in cases where the country can
produce documentation acceptable to IDA (copies of statutes or
official regulations) that prohibits commercial relations with
other countries;
(4) (a) Prior concurrence of IDA would be obtained before rejecting
all bids and/or negotiating with bidders, (b) any rebidding
because of lack of competition would be on fully open basis (not
limited), and (c) time for rebidding would not be less than
thirty days;
(5) No preference of any kind (i.e. waiver of bid bond, free tender
documents, local goods or labor restrictions, price preference,
etc.) will be given to any bidder under LCB procurement for the
reason that the bidder promotes economic development, e.g.
poverty alleviation, unemployment relief, greater use of local
products, small scale industries, public parastatals, etc.
(6) Prior approval of IDA would be obtained far any proposal to fiz
(during evaluation) positive and negative limits to the
engineers' escimate within which range bids would be taken as
responsive (bracketting of bids) and that on earthworks each
reach is evaluated independently and awarded to the lowest
evaluated responsive bidder for that reach;



-78-
Annex 8
Page 2
(7) Performance security will be required of all successful bidders
on a uniform basis (regardless of whether such firms are
pre-registered or are government organizations) and the perfor-
mance security should be in the form of one of the following: (a)
a bond issued through a local or foreign bank duly endorsed by a
local bank, (b) a bank guarantee, (c) government security, and
(d) cash;
(8) All disputes under LCB procedures shall be resolved in accordance
with the Bangladesh Arbitration Act of 1940 by fully independent
arbitrator(s) not in any way associated with the parties to the
dispute or having any responsibility for the contract or the work
thereunder;
(9) The prior approval of IDA is required in order to waive any
procurement procedures described in the DCA or the Bank's
procurement guidelines;
(10) Failing agreement on extension if the contract period due to
delay in delivery of materials (as presently practiced by BWDB),
BWDB will reimburse contractors for any substantial additional
costs incurred because of any government delay/non-performance
in furnishing materials/equipment etc. as specified in the con-
tract. The intent to claim compensation for such delays shall be
notified to the Executive Engineer in writing within seven (7)
days with copies to the Superintending and Chief Engineers con-
cerned. Any disagreements shall be settled as provided under
provision (8) above.
(11) BWDB's Dredger and Mechanical Engineering Units will not par-
ticipate in the ICB and LCB.



Fern W. tm                                                                                  EBANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD COITROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Baransi Project
PROCUREMENT ECHIOULE FO IOUIFUINT ANo MATERIALS
(I tend.   b          "rate   _     ___
seheoulo)                _             _    .e                                                                                            -  -  -        -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
a concrete mor              I_                                                                                                                           I I       T  I _  I
12 pneumtic vibrators   IC          60        I                                                                                                          I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 0I 
2 air coneasors 600 cf ICU   1480   Wv    _ _ _ _ _ I  _ _ . _    I                                                                                                             1 _ l  I L
:I ee n. a  vi rators   ICE  2000
I .oker vibrators   ICE    16000n_T_
1 coac. testigrS equip.   ICB       700
Tcoepact. control fiel   Pt.   -00    ...
equipmet                                 o     _        _I                                   -
12mustatic hand opera ad
Transport Vehicles          2 ten  raf~
3-A wAeeled Drive          IEs   1060 9         0-
1-7 ton pick up truck    ICE        600             1    e
I sedai car 1300 cc         IC=     250 I
1 road roller              ICe    1000
I speed boats 14 fti  4   Fs        834  AA
BP eallios;1o intorcycl.m
SO eel 16 bicycles                        ArA                                                                                                    
I speed boat 14'ft         LOBI    15         df
4-40 HP engines                           RvI
e _~~~~~~~~~~~~CU tv                                                                                                                    I                   I^C _a "s o  I6 I"T  IO"^ts  t In ^  I I
outsfaying & osw^Ls^a*a  vsou"oz osou roan                                                                                             n Na        
1 leVellilI instrumnt    Ps         100      W
1_ Tbe_wa^-zood ^lto       Ps      IS   ",A
I                                         Aheododite
2 sonal0 typewritr         LEE      10     er
5 programmble calult   LU             0                                                                                                                                                                    14w
e~~wm~~~w~-m,y~~~~,m US                    a~~                                                  Itnug   wcevqLa  eotl  FA, aL DILOIPATILT2  Ltg-gA"OhCL"TI7AAs
tMA.INVI15y~AN iONi          I, TO P                    IDCA CLEAAAMKI of PION 4CCUSOIC"O



FOAM -IBANGLADESH
FOtRTH FLOOD COiTROL AND DRAIHAGE PROJECT
Blranal Prolect
PROCUNKMgNT ICI eULE FOR I0UJWINT AND MAY ItIIAL
I photocopyin  maehine   ICa          550  A_LAAOAL                1      1.1i
1 plan printer producing 1CR         1400  mama                  ---  
negatives                                fa ._
12!011"e. Isuie nt Cl  tider) ____A_
l-12   Lthe machine         lCB    1200  mavm
1-12 IVA Generator          ICR     1200  McrJAL
I Battery Oh rg.r           ICB       200 __.I._ a
1 das Weiding set           oIC       500 naIf
1 Chain pulley & Tarod  ICC           200 _
.aAumtmee~hu.uaueIn_ _ _~T MflIEAT  _9 W4ViTi                                     I DA IC @ Y        A PItIAI SgItg Al CII                                             
zne . _  .  _   = =  = Ie 1  1   I LS YAIA                                                . . . . . . . . . . I  . SI  . S  _ _ _
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ TT = = = 1 f E | | I I ~~~~~~~~~~_____S    ____
e.~_  ,,"a0  m   e                                                                                                                                     _   E     __ __ _
F-~WMA amYMe IIIwy  _a                   _             __ naMLLL_  mlI I  N          
_~~~~A M                                                                              .     .    .    .     .    .     .    .    .     . LL . E .    .     .    .     . r . l .     .     .     .     .     .    .    .  -    -nm -
1wAt"                                                               I I A      I  IlLI  I I IL  I I I  I-IT  I I  I I I I  _ I I I I
_oetl8         _          _         -o_allll__udIS         E          Zof111111                                Z@EllItolltallOOlll-li
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                .   .     .   .   .   .   .   . L1 .   .   .   .                .    .   .   .     .   . r .      _
_ 8r w _ e arn                                Z n"nvaytewovZee_za                             |MCAOMON ACeT*"ta                       .nr,r,                                                          jr 1[
Xon= to^      XX O"411Oll                                                                                                              of.       .40fto"lX1  Xo  ttl    0



FOURTh VWO(# CWTRL AND VtAlgfaG PROECLT
lauanal project
I'VoCuriment Schedule for Civil Vorks
Eubanknnt. 
2 contract.                                                                                                                                                
RU1144tLoGASo Ch 43-50
(7 ha) I contract         LCl    3.3   "
Few Cbi -15-  (14 km)     LCDI 6.3IIII                                                                    i II         II       II        IIII      IIII         IIII    
e contracts .                                                                                                                                             IIIIIIIIIIIII                             
Rev, Chi 29-43 km (14 km)               APM
6 contracts.C                      .      vm                                                                                                                                           
(3 ha) I contrac          LCD    0.4   "'mmD
AW T A 4 4.                                                      . ..                   . . . . . . . . ..L                                 
&tMrns
maa auAaACt.WUcAO LU   aa                                                        PMNULIA St                   UIACSrI I
.-m,av~~ww'~ ma., inu~~atm  ma            P LU CLU*AMVf.lftg                                                                                                                          a.PIAM1011VTT1LC-OCMIN
I LULLS malta,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



,,;g   S N~                                                                                          8ANGLADESH
FOURTH FLnOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
earanai Project
Bangladedh                                   Procuteaent Schedule For Chvil Work.
| .-. "me_                                                86                          87                                                 To8  89         19
N 6   c.,fit - bDrain  LCD         9.6 _eTw=
35 km - 10 contracts                       CULO AA
ciwar_tnt U.arod Na i                       M*1IAL
ldals to Iandakuga &         LC     8.3   r v__
*evjit'A asse  30 km..........
Narod Khal D 11-
25 km - a contracts I.                9                                   1   1                      1 a      EL     I I 6.    fI I I I II C  61.9  II I I I 
25 ha   8 1eont reete                         LA"                                                                   I I I I I I I I I I I I I   II I I I I I I I I I I                    I TI,
DO, D9, DIO to Gorad        LC8   12.4   _"                                                                         I I I I I I I I M      11 I   II I  I I I I  I I  I I I               I I
lai, 45 km - 14 contrat                     p                                                                         I I I I I TI I   I I I . .        I I I . _
Mlnor Canal D- thru D3                     AMARAL                                                                           I IIL I I1
17 km - 2 contract.l        LICD    1.8                                                                                         II 
liorCanal -  uah                         MAML                                                                             5ofIg.             t -IIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
to level D13, D14                           Mm                                                                                                    tI                                                      
26 km - 3 contract.         LCB    2 8                                                                                       I I . _  I I I I I   I   I _ _ _ _ _       I _ .
Comart_nt C                 _                     L                      I _                                                                     I _      I III I   9 I I I I I I
minor canal' Cl thru        tCs    4.5    >                                                                                         I I I I
Cll, 42 km - 5 contract                     AcnI          _                                                                       I  I I  I
coinartmnt *                                                         tKm                  W;11L:III11IlL t.;11111    4   5i   1ld                                              lIIrf  
Italacbal Rhal up to         LCa    5.5            _Lnr
20 km - 6 contract.            e                                    I                      I I I             I I I I I I I I   I I I I I I I   I   I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I _
fl~~~~~~rm~~wvz       l]lII,      I OaW.Y 5i                                                                                           1 *?I~S  IN111fW lftIW__ 
m muma                                     S T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~I n~CAtaM5  OcM,t O50I   li  LWIIA  t                           oro0pmItity
Uu-6 so            I .                                       SL  IUIMI                                          LL1 1   1    mL    L   L1   L L      11-LOL ow_. _rT.
_n                                               ,_s            w=   zr__g_~~~~~~~~~~~TA%"VAUAIMOIWAUF4OMIAns     FE&LUSItAl          Af  ~w bqprg
g.S|          m~M m * I|" s                                    rd EVIIATSOSu mrzs^@ tO                                                                         ^ I
s-in        WAwMM  ? ua   ~      jon7gm                        AM LO A        IO4*                                                                   h am 'MIGOT1?1
e-~~YWALISOyin'i~~~~~,Sm                      p m~~AR~AMOOTAwgCi 0Mgyh



BANGLADESH
0 es                                                                            PO,rnri F'OOD CO.T:Ph)L At) D   L4A,'AE PROJICT
hraOhl ProIEet
MROCURIMENt tCHtDULU FOR CIVIL NS
lUna  Caas   22 & 1
thru 310. 70 km -         Lc5     7.0  "vwm                                                                                        IIIL                      1               
9 coat_,cta
iu 1Ii  thrn 38  LUB       4.3  moa,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .| . .w                                                                    .F i. lU3.i'W1'lUi .g . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _.   1l1iiUfit1X1i71[ll
A4 thrue   LUB      6.5  afsn
AIG   60 km. 9 contracts                                                                                                                                                                   
tXAl ll-lEESLC                  I      *         3e                   1BL                                                        I I I       E I I II I I I I I I I I I I I I I I>-11I
6 emIricts                              AcR"                                                                              . . . . . .                             . . . . .
_               ,      ,      ,                                                   I I I -1IIl1111      11 B rI,11 e-                     I I-I -       I I   I   I               
M109t" t S1.4113 nos)   LU      I 7.1                                                                                                    I II I I I I I I It !U                            I I I I I
Vootb:uds (60 "so)
2 contractsLC                      .
CulV rta (0  Ios)                                                            I                                             I I I  I I  1- t  I II I I I I I I I L( II  I I I I  I I  I I I In)  I I I I
wtrocts  toB                     3.5I I  ,W^,,                                              I I I                I III     I I                    IIL^    I%  1I-   I _ _.__ ID 1 |L__ _        Ll
Ibrpla    t    toI                                                         |LCJ I  2.1 I  IS  0I  I  I  I  i  .L    .I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  VWt    I  I  I  I  I  i
brUmae (I a")             LCI     2.1
2 contracts
1qravm tu to 3l_ ayI
brug. (4 2o.)             Les    20.5       ,
4 coetracts
Iioay. b:ug. (I no)
I contract
X{*tBrSF,.{lFO)-?  I~~                       ~~~~ IAtIs  WICUAYo _IIIIIIJI10N06Ir    III     III   II   _eI .11 _ _          .__  A_ _L J                            - -IiilliilWT
|S~~                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~ YIinfIw..Imat eml Cg4CWeQ  to a.4nta
on            p inn g..,,g~st 4 6i,C
..mmAuin  inin                                           I ..a.Cin.41        e
OU_ ACtooz         "IMMi                                          O.N_ en...
; ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-*t-C



*   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~rwmmmw                                            mk   ""MI,IO  0V08  k*&p AW                                                                             nU A UnA
3                                                             _~~~~~~~~~~~~~AWiU  I* *ow *P1WW                      *&.WU.,ininfAa ain.w,u  I
41PPLAN   I-1ZU03 s.                     C =)
A   I  I  I  I   I  I  I  I  I  I  I   I  I  I   I   II  I  I  I  I  I  I   I  I  I   I  I  I] I  I  I  I  I  '   I  I  I  II I   I  I  I  I  I   I   I  I  I  I  I^ I  1 III0     II       II I  I        IGLMN
gillitill                                        FFIIIIIIIIIIIII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1WU~                                                       ~     3,        ZiIII  3   I~ 
Tr . .1 . I . I . . . . . . .  I . .  ._ .  . I I . .  I_  I I I I I                          I I I I I- I I I I I Isola oi        _       I  I I I_       IIi-                                       L-    -dlps   oa;nypo
.      .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . ,,, .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . a   . ,    .   .                                 . . .. . . . . . . . . . .1 U
Tr    1 = T - ^  Tr                   _ . _ _ _  . _              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I I I I I I lEM  E' l 1-   Il-J   7T1T_TT        n  u                                            op 1)
2 1.303 13(on  I
= | * | Ll~~~~~~~~~~~.                          1  I  O R   A  I  1 -  I  i-   -   -   -   --   -   - X -   -   -   -   -        .   .   .   .   .   . ' .t       rl                              qdA M Lq   31   w a k.    g
CsoU t
t  s     .                                     .    .  _ . I     I     . .     .     .     .    .     I    I    I I    I                ,    : ,-, I    I I   I    I  I    I........................................... I  aw  atoa
-        - -illllll  - - - -E -Ir - - -i -*                                                                                                                                         IF
F I I        If I I I                                                                                                                                                                swum|w-I         1~-      i_|i||{~~~~~~           tEi E. i  tt  11el  )In:|@u 
P 1 1 1 1 a I I I                                                                        Olt      Cl (IU 1) 1vpl  IV SIWA _
.    I   1  I    D IT L1                       I    TT   _   l I    I    I  I    I    I    I    I I    I  _               I    I    I    I    I   I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I_A  _{0 )X I
T                                .  . T _  .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .   . T T  .     ._             .    .  .T  .    .  .     .     .     .     .     . _     .     .    .     .     ._ _. .  
OOPAN   I-C  9311      (IOU  E)30a, T
A  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CU1 ac 090 
I     ,,,,, I  .  .  .  .    .  .   .  .  .r     .  __ .    v      ITIII  I  I   I  I   I  I  I    "  Ia I  I  I  I   I  I  I  II t  w
. . . . . . .l- . . .- . . . .r . . . . . . .    . .T1 . . . . . .a .1 .iRet .~ . . . . . . .- . . .-l . . .ai . . . . .
usm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~i
sot ITAID JJ mjnp;qaD    lumeoi
.:LOM  WNM  MY" 'IU    OWu o uWT
F _I-f-TV



*                                                                                                                                                                -                   "                  - se- ws1"s" eI *   
.    ~ ~~~~.     .            . I   .  .  .       . . .  . . . .     . .    . ,.  . . .  . .  . .    . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .  1. .               11 . .f ld ...-: . ..    . . . . .- . . . .n ."" . . . .
_ _   1   - - -I,  I  _ _ ;  _ ; ; ; ; _ _  ; _ ;    _  _ : _                                                                                                                                           11M1M 1       1        1 *  YaWSo4A&W4 
_~~~~~~ a                                    I 1l-  I I I   I I I II    I I I I I I I   ~1JUI I II          AI  Ia I I H"Lbll III    I I I II I I I I I I I I 9'11 o 1
. . I . IF    rLu   . . . . . I. . I   tl . I .   __3!                                                                                                                                             1                                                                        -.   1fs1         TT 1111   TI  n  C      ob|.... q   09) 1
TrT  =  I  _  ;  ;  _  I  , _  _ . _ i 1 1 1 1 1 1 r   _                                      _                                                       _                                                     _~~~~~~~~P.0 *~  rn:es 
.        .    .     . __ .     .    .     .     .     .    .     .     .   .     .     .     .     .   __ .     .     .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .   .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  
s . . @ s ~~~I  _.  1.........._.  .______I I I I I I I II    I 1.          .I I Ll I I I I I I    I I I I I I I  I I II III II I II I-I I' I Iw                                                                                                                                            g)is$a
_    m 17       I          _                                $       w . _      : : _  1 1 1 1 1 1          Tlq        lt   llT 1 1 1      1 1' 1' 1 1 1 1 1 11 11 I    II    II I II II I I I      I I I I I                      I Irwan                                         s
a a I I I I I I I I                     .                                     I I I         tow  : _  II II         tI_        II      P _G     :_||U    I I I I I                                                                  I      W |-M          in                    5  11  1a 3|  t  r        0  111 a
I _-  A-   9 m                              tXJNIM                                                  mu       In                               I FL II I I I            rJ::[ 
_-       -     -    -    -     -    -     -    -                             _-                 -    -       -                                .    . .   = =  __.. _ .  _ .                 . .  _ _ _ _ .  _  _ .  _  _  ._
_N _  1 _;z    *01a,z0a 1(o I
S3Sjul U@383IITAI
_  l  l l _~~~~~I                              1   .._..._1  _1  _r1sb 1llXT    r           1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 111    11    111     1 1 1l 1 1 RP. wap
t~~~~~~~~-  L--                               I 1-trl !!|           ||tj I  I I I     1 [yo   !El IIIII Ili Ellll XIII IIITI lI I I I I                                                                                         va 
I __         I                      .  _ 1  .   .  . .  I I I  I I I I Ig I                                                           n. I    Iw II I II I   I                                                                        1     10  1 gm     1tvtim               : N
I A 9 I F I                                                                                                                                                                 CIO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IPPUI~ 1U~zp
TRIIPWo-s sawinU
Sroz ana   lOU1     101   glopmE 3ua                                                                                  0
Mold ezn  an 15Z13 mu  iin



1.0  MW.~I.            *SM Wg A W  . .a A"AS=i01
~~~~~1?AI UIWU  lI"yon"                                              ULL-
l0&t>_@lSaanl t t 14_* ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9o"                                                                                                                           -_sum
*                                                                >                                                                                                 Wt t _Iwsa,*&*@,w->4 _t_-
IA I ~ ~   ~            ~           ~            ~            ~           ~           ~            
.       .     .    .     .    .     .    .    .    .    .    .     .     .     .    .    .    . . . . .   .   I.     ..                                       . .   .. .     . .  .. .     . . . . .
Li I I_-JLI I I I  _Iffi   _ Y        _ _         _ _   1'1-                               I II I I III1 -  1 1-   t1 1 11           1                                       _  I I I III I I I
. ,,, :   I_ I   I   I   I   I   I   I  I    I  I   I   I   I   I   I,  I,, Il  I,                                                                                                            A   ,,, -mll*,iLt
.......     :._...         _........                 _.    _ ..         _ . .,                                                                            ...-              |'|l     , ,  5 ,,1 , , , , ,    
II I      I   I  I  I  I____ I    _ I                                     I I I I      I I      TTiI1I      I I I IT 7                   I_]TT            1    TIl I I           TT IIIT I             T I    3
T : _ _ _ I _ _ _ -T    _  _    _    I    _    _   _   1nX  &'-    - - - - -- -    -
.axsw____   r_____ffi-rl  _   _l i          li i        li l         l
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1-
:M&3 :                        ininIA81l- !cqm  oA
_        Iv I     ___t                                -  n rTr                    lln r I I I  I I               n Ez             -  I I Il I I            I KU  nu*
.z _
vmta IINKAYM   TOM a-w-U nitial~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ua;
    17-'    1    1    IW   _    .   .   e   _  _  i;  eE  _ .r * lzLL tl | 1-1 1 1 lltlg 1aaa t~~~~~~~~~~~~~i, alp;.
FTTT1TT .1 1 155 z _ _ I _ * | snt , [ Je~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 33 t*1 aod -qx
TnTT rT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ll  TI  T   __ _g Fl:lU('I143LFLK ' sLi  'I SIIle I3OWnd1-- 11- >aB
-~~~~~~~~ni
_       .                                                                                                                                                            _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nh~roY



-87-
Annez 9
BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Disbursement by Financier by Semester
(USs Million)
INTERNATIONAL    EUROPEAN       GOVERNMET
DEVELOPHENT     ECONOMIC           OF
ASSOCIATION     CONMUNITY      BANGLADESH   TOTAL
SEMESTER         AMOUNT          AMOUNT          AMOUNT      AMOUNT
1                                              e            -
2             365.2             -             396.7       761.9
3             922.1            54.9           667.0    1,644.1
4.            922.1            54.9           667.0    1,644.1
5.          2,720.1           234.1         1,444.5    4,398.6
6.          2,720.1           234.1         1,444.5    4,398.6
7.          3,408.9           212.9           554.4    4,176.1
8.          3,408.9           212.9           554.4    4,176.1
9.          2,582.9            10.0           263.8    2,856.7
10.          2,582.9            10.0           128.8    2,721.7
11.             98.1            10.0            52.1       160.2
12.             98.1            10.0            52.1       160.2
13.             85.3            30.9            87.9       204.1
14.             85.3            25.3            87.0       197.6
Total         20,000.0         1,100.0         6,400.0   27,500.0
September_ 2_5_______
September 25, 1986



-SB-                    hsAn- 10
FOURTH FLOOD CONROL AND DRANAGE PROJECr
Cropping Calendar
Ij  I  I I
2~ 1-
- -    -~riTm
-SU11111]
RIJPwowa....m



: -89-                                             Anx 10
Table 1
UANOLAESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINACE PROJECT
CR07 LOSSES it RAJUmtAf DISTRICT
Area Partiallv Damaxod                              Area daaged               Total  Production
e r   Area Completely  Affected  Extent of Full  Total Area        Total      as percent of  Lose of District Lossee Percent
Dmaged          Area    Damage Equiv.-  Ccopletely    District    Total Cropped   Prod.   Prod.  of Total
D -- gad    Cropped Area    Area                           Production
(C)            (C) (ac) (c.c)                           (Ac)          (2)          (tong)  (tone)
1971      48870          33460        14053          62923         442U85        14            23252   132530     18
1973        -            15000         3000           3000         451420         1              980   150530       1
1973 IIT    -             1000          200            200            -           -              240     -         -
1974      17830          35650        10695          28525         425855         7            10550   154075      7
1974 1W    440              570         256            696            -                          800     -         -
1977      14900          22000         4400          19300         477060         4            6253   181435       3
1978      41700           5200         2600          44s00         483970         9            15720   171035
19S0      52176          51840        29549          81725         313970        26            23749   113980     21
1982       5346         105698        22826          ZU172         462170         6            10510     -         -
D. Man
1971      99000          23440        11720         110720         281000        39            44618    92900     48
1972        450            640          102            552         383990         0              180   119195      0
1973 June   -            40000         8000           8000         329000         2             2485   118680      2
Do (Sept) 43000           26750       10967           53967           -           -            17050     -         -
1974       3750          31920         4788           8538         383305         2            3160   141770       2
1977      18740          31000         3720          22460         376000         6             8460   149170      6
1978       6050            750          292           6342         374700         2             2516   144540      2
1982       1020          49570         8427           9447            -           -             4285      -        -
T. man
1971      15110           7670         3758          18868         635390         3            10410   242980      4
1971 RT   5250             -            -              -           647840         -             753_   256700      3
1973      0oooo          27540        10190          90190         575000        16           342901  235155      15
'974      13500           2240          784          14284        636795          2             5710   265095      2
I 97       7833            240           53           7886        660235          1            3928  315320        1
1982        730          25386         3554           4284           -            -             1980      -        -
1171       4125           8560         4023           8148          65875        12            19148   136360     14
1973         -            1000          200            200          88330         0              560   244420      0
1974         90           1970          492            582          43400         1             1750   104690      2
1975         -             -             -              -           41220         -              -      25255
1977        590           2070          290            880          62560         1             2525   184552      1
1978       1240            400          200           1440          63755         2             4248   180660      2
1982        642           1825         1131           1773            -           -             6116      -        -
3ueear Cape
1971        500            -             -              -             -           -               -   1504800      -
1974         -              500          50             50          89550         0             1000  1799410      0
1977        500           4670         3269           3769          79675         5            16405  1469275      1
1978        846            400          200           1046          77175         1            19289  1397770      1
1982         -            4370           50             50            -           -           40073       -        -
1/  Only for periods of actual crop losses are presented.
hfurcll    7%arbook of Agricultural Statiatics of Bangladesh. 1983-84
Statistical Yearbook of Bangladesh. 1983-84



-90-
Annex 10
Table 2
BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Crop Yields
(Kg/ha)
Present     Without         With
Aus (LOC)                  1,500        1,500          1,800
T. Aman (LU=)              1,800        1,800         2,100
T. Aman (HYV)             2,900         2,900         3,500
B. Aman                    1,700        1,700         1,900
Boro (HYV)                3,300         3,300         4,000
Wheat (Irr.)              2,000         2,000         2,200
Wheat (N.Irr.)             1,600        1,700         1,800
Jute                      1,200         1,200         1,600
Sugarcane                47,000        47,000        50,000
Pulses                       700          700           800
Sources:  Sample Survey, DSPI, BWDB, 1984
Mission Estimate, 1985
Feasibility Study for Baranai Subproiect, 1985



-91-                            Annem 10
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESR
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Baranai Shallow Flooded Area Subproject
Production and Inputs
Unit         Present  Without Project  With Project
Cropping Intensity      Percent            148             137              153
Cropping Pattern
T.AUS LOC                  Ha          13.456          10,764          15,070
T.AMAN LOC                 Ha           6,728           6,190           8,073
T.AMAN HYV                Ha            1,076           1,076           3,498
B.AMAN                    Ha            8,881          10,764           2,960
BORO-HYV                  Ha            2,691           2,691           2,691
WHEAT IRRIGATED           Ha              807             807           1,615
WHEAT NON IRRIGATED        Ha           6,997           6,997           6,997
nuTE                      Ha            2,153           1,615           2,960
SUCARCANE                 Ha            7,266           5,113           8,073
PULSES                    Ha            !,651           5,651           5,651
Sub-Total                             55,706          51,669          57,590
Kain Production
PADDY                    Ton           59,393          56,971          72 713
WHEAT                    Ton           12,810          13,509          16,147
JUTE                     Ton            2,583           1,938           4,736
SUGARCANE                Ton          341,500        240,315          403,665
PULSES                   Ton            3,956           3,956           4,521
By Products
STRAW                    Ton           84,288         80,655           99,867
WHEAT STRAW              Ton           12,810          13,509          16,147
SUGARCANE-TOPS           Ton           27,320          19,225          32,293
Operating
Inputs
PADDY SEED              Ton            2,766           2,645           2,597
UREA                    Ton            1,409           1,150           2,586
TSP                     Ton              893             678           1,391
HP                      Ton              412             326             757
MANURE                  Ton            2,826           2,825           3,390
WHEAT SEED              Ton              975             975           1,076
JUTE SEED               Ton               26              19              35
SUGARCANE CUTTINGS      Ton           36,330         25,565           40,366
PULSES SEED             Ton              158             158             158
PESTICIDES             TK/Ha           2,343           1,749           5,597
IRRIGATION STW         HOURS             377             377             453
BULLOCK HIRED         PAIRDAYS           340             314             393
Labor
UNSKILLED LABR       HADDAYS (1000)   9,066            8,119           9,961



-92-
Annez 10
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
BANGLADES
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Baranzai Medium Flooded Area Subproject
Production and Inputs
Unit        Present  Without Project  With Project
Cropping Intensity     Percent          131             119             138
Cropping Pattern
T.AUS LOC                Ha          1,977             228           1,445
T.AMAN LOC               Ha            836             608           2,205
T.JfMAN HYV             EHa            -                -            1,065
B.AMAN                   Ha          5,019           6,235           3,346
BORO-HYV                 Ha          2,813           2,813           2,813
WHEAT IRRIGATED          Ha             76              76             380
WHEAT NO- IMRRCATED      Ha            912             912             912
JUTE                     Ea            152             152             304
SUAGRCANE                Ha            989             532           1,065
PULSES                   Ha          1,141           1,141           1,141
Sub-Total                          13,915          12,699          14,676
Maip Production
PADDY                    Ton        22,283         21,261           28,568
WHEAT                    Ton         1,612           1,703           2,479
JUTE                     Ton           182             182             487
SUGARCANE                Ton        46,460         25,017           53,228
PULSES                   Ton           798             798             912
By Products
STRAW                    Ton        29,717         28,177          36,860
WHEAT STRAW              Ton         1,612           1,703          2,479
SUGARCANE-TOPS           Ton         3,717          2,001           4,258
Operating
Inputs
PADDY SEED              Tin           817            749             785
UREA                    Ton           491            436             944
TSP                     Ton           213             167            374
MP                      Ton           125             106            237
MANUWRE                 Ton           570            570             684
WHEAT SEED              Ton           124             124            161
JUTE SEED               Ton             2              2               4
SUGARCANE CUTTINGS      Ton         4,943          2,661           5,323
PULSES SEED             Ton            32             32              32
PESTICIDES            TK/Ha           840            751           1,827
IRRIGATION STW        HOURS           318            318             357
BULLOCK HIRED        PAIRDAYS          78             70              92
Labor
UNSKILLED LABOR      KANDAYS (1000) 2,387          2,135           2,678



.  rumD rumo r.ni ii 1zur
114 VA UDfWllMU DI WUNL IU NM1 F.. Niui
FUlStUL MM
FIUA WM                                                                                 Film WA
IllAwi                                            Ell Prtkc                                                     i "l
vIIIU                                                    lUh pr                                                    Intr
1       2        3       4        5       4    73.21        1       2        3       4        5       A    71bJ         I       2      3       4       5      4    7121
rU6                                10,312,9 10x.1.4. 1021.14 10,1146. 10133.0  9,949.9  9,949.9 INT.I  10, 30.9 11.20.  11,120.3 12#.201  12091.4 11,4H9,       -  519.1 1.s33.  144S 2.10.6 2,74l.s 27s49,1
MET        -                         2.644   24049.2  2t9.5  2,113.9  2,134,2 2I13.4  2.13.4  2046.9  2fI"J  2i2131.  2.310,5  2#449.2  2,f34    20,13,                3.2   162,4  24644   300   421,4  421.4
AT                                     111.4    M.S   414.4   43.4   414.7    3.5    3o.l   5114   594.4    75.4   762.0              5.       5.4    9A.         -  Im2.0  2"91   321.4  43.e  541.4  14o
VM1                                  64.5901   412.7.6  1.14.?  5,425.7  S.034,4   4443,  4,U4l, 4d5em.o  4,63.14   .61,  F300113   112,3  7.000  ?.60           -  U3,l211.3 1tm2.421.1174 1111.44 1,54.4
407.4   471.4   410.4   474A.   4710      410.4   410.4   470.4    63.3   497.3   Slo.   524.2             537.4    1           H3.4    h.i    *.3   53       67.2   47,2
6TGUI wIn pv*aIIm                      2I0.7   19.146 3.f044, 1,547.'4 11W.90 1';,ll 3 7,411.3 ;.37. 3 250 2              .     UI.9 20       1 7 2 4 .4,357.4       *      .  23 . ,     .49 ,4 sl3.3 4ff9j.34,.
IV Pm*alt
FM~                                    239.2   237.1    N.A    233    Ills7   W0A3          9.6l   2192   224.    23411   242.    251.2   259.6  n .61            -    fp5   19,3   29.1   39.s   34.0  5*1
IAY VW                                  33.3    33.7    34        34A.    34.t    3.3l    3.3       I       3.o      M6.7    3.4      4.2    42u.       2.0       -    I.t    2.4      40    s5.      d?    Jo t
-AWAig-TYS                              1002     9        6.9     6.3    717        7.1     7.1    30.2    l01s   1l.9    13.2    l1i4    12.0    12.0                  It.    le.    2,9      I9     4,9    4.9
WTu  I Fr.itts                            242.7   244.4    2.    25M.3   254.2   2523    25.3   26.7   272.4   262.3   M.S   3030   333.6    3.                      -   33,6    2       2.2      .     41      die?
6. Vuw 09 Fudmlm                       2.2170, 191#7172 MUS.  HIM31M3.34MU2 17.W3A 174U. 2f.270,0 2137n.4 22,332.2 22,94.4 23.90   24,l13.2 24.01.2                  - 1lfi.2 2,#7271.3   W 1 54. S  7.47 ,6i 7i1f7,6
tl Wen Cost
FM31 KID524.3   519?    313  01.5   541.9   543.3  s34e3   5M4S    37.9   513,4    Mot,   4n.,   492.a    42.2                                              .   -3.    .37    -5.1.   *7.3   4.2    -9.2
TV                              131.1   343.6   31i.    1232        2l3.9   114.    334.   l3l5.    l344.      62,3   Ills?   2147    In.t2   232              *, 2A    424    Oil7  94,   12314    ,104.,
o. 5s'                                        s2.6    34s.  4.2    45.9    43.4    43.4    51.3           l 3.4    72.      1     .34    w3    ll.  3l3ls   *   30.4   21.    33.2  4O.2   576    17.
NM                                210    23.0    21.0    21.        21.0    23.0    2A0       23.0    236      22#7    2H.1    24R4    2.2        3.2             eU      to?    2.ts    3.4    4.2    4.2
miiaU                             V7ol    62.7    79.3    73.6    69.        45.      d1.     H       106.3  l33.    lf33.l      3.l   foi.o   206.6        -   21.4   52.7    0.3   33.4  3420   142.
W6aTIU 511                      m3.    M3        M3.    31s1       n.    M1.    11.    11.    199.2   4117.    432.9   445.    4 55.0   410                       1 a2l   59.5   54.9   47.4   77.0   77.0
111,   n3o                        7.6   M7o.    13   34.7   34.6    3.    334.    37.4i    39.92    43.4    412.3   424.7   437.7    47.7                  *     le.s   13.l   50.4   d0.4   675    "7.s
WAYT                              31.0   393.9   39.    393.0   393.0   391.0   393,0   39,00  I39.    30,9   202.9    24.I   210.6   216.6                 *    4.0       .    l339   35.6   39.6      96
Jmt  M19                                    5.4     Sol      1.0     4.1      4.4      4.4      .       6.3     de7      7.2      7.4     6.l      I.l     0*      1      3.5    2.2    too    3.7    l.7
Umi    awii                      3104    7O2   7u4,6   64.e    33.0    7*0.0   57.    3N,    3.               6440    64140    Mo2,        ff0,    ont.     .   "o4.f  32,0  3*u.0  24.0   Mo.    Mot
Mm   M2                          @ loss    l12@t1A    los   11.     les      ISO$    IC$    11.0    M11.   tel           el       ol    loll    te.ll1
T1   IAs                          3.6723 .a79.4  27064  2U6,9  2,545.3  24434  2,443.1 27.l 3.32.2  31).4  3,27.7  1.43l,  3.S.5  3.353.1                       -  211.6  424.6  444.6  8639 3,l0,3 10.lol3
lIlgW Ldvt
LIUD  LA                       4,37.4  3.96,  3,154.1  3,635.3  3W4A44  3l33   3.W33    4.0,  4l34.6  4,294.S 4429.5  4,54.0  4792.6  41.M02,                -  249.0  544.4  114.2 l33.4 3.69O .03.390
sh-T.tal .uU                        do-MO?7 4,407.2  .4447  4,242,2 6410.7 5W9.  5,97.2  4.9t09   j.14.0  7.431,9  7.74132  71974,0  finals 1,25.1                     W0l  947.  M4. s3,4l. 2,439,l 2.419,1t
CO  FU  IE WM  F12                     13#1340.3 1.0999 122.64  MM.1.5  2323.  l35204, 32,044.2w  3,340.3 33ll49.s 134.403 3.1M12 31..0  42i4.6 13 24.                -  649.4 3,7.9 2,471.7 3d44. 4.11#7 4W7



esrmN noo          MD 6655K POLCI
114 Rd Uo*Im?u IN KIlLS ILSow 4MOM! Fort rado
F2IMKIN. KMK
FISA   EA  III                                                                            I
12t1.A                                                     with. Project                                                   IFm
11min P.s*wtSm -i
NM4                                MM.11, IM16.41 MUM11  23,395.4 25.243  M3.41.2 13.141.2 MM.75? HAIM4, M2350 IS.49.0 24v,145 744.11MM.7? 17.437,?                     6141. 1,711.2 26407.4 b.55.4 41.409 4,514.7 4.554,7
WAY?                                 911,6   421,?   932.    942.4i   M.9   443.2   463.2   911.4  1.404   14414.4  l.1,7.  1s.2,3 h04011 1O.401,  le0l.8                02.2  14,2  254.   3454  4310.  43A.  430.
5Jim                                 129.4   I29.    129.4   129.4   129.6   129.4   129.4   129,4  .65.    254    2.0,1   M955    434.4   34.    3454                   34.3   74.   I19.J  145.?  224.   21640  2164.
0M1w                               3,177.2 2.54.9 2.S90,4  2,297.4 21M0.1  1.710,0  2.7290  1,271.  1.47,3  351.3,  LOW1,  1.44.? 3.440,   .4040  3,440.0               303.3  76. 1,113.0 MCI0, 5,429.2 1,929. 2M99.
mmLE                                  334.0,   340    34.0    334.0   33 4.0 SU  336.0   334.0   334.0   345.4   355.2   364.0   374.4   W  364. 0   304.0340             9.4   19.2   21.11   NA  .4 6 06.0   6.0
hYgtaS bin P.suttl.                  10.3301,117910,17.507I,017M.0971161111.4  62141.11 WWI6,  I11,3.1 1.77.5 2M.245 2M1241. 22,29.5 2M.43M  23.429,3 23.429,3         - 5.53.5 2,47.5 4.2441 5,409.1 7.54.77414. 7.I11.5
"M5                                  2M.4   270.   2W2.    24.0   242,2   259.4   2594   273,    5.    290.    JIM.    334.4   SM.              339.    339.3        -   11,1   20.6   44.4   42.    10.9   79.9   79.
I       214.0    I  1552    11   15.5    15.7    15.7    14.0    Ids    27.9    19.11.1    22.2    22.0    21o1    I                1.3    2.7    4.1    5.4    7.5    7.1    71 
OAK-1000                               4.9      .4       .0      .5     3.2     2.       2.4     4.9     5.0     5,2     5.3      5.5     5.4     5 5     5,43.                   1 .  .2 2,    24      3.     30 
I-dr-al b   PNOato                      291.3   2  I290.1   M07.0              11. 2 10 277J    277.7   292l.   37l,2  3IS1.    334.2   332   346.7 1347.l    347.7 1M      17,1   34.5  112.3   70.4   09.0   "4.0   4.0
Saus PI O pniAIlm                     MOM  10.21  7794.0 M317.31, Id.9492 14.55 24.5   113423M       4  I,34.7 241574.0 21,597.4 22 .0 23030.7   2379.0 22.o79,          I376-6 254,0 4,224.4 5.4 7.47,27 ?7.2 3.5,230.
howi atl
PUS,  o                         540.3   591.1   529.9   531.7   511.5   502.4   502,    540.3   54oV3. 139.5   53.1   510.    524.    524          12.3 2    4.1            M ,   9,4 54   19.3   34*0   24.0  '24.0
MEA                             M49S   30.9   294.0   M091   2M.2   273,    275.3   349.01  334,3   604.10 41.1   523A4   591.?   5964,    VW~                     51.4  105,7  In3,   241,2  314,4  320.9  320,
I2 I2-4   12.9   224.5   J2IM                                    205.4   140.1   10.1   2274    141,7  15.4 IU-I          0190     M211  223.9   223.9              9,1  41,9  464    93,4   2, 2      50  123,l  0 21
6                                59.0    57.1    S,      5,.9    52.5    50.4    50.4    19.    W4         75.1    MA      90.4    11,9   112,3  1H2.              9.4   29,2   32,5   44.3   d5.5   41-9  4".9
EKI   10                                  51     1.10    55.0    55.0   155.    155.      15.0    154      Id2  74.0    17.4   IO           10.0   5I.0             0.1     W      1.1    2,4    3.0    3z0    3.0
Pt563US                         550.5   16.1   505.0   103,4   Iii..    40.0    41,0   110.5   239.0   152,3   177,    204,7   231.5   240.3   26.3            - 21,7   44.4   74,5  505,4  229.1  141.5  141,A
IMIKaIE M3                    loin.?7 2,229.7  2.529,7 1,129.7 5,229.7 2.229,7 5ol.52,  1if.?2,  1,56l.7  1,19.9  1,229.3 2p.255   2,274.0  592.24  2,2474         3I,    70.2   99.4  2In.3  247.2  2.   227.
luUI  KME                       307.5   345,2   294.9   26.6   2M21   274.    240   307.5   314,4   124.4   317.4   34i.    42.4   343.3   343,3                   1554   31.7   49.0   47.    14.4   97.    97.3
Et?T                             05.4    05.6    05.4    05.4    05.4    05.4    0,       05.      909    94,2   505.4   504.7   522.0    22.0   H2                 5.3   5.  s2$.  22.2    M.    24.4 JIM.
jot1                              5.5     2.5     t.5     2.5      5.5     5.5     5.5     I.5      5.0     20      23      2.4 221029       29      2.9            *.3    0.4    0.9    I.2    5.5    2.       2.5
OlTISUS          39~~Wo#0.0 4.0   321.0   M02.0A34.0   250.    250.0   39.0   394,0   402.0   440.0   454.0   420.9   4*0,0   470.0                 42.0   04,0  524.0  540.0  250.01  350    20.
7lnM C"          immt6 
PM      M                        I3.     114 51 3.4    13.4   513.4    53.4    13.4    13.4    53.4         3.       .    51  1    13.4   21.4    13.4    13.4                           1
Sol*-Tutal lawn,                 3W7.7 3,029  2MILT  2Lo9s         2.054,0  2,7501 2750.1  MM4.  32.3  3,17.5  3447.0 13.74  311970  3#.095   3.195,9               207.6  425.2  453.0  1190.7 n12111.91 a.11 7 37,.
24Usd Labs,
h21UO LAW                     3570.4  3.445.?   3.34 3.560 2,0401.5 2.120 20954.0 1457.  3.74n          3X3.59 4024.2  n.1 4t3.7           1 4,343.4  41343.4     20 .5          1       U47,14.3 ,143,7 1427. 4 .4.
6.hT.ta loofftifil                  4.474,5  4475,7 4.253 4.*074,9 5,074.  516-74.  5.4f-74,1 4.474,1  4.963,  -7,63.0 7,b575,1 -.099.  0,23,U-7 6339.3  0.333       -4017.4  -"7.;25402 202-5.2 2.542,5- 2,545,'2 2.543,.2
M  urn  U       1F015K               52,947.3 52,324 22,s526, 11,34.1 22,094,7 120.14,4   1111 5-4 1 547.4 I222.3  13.30 54022.2 14749.2 55.5  5.57 25557.7                0 2.794.3   754.2 3 4.44.409         n      n



-95-                   ~~~~Annex 10
Table 6
BUMAO(
FOP"TN FLOD CONOL NM DRAINAGE PJECT
Total Pro ect -
lE&Wiirr_)ts
FISCAL TEAR
Present    Without   lith Proiit Inc rm u
unit
Labor Renuirements
UNSILLED LABOR         RADAYS 11,452,825.4 10253M982.8 12.63.738.2 2,384,755.4
Faeilu Labor Available
UNSIILLED LABOR        BANAYS 4.6599525.0  4,57W,525.0 44659.525.0             -
Hired Labor
URSKILLED LABOR        RANDAYS 697934300.4  5,594,457.8 7,9799213.2 2.3B4,755.4
Faails Labor Use
WSKILLED LAB           ANDAYS 49659,5250  4.6M55.0  4659P525.0



-96-
Annez 11
Table 1
BANGLADESH
Fourth Flood Control and Drainage Project
Phasing of Drainage Compartments
(HA)
Drainage Compartment   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
A               -       -       -      -      -           6,115
A'              *     7,200  7,200  7,200  7,200  7,200  7,200
B               -       -      -       -      *    5,512  5,512
c               -       -      *    5,133  5,133  5,133  5,333
D               -       -      *    7,345  7,345  7,345  7,345
E               -       -      -       -      *   17,015 17,015
Total        -     7,200  1,200 19,678 19,678 42,205 48,320
* Denotes completion of construction vorks.
Source: Mission Estimate



MM MM  =MMD aDWL 1-CT
Input Ca.ifiei.tat nor  a,
9la&                         Fertilizer (Ka)                      pesticide       k.dujlAtD         N.mure          Bullock       .JI& L- 
')                                  TIP              HP               Tk            Uours              g          Paildayi   I K.dAA7
IP    VO      VI   P  V0    V7.  IP  W0    VI   r   W0   VI   r   W0   VI    r   W0   VI   r   vo   VI  r   Wo   VI   r   VO   Vx
A    (LOC)         90           90   -    -    -                                                                                        49  49   52  148 146  156
T. Am(LOC)    90    90    90                -    60  -      -    30        -     25-          -  150  -       -    -   -    -    -   44 44   41 182 18 160
T.o Aw a(U   )    40    40    40  110  110  150   40   40   50   30   30   35  175   -   250   40  40   25   -    -    -   49  49   50  208 208  216
SAum               90    90    90   -    -    -    -    -    -                                                                     -   43 43   43 143 143  143
tora (l)           40    40    40  130  130  175   40   40   45   30   30   35  225  225  300  112  112  112-    -    -   49  49   50  269 269  269
Ubuat (Irrig)   125   125   125   85   65   85   20   20   20   10   10   10  120  150  175   40   40   40  -    -    -   48  4 8 46  135 135  135
Waeat (C.Etrig) 125   125   125-   -                                                                                          -    -   48  48   46  110 110  110
Juts               12    12    12                      -    -     -        -    -    - -    -                    -  -                   43  43   43  238 23   238 
Iugarte.e       5000  5000  5000  120  120  120  100  100  100   40   40   40  200  200  200                            -    -    -   70  70   70  275 275  275
Nulag             28    28    26   -    -    -    -    -    -          -    -                                         500  500  600  30  30   30   43 43  49



-98-
AIIE 11
Table 3
BANGLADESE
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Sumuary of Financial and Economic F:ices I/
(Tk)
Output                      Un.-It     Financial       Economic  2/
Paddy                      Kg.          4.7           3.7-4.08
Wheat                      Kg.          4.3           5.16-5.29
Jute                       Kg.          5.4           4.19-5.48
Sugarcane                  Kg.          0.50          0.20-0.51
Pulses                     Kg.          3.2              2.56  3/
By Products                Kg.          0.1              0.08  31
Inputs
Paddy Seed                 Kg.          5.1          4.03-4.45
Wheat Seed                 Kg.          5.3           6.34-6.5
Jute Seed                  Kg.          6.1           4.7-6.19
Sugarcane Cuttings        Kg.           0.6           0.23-0.62
Urea                       Kg.          4.8           6.04-7.05
TSP                        Kg.          4.6           6.24-7.79
MP                         Kg.          3.6           4.03-5.10
Manure                     Kg.          0.2              0.16 3/
Bullock                Pair day         30               24 3/
Irrigation (STW)         Hour           27               23 4/
Irrigation (LLP)         Hour           56               48 41
Labor                     Day           20               15 51
1/ I1 constant 1986 prices.
21 Projected for 1987 and 2000.
31 Financial prices adjusted by the SCF of 0.8
41 Adjusted by CF of 0.85. Source: MPO
51 Market wage rate adjusted by CF for labor of 0.75.



SANGLADSH
FOURIH FLOOD CONTROL MD DRAINAGE PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICE OF PADDY
......................................................................... ....  ....    ..... .... _ ................................................................................ .... ........ ...... ........ ............................................
PRICES                                               UNIT         FY86      FY67       FY61      FY99       FY90      FY91      FY92       FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96      FY97       FY99      FY99       FY20
... .... .... .................~. .... ....... .......... .... ....  . ................ .................................................... . ........ ... ... .... .... ..............................................................
THAI SS IROKEN, FOB  ASKOK  I/
.............................
CURRENT                                            USWIHT          213        215       232       255        274       285        290       295        300       305       311        320       329       337        346
CONSTANT FVU  PRICE 2/                                             213        199       211       228        238       237        233       229        225       226       227        227       223       222        220
* ADJUSTMENT FACIOR 1.91 3/                                        192        179       190       205        214       213        210       205       203        203       205       204        201       200        191
EICHINGE RATE                                      T1K/US        30.50    30,50       30,50     30.50      30.50    30.50      30.50    30.50       30.50    30.50        30.5       30J5      30.5      30.5       30.5
CIF CHIlIIA&0N                                     TK/MT          5847      5165       5799      6250       6540      6506       6409      6267      6181       6192      62317      6220      6134      609        6044
HANDLIN  It TRANS. NTMEEN PORT I IKEI 4/                          1000       1000      1000       1000      1000      1000       1000      1000       1000      1000      1000       1000      1000      1000       1000                t
..... -----    .....    ....... .....    ....... .....                             ....... .....  ...... . .....  ....... .....  .                           .       .             .....                         .....                         .....                        ..... ......    .....    .....    .....    .....  ...._f
MIKET PRICE                                             *           47      6465       6799      7250       7540      7506       7409      7267      7111       7192      7237       7220      7134      7089       7044
LESS, PROCESSIIE COST 5/                                           650        650       650       650        650       650        650       650        650       650       650        650       650       650        60
El-HILL PRICE OF PADDY                                            6197      58315      6139      6600       6990      6850      6759       6617      6531       6542      6587      6571       6494      6438       6394
EDUIYALENT PRICE OF PADDY 1.67)                                   4152       389i      4113      4422       4616      4595       4529      4433      4376       4393      4414       4407      4344      4313       4284
LESSi
HANDLINS I TRAS. DEYNIEN HILL I FMHSATE                            200        200       200       200        200       200        200       200        200       200       200        200       200        200       200
..... -----        .  ....     -----  .    ..... .    -----   -----   .    -----   -----.                                   .....      ...... .. ..  ..  ... ............ ... .. .. ..
FARIIATE PRICE                                                    3952       3696      3913      4222       4416      4395       4329      4233      4176       4193      4214       4207      4144      4513       4064
FARHTE PRICE (IHT       I PARITYI                  TK/KB          3.95       3.70      3.91      4.2        4.42      4.39       4.33      4.23      4.10       4,19      4.21       4.21      4,14      4.11       4,09
I/ MF-YEMLY REVISION OF PRICE FORCSTS 16RD, AU,12. 1996.
2/ BASED ON 1110 INDEI, AU.12, 1IM.
3/1/SED ON PAST RELATIOUHIP IETKEN IPrIT UNIT PRICES AN  REFERENCE  UAILITY PRICES.
4/ RATE OWTED IY THE NOWIENT DEP. HIN. OF FWO, ADJUSTED BY SCF   O.6.
5/ ANUSTED BY SCF OF 0.3.



IAN6LADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND NRAINME PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICES OF MAT
........ . .......... _.......... ......              ....    ..... .................. . .... .......... .... ...... .............. ................................... . ........
PRICES                                                UNIT         FY86       FY67      FYIi       FY69      FY90       FY91      FY92       FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96       FY97      FY99       FY99       FY20
.... . .. _. _... .. ... ... .......... ......        ....      ..............................................................................................................................
CMRl IN STE, THMER MY  I/
........ ..........._. ........
CIIRfENT                                            uS$/My          167        149       146        l6         174       ISO        193       167        190       193        196       204        211       217        223
CONSTANT FYU  PRICE 2/                                              167        130       1[s        144        151       150        146       145        143       143        145       145        143       143        142
* ADJUSTHENT FACTORII,I) 3/                                         183        152       146        158       166        165        162       159        157       156        159       159        1SO       157        156
EICHNSE RATE                                        TKIUSS        30.50     30.50      30.50      30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50           30,50    30.50    30.50    10.50    30.50    30,50    30.50
CIF COIITTADOM                                      IKIT           5586        N29      4453       4823      5076       5024      4954       4650       4790      4904       4651      4861       4804      4733       4763
R4N0        i TRANS. BETWEEN PORT     MARKET 4/          *         1000       1000      1000       I000      1000       1000       1040      !COO       1000      1000       1000      1000       1000      1000       1000 
..~~~~ ~~...    .....  ....  .....  .....    .....    .....                      .....      .....      ....      .....    ....        .....
ARET PRICE                                                         6586       5629      5453       5823      6076       6024      5954       5650      5790       5804      5051       5161      5804       5783       5763
LESSi
HWAN. I TRA. IETMEEN MKET I FA6ATE                       *          200        200       200        200       200        200        200       200        200       200        200       200        200       200        200
FAROTE PRICE                                                       638        5429      5253       5623      5976       5824      5754       5650      5590       504       5651       5661      5604       5583       5563
LEgiiAAL  OF FOREIN MIER151)                                       319        271       263        211       294        291       296        263        210       290        283       283        210       279        218
fA/ATE PRICE                                                       6067       5157      4990       5342      5582       5S33      5446       5341      5311       5324      5369       5371      5324       5304       525
FPliAFTE PRICE                                      IKIK;          6,07       5,16      4.99       5.34      5.56       5.53      5.47       5.37      5.31       5.32      5.37       5.38       5.32      5.30       5.29
1/ HALE-mLY  RIEISION OF PtICE FRECASIS INS, 61.12, 1$914.
2/1 AE   ON  1111 ll, A116.12,191.
3// 111    N P    RELAIASSP TTI EEP  1MN          1 N lMT PRICES AND RfEERCE WALITY PRICES.
41 RAE   lIO  DY MVNE I  NP. I MIN. OF Fr9   ANUSTED SY SCF 0.1 
UA r



FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL ANO DRAINAKE PROJECT
ECOMIC PRICES Or SARCUE
.. ..___............ __...... . . ........... ... ... ...............  ....................... . ................................ __.... ...... _ ............. ......................................... ......... ....... .... .........._
MRICES                                              iIT         FY86      FY87      F1        FY1        FVO       FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97      FV9"       FY99      FY20
........ . .........._ ....... ........ _ ...............  ....    ..... ................. .............................*. .................... ................................... .... ..... ............. ........... .........................___
ISA IAILYSIAR (FOB C A N PORTS) 11
MOIIOIT                                           UHI/T          122        170       220       214       353       389       397       385       383       3S1        3S5       395       405       415       425
COSTAT FY86 PRICE 2/                                             122        157       200       254       307       324       312       299       219       292        291       250       276       273       271
t AJUITHEHT FACTOR(.9)                                           o10        142       190       220       276       292       231       269       259       254       253        252       248       246       244
EXCANE RATE                                       TKIUSS       30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30,50    30.50
CIF CHITTA606                                     TKINI         3349      4321      5490       6961      8426      39        0567  5 192         7905      7747      7114       7690      7563      7495      7431              a
WJIVJ      I TRAI. BETWEEN PORT i  ARKET                        1000       1000      1000      1000      1000      1000      1000      1000      1000      1000       1000      1000      1000      1000      1000
ARmKET PRICE                                                    4349      5321      6490       7961      9426      99        9567      9192      6905      0747      8714      U690        563       495      1431
LESSi
MR.D  I IRMS,SEME NRILL 70 MMKET                                 500       500        500       500       500       500       500       500       500       500        500       500       500       500       500
..--     ---.      -"        .....    .....  _......    - -          ---       .....    "           .....    .....    ... _.. _
LWMUSTED FAIUATE PRICE                                          3849      4921      59o        1461      8926      93"       9067      8692      8405      9247      9214      I190      103        7995      7931
LESt PROCUSSINI                                                 1000       3000      1000      l00        000      1000      1000      3000      1000      3000       1000      3000      1000      3000      3000
~~~~~~ ._......    .....                                   .....    .....    ._ ._        _ ....
El-MILL MICE                                          *         2949      823        499       6463      7926      89        807       7692      7405      7247       7214      7390      7063      6995      6931
SWAME  EGUIJLNT  3913 RISING TO 91 IN 1992                       228       306        399       517       634       672       726       692       U6        652        577       647       636       630       624
LESS:
11ND. I TRAIS. ETIEEN HILL & FAMATE                              11330      I0        30        130       110       330       330       130       330        130       310       330       110       130       110
.....    .....                .....    ...... .....    ...... .....    ...... .....                            ...... ..... .......................... ... .....*............  
FARMIATE  RICE 41191  FPMIIV)                                    t1s        196       219       407       524       562       616       582       556       542        467       537       526       520       514
I/ HALF-YEYL  RVIUION OF PRICE FORECASTIND, AA.312, 396
2/ UES ON IIID INEX, AUG. 12,  M1.



MUGLAKSH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AN DRAINME PROJECT
ECOI OIC PRICES OF JU1E
.... . ... __ .....  . _. _. _. ,......... . . .......... . .... ........    .............................. . ........... ...... .................... .............................................. .................. ... . . ...................... ..........  __.
MICES                                                    UNIT         FY86      FY87      FY88      FY89      FY90       FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97      FY98      FY99       FY20
_....._ .   .............. .... ..... .. ... ,.............. ...........  ...... ............................... ........ .......... ................................... .......... ............................... - -.. ... -. ------- -. - -- -_ --_-_
IMSKSH  UHITE 0, FOi CHITTA60U/CM.M   I/
...... ......................_..
C RRENT                                                US$lKT          429       218       320        359       388       403       409       415       421       427       438       454        470       486       502
CNSTANT FY6 PRICE 2/                                                   429       267       29I       320        337       336       330       322       317       316       320       322        320       320       320
* AIUSIIENT FKCTOR(I.01 3/                                             421       267       291       320       337        336       330       322       317       316       320       322       320       320        320
EICIWA6S  RAIE                                                       30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30,50    30.50    30.50    30.50    3050    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50                              0
CIF COITTM IICAM                                       TK/NT         13085      8133      M873      9749    10290    10243    10060          9812      9U55      9647      9751      9021      9752      9752       9752
LESS:
IWLINS I TRAN.  ETEEN PORT I STOAE 4/                                 1460      1460      12460     2460      2460       1460      2460      460       2460      1460      2460      1460      1460       1460      1460
MRIET PRICE                                                          12625       673      7423      8289      8030      8703       8600      8352       195      8187      8291      8361      32S2      8212       S292
LESS:
K11C. ,I1D0. i TRNS. KETUEEN  ARKET & FA ATE 4/                       2440      2440      2440      2440       2440      1440      1440      1440      2440      1440       440      2440      2440       1440      240
- _       .....     .....     ......    .....     ----                                                         ._....    ..... ............ .. ....... ... .. _..........__ . . 
UIIOMUSTEO FMUATE PRICE                                              10185      5233      5973      68049     7390      7343       7260      6912      6755      6747      6851      6921      6152      6852       6852
ADJUSTE NILLINS EFFICIENCY 10.8)
* ~~~~.....              .....     .....                                              .....  .   .... ....: ...... ..... ...... ......... .. 
FASTE  MRICE                                                *         8248      4287      4778      5479      5922      5874       5720      5530      5404      5398      5482      5536      5481      5412       5482
FAMATE PRICE IEIPORT PARITY)                           T1K/K          8,15      4.19      4.78      5.48      5.91      5.87       5.73      5.53      5.40      5.40      5.48      5.54      5.41      5.48       5.4 
11 WI-YEARLY REVISION OF  RICE FORECASTS 1N0, A.12,1906.
2/BED  ON 23M  INEI, AU.12,916
3/ UISE8 O  FY76-fV84 RELATIONSHIP EIlEEN EIPORT UHIT PRICES AD REFERENCE  UAITY PRICES.
4) USE& 0N THIRD FCO PRJECT. ANUSTED DY SCF OF 0,.



UANLADEN
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAE PROJECT
ECONOMIC PRICES OF UREA
IW0R1 PARIJY                       I                      EuPRi PAITY
............ .................... .......... . ........    ......................................... .... I-------  ................. -------------------......................... - -------------------- -..... ------ -.... -- -.... .................- ".__
PRICES                                               UNIT        FY9U      FY97     FY93      FY89      FY90 I    FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94     FY95      FY96      FY97      FY99     FY9       FY20
.................................. .......          ....    ...............................................----.......-------------........-------------...---.. -. .. .--................-----------.......-..----..  -------.....-..--...-..-..--_-----_- _
UREA, ISAED, FOB EURE  17
................ . ................_,
CURRENT                                            us9In          126       125       14      175       195 1      222      226       230       234       238      245       255       265       275      215
CONSTANT FYU  PRICE 2/                                 '          126       116       135      156       172 1      195       112      179       176       176      191       196       25O       161      192
I AOJUSTNENT FACTOR (1.4) /                                       176       162      I        219       241 1      259      255       250       246       247      254       261       252      253       254
EIIWAE RATE                                        TK/USA       30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50 *   30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50                      0
CIF CNITTAGN                                       1K/MT         5359      4942     5745      6672      7352 1    7900      7782      7613      7513      7520     7749      7940      76"      7725      7752 1
WAOL. I TRANS. SETEEN PORT & MARKET 4/                            900       900      900        00       900 1    -900      -900      -900      -900      -900     -900      -900      -900     -900      -900
... . .......I........    .....    .....    ..... I.. ----  ---  .....    ----
AKET PRICE                                                       6 6259    5842     6645      7572      6252 1    7000      602       6713    4613        6621     649       7046      699      6121      62
WLIN  & TRANS. KTUEEN MrAET & FISATE  6/                          200       200       200      200       200 1      200       200      200       200       200      200       200       200      200       200
....    ...        .... .....    .....      I       -- -_ ... .....    --- --
FARM8ATE PRICE                                         '         6459      6042     6845      7772      9452 I    7200       70N2     6913      623       6829     7049      7248      699      7025      7051
FAIHIATE PRICE                                     TK/KS         6.46      6.04     6.95      7.77      9,45 1    7.20      7.08      6.11      6.92      6.93     7.05      7.25      7.00     7.03      7.05
1/ HALF-YERLY REVISION OF CIWDITY PRICE FORECAST ID, A16.22, 2996.
2/ USED ON IIID INDEI, A16.12, 1996.
3/ BSED ON PAST RELATIONHIP IETEEN IMPRT UNIT PRICES AND REFRENCE UALITY PRICES.
4/13AE0 6 THIRD FCD PRWECT. NO-TRADED COST CMONES HVE SEEN
ADJUSTED ST SCF OF O.9,
5/ IT IS ASSUE  TAT  Y 191 SANSLADESH MILL SECOE A NET EIPORTER OF UREA.
/ WUED ON MDC COSTS IETUEEN FRIMAY DISTRIIUTION POINT AND UZILA 9ALIS CENTER, PLUS   IMNIN                                                                                                                        N
AND TRANPT CUSTS TO FATE ADUSTED BY SCF OF O.9.



iAN6LAKESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAE PROJECT
ECONONIC PRICES OF TSV
PRICES                                             UNIT        FY86     FY87      FY86     FY89      FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93     FY94      FY95     FY96      FY97     FY9      FY99      FY20
TRIPLE SUPERPIOIATE, PAK, FOB US 6ULF 11
...._......................................
CURRENT                                          US$/NT         126      130       539      149       156      165       175      285       195      205      214       222      230      238       246
CONTAN  FYU6 PRICE 21                                           126       120      125       133      136      130       141      143       147      152      156       157      156       157      157
I ADJUSTHENT FACTOR 11.4) 3/                                    176      169       176      I96       190      193       199      201      205       213      219      220       219      219      219
EICHANGE RATE                                    TKIUGS       30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50
CIF CHITTAGO                                     TK/NT         5359     5140      5357    591        5802     5871     6026      6124     6261      64U4     6670     6723      6681     668       6691
WAIIIN  6 TMS.  ETWEEN PORT & MRKET 4/                *         900      900       900      900       900      90 900             900      900       900      900       90       90       90        900
YAUET PRICE                                                    6259     6040      6257     6581      6702     6771     6926      7024     7161      7384     7570     7623      7591     75U       7591
WJL. 6 TUEN . BETEENH MRET  I FARSATE  S/                       200      200       200      200       200      200       200      200      200       200      200       200      200       200      200
~~~~~~~~~~....  ..                   -----             .....  .    .....  -----.. ... .............. ........ ... .. ......  ...   
FANITE fRICE                                                   6459     6240      6457     6711      6902     6975      7126     7224     7361      7564     7770      7623     7751     7713      7791
FMSATE PRICE                                     ThKiN         6.46     6.24      6.46     6.79      6.90     6.97      7.13     7.22     7.36      7.58     7.77      7.92     7.79     7.7t      7.79
1/ HIALF-YEMLY REVISION OF CMODITY PRICE FORECAST IND, AU.12, 1986.
2/ 1ASE  ON 11    IDIRI, AU.12, 19.
3/ N4O  ON PAST RELATIOSUHIP EThEEN IIUORT UNIT PRICES AhO REERENCE 9MITY PRICES.
I/   L   ON THIRD FCO NWECT.   NTRAEO COST CEHT5 HAfE IEEN ADJUSTED IY SCF OF 0.1.
5/1SEBD  ON 3A   CUTS BEThEN IPIMlY DISTRIIUTION POINT AD UPIILA SPES CENTER, PLUS                                                                                                                          I
KNIOINS A1IS ThANIT CSTS TO FAUATE ADJUSTED IV SCF C  0.1.



FOUTH FLDO CONTROL MI  MAIIME PROECT
ECOIWIIC PRICES OF VP
.................... .............................  ....       ............................... .... ... ........ ............... ,_................. ................... .... ....... _................ .... .. ...  .  _. _. .__.... . _..
PRICES                                             UNIT        FY8U       FY97      FY88      FYN       FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93      FY91      FY5       FY96      FY97      FY1       FY9       FY20
................ ...................               ......  .................................. ........................... ........................... .......................... .. ._.... . . .................... .............................._........  
HP FOM VMCWE I/
... ..... ................... .
CURRENT                                          USI/NT           79        74        77        82        90        97       102       107       112       ll7       123       129       135       141       147
NSTANIT FY86 PRICE 2/                                             79        69        70        73        78       Sel         2        83        S4        87        90        91        92        93        94
I ADJUSTENT FACTOR 11.4) 31                                     I1o         96        95       103       110       113       115       116       119       122       126       126       129       1SO       131
EICHM6E RATE                                     IK/USS       30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50    30.50
CIF CHITTAYN                                     TK/MT          3352      2926      2919      3126      3342      3437      3506      3542      3602      3713      3834      3907      3921      3961      3991
MANOLINS i TRANS. BETWEEN PORT I MARKET 4/                       900       900       900       900       900       900       900       90        900       900       900       900       900       900       900
MIRKET PRICE                                                   4252       3826      3889      4026      4242      4337      4406      4442      4502      4613      4734      4807      4021      4161      4896
HIODLIU I TRAM. BETWEEN MRKEI & FARNSATE 4/                      200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200
.....     ......    -----     .....  . ..  .....  ..... ..  .....*...... .. .. ... .. ... .  .. . .. ._
FMATE PRICE                                                    4452       4026      4069      4226      4442      4537      4606      4642      4702      4813      4934      5007      5021      5061      5099
FARNIATE PRICE                                   TK/KS          4.45      4.03      4.09      4.23      4.44      4.54      4.61      4,64      4.70      4.1      4.93      5.01      5.02      5.06      5.10
1I  WiF-YEARLY REVISION OF COMMOITY PRICE FORCASTS IDRO, AU5.12, 1986.
2/ IAS0 ON 1300 INDEI, AI.12, 196.
3/ I3A0 O  PAST RELATIOVSNIP BETUEEN IMT UNIT PRICES ANO REFERENCE    ISTY PRICES.
4/ IASED ON THIRD FCO FROJECT SAR(4815-10). NN-TRADED COST CWONFOTTS HAYE BEEN ADJUSTED BY SCF OF 0.8.
51 IASE   ON MBC COSTS IETWEEN PRIMAY DISIRIIUTIO  POINT MO UPIILA SALES CENTER, PLUS                                                                                                                              I
HAINLIN  AMD TRANSPORT COSTS TO FARH6ATE ADJUSTED BY SCF OF 0.8.



WSAK^DSH
FOURTH FLUB CONfTROL N RAINAE PROJECT
_ _.. ._...................
ECONIIC CAS  ROW
(TI.........
(TK. tOOO)
1997   109    199      19O0   1911    IM        1993    1994    1995    196    1997    IM         1t9     2000    2001    2002 2003-2011
:e ii.  __ir
TOTAL INCEENTAL KFITS                        -        -    3747   10486   35957   56834  131379  16675  197921  212306  219510  2657  2506   248937  247062  247062    247062
z333333 :::-MIX 323:2338  332333 a3.3.33  32Xz3  R33222 3233wa32s w3ss338 333as3 338323  33232  325222s 222323 33    3=822
Imais. COSTS
IENOWETAL IWESTNENT COST                  9713   42414  134899  162614  1022           -     o         -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       -          - 
IICNENTMA  OW-FA  COSTS                      -        -    1499    4126   13890   21039   49391   639   71079   79769   500    93174   938           93749   938     9389       93809
OPATION I MINITNME                           -        -       -     337    1400    2919    3m       3076    5000    7000    9200    9200    9200    9200    9200    9200         9200
--------------- - -----  - -  - - ---   - --  *-        -     -        ---      -- ---**               *        
TOTAL IMCEIETLCOSTS                       9713   42414  136397  167077  124572   22958   5393   66925   76078   56769   94200  102374  103038  10294  103006  103009    103009
FISH MOIUCTION FKIE                          -      720     720    1950    1950    419      400     4900    4800    4800    4800    4800    4800    4100    4800    4800         400
TOT INC  COSTS t FISH PROD, FOREIME       9713   43134  137117  169027  126522   27148   58793   71725   96079   91569   99000  107174  107983  107749  107906  107O90         107909
.=X  9222.  &2*x.au s - ZZsX ZZXXtZ  exra  " .................slex  as:saas azzsa-sa z *X ...................x.. anus ania  axa.s  8232.a  **g*x  x....x..  z
IENC   IISA  MET DEFITS
TOTS. IC0E5 TL NET KNEFITS              -9713  -43134 -133370 -1554   -90565   2966   72584   95060  107043  120739  119511  143483  143006  141i1   139254  139253    13S253
Othsczs 3z9199   10215xx  lg a    :n n g         g g  Y 22928NN        X :X    S  gl8:      888 X   XBX  Banana  S5X2SS ZSZ5S Z  *"Z =
Oct4ber J IS8 10115



rFURTH rLOOD CONIPIft ANDI DRAINAGE F-RDJCT
CCONON9C CAsm rLOY
E                                                                                                                                                                   to9      99      IIIIIII                                                                                                                                I99
At9                                      II                                                                 IIII9999999998                                                                                                                                                             I                                               I                I               I
C                                I               I                I                I                9                9               9                 I                I99199999s99a9999999999999u9999999999999999999999999999199999is9I99I9I9I99I1I9I
A                              I                                                                            I I  II                                           91999                                                               II  I            I                                                                  I                I                I                I
L                   I                                          I                I                                 I I                   to I                I 99                              I                I               I                         I       I                I                I                        I       I                         I
V                     I01700             I               I-----    .....9.....I......... IIII                                                     .....              .....  I.....I----  I......   I.....    .....                                                  I.....----- I......I------I-----    .....
A                                                                                                                                           is  III    99998                    I               I                I                I                I                I9I9I                                                                               II
I  9    I                9                I                I                9                9999         I~~~~~~~~~~~i  I                      9I      I        II9  I                                                                                                               I                I 
U   0?01040C 9        - 9 - 9 - 9 - 1 - 9 -    999-~~~~~~~~~~~f...... f..... I.....I- I-- ---I......I.....I-- I---- I----.....I---- -----9- 9--9.....                                                                                                                                                                     - 9....
C  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I                                                  I                I               I 9 9                             I                I                I                I                I                I                                I                 I               I                I
I~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~~x I                  I           I9            I               I9               I                I                I                I                I                        I        I               I                         I       I                         I               I                I 
I  I          I       1       9                I                I~~~~~~~~~~le  99I                                 I                I                I                I                I                                II9I9I
110093518  1-          -I                  *1....   I------     -----  I----                  9.....I.....I.....  I------  I.....                                                  I.....           9-----   -----    -----                           I-----..... I......I------I.....                                                       ....
I  I           (I            XII                ~        ~       ~~~             ~        ~       ~~I 9I  I  I       I9        9x                      I               I                I                I                I                I                I                I                                 
9        I              I         I                 II            I                   999              9                IU               I               I                I                I                I                I                I                I               I                I                I                I                I
Ix           II I                           I                      I                9xxx             I                I                I                I               I                I                I                I                I                I                I               I                I                I 
I                         I               II                9I            8I           9x                     I                I                I                I                I                I               I                I                I                I                I                I                I               I
II              I                I                I  I            I   xxx           I                I                I                I                I               I                I                I                I                I                I                I                I                I 
I                                  I                II       is              91       I                                 9I
I 9               Ix               I                I         i      I       x      I                 I                I                Ix l x lI                                          I                I                I               I                I                I                I                I                I9
I                 I                I                II         *9            9x       I                I                I               IxX1             I                I                I                I                I                I                I               I                I                I                I                1
161665    1  ..  x ........... I......of  ......  ixi                    -----..x...-----Ix----    -----I.....I----  I....                                                                               .....I......    .....  I.....I....  I......  I.....                                                                  1.....
I        I                 I                   t9    I               99               I                1xxi             I               I                I                I                I                I                I                I               I                I                I                I                I                I
9                         II       M                I                99               911              I                I                I               I                I                I                I                I                I                I               I                II 
xsi ioiil                 i                i          9 1                 x                                   III9*                                                               99II9I  I  I    I
98             19I              199             91 991            19                199            199              199              199                99             199              I00              I0               900              I00               9o             2060                               09 I01I 0I
I  xxi  i  iii  i  1  9  I          9                I                9                I                I                9                I               I                I                I                I                I                I                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YAM
I  1  I  I    199              lxxx             I                9                9                I               9                I                9                I                I                I                I                9               9                ILEGEN
99996651  9---X    X-I-I-99-I-X-9-9-9-g-9-9-9-9-9-s-9-9-9-9.9-9.........
Ix   I  I     999                   I                I                I,               I                9~~~~~~~~I-   iIA  INCRE9ENIAL9 E  Eri s
lxx   9   999999                    I                I                9                I                I~~~~~~Vt   TTA  IK     9EIA        COSITS                                                                                            I9                                 



a. = I, - S - a p.. Ce c - a - a. - S
a.      -       -        5
-       -       -       a.              -.       2;
-       -       a                a.      a.
-       a       a
- - I                                                                                                 S
ii                                                                                               . I.. 5
2 
a                                                                                            
-                                                        .3
; - I
i.
a -
g zwq
IT ZUUW



BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
Project Headquarters Organization
|   IV8 Cairmoan
Me-wer PIa-mg
Project Field Organization
zonal
Ch.et Engrneer
SuMnneiirendm
Engineer
&    Pcowoo I                           Sulivi!oonal
1   >rsu hOlf-eCt l I       DR   Enw|               Engroset                EngineL  7 Pect 
LoAi Ca?nun                                      ConsJtuction           Construcion X
Cbortrct             Sucer* Finl -ion
*~~~~~~~~~~~~VoK Xar -I72



_           e        - *    BoI auaOt I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. _. o 
OMLANCUIA
~~--- ~~~~~~-                             /                  R~~~~~~~tBAGLADESH           23
. - *.  F,.    .
~~~4a4pJ4~~~~~~~~~~                      INDLA   -~ ~~~~~~~NDA    4
INDIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~NDA - 
Dw dOICt PoB4t
*  -:.,r Lee    . =                                                                     -  .7- -   :    .     atu   f  ASD . 2
<~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~I   Suadih                                            Al r ~ -       
Bi
0 >w     .                         ''0<                            INI 20  20_,
Dookand    ndi
89'35r                                               c upar-c
All
~~~~~ -                                 - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A14
-~ ~ o-<.,                               -_                                                          i .- - 
- -                   .                  ~~COMPARTMENTAP.'
.7    -     Lnd -                                                                           /vSkniniaPr17--
k / "~                                                      Barcachi
--~~~ ~ --'-_,-v -                                                                                 ", \  K
:' \ -y       -59 6115 ha,
\ \   X -.              4-           A1^       .///- -    _  _        82 s~A11
/J                          N                                     Al5 A16 \          !  rP
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
/                   Ncoi 'illcxrc                                         ; f o
\                   A8    ,;yf 12~~~El        E13       E1d '$W
f  -                              \            v,  /                                       ~~~CO  1/L
COMPARTMENT Al                                                                           El  E3
\7200 ho
E6
E2                               E5
.,   r-....~L(2'/ RAJSHAHI                      -\O~d 
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T =   (
* =,,  f                                                                     _          .       ;,, X~~~~~~~~~~~~~94f



IBRD 19289
F;9                                           8elS'
BANGLADESH
FOURTH FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PROJECT
BARANAI PROJECT
Pvopo.ed Prollect                            DOinage Canals
--  ErtnkMents                    Project Boundkry
,.   Stnjctures                         ComporTment Boundaries
D   Rhiers or Edsltg Khols           Roads                                             24W-
to be Improved'           *      a. roods
Water Control Stuctures           Tracks
-=-  - Roads to be ImProved               Built4jp Areas
WMA,ot Emnbankments to be
---    Improved               NOEF G pss potected area 63100 to
=r --1 - Brdges to be Imprved        Net cufltK<oe area   4&300 ho
Tl .q aCd WCb Wd a P    V to t OId
0      -/     Bnglar                                                                              o Qcangur
0     1    2    3    4    5
7~~~~~~~~B
-~ ~ _7 isalu                                            KILOMEIERS!
Mohanganj       -         --            Mothurapur
81:        i;PtRIVl N":t.,,
B-             VS                           C2       C3e4pa    -- I
85~ ~~~~6
,<$   ;7a,Z.                             -21-i    <           R      =      w       X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V31
B5  ~~~~~/C2
/ 22                                I DRM~s'CQ 
E19                                   ;                          -
/~~~~~~~~~~~~
CII
rl    Dl
_- E5                16                    E2D2                                -9 05                       010
E5-           Vow,                                                         DS r  .,  A A  f
/ '~~~~~~~~~~~~**                                                    -'    . - ~     ~.'
rO bnud X   ,-- D14    .' - -    -N- --
D IIAR TNM ET                        E248S
E8   EQ  ~~~~~~~~ O~hopapara                       D
(                                         0~~~~~~~~~~~~12
ES                                                      ~      Madhukall
D14                  --~O' --
To ~ahd'
8Q,50'                                                              To W&Kira
NOVEMBER 11985



