l


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1784 BD
DEVELOPMEMT CREDIT AGREEMENT
A ,KEEMENT, dated                             , 1987, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the European
Economic Community (hereinafter called EEC) a grant (the EEC
Grant) in an amount of $1,100,000 equivalent, to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the EEC Grant Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and EEC; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02.   Unless the  context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have t"he following mean-
ings:
(a)  "MIWDFC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Irrigation,
Water Development and Flood Control;
(b)  "BWDB" means the Bangladesh Water Development Board
established and operating pursuant to the Bangladesh Water and
Power Development Boards Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 59 of 1972);


﻿-2-
(c) "PMU" means the Project Management Unit established
under Credit No. 1591-BD (Third Flood Control and Drainage
Project), dated May 22, 1985;
(d) "Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh
established under Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President's Order
No. 127, 1972);
(e) "Project Area" means an area comprising about 63,100 ha
within the upazilas of Durgapur, Paba, Bagmara, Puthia and
Natore; and
(f) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million six hundred thousand Special Draw-
ing Rights (SDR 16,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in Bangladesh Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2


﻿-3-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment %j the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
B'arrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1997, and ending November 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of th,. Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall


﻿-4-
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) Without any limitation to the generality of paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall ensure that adequate funds will be
allocated for the operation and maintenance of Project facil-
ities.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. In order to ensure the timely acquisition of
the land required for the construction of the embankments, roads
and other structures included in the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i)  cause BWDB to submit land acquisition plans to the
concerned Deputy Commissioners at least nine
months before the land is needed for construction;
and
(ii) to this effect, cause BWDB to provide to the con-
cerned Deputy Commissioners, in a timely manner,
the funds, vehicles, survey equipment and staff
necessary for verification and approval of land
acquisition plans.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section incluAing those for the
S, cial Account for each fiscal year audited, in
ac ordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof and said records as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the com-
pletion of the audit for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
cedures and internal controls involved in their


﻿-6-
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that, subject to paragraph (b) of this Section thc- right
of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the EEC Grant made to
the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
EEC Grant Agreement (other than, if applicable, the effectiveness
of this Agreement) have been fulfilled;
(b) the land required for construction during the first
year of the Project has been acquired by the Borrower; and
(c) the Project Proforma for the carrying out of the
Project has been approved by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-7-
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
the t-ce 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the
External Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower iS designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                       Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                         642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (NUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     e table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works             12,300,000         90%
(including con-
struction
materials)
(2) Equipment and               410,000         100% of foreign
vehicles                                   expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)  Investigations             110,000         100%
and surveys
(4) Studies                     520,000         100%
(5) Design and                  820,000         100%
monitoring
(6) Engineering and           1,900,000         95%
administration
(7) Operation and              400,000          100% in FY 1989
maintenance for                            and FY 1990, 80%
Part A of the                              in FY 1991, 60%
Project                                    in FY 1992, 40%
in FY 1993 and
thereafter
(8) Unallocated                140,000
TOTAL             16,600,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 300,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2), (3) and
(6) on account of payments made for expenditures before that date
but after July 31, 1985.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are (i) to provide flood con-
trol and drainage to the Project Area with a view to protecting
crops, people and property from flood, promoting increased food
production and making possible further,'development in agriculture
and fisheries in said areas, and (ii) to upgrade the monitoring
and evaluation functions of MIWDFC's Planning Cell and of BWDB's
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
1.   Construction and improvement of embankments and water con-
trol structures, construction and repair of drainage channels and
roads, construction of ancillary facilities, and provision of
equipment and vehicles.
2.   Provision of technical assistance and the carrying out of
engineering surveys, investigations and various studies, and
preparation of a rehabilitation program for Polders A, B and C
adjacent to the Project Area.
Part B
Strengthening of BWDB through the provision of staff and
technical assistance.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works, including investigations and surveys, shall be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally under procedures satisfactory to the
Association, provided, however, that the following may be carried
out through force account: (i) data collection undertaken as part
of investigations and surveys, up to an aggregate amount of
$100,000; and (ii) earthwork estimated to cost less than $5,000
equivalent in each case and installation of gates estimated to
cost less than $50,000 for each structure may be carried out
through force account, up to an aggregate amount of $600,000.
2.   Items of equipment estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $10,000 up to an aggregate amount of $150,000 equivalent,
may be procured through prudent shopping on the basis of at least
three price quotations from different sources.
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 13 -
(a) With respect to all contracts for goods and each
contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Associa-
tion pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information re-
quired to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evi-
dence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ     consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Procedures
1.   The Borrower shall maintain and adequately staff the PMU
during the Project period.
2.   PMU will organize quarterly meetings with farmers' represen-
tatives, upazila and district officials of concerned agencies in
order to exchange views on the progress of the Project. PMU will
inform the Borrower and the Association of the results of such
meetings.
3.   PMU will (i) prepare annual work programs, (ii) furnish such
programs for the Association for comments, not later than Septem-
ber 30 of each year until completion of the Project, (iii) carry
out such programs taking into account the Association's comments,
and (iv) keep the Borrower and the Association informed of the
progress of their implementation.
4.   PMU will prepare and furnish to the Association for com-
ments, at the end of each construction season, commencing in
fiscal year 1990, a detailed report on the embankment preventive
maintenance (tree planting) pilot program carried out during each
such construction season.
5.   The Borrower shall ensure that BWDB will appoint additional
staff as necessary to enable BWDB'c field divisions to carry out
adequate supervision of construction activities.
6.   The Borrower will appoint consultants as follows: (i) by
July 31, 1987, consultants to undertake design and implementation
monitoring; (ii) by July 31, 1987, consultants to undertake the
benchmark survey; (iii) by June 30, 1988, consultants to prepare
a rehabilitation program for Polders A, B and C; and (iv) by June
30, 1989, consultants to prepare programs for intensification of
crop, livestock and fish production.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special AMcount
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to SDR 1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 16 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts. as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the -,quest for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories for the Project,
minus the amount of any outstanding agreement to
reimburse made by the Association with respect to
the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eli-
gible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any


﻿- 17 -
ex.nenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association for crediting to the Credit Account) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made
such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


