CirRCULAX'.?r' 0%)Y 
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS     In              n P n v
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
I                       I
I RETURN TO
I    . R ---RT5   -ESK
I A1 1r U I KI                 Report No. 379-PH
I ONE WEEKI
PHILIPPINES
OTrIC  DcIfPROCTSIN  AUTh CTAND Art' PROJTVT
LOAN No. 720-PH
T fl n x  l'lfn flA AiTarr  n'TLITr.7
GENERiAL FEREORxrIZICE REVIEW
AND
RECOMMPENDATIONS FOR PROJECT REVISION
March 28, 1974
Agricultural Credit and Agro-Industries Division
Asia Projects Department
I Thc . r-. spt pr epred for official use only by thA RBankr GZro.r It mav not be pubhlished n.,ntedi
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.






PH ILIPPINES
LOAN 720-PH - RICE PROCESSING AND STORAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION .......      ...............................  1
II.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE      .    .........     1
A_   Obiectives and Main Features ................,        1
B.   Performance  ..................................       2
III.   NEED FOR A REVISED PROJECT ........................        4
IV.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE .        8
V.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION .....       .........................   11
VI.   BENEFITS AiD JUSTIFICATION ........................       12
VII.   RECOMMENDATION ....................................       14
A?MTMV Vt' C
1.  rain Processin I- dustry itn -,hePhlpie
I * iLd.LL K      r, LLZUUOLLY Li LLIC rL1.L.L±PpJ.LL~
2.   Revised Schedule of Disbursement
3.   Revised Descr'ption o' the Project
4.   Financial Rates of Return
Tables
1.   Proforma Income Statements for New 2,000 Ton Operating Capacity
r'LL11
2.   Proforma Cash Flow Projection for 2,000 Ton Operating
Capacity Miil
3.   Financial Rates of Return for 2,000 Ton Operating Capacity fill
4.   Proforma Incremental Income Statement (Expansion)
5.   Proforma Incremental Cash Flow Projection (Expansion)
6.   Financial Rates of Return (Expansion)
7.   Proforma Incremental Income Projection Kiskisan Replaced with
Cono Mill
8.   Proforma Incremental Income Statement Projection (Expansion of
Grain Silos)
9.   Proforma Cash Flow Projection and Financial Rate of Return Calcu-
lation (Expansion of Grain Silos)
Annex 5.   Economic Rates of Return



- 2 -
Tables
1.   New Integrated Mill with 2,000 Ton Operating Capacity
2.   Expansion of Existing 2,030 Ton Operating Capacity up to
4,000 Ton Operating Capacity
3.   Replacement of the Kiskisains
4.   Paddy Drier
5.   Expansion of Corn Storages (Silos)



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
I. INTRODUCTION
1L(1      The Toan Agreempnt with the Rpniihlir nf thp Philinninpq nrnuieiino
for a loan of $14.3 million equivalent was signed on February 4, 1971 and
became efffective onn May 1Q  1Q71  The Pro4ect fnrms nprt of a fluop1nnmPnt
Bank of the Philippines (DBP) program of lending to the private sector for
development and modernization of the -rain processing industry.  This repart
assesses the performance of the Project, reviews the amendments to the loan
agreenment the bnrrnwer has recently  ronnpoed, rpenmmaonnds m.easures needed for
its successful implementation, and presents an up-dated financial and
economi4c evaluation of the Project.   /
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE
A. ObJectives ard '-In leatures
2.01      The objective of the Project is to assist the Government of the
PIhL±ilppines iLn carryLLg out a program c,f iUodernULzatU o of rPhiLpp'1ne  grinL
processing industry. The project is intended to add to the country's milling
capacity, to reduce grain spoilage, and to increase tne efficiency of grain
processing. The state of industry is discussed in detail in Annex 1.
2.02      The need for improvement in grain processing and marketing has
long been recognized.  Although most or the processing and storage raciiities
are in need of repair, replacement or modernization, private investment in
this sector has been hindered by lack of credit on suitable terms and inade-
quate training of plant operators. The scope for investment in modern faci-
lities in this sector was limited until the mld-1960's, wnen new nigh
yielding varieties were introduced. In combination with fertilizer and
reliable irrigation, the new paddy varieties have made it possibie to increase
paddy production, which in turn has brought out serious deficiencies in the
processing industry. Lack of mechanical grain drying equipment is hindering
efficient processing of paddy varieties which mature in the wet season,
1/   In preparing this report, it has not been possible to take tull account
of the consequences of recent increases in petroleum prices. Energy
input of the Project is relatively small, about 2% of gross sales and
20% of annual operating cost of the typical sub-project, and the recent
petroleum price increases are not expected to affect significantly the
substance of this report.



- 2 -
while traditional milling and handling facilities have proved increasingly
inadequate for handling commercial paddy flows in major producing areas.
The poor storage facilities are causing high spoilage losses and low producer
prices.
2.03      As originally conceived the Project was to finance new construction
of six large and 30 smaller integrated modern rice processing plants, and
modernization of 30 existing mills. These mills then would have a combined
capacity of mechanically drying 225 tons per hour, milling 60 tons of paddy
per hour, bulk storing about 150,000 tons (static), and sack storing a
further 24,000 tons. They were to be located mainly in Central Luzon and
the Cagayan Valley where rice production is heavily concentrated. They were
expected to handle about 480,000 tons oi- paddy per annum, or 15-20% of paddy
processed through commercial channels (as estimated at the time of appraisal).
In addition, the Project provided the technical services required for its
implementation, including a training program for rice mill operators, managers
and officers of DBP and the Philippine Government under the joint auspices
of the University of the Philippines College of Agriculture and the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The need for a revised Prolect is
discussed in Chapter III.
2.04      The Proiject provides funds to be relent through the Development
Bank of the Philippines (DBP) to private millers and traders. Subloans to
beneficiaries carry 12% annual interest and run for 14 years, including
about one year's grace. Estimated total Project cost was $21.0 million,
including contingencies, of which $14.3 million (68%) would be provided by
the Bank, $2.2 million (11%) by DBP, and $4.4 million (21%) by the benie-
ficiaries. Revised cost estimates are given in Chapter IV.
B. PerforrLiance
2.05      Lack of Subloan Demand:   Demand for subloans has been disaDDoint-
ingly small. DBP received only eight serious applications during the first
year of implementation. This was due in part to the Door crops caused by
typhoons, tungro virus disease and floods during the first two years of the
Proieet and in nart to the substantial devaluation of the currencv in 1973.
Subsequent experience has shown that the models of the units originally
proposed in the Project were large in relatfon to local terhniral, finanria1
and managerial capacity. Even a small unit with an annual throughput
canacitv of 6-O00 tons would reqniirp an investment cs   of ahnot- P 2.6
million (US$400,000).   Although the beneficiary could borrow up to 80% of
this, hp was renuired to provide his own t-cah conntributior.nf ao
P 520,000 (US$80,000), which has proved difficult even for a well-to-do
miller .
2.06      Shift of Emphasis to Rehabilitation of         i )A411,   As a
result of the poor response in subloan demand for new integrated rice mills,
the Bank in March, 1972, agreed to shift the emphasis of the Project from



construction of new units to rehabilitation of existing ones.   However,
nDBP's m-40r preoccupation in the meantimp has been with trvinc to make a
success of the first five units of new mills under the Project (para 2.07).
&s a result, progress in thic rehabilitat4no pffort haQ so farbeen very
limited.
2.07      Abandonment of Construction of New Integrated Units:    There have
been oly five -uif        a plIca...4-   for new -. units.         B4dd      took a
place in December, 1972, with Erectors Co. the winning bidder, at P 18.2
million 'or -.he fi've units. 7.k.is -was about 125Yo more than the appraisal
m.. J. L.L L L 1.  LL1I  L .5 V  ULL   L .  JL.&A.~  UL.4  S -   '..'  - -.* *  -S-  _F
estimate, and about 40% higher than the estimates DBP prepared immediately
b-efore tbe biddingAu.Ln  .-.Le cost overrun was Alargeyly due .t e devaltion
of the peso relative to the Japanese yen.   In view of the very large cost
overrun, DPnegotiated wi.-C -. the-.~ .8--1 4 Anning bide   fo  8 reue  price, --A
~ LUL, AJ)I LL r,UL.L4LU WL LAI It=~ W .LIL"LL&L5 J.ALU%A=J ~%l.JL A.=L % J9JL %.L, CLI%A
on condition that there would be somv modifications in layouts and detailed
specidUIcai      Xs L t sULec U Ull .JanIUaILr  J,I IIJ3 at  wCeW U oLL aL r *F.0
million, which was a substantial reduction.   However, soon after the bid
negotiation, the UdrastLc yen appreciLatiLon took place and this agai  affected
the bidder's position adversely. Following the yen appreciation, DBP
was reluctant to take tne yen risk, and this gave rise to prolonged negot'a-
tions with the bidder regarding the currency to be used for payments under
the contract. Tne Bank approved on May 9, 1973, the proposed contract at the
reduced price. Contrary to DBP's expectations, however, the beneficiaries
failed to provide the equity (an average of 20% of investment costs), and
the bidder withdrew his offer on July 14, 1973, after repeated extensions of
the bid expiry date. As a result, the attempt to build these five units
has been abandoned. Four of the five beneficiaries concerned have indicated
their interest in subloans under the rehabilitation program.
2.08      Sub-loans for Rehabilitation of Existing Facilities:    The prospects
for sub-loans under the rehabilitation program have been improving in recent
months and there is scope for greatly accelerating their processing if
some of the provisions in the Loan Agreement are amended.    DBP has received
33 applications for a total of about P 34 million (US$5.0 million), and
its Board has approved eight of these, amounting to about P 8.9 million
(US$1.3 million). Bank disbursement in this category was only $200,000 as
of January 31, 1974, but should accelerate soon, and the remaining 25
applications will be submitted to DBP Board in the near future.
2.09      Price Increase and Sub-project's Viability:   On account of the
general price increase in the Philippines and of the drastic yen appreciation
since appraisal, an average investment cost increase of about 80% now
appears likely. Since the price of rice has doubled from P 1.70 per
ganta/2.43 kg at the time of appraisal to over P 3.40, however, the pros-
pects for financial viability of the Project's rice mills remain satisfac-
tory.
2.10      Training Program:   The training of managerial, technical and operat-
ing personnel of the grain processing industry, including those for Project
facilities, is being conducted by UNDP at the College of Agriculture,



University of the Philippines. To date over 200 trainees have completed
their respect'-ve courses.
2. 11     Disbursements:  As of January 31, 1974, only $0.5 miiiion had been
disbursed ($0.2 million for grain processing and handling facilities and
$0.3 million for consultant services). Disbursement lags far behind the
previous supervision mission's estimates, which anticipated about $1.0
million would be disbursed by the above date. Tne lag is due mainly to the
abandonment of the construction of the five new integrated rice milling
facilities (para 2.07). Subject to the revisions proposed below (Section
III), the Project is however, expected lo pick up momentum. A revised
schedule of disbursement is given in Anr,ex 2.
2.12      Proposed Amendments:   To make the Project more workable and to
assure its speedy and full implementation, DBP has recently proposed several
amendments to the Loan Agreement, as follows:
(a) to expand its scope to include grains other than rice -
particularly corn;
(b)  to add to the items eligible for financing other post-
harvest equipment such as on-farm grain drying units,
on-farm grain storages, grain moisture testers, grain
mill operated trucks and grain carrying barges, and
equipment and facilities required for manufacture of
rubber rollers for use in rice hullers;
(c)  to include individuals and specific public entities
as beneficiaries;
(d) to lower the minimum limit of sub-loans to $2,000 frcm
the present $10,000; and
(e)  to extend the Closing Date by two years to June 30, 1977.
These amendments are justified (Section III). They were worked out follow-
ing a Bank review mission led by Mr. Ducksoo Lee in AuRust. 1973.
III. NEED FOR A REVISED PROJECT
3.01      While there are ooDortunities for investment in the 2rain nrocessin2
sector at large, the Project as presently defined is too restrictive, and it
is doubtful whether more than S5.0 million out sf the Bank'R $14.3 millinn
could be disbursed. On the other hand, with suitable revision it would be
possible to imnLement the Proiect fully and arhieve, its hbaic- nohb4cve,n
which are still valid and of high priority.
3.02      Restrictiveness of the Project Framework:   The Project framework is
too restrictive. Financing is restricted to facilities for rice. It excludes



-5-
coryi and other grains. It also is restricted to certain specific items, and
excludes equipment now found to be required. Only privately controlled
cooperatives, corporations or associations can borrow. Individuals and
public entities cannot and there is a mandatory $10,000 minimum for sub-
loans, which has proven restrictive. Procurement procedures leave little
scope for beneficiary's justifiable preferences for makes and models of
equipment.
3.03      Changed Circumstances:    At the time of appraisal, rice production
was widely expected to increase rapidly and reach substantial exportable
surpluses. Under those circumstances, in line with government policy, it
was natural to propose new integrated rice processing facilities of large
capacities capable of turning out export quality rice (impossible with
the existing facilities), to expect that there would be a large number of
qualified corporate entities to be interested in the scheme, and to intro-
duce strict procedures aimed at selection of the most productive processing
sub-projects.
3.04       The circumstances have, however, greatly changed.    Rice production
suffered a series of setbacks and, instead of having exportable surpluses.
the country has imported large quantities of rice. In addition, investment
costs have increased by about 80% (whereas the rice price has doubled). Partly
as a result of these changes, the demand for new units has been very small.
Therefore, the Proiect needs to be revised in the light of changed cir-
cumstances.
3.05      Facilities for Corn:   With expectations for rice far more optimistIc
than for corn, investment in nrorssing farilities wAs not vpt viewed as
urgent at appraisal. Corn production has increased at 8.0% since 1966,
and iR exnected to grow at ahotit 7n.z thrnoiuhouit thp 19701cs  Duiring last
year's critical period of rice shortage, the Government successfully
ra!mipaincd to Pnremirnaag Filininos to-n eat orn-n wit4h rice r a ndI-On step   i-urn
production. The 1973 wet season corn harvest should be about one million
tons, an incrse of about 25Z over the corresponding season. of the previois
year. It is now clear that the rationale for promotion of rice processing
apnnlhlpQ penlluwa o11 tn i-nirfn  the otheros tapnleop .r  Tn eome. 4vt.alonce
moreover, the grain processing mills being considered for rehabilitation
would be desig.n.ed to process both rice and corn, and most of the corn rilbs9
for which a substantial sub-loan demand is expected from food manufactr...ers
using cornr as a primnry raw .mate,r-al would ba.A e avai b1-le for sorage of
rice as well.
3.06      With the large increase expected in corn production, there is a
need for at least 60 additionl corn mills of one=ton per day capacity, and
a greater need for sack warehouses and bulk silos. Even with the current
production level, tahere is a pressing neeA 'or b.ulk 8110s as .icreasungly
large quantities are held between seasons and transported from surplus to
deficient regions.   The transport and storage 'olem i8 --l .e .-
-~ ~& ~L.~ IIWA. %. CLU1 A        ± L.  I tCPLU A ZLOa' L~ the mor  crucia
for corn because it is far more perishable than other grains.     Unless pro-
visions are made for adequate                 ----- storag   a  -- --o  '-acilitie
fUo Lcorn  wiLLth theL Le ,M LVLrodu tLiU FLUs ofo.LL1e L7..L0% ayr  v
f or corn, with the expected production increase of over 7.0% a year over



the next decade, it will be difficult to avert large scale post-harvest grain
losses, which will in turn lead to considerable cutbacks in production
resulting from the decline in prices caused by the inability to transport,
store and process.
3.07      Transport Equipment:   Changes need to be made in the List of
Goods eligible for Proiect financing to cater to the changed conditions.
(a)  Under "other ancillary equiDment and facilities" in
the Loan Agreement, vehicles can be provided in the case
of new mills, but not in i:he case of rehabilitation
sub-loans. The Loan Agreement should be amended to
cover both casas.
(b)  Many mill-nw-nerq_ who havp sufficrint- canpacityv an re
cEpable of efficient operations without any rehabilitation
nf their Pqiiipment, are handicapped hya lack of adequate
and timely supplies of paddy. At present, they rely to a
great extent on traders for their through.put. SInce a
2,000 ton mill, for example, will draw its paddy supply
from farmers within a In km radius (a full day's journey,
one way, by buffalo cart) there is a need for transportatiorn
to provide an efficient collection System.   Under the
present terms of the Loan Agreement, such millers do not
qual- 4 _: y for sub loan . fSA. veh..ce, sn1e o t   _ .---- 4- _, neeAv
for rehabilitation. In view of this, it is recommended
4-1-ha- tbe  an Agreement b-e amencled so that bona4. fide .-411
LLI .. L. L LAI  AA ~ Z&~4.u ~ a iLU %A  C L  .&II  L. U%JLJ  .LUV  AlL.L.L-
owners may qualify, thereby permitting them to operate their
equip..er.t more economica'l y .
C 14 UI 2L~L  il~~.  i)Si ~LL
(c)  LI L .ie Project iU brlocadned tLUo JClude crL, UaLges WUUlU
be more suitable than trucks in some areas, since large
quantities are transported by water.   It is recommended
that the Loan Agreement be amended to permit financing of
barges for this purpose.
3.08      Additional Equipment:   une of tne prerequisites ror a modern miii
is that paddy delivered to it must have a reasonably low and uniform moisture
content (Annex 1, para 15). Tnere is, therefore, a great need for paddy
driers at farm and community levels. Due to the absence of suitable
mechanical driers on the market at the time of appraisal, the Project did
not include any provisions for on-farm grain driers or storage. The situa-
tion has changed recently as a result of the success of a new design promis-
ing a wide application (Annex 1, para 18). Extensive use of on-farm driers
would also entail the need for moisture testers and on-farm storages.
3.09      There is a need for equipment required to manufacture rubber
rollers used by modern mill hullers. These rollers are consumed at the rate
of one pair for each 70 tons or thereabout of paddy hulled. The uncertainty
over availability of these rollers at reasonable prices has been one of the
most serious hindrances to technical progress of the milling industry.



- 7 -
There is evidence that local manufacturE of these rollers would be commercially
feasible.  Provision of relatively low cost equipment under the Project
would enable the Philippines to manufacture them domestically and reassure
prospective beneficiaries that adequate supplies of rtubber rollers would
be available, and provide a significant incentive to modernization of their
facilities.
3.10      Eligibility of Individuals:  The shift of project emphasis from
construction of new units to rehabilitation of existing ones (discussed
in para 2.06) is appropriate because rehabilitation would help accomplish
the original project obiectives and reduce the financial and economic cost.
However, this requires a change in the definition of the beneficiary,
who is presently defined (in Section 1.02 (e) of the Loan Agreement) as
"a privately controlled cooperative, corporation or association to which
DBP proposes to make or has made a sub-loan". Since most of the prospective
borrowers for rehabilitation and expansion are likely to be individuals,
their exclusion is self-defeating. The Loan Agreement thus needs amendment
to include individuals.
3.11      E1igbility_of Specific Public Entities:    At present public
entitips Are nor eligible to borrow under the Proiect. It is now desirable
to include local governments and the National Grains Authority in the defi-
nition of "beneficiary".  The use of on-farm paddy drving units i8 a pre-
requisite to the modern mill (para 3.06).   Their estimated unit cost is
about P 9,000 .41,340) ar.d economic rate of return about 34.7%. About 200
units can be installed and operated under the project.   Local governments
propose to procure such fac4l1ties and distribute them to barrio
associations on a long-term lease, in areas where the private sector is
not able to meet 4ncreased market4ng a;;d processirg requirements. T-
addition, the National Grains Authority (NGA), which is responsible for
aA_.ministratlon of gover[ment gra'in pol'Ucy, is interested i±ri constructing
bulk silos for its buffer stock operations. NGA is at present preparing
sub-projects for financing under the Project.   It is recommended that the
definition of "benefir4ary" include local governments and NGA, on condition
that all sub-loans to them will be subject to prior approval of the Bank,
based on assured need for the facilities, maintenance capability, technical
sondess and financial viability.  The total of such sub-loans is not
expected to exceed $2.0 million equivalent.
3.12      Procurement Procedures:   Contracts for civil works costing $100,000
or r,ore wouLd remain suDject to international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. The procurement procedures for
equipment requires amendment to take account of the revised scope of the
Project and to permit beneficiaries to purchase spare parts and improvements
to their existing equipment or choose the most efficient new equipment for
the quality of processed grain needed by their markets. International com-
petitive bidding could not take full account of these factors and of
beneficiaries' preference. However, to take advantage of international com-
petition, equipment costing $100,000 or more would be procured on the basis
of quotations received in response to international advertisement taking



00
-o-
into account the technical suitability of equipment chosen by the beneficiaries
and suppliers' ability to provide service and spares. Civii works contracts
with an estimated cost of less than $100,000 and equipment costing less
than $100,000 would be procured througn ordinary commerciai cnanneis.
3.13      Minimum Limit for Sub-loans:   Tne original Project was for
improving the rice recovery efficiency of existing cono mills, the relatively
efficient of the two classes of rice mills. it did not include improving
the efficiency of the kiskisans, the class of smaller mills whose rice
recovery rate is only about 55-60% compared with the 66% average for cono
mill. However, replacement of kiskisans with cono mills would also be
desirable change, and it is recommended that the Project should facilitate
it. Since small model cono mills cost at present about A 18,000 ($2,710)
each, it would be impossible to finance them unless the minimum sub-loan
limit is reduced to about $2,000 from the present $10,000 (para 5.03 of
Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement). An amendment to this effect should, there-
fore, be made in the Loan Agreement.
3.14      Extension of the Closing Date:    Since most of the sub-loans involv-
ing larger amounts are likely to entail disbursements considerably beyond the
original schedule, it is recommended that the closing date be extended by
two_ta      to June 30, 1977 (Annex 2).
3.15      Revised Description of the Project:    A draft Description of the
Project embodying the recommended amendments appears as Annex 3.
IV. PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
4.01      Project Cost:   In light of the recent tenders (para 2.07), the
average investment cost per unit capacity is expected to be about 80% higher
than in the appraisal estimates. As the price of rice has increased more
than the investment cost (para 2.09), the expected financial viability of
the sub-proiects remains unimpaired. The total processing capacity that
can be financed with the loan proceeds would be somewhat reduced from what
was originally intended. Originally the Proiect was intended to process
about 480,000 tons of paddy annually.    Because of the investment cost
increase. and the use of funds for corn storages not originally planned;
it will not be possible to finance processing capacity for more than 350,000
tons- about 70% of the original target for rice=



-9-
Estimated Project Costs -
(in thousands of US dollars)
Number     Unit                Foreign
of Units    Cost     Total      Exchange
Part A (i)
New Rice Mills                        15       147.9     2,219       1,664
NGA Grain Storage /b                   1       700.0       700         525
Part A (ii)
Improvement of Cono Mills             60       103.6    6,213        4,970
Replacement of Rice Kiskisan         140         3.0      414          166
Replacement of Corn Kiskisan          60         3.0      178           71
Expansion of Corn Facilities           3     1,858.3     5,575       4,739
Part A (iii)
Grain Driers /c                      200         1.3      266          120
Equipment for Rubber Roller
Production                        1       200.0      200          200
Sub-total                       15,765      12,455
Contingencies (10%)                                     1,577        1,245
Sub-total                       17,342      13,700
Part B
Consultant                                                600          600
Administrative Cost                                     1;000          -
Sub-total                         1.600         600
Totai                    18.942      14.300
/a   Embodies the proposed prolect revision.   May not add up on account of
rounding.
/b   Facilities for the National Grains Authority.
/c   About 10 sub-loans to local governments.



4.02      Financing:  The Bank loan of $14.3 million, about 76% of the
revised cost, would cover the entire foreign exchange component of the
revised Project. For the new facilities under Part A (i), and those
rehabilitation sub-projects under A (ii) involving sub-loans of $20,000
each or more, the beneficiaries would provide, on average, 20% of the invest-
ment cost, and DBP would lend the remainder, of which the Bank would reim-
burse 90%. For the expansion projects under Part A (ii) involving sub-
loans of less than $200,000 each, DBP would lend the entire investment
cost, of which the Bank would reimburse 90%.   The Bank would finance the
entire foreign exchange component of the consultant and administrative
services.
Financing by Categories/
(in thousands of US dollars)
Bank    DBP   Beneficiary    Total
Part A    (i)
New Rice Mills                          1,757    195        489      2,441
NGA Storage                               554     61        155        770
Part A    (ii)
Improvement of Cono Mills               6,150    684         -       6,834
Replacement of Rice Kiskisan              409     46         -         455
Replacement of Corn Kiskisan              176     20         -         196
Expansion of Corn Facilities            4;415    491      1,227      6,133
Part A (iii)
Grain Driers                              263     30         -         293
Enqipnmpnr fnr Rubber Rnllprs             166     18         36        220
Part B
Consultants                               410    190         -         600
Administrative Costs                       -   1,000         -       1 f00
Total                   lb00    2,75     _1 Qg7      1R,AI42
Percentage                 706%6  14%       10%       100%
/a   The project costs includes a 10% price contingency.
4.03      Disbursement:   A revised schedule of disbursements appears in
Annex 2.
4.04      International Competitive Bidding (ICB):   The Bank has waived ICB
for all procurement under Part A (ii), the expansion and modernization
program for existing mills, because the investment costs for each beneficiary
were expected to be $100,000 or less. Conditions have now changed, and a
few sub-loans involving more than $200,000 are likely to be forthcoming under
Part A (ii). It would not be appropriate to waive the standard ICB require-
ment for sub-loans involving more than $200,000 each simply because they are



- 11 -
under the expansion and modernization Drogram. It is recommended. therefore.
that Section 3.07 (a) of the Loan Agreement spelling out procurement proce-
dures reauiring ICB be amended to include goods and services renuired for
investment Projects under Part A (ii) involving a sub-loan of $200,000 or more.
The waiver nf TIr would remain vnlid fnr suth-Innn   for rphahilitntinn Of
less than $200,000 on condition that the equipment specifications were certi-
fied by the  onaiultant as si4table for the confitions and evistino facilities
of the sub-borrower, and, after prudent shopping, the cost was reasonable.
4.05      Beneficiary's Equity Requirement:    The 20% average equity (cash
contribution) requiremet- from the benefici4ary appl-ies only- to- th i4-r,ct--r
projects for new mills included in Part A (i), but not for rehabilitation
and expanso   of e-4-x4st-i   11.ill unAer Part- A (44i.  ronditior  --eni4ng
..d   expansio a.a- --   - tA..J _ 11 lf*~A .  O. -  = ,   '.JP*S-A/a, - - -   S-K .-f6
the equity requirement changed, and some of the large borrowers for expansion
of corn silos a-A feed manuFac.urng fac414-4ities are likely    ,. to be - ria
.JA  ~*J. A  . ..LJO am   a. 1a u,ua .  LLS£*  ACL~LU .LtC  LC  l tDC   UC  .,MaL_..j
entities capable of providing a reasonable share of Project cost.    There is
tI-.- n    one  anLy  ..Vo  reaso&n L-o exemplJ all *Le Uenee clarI..-.J.L oaO   OUU-L oLnO
under Part A (ii) from the equity requirement.    The beneficiaries of sub-loans
oL $2V0 0,0   equivaler,t or more sh'lould Lt be rqU.LLeU LU contrLLA.UULte  on avera
the same 20% equity required of the beneficiaries under Part A (i). It is
tLherefore recou-umenUdedU that SectiLon 3'J. 10 ol the 'LoanL tAgreemftent be amenduAedu
accordingly.
V.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION
5.01      DBP:   The Bank loan is to the Government of the Philippines for
relending to DBP on the same terms under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The
Loan Agreement specifies the main operating procedures to be followed under
the Project, including the establishment of a separate Project account.
To ensure suitable sub-loan appraisal and supervision a separate Grain
Processing Division has been set up in DBP to administer the Project.
5.02      Sub-borrowers:   Each sub-loan application is filed with one of
DBP's 26 branches, nearest the subproject to be financed. The application
includes details of the applicant's past experience in grain milling and
trading, the status of his processing and storage operations and facilities,
the purpose of the loan and the collateral offered. This is sent to DEP's
Grain Processing Division for further investigation.    DBP's Board of Governors
approves sub-loans on the basis of such factors as managerial competence, prior
grain processing or trading experience, technical capacity of proposed mid-level
supervisory personnel, suitability of location, and financial viability.
5.03      Detailed designs of rice processing and storage facilities are to
be prepared by the technical staff of the Grain Processing Division with the
assistance of the consultants (Pemar Engineering). In connection with sub-
project preparation, DBP and its consultants will seek the advice of
UNDP and IRRI. The Loan Agreement should be modified to take into account
the beneficiary's preferences for makes and models of equipment (see para
3.12). Sub-loans to a single beneficiary in excess of 5400,000 is subject
to approval of the Bank, and, in addition, under the revised Project,



- 12 -
every sub-loan to local government and NGA would be subject to prior
approval by the Bank, on the basis oL demonstrated technical and organiza-
tional soundness and financial justification.
5.04      In the appraisal of potential sub-borrowers, the Grain Process;ing
Division is required to pay particular attention to the requirements for
working capital and the intended sources. Seasonal requirements would
generally be large, and the Division will continue to endeavor to assist
sub-borrowers either by arranging financing with private commercial banks
or providing such funds out of DBP's own resources if necessary.
5.05      Project sub-loans are repaid at 12% annual interest over 14 years,
including one year's grace covering construction and start-up period. A 12%
interest rate is considered to be appropriate and in line with terms of sub-
loans under the on-going Philippine Rural Credit Project (Loan No. 607-PH,
$12.5 million), and gives DBP an adequate spread of 4.75% on Bank funds.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      General:  The proposed revision would considerably strengthen the
Project, and help it to achieve its initial objective of modernizing
the grain processing and storage industry. The nature of the benefits
postulated in the appraisal report would remain unaltered. The paddy driers
would complement other factors in facilitating the spread of high yielding
varieties maturing in the wet season. The storage facilities would minimize
post-harvest grain losses and help stabilize inter-seasonal prices. The
processing mills would raise the quantity and quality of the grain produced,
and allow better utilization of by-products. Effective design and location
of Project facilities would ensure adequate financial returns to the beneficiaries
and acceptable economic returns to the country as a whole.
6.02      Financial Viability:  Up-dated and revised financial analyses
for major types of subprojects appear in Annex 4, Tables 1-9. They reflect
the significant changes in investment costs, prices of paddy and rice, rice
recovery rates, operating costs, modified configurations of investment
components, and changes in operating capacities, etc. The estimated financial
rate of return on investment in new 2,000 ton rice mills is 18% before cor-
porate tax and 16% after (Annex 4, Table 3). This is about the same as
the average of 18% originally projected at the time of appraisal for a
new small mill of 6,000 tons. The estimated incremental financial rate of
return on a typical expansion of an existing mill is considerably higher,
36% before tax and 30.0% after (Annex 4, Table 6). The corresponding rate
for replacing a kiskisan is 32% (Annex 4, Table 7). The weighted average
rate for all rice processing components is 32% before tax, which is
rnnQidePrnh1v highpr thnn in t-ha nricinnl Annr:nic:>1  Thp Poesmt1nete  finnnpinl
rate of return on investment in corn silos is 12.5% (Annex 4, Table 9). The
weighted iavrang  fo-r nll thesQ conmponpnts IQ nnt pvnPrtPd tn fall hplnw 2?LT
The rate of return on equity would be considerably higher, and provide
adequate incentives for participation ir the project.



- 13 -
6.03      Economic Benefits:   In this analysis, only two readily quantifiable
benefits have been considered. First, from the net increase in grain out-
put resulting from the higher milling recovery rates; and, second, from
the prevention of erain loss achieved by the subproiects. The total of
these quantifiable benefits would be about $3.5 million per year (2.9
million from 17,000 tons of rice and SO.6 million from 8-000 tons of corn).
Incremental output has been valued conservatively: rice at $170 per ton,
and rnrn at $R0 npr ton. TherF wntileld 'h additionnal hpnpfits, surch as the
demonstration effect of modernization of the grain processing industry in
gepnpral, siuhstitu1tion nf crraini imnnrt-s and timnroupd qiialities of np1ished
rice resulting from reduction in the percentage of broken kernels, etc.
6.04      (a) Increased Recovery:   This benefit would accrue to the sub-
projects with grai.n milling facil4ties    ompared wIth the average   illi
recovery rate of 63% for the entire Philippine industry, the new rice mills
equipped with rubber hullers should obtain 69Y, while each mill wifh oan
annual paddy input of 2,000 tons should have an incremental rice yield of
120 tons. Existing cono millls shoUld achieve a recovery rate -f 69%    -der
the Project, and the benefits attributable to their modernization would be
a three percena.tge points 4ncrease for 2a,000 tons of cuent    -th:oughpt and a
six percentage points increase for additional throughput, so that the total
of su chI ir.ncremental yie 'l.ds wo u '.Cld be 18 0 to..s  Thel kiski-sar.s to be rep'aced
JA.  ~U~.k  .LLL,k~1~LLaJ.. ~   W~JLL.U  U~I 1J J  L~JLD .  LLL   M \.L MA . L  %AJ  U~_  I_.. C%_
with cono mills are assumed to have an average annual current throughput
of 2420 tons anlu a current recovery rate of 6        Llee * L'rojecLL wouLU UOULJJe
the throughput by replacing each of them with a cono mill and enhance its
recovery rate f'rom 60% to 66%,bU LLso L L[ha   the ineuLtal yield would be L26tons
of grain. The annual value of such incremental yields would be about
t'fl  0  .. a IJ     .    r An -  .  e- r                     -s-       f   4
$.8 0uiiou I-on    1St±ng OI or.7 mil.ou ifroim 16,000 tons of rice ana $U.1
million from 1,600 tons of corn.
6.05      (b) Loss Prevention:   This benefit would accrue to the sub-projects
ror grain storage and driers.   One on-farm grain drier is expected to process
about 100 tons of paddy per year and, by preventing spoilage and enhancing
paddy quality, to yield an additional 3.5 tons per year, equivalent to at
least 3.5% by weight of the paddy input. Thus, the Project's 200 grain
driers should give an annual incremental recovery of about 700 tons of rice.
The silos for corn are expected to redtvce the expected loss rate from 9.0%
to 3.0%, equivalent to about 6,500 tons of corn.    kne totai of such ioss
preventions would be about $637,400 ($119,000 from 700 tons of rice, ard
$518,4UU from 6,480 tons of corn).
6.06      Economic Cost of Investment:   Tne economic cost of investment has
been calculated by deducting the estimated average financial investment cost
required for alternative investments in conventional types of facilities
from the Project's financial investment cost.    This procedure is considered
appropriate because the construction of new mills and the expansion of exist-
ing ones under the Project will take place mainly in areas and in categories
of investment urgently requiring additional facilities.
6.07      Economic Cost of Operation:   The economic costs of operating
Project facilities would be relatively small, because only very limited



- 14 -
additional inputs are required compared witn tne input required for conven-
tional facilities. For rice processing facilities such additional inputs
would be about P 33,000 for every 2,000 tons of paddy througnput; P 9,000
for 30 pairs of rubber rollers, F 4,000 for fumigant and E 20,000 for fuel
oil for grain driers. The only other significant economic cost of operation
would be the fuel oil for paddy driers, since the entire oil used would
replace the energy from the sun.
6.08      Economic Rates of Return:  On the basis of these estimates of
economic benefits and costs of investment and operation, the rate of return
is 28% for new integrated rice mill; 69% for incremental investment on
expansion of existing mills; over 100% for replacement of the kiskisans with
cono mills; 35% for paddy driers; and 13% for incremental investment
on expansion of corn silos (details in Annex 5, Tables 1-5). The weighted
average for all components would be at least 35%.   The Project would have
a satisfactory overall rate of return, despite the very conservative valua-
tion of the benefits.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
7.01      On the basis of the foregoing, and in consideration of the important
contribution the Project is expected to make to agricultural development in
the Philippines, it is recommended that:
(a) the scope be expanded to include equipment and facilities
for storage and processing of corn, including feed plants
using corn as a main ingredient;
(b) the list of items eligible for financing be further clari-
fied and expanded to include trucks and barges operated by
project facilities, on-farm grain driers, on-farm grain
storages, and equipment a'nd facilities for manufacture of
rubber rollers for hulleru;
(c) beneficiaries be expanded to include individuals and, (sub-
lect to the conditions in para 3.11), local governments
and the National Grains Authority;
(d)  the procurement procedure be modified to take into account
the beneficiary's iustified preferences for makes and models
of equipment, subject to the conditions in para 3.12;
(e)  the minimum limit for sub-loans be reduced to $2,000 equiva-
lent frnm the nresent $10,00;.
(f)  the Glosing      be extended by --- years to June 30, 1977;
(g)  t-ho tjaiver of TrB be restrvictedA tor procureamert for civ4l works
and equipment with an estimated cost of $100,000 or less
(subject to con.ditios set forth in, para 3.12); and



- 1S -
(h) the waiver of the 20% average equity (cash contribution) require-
ment- be restr4ctedl to SUb-project-s for reh&-ab-ilitation a-A
~~  LL   u.L L ~~ LJ  '.U  jJA ~.J~.~ LJ  .LJ.L L.  LLIJL  ~LAU.
expansion of existing facilities (Part A (ii)) financed
with a su-loan of 'less than12,
MUarch 2u79 I1's4






ANNEX 1
Page 1I
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING AND STORAGE PROJECT
GRAIN PROCESSING INDUSTRY IN THE PHILIPPINES
I. Rice Processing
1.        Rice Production:  Rice is the staple food for about 80% of the
population in the Philippines and corn for the remainder. During most of
this century, rice production merely kept pace with population growth until
the mid-sixties when the country had to import about 435,000 tons per year
on average between 1963 and 1965. In 1966, foodgrain self-sufficiency became
a major objective of government policy. With the advent of new high yielding
varieties developed at the International Rice Research Institute, Los Banos,
and the acceptance of these varieties by the farmers in areas of assured
water supply, paddy production increased at a rate of 5.5% per annum between
1955 and 1970, rising from a total of 4.1 million tons for the 1965/66 crop
year to 5.3 million tons for 1970/71. In 1969, as the result of modest
exports of about 27,000 tons of rice, there emerged the widely held optimism
that the country had entered upon an era of self-sufficiency and that there
would be substantial exportable surpluses in good weather years. This
optimism was soon beset by a series of setbacks. In 1971-72, the crop
suffered severe damage from the three successive typhoons and widespread
tungro virus disease. In 1972-73, severe floods caused an extensive crop
failure in Central Luzon. These crop failures necessitated the importation
of large quantities of rice during the crop year 1971/72 and again in 1972/73.
2.        Despite the considerable increase in paddy production that is
expected to occur during the forthcoming years, 1/ it is not likely that
supplies will exceed domestic demand for some years to come. In fact it
will be difficult to meet the demand increase of about 40% projected for
the current decade. 2/
3.        Outlook for Rice Processing Industrv:   Despite its adequacy in
terms of capacity, the rice processing industry in the Philippines needs
revamping. The combined static capacity of grain storaRes has been estimated
to be about 3.0 million tons, adequate to handle the entire paddy production
of 5.1 million tons for the 1971/72 crop year even under the assumption that
1/   IBRD Report No. 39a-PH, Agricultural Sector Survey - Philippines, 1973
Vol. III, Annex 6, para 75.
2/   Ibid, Vol. I, p. 13, para 4.03.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
as mnucn as 60% of it is narvesteu in the drY season. With an aggregate
milling capacity of 7.7 millions tons of paddy on the basis of 250 working
days of 12 hours eacn, it wouid appear tnat tnere is an excess capacity ot
about 50% in rice milling industry.
4.        Contrary to the apparent adequacy, however, the industry is made
up largely of dilapidated, inefficient and obsolete facilities. A substantial
proportion of the storage consists of warehouses designed for sack rather
than bulk storage and is in poor condition, with rusted walls, broken windows,
inadequate ventilation and high levels of humidity. The inefficiency of rice
milling industry is even more striking. With an average milling recovery
rate (the percentage by weight of milled rice recovered from the paddy) of
only about 63%, the performance is very poor in comparison with the far
superior performance demonstrated elsewhere in Asia and there is scope in
the Philippines for action to increase the recovery rate by several percent-
age points.
5.        About 95% of the paddy output is processed by mechanical milling
process, and the remainder is hand pounded for subsistence consumption.
Abotut 45% of the paddy output is milled by the oldest type of mechanical
huller called Engelbergh or kiskisan which has a low recovery rate of less
than 60% on average, and produces rice with a high percentage of broken
kernels. About 50% of the paddy is milled by the cono mills (disk huller
mills) with an average recovery rate of about 66%, but these cono mills
also leave considerable scope for improvement.
6.        Despite the great advantages to be gained by mechanically drying
the paddy, especially in the very humid environment in which the wet season
crops are handled, there has been very little progress in the use of mech-
anical driers in the Philippines.
7.        The oldest mechanical rice mill is the kiskisan, a relatively small
unit with a throughput capacity normally ranging between 250 to 400 kg. per
hour. It requires a relatively large power of about 15 hp for operation, and
removes the husk and bran in a single operation without separating one from
the other. There are about 9,000 kiskisan mills operating in the Philippines
and they together process about 45% of the total paddy production. Their
million recovery rate ranges between 55-60% on the basis of the avera2e
paddy milled to turn out "good second grace rice". This means that, with
the 1971/72 cron year naddv output of about 5.1 million tons- assuming that
about 90% of it was actually milled, the 9,000 kiskisans milled about 2.1 mil-
lion tons and turned out about 1.3 million tons of milled rire, and that the
throughput per kiskisan averaged about 2.4 tons, or about 5,300 cavans of
44 kg.
R ,        .hiIa t1he 1 rge operators have severna1 itn4  t at-he bu1k1 -of the
kiskisan millers operate single units. The operation is so simple that
manu Vicsisans oar ruin alnmost nn a salf-sae-trieu bkna4a a8 -hat- .11 t-all   -. 411
owner does is to collect milling fees of P 1.00 to P 2.00 per 44 kg. cavan
of paddy and to switch on the motor.   The customer dps his paddy into



ANNEX 1
Page 3
the hopper and takes home all the rice and the bran mixed with the husk. The
kiskisan normally accept job lots as small as one cavan of 44 kg. or even
less, and their typical job lot is only a few cavans. The kiskisan owners
have at present nothing to gain from improving the quality of milling. In
view of their poor performance, the kiskisans have been completely phased
out in Japan and Taiwan and are being rapidly eliminated in India.
9.        Cono Mills.   The next improved rice mill is the disk huller mill
commonly called the cono mill which employs a multi-stage milling process
through paddy cleaner, under-run disk huller, rice separator, cono-type
polisher followed by a rice grader. The whole range of cono type equipment
is manufactured in the Philippines. There are about 2,000 cono mills
operating in the Philippines and their combined throughput has been estimated
to be about 50% of the total paddy output. With the 1971/72 crop year paddy
milling throughput of 4.6 million tons, the 2,000 cono mills processing
about 2.3 million tons, turning out about 1.5 million tons of milled rice,
so that the average throughput was about 1,170 tons of paddy, or about
27,000 cavans of 44 kg.
10.       The milling recovery rates of the cono mills vary widely depending
upoIl the qualities of the machine, the operator, the paddy and the finished
rice. The average has been estimated to be 66% on the basis of the average
paddy milled to turn out "good second grade rice", and this compares very
favorably with the corresponding 55-60% recovery performance of the kiskisans.
The cono mill reauires three times as much capital as a kiskisan of the same
capacity, and it takes more skill to operate.    Its operating cost per unit
of paddy milled is about the same as that of the kiskisan mill. While the
cono mills do provide milling services to customers on the basis of fixed
fees that are comnarable to those charged by the kiskisans- the main source
of their income has been trading of paddy and rice rather than milling for
fees.  Their rire trading has been very profitable a.- the nrir_es have been
widely fluctuating while sharply increasing in recent years.
11.       Modern Rice Mills:    Over the past 30 years, there have been a
series of advanr^e  in rice milling technnlogv elsewhere in the world., and
the modern rice mills now obtain milling recovery rates much higher than
thnse possible wit-h the o-vnno millst  Tn adAition- they yield moli shed rire
of export qualities with far less brokens. This has been made possible by
replacement of the disk huller with rubber roll hiulers     In the mwdern rice
mill, paddy is passed through an adjustable clearance between the two rubber
rollers rotating at different- aspeaaa  so -hat- -he husk is re.moved from the
paddy with much less damage to the rice and therefore the recovery rate is
a'cually much higher.  The broun rice (hulled paddy) ic t-hen fed t-n t-he whiten-
ing machine and the polisher which produce white rice by removing the bran
layer from the grain.. Two types of whiteners or polishers are available:
the vertical cone polisher and the horizontal abrasive or friction polisher.
Boh. .o thes   h,a v b   een  _  SU--A ,   - 1 ..  ttyal AA4 -      -AA
varieties. There are no significant economies of scale in this modern
process any Lnore thlan in the cono type miLlling.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
12.       A few modern rice mills have been constructed in the Philippines
in recent years: they have been disappointing in several wavs.   Some of the
cauLses of the disappointment are inherent, but by no means incorrigible, in
the nature nf the mndern mills.
13.       The first t-hreem, dern mills havp heen hiiilt recantly are toag
They have annual milling _apacities of 18,000 tons, 30,000 tons and 75,000
tons of paddy on the basis of 250 worklin  diay nf 19 hours per day   Their
primary problem is the difficulty in procuring paddy in quantities adequate
to keep the n4l 4Is runn-ng at ful capacity.  There appear to be dlseconoWes
of scale in the physical logistics of procuring and delivering the large
quantities of paddy even rhere production is h4ghl-         Tat     I 
been reported that a rice mill with a mu zh more modest capacity of 2,000 tons
h.as had to bring the paddy from far.A  a  as far as 3nI,-.waa0  n z.d the -J. .13er
,, o SaS LJ U.t t   .A1j a..   ..,. 4  S IL   ..  ..A. r.   .'.  r.fl. SW y  ,.  4u.1   WLJLL.LLC
found it physically difficult to gather the required quantity.   The task of
se-tti.g up tahe necessary pro-cuream-ent  -- 4 a-za4 -nnw ever-. -.,. Adifficult.
Since there are no -significant economies of scale in milling beyond the
capacities oI abouet 2,000 tons, the.s .eM411ers would 1have -een m.h better
off if they had started with smaller capacities and phased their expansion
as theier marketing capabi ities grew.
14.   Moreover,  tese  mills   h-ave   b,een   constructed  wl"hout adq te rw d
I '4 *  iUL trI VL L" *&LLL   L V                       LUf '5  S.LU  VS .1'UL  &dUt:.jUaL L t . g"LU
for economy. For example, costly components of doubtful usefulness such as
central control panel eq-uipped with closed circuit television ha-ve been
installed, so that very considerable savings should have been possible with-
out reducing th'te essentiaL  uXLct-ULLo dan'u the rated C-apacities.
15.       These mil' 1- L'ave experienced severaCL  technical problems arising
from the quality of Philippine paddies. They are equipped with mechanical
paddy driers of large capacities, which are found to be unsuitaDie because
the batches of paddy to be dried normally consist of many different varieties
of widely different moisture contents. As long as there is no wide practice
of on-farm paddy drying so that there is no uniformity in moisture content,
the mills need to be equipped with a large number of small driers rather
than a few large driers as in the case of these modern mills. The paddy
drying problem ot these mills has given rise to another problem. The modern
mills are equipped with integrated equipment which performs the entire pro-
cessing from hulling, separating and polishing. The rice separator of this
standard equipment is the specific gravity type which cannot properly function
unless the paddy being processed has a reasonably low and uniform moisture
content.  Despite the problems arising from the large redundant capacities,
inordinately high investment costs and the difficulties with the driers and
the separators, however, these mills have been able to achieve an average
milling recovery rate of about 69%, comparing very favourably with the 66%
for the cono mills and the 55-60% for the kiskisans.
16.       Mechanical Driers: There has been very little progress in the use
of i,echanical driers. The use of mechanical driers of heated-air convection
type has in the past relied mainly on imported facilities which are designed
to suit environments very different from those of the Philippines. The im-
ported facilities are usually intended for centralized drying plant operation



ANNEX 1
Page 5
and therefore tend to be too large, too expensive and require a high degree
of skill for operation. Centralized paddy drying is not practical in the
Philippines because the paddy farms are typically very small, fragmented,
scattered, planted to many different varieties, and often without ready access
to feeder roads to bring the harvested grain to the drying plant soon enougn
to minimize quality deterioration.
17.       There are five principal categories of advantages to be gained by
the use of mechanical driers:
(a) it enables the farmer to harvest the crop at the right
stage of maturity unaffected by the rain which is the
most serious constraint against sun-drying and, in turn,
harvesting;
(b) it shortens the time required for harvesting and increases
the scope for additional crops;
(c)  it helps the farmer to avoid being trapped with wet
paddy and improves his bargaining position vis-a-vis
paddy traders;
(d) it prevents the most serious post-harvest grain losses
arising from the wetness of the paddy; and
(e) it enhances the milling recovery of the paddy by at
least 1.5 percentage points compared with what it
would be if it were sundriedj in addition to 2.0 npr-
centage points loss prevention.
18.       The appraisal mission was fully aware of "the need for driers at
farm and community levels."   At th.at time, however, no suitable mechanical
driers were being marketed which could be promoted for on-farm use and the
imission concl.uded that, "Probably the best Long run arrnge,enUSt for rice
drying in the Philippines would be large, efficient driers at mills, com-
binead wfith rapkid trarnSport from. field4 to mill. Yoee,bcueo       h
~         LLOLOjJJ, L  *L%S*  .LL~~t ~u   W.LL. . UAWL Ho ev r   uectause  of/ tthe
poor feeder road network, this is not practicable everywhere." The situation
has improved recently as a result of the success of a Joint effort of UNDP
and the University of the Philippines College of Agriculture in developing
a design for sma"ll mechanical driers which would be cheap to manufacture,
simple to operate and effective in drying the grain on the farm.
VrT  Il l.A
.L.  Corr Processing Inaustry
19.       Production of Corn:   Corn is the staple food for about 20% of the
population, ard its production iin tne Phiiippines, which at present is about
2.0 million tons, has been increasing at the rate of about 8% per annum.
AbUo  ,ut 9     the production is white corn used mainly for food and the
remaining 10% is yellow corn used mainly for feed. White corn has con-
tributed much to alleviating the shortage of rice during the past two years.



ANNEX 1
.rage 6u
Rapid expansion of modern poultry and pig industries has caused a strong
demand for yellow corn, and about 250,00() tons of yellow corn were imported
to meet the deficit in 1972. The current four-year plan sets the targets
for corn production aiming at an annual growth rate of 7.2%. from about
2.3 million tons for 1971/72 to about 2.7 million tons for 1973/74 and it
appears that these targets are attainable.    The proposed strategies include
extending high yielding varieties and complementary packages of inputs, en-
lar2ing the share of yellow corn in total production, and establishin2
adequate storage and processing facilities.
20.       Corn Processing Industry:   There are about 600 cono corn mills
and about 3,500 kiskisan corn mills operating in the country today. Tha
comibined capacity of all the corn mills is about 1,050 tons per hour,
345 tons by the cono mills and 705 tons by the kiskisans     With noniit 2.1
million tons of corn actually milled in 1971/72, the average number of hours
that the mi lls worked was about 2,000 and thiS gi ves onme ineication that
the degree of utilization of corn mills was considerably higher than that of
rine mills whirh wnrked on average about 1,390nQ hours in that year.  The
combined capacity of existing corn mills is adequate as a whole. However,
there are arnumher of pckc-at of r-g io-n.a1 defi cienc1ie   whi,h  o,.l d beco -
more serious as corn production increases. It has been estimated that, with
the lar-e inrreas   erx-etped in c-rn nrodi,rtinn- therp Is An 4redAatet- needl
for about 66 additional corn mills of one-ton capacity.    Moreover, there is
a greater need for facilities for sack warehous-es and bulk sIloS.    Even
with the current level of production, there is a pressing need for bulk
silos as                      --ir.crasngly loarg  qutanti-i nf cnar- e held over --periods ofP
- A.r. --- -.a . 7  --5 - r,  'i j  -A,n   - .t.C ' - -  . - - -L atW .V.  J . I. J=  A.5tUC  A.
time between seasons and transported from surplus regions to deficient regions.
The transport and storage          4,rali ., isal th-e ..more crucia for c   b-use
L*t.  L  Ol&Ok-"  L a.,..  LJL  t,..  JS-SLJ.LAA*  -0  "J.  -_.  Std  .LJ . AJ .  LU L  t.tL&  UCLa 1usc
it is far more perishable than any other grain of importance. Unless pro-
visions are made for adequate transport aAd storage facilities for corn,
with the expected production increase of over 7.0% a year for the next
decade, it would be difflcult to a-vert large scale post-harvest grain losses
and, in turn, considerable setbacks in production resulting from the decline
in prices caused by the inability to transport and store.



ANNEX a
PHTLTPPT NFS
LOA.N 720-PH - RIT.VE PRPnrn1.5qTT%T P'PO.TTYrT
SCDUlThUT  OF DTqTITMTT=N!T%¶ I
ReI s ed on T       1Cr  1 Y71 )
V  ~.L   L.LU - -aL  .J   v',  */ ' -'4/
Unit:  Thousands of 'JS dol'ars
(Us$1.oC   P6.76)
Appraisal /a   Previous /a   New        New Estimate as % of
Est.ate        LIst--,4. e  Etl.'-,,zte4  pre-Jous Est-Im,ate
7T.:DT) /U-V
Semesters
FY73
2nd          3,8l6             236         236            100
FY7M
. ;,,,     U,U               44)         eUu
2nd          9,810           2,221       1,104             50
FY75
is        -~')IJ4I        U., Q-)U      OI
2nd         14,300          12,775       7,418             58
- - - - - - - - -Original Closing Date- - - - - - - - - -
FY76
'st                        -1 4, 300 °  10,170             71
2nd                                     12,407             87
FY77
1 st                                    13,4,55            9X4
2nd                                     14,300            100
- - - - -  - -Proposed Closing Date- -
,/Aq  qo 'eeil  Rivpi s.ion mnrvvt. Octoberh  ' 1Q73q h-,r by TL. L nd P
iiatsuda, Annex 3
March 28, 1974






ANNEX 3
LU1J.L ,-L LL Lk'l A..
RICE PROCESSING AND STORAGE PROJECT
Re-vised Description oL the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's lending program for grain processing
and storage development and consists of supplying funds for the following:
Part A
(i) The construction, equipping and operation of new modern
grain processing and storage facilities by the beneficiaries;
(ii) The rehabilitation, expansion and operation of existing
grain processing and storage facilities by the beneficiaries;
(iii) The provision of equipment and facilities for on-farm grain
drying and storage, and for manufacture of rubber rollers for
paddy hullers;
(iv) The facilities under (i), (ii) and (iii) hereof include:
(a) bulk storage facilities for rice, corn and
related products;
(b) warehouses;
(c) mill operated and on-farm grain driers and on-farm
grain storages;
(d) equipment and facilities for rice and corn milling
and corn feed manufacture;
(e) equipment and facilities for manufacture of rubber
rollers for hullers;
(f) trucks and barges to be operated by bona fide
operators of grain processing and storage facilities;
and
(g) other ancillary equipment facilities.
Part B
The training of managerial, technical and operating personnel
of Project facilities.
.March 28, 1974






ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
LOAN 720-PH: RICE PIOCESSING PROJECT
Proforma Income Statements for New 2,000 Ton Operating Capacity mill
1/
Based on the Latest Project Cost Estimate
(in thousands of Pesos)
-_____________----Years-----------------------
1         2          3          4           5
RLevenue 2/                1,754      i,724     174 I,(4                 1,24
Less: Cost of Paddy 3/     1,364      1,364     1,364       1,364      1,364
GrvssJf  i    onU S~- 'QO..L_  390J     390' ,9039
Less: Operating Cost 4/      190        190       191         191        191
Operating Profit             200        200       199         199        199
Less: Depreciation            52         52        52          52         52
Less: IrTt.Prt 5/            102         98        94          8F         84
Profit before Tax             46         50        53          58         63
Less: Tax 6/                  12         13       1i           15         16
Profit after Tax               34        37        39          43         47
1/  The operating capacity of the mill is 2,000 tons of paddy input per year
and is equipped with a bulk silo of a static capacity of 666 tons.     The total
cost of the project is 1,000, the sub-loan is estimated to be 800 (80%).
2/ The milling recovery assumed is 69% and the bran yield 10%, so that the
output would consist of 2,000 x .69 = 1,380 tons of milled rice and 200 tons
of bran. The revenue is calculated on the basis of the selling price of
Y3.00 per ganta of 2.43 kg of milled rice: 1,380,000/2.43 x 3.00 = Y1,704,000
and p250 per ton of bran: 200 x 250 = Y50,000.
3/ The cost of paddy assumed is p30.00 per caban of 44 kgs, so that the total
cost for 2,000 tons is 2,000,000/44 x 30.00 = r1,363,636 or, say, 1,364.
ITe operating cos. here consists ofI L.w cUQLonent5: (a) iiL ihiie currenlt
expenditures other than interest and, (b) the interest cost on working capital.
The fo. .er is 160 Wnd c'onsistsO ofI:. W-flsO.-0 ( 21 .0w) , Trucking (91.7 *0) , TJ__.nLg a.d
unloading (4.0), Fuel (19 5)   Fumigant (4.0), Rubber Rollers (10.0) Bags (30.0),
Repair and Mai-nten-ce (2      which is procted     o *nrea       1.   ea,h year,
Inventory Insurance (18.0), Insurance on Depreciable Assets (5.0), Taxes and
Levies (,0); and Misrel aneous (9Q 5)   The latter is the interest cost on working
capital. It is assumed that, on average, the working capital required is for
333 tons of paddy, equivalent of half of the static silo canpaity.     Since thp
rate DBP charges is 11% for 270 days and the project would require the working
capital for about 330 days, the rate would actually be .11 x 330/270 = 1_1A,1_
say, 13.5% per annum. The total interest cost would be 1,364/6 x 13.5 = 30.
The total operating cost would, therefore, be 160 + 30 = 190.
5/ At 12% per annum for the sub-loan of 800 plus the capitalized interest of
48, or 800 x .06 (½ year), during the first year.
6/ Corporate Income Tax at 25% up to the first p100,000, and 35% of pre-tax
profit over and above ?100,000.
*.-a .. 'I"   1Q71,



ANUNEX 4
?HKTP ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~          ~_    ____.
zPHILI-PPINES;
TLOAN 720-i-,: RICIE P.OKoCESTSl7NS PROJECT
Proformn Cash F'ow Proiection for 2.000 Ton rDeratirv. Caracitv        1/il-/
(in thouspnds of PFsos)
Construction       -    Yca:s-
S__ u    Ot' FPrnr?s                 Period        1    2    3
>.,era n~ r, 'Profit-              -        200     200  199  199  100
Lcar.s (,BRD &: DBP)2/                800        -    -    -     -    -
3_.?fclry' EciJ3                    20         -    _- 
To4-t1                           I ,n 000   200  - O  100  100  100
Lpl ic'. eati on s
3ebw -ter~sri(|5)/                              132) 132   132  13?  132
incomle  x                            -          1 2  13   14    15   16
jc ec L. Coso                       1,000        -    -    -     -    -
- .1 ,0O    lj l  14  .4   147  148
Benefic .ir-'s Net Trflow               -                  53    52   51
i/  At t   .e c-obable "'Investment "ost" of I .000.
2)/  IPP P1  b *CCes 811  of  t r-v-cst,rerit  Cc,117 .n ,  n  l  0 _  '  = _  Oi-
.-;_zCr D1210 filanc-s uT) ito ?0  or 72j. s,' .0 e '-nves.Lent (os t".
,! 'Te oenef.iciar,y pro-vi-des 203? of -tlie "iTveStiiernt Cost"?.
4./  a 1 3-vea., eol .um amortization of tnhe rate ol' 1i2% on 8-!8 consisting
March 28, 1974



ANNEX h
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
LOAN 720-PH: RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Financial Rates of Return for New 2.000 Ton Onerating Canacitv Mill
(in thous~nds of Pesos?
1/                     2/                      3/
Year       Cost        Pre-Tax Benefit         Post-Tax Benefit
1        1,000__
2            -             200                      188
3                          199                      186
4     -             ~~~~199                  185
5                          199                      184
6                          198                      183
7                          198                      182
8            -             197                      181
9                          197                      179
10                           9                       17<
11                          196                      171
1)                          195 r6
13                          194                      163
11.        t.L4              '74 
T-4.        ( 324.-  4  O)64 .  10  r                 1  I
T.L Ll                 L       U.                       . L 10   I
1/ At the end of the amortization period, the entire undepreciated
asse-ts are regart-R-Kd as she s'vage -vC"ao !ue  1,010 - 52A. I -J.
'1     IPA                                  -tI1  O.U   r  2 '- 4II
f   ILLLU opeLraLg.LUL, pr-Lot U  LLI J.U.l I, WiLJchiL A.  u oLfL in.terlt  on
working capital.
2/ The operating profit above adjusted by deduction of the estimated
corporate income tax.
March 28, 1974



ANNNEx
Table4
PHILIPPINES
LOAN 720-PH: RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
.~  ~
1/
Proforma Incremental Income Statement
Exansion of Existing 2,000 Ton Mill to 4,000 Tons Operating Capacity
(in thousands of Pesos)
--------------- L-s--------------------
Incremental                 1         2         3         4         5
Revenue 2/                1,828     1,828     1,828     1,828      1,828
T . __  .L_ n_  7  -XI-At I         a1 % l    4  -]l   I  .LtI.      /
Ie8s:; 'uAJ  of aL uJ 3/ It3.)U4    1,3UL4    1,3YJ4     1I36 ,_04 I
Gross Profit                464       464       464       464        464
Less: Operating Cost 1/     204       204       205       205        205
Operating Profit            260       260       259        259       259
+ s s H / | \ n~~~~~_          1         1 -       %  _       - 
Less; Depreciation           417       41        41         1
Less: Interest 6/            74        71        68        64         61
Profit before Tax           139       142      144        148       151
Less: Tax 7/                 39        40        41         42        43
Prroit after Tax            100       102       103        106       108
1/ The investment cost required for expanding an existing cono mill of
a 2,000 ton operating capacity to a 4,uuv zon operating capacity equipped
with rubber roll hullers for improving the recovery rate from 66% to 69%
across the board is estimated to be 700.
2/ This is the value at 13.00/ganta of 2.143 kg. of polished rice from
,000 tons of paddy recovered at the rate of 69% less the value at the same
unit price of polished rice recovered from 2,0W   tons of paddy at the rate
of 66% and less the value of 200 tons of bran.   (4,000,000 kg. x .69/2.43 kg x
?3.00 + 400 tons of bran x Y250 - 2,000 000 kg x .66/2.43 x 3.00 - 200 tons
of bran x 0250 = p1,827,778, say, 1,8285.
2/ The incremental cost of the paddy is assumed to be '30.00 per cavan of
44 kg. (2,o0o,ooo/44 x F30.00 = Y1,363,636, say, 1,364).
4/ The incremental operating cost has been conservatively estimated to be
204 consisting of 190 required for a new unit of 2,000 ton capacity (see
Annex 2, Table 1, footnote 4) plus the additional cost of rubber rollers and
fuel oil which would not be required if the 2,000 tons of the paddy were
milled by the process employed before the expansion.
5/ The incremental investment is depreciated by a straight line method over
a period of 15 years.
6/ At 12% per annum for the sub-loan of 700 amortized over a 13 year period.
7/ At the rate of 25% up to pre-tax profit of 100, and 35% over and above.
}arch 28, 1974



Taol.e 
rT-'T TTP 71WnTE
LOVA 7W20-Pl; sRICE PROCE-SSING PROJECT
Profcr.ra Incremental Cash Flow Proj ection.
Expmnsi.on of Existin  2,4000 Ton NMill to 4,000 Tan OPerating Cveacity-
(in thousands o' Peson)
Constrtction          ---Years -------
Psriod      1    2     3   ,4    %
v v  Ww  va  *-                4 A4A,.I
Li.'.C  ..  W.i4   I   , ',A fU
III.s-s, 17 rL X1-tiU              _-      LVo  e_. v  y  L7   25Y
Loans (TRD & DBP)2/                700       -    -    -     -    -
Total                           700      260  260 259   259  259
-   -~~   a._0 _   S
Aonlic ations
Neot Service.'                      -       109  109  109   109  1 091
Inccone 'ax                         -        49  -0 5   Y 5  52
Pro4ect Cost                       700       -    _    -    _     -
Total                           700      158  15S) 160  161  162
Re.Te- ic,isrys' Net Tnflow         -       1A,  1fl1  00   OR   07
--
1/ At the t, obab'e "ITnvestrent Coast,' o' 700.
2/ DBP finances the entire incre,iiental cost of which 90p is reiabursed
by tne Bank..
3/ A 13-Year equal swn -inortization at the rate of 12% on 700.
March 285 1974



Table '
1' HIL IPPIN ,R'S
LOA]N 720-PM.: iICE PROCESSING P.OJEICT
4'inancia- "av .zts cf .'.et-
(irli,, q_,. hus.d v1of Peso s)
flS L 3  S  ¼) S.  LA.- 3AU 4.  46  '
Il        0/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
Year         Cost     Pre-Tax Benefit       lost-Tax Benefit
1          700
2             -           2GU                      1
3             -           259                     219
I.                        0rci0                     P
4             -                                   Cl
5             -           259                     217
7             _           258                     214
0                                                 010
9             _           257                     211
10             -           25f,                    208
11             -           256                     207
12             -           255                     205
13             -           252                     203
1)4          (47)          254                     202
Internal Rate of .eturn:
1/ At the end of the amortization period, the entire undepreciated
assets are regarded as the salvage value: 700/15 = 14.
2/' The operating profit in Table 1, whi-h is net of interest on
working capital.
3,  rne operating profit above adjusted by deduction of the estimated
iri"ome tax.



A'NEX 4
*WAN- 720-PH;: RICE PROUCESSING PROiACT
Proforma incremental Income Projection
Kiskisan Replaced With Cono Mill/
(in thousands of Pesos)
Before         After
Replacement    Replacement     Incremental
Revenue''              7,500         15,000           7,500
Operating Costa/         700          1,030             300
Mliscellaneous            200           4oo             200
Tax                      500          1,000             500
Current Income         6,100        12,600 o6,500
Financial Rate of Return:4/   31 .6/.
1/   Rep.lacer,,ent of0 a kiskisan Wit1h a cono milL is estinated to
cost about P 20,000.
2/   Before the replacement, the typical kiskisan to be considered
under the project would .have had an annual revenue of t'750WU
from 5,000 cavans/44 kg, at the rate of Y1.50, and after the
replacement it is expected to double the throughput and charge
the same rate.
3/   The net increase is mainly for the increased energy cost,
either electric power or fuel oil.
4/   This rate has been calculated on the basis of an average
investment cost of P20,000 in year 1, and an average incremental
net income of L6,,500 per year for years 2-14.
March 28, 1974



ANNEX 4
Table 8
PHIT.IPPINES
TCOAN 720-PH: Rice Processing %roiect
Prolforma IncremAntal Incoma Statement Prolection
&xpansion of Grain nSi1os Carancit.v frm 15iR000r t1onn t r t.n i6Onnn fnnR ( qtAmri)i/
Years-----------------
1              2               3-15
Revenue&/         3                                              26,190
Lss: Cost of Corrr-                             10n170          go 3lf0
Gross Profit                                     2,925            5,850
Less: Operating  2os"             951            1,862            3,724
Operating Profit                 (251)           1,063            2,126
Less:  e p       $c  t r_                          629              838
Less: Interest                    603              905            1,206
ro4it before Tax                 (85h)           (H71)               82
I,ess: Tax                                         -                 21
rofit after Tax                  (85L)           (471)              61
1/ The projection is illustrative of an existing complex of corn silos
fl t . a 0. 4sa -t.-i - capacty. of  l  f)O1n L- +I+ VA *0 +onthaAt  = bnta
additional 18,000-ton static capacity. Investment cost is estimated
s_ 1   1) En   A   n 4-:_ -r   7. ff'.7  ; c4,   wo n 1-   -A   E  not;E; 
VU  Ut :  * C.J..;L  LAJ±osVLSl..L ;E, 'JV.   I  LA 1 #.X_ f  W'.JJ.RI. 1LL14  ..t 314g...v *  4. 
and ancillery facilities. Most likely some investment in feed
mia[afackIL.ur±rLIg equiLpr,,ent and .II  cJ.L_L±L,_Lq  WVU.uldU Lue £qui-LLVU. Fo.
simplicity, profitability calculation for feed manufacturing are not
made here, and the project1ions show thl= dcuruUfLt of increUental silo-
based corn trade only.
2/  Proceeds from 36,000 tons of corn procured (two-turn over). At the
selling price oI P750 per ton with a loss rabe of 3.0% (2.u0 for
weight loss and 1.01 for handling loss).
3/ The cost of 36,000 tons of corn bought at the rate of P565 per ton.
/   Annual operating cost at full development is estimated to be 3,724
made up of loading (u7), barging (1,80) j, unloading (I41), Uaggingl,
and loading (130), electric power and lubricant (166), wages and
benefit (87), insurance 131 + 63     194), demurrage (40), interest
on working capital (1,047), and a 10%< contingency (339).
5/ A 15-year straight line.
March 28, 1971



A M?TFY 4
Table 9
PHILIPPINES
LOAN 720-PH: Rice Processing Project
Proforma Cash Flow Projection
and
Financial Rate of Return Calculation
Expansion of Grain Silos Capacity from 18,000 tons to 36,000 tons (static)1-/
(a) Cash Flow
------------- Years---------------
1              2            3-12
Source of Funds
Opera-ing D'rof-H?/             (251)          1              2,196
Loans (IBRD-DBP)3/              5,025          5,025
J.* %U  V C ;.A V .. VCpFa  V..L4.O !  ev *       V
Beneficiary's Equity_/          1,507          1,256
Total           6,562          5,249          2,126
Annl ctin
Debt Service)/                 -              -            1,992
Tnterest rapntalized./            301            905            -
Invgstment Cost!/               6,281          6,281
Ta-r                                                             9 _  _21
Total           6,582          7,186          2,013
Beneficiary's Net Inflow             -            1,063            113
1/ Tneremental nanaitv wounld bA 18 OOO tons andi would handle 36jooo tons on
a two-turnover basis.
2/ SPe Tnhble S
3/ DBP finances 80% of the project, and reimburses from IBRD 9051 of such
sub-loan.
4/ Interest accruing on IBRD-DBP loan is capitalized during the first
two vears.
5/ 1ten year amortization on sub-loan of 10,050 plus 1,206 in interest
; ('(Vl91PVi (ll i"ino' ±}.hP  tiJA  vo>r.q  ofb  a",.  nP*. c ;rc1
6/ At the rates of 25% up to 100 and 35% over and above 100.
(b) Rate of Return Calculations
1             2           3-11         12
Investment Cost         (6,281)       (6,281)          -        2,512
Operating Benefit        (251)         1.063        2,126       2,126
Net Benefit             (6,532)       (5,218)       2,126       &,638
Rate of Return:   12.5%
March 28 , 197h






AN-NEX 5
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
LOAN 720-PH: RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return
Various Component Models
1. New Integrated Mill with 2,000 Ton Operating Capacity
(in thousands of Pesos)
1       2-14
Economic Benefitl-                       -        136
Economic Cost of Investment?/          (350)       -
Economic Cost of Operation-              -         (33)
Net Economic Benefit         (350)      103
Economic Rate of Return: 28.3
1/ This is the value of that part of the 69% recovery in excess of wKlat
it would be if the paddy were recovered at the rate of 63%. the
estimated average recovery rate of all mills in the Philippiries.
Polished rice has been valued at $170 per ton. and the recoverv rabe
of the mill is assumed to be 69%, both very conservative fi.gures
(2.000 tons x .06 net increase in recovery x $170 per ton x f6.T ter
dollar = P136,680).  There would be additional benefits of
considerable Liportance resultine from prevention of the loss of
paddy before milling, and from improving the quality of rice by
reducing the broken. and also from the demonstration effect
conducive of the desirable modernization of the industry.
2/ This is that part; of the investment cost that would be in excess of
what it wfould cost to construct a conventional mill of a comparable
ope Nting capacity.
3/ This is that part of the operating cost of the mill that would not
be inmcrred if thp naddv were milled bv conventional mills. and
consists of P9,000 for 30 pairs of rubber ollers, P4,000 for
-fmwic.n*. and Ua0jnn   fnor fNiP nil for grain dr-eris
March 28, 1974



ANNfU 5
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
LOAN 720-PH: RICE PROCESSING PROJECTr
2. Expansion of Existing 2,000 Ton Operating Capacity Up '!'o tI,000 Ton Opu.rating rCapaciGy
(in thousands of Pesos)
----Years----
1       2-1_
Economic Benefit-/                       -        205
Economic Cost of Investment_/          (200)       -
Economic Cost of Operation-/             -        (66)
Net Economic Benefit           (200)      139
Economic Rate of Return:  69.4
1/ The value of that quantity of rice (recovered at the rate of 69%
from 4,000 tons of paddy) that is in4excess of what it would be
if 2,000 tons were milled at the average recovery rate of 63%,
the average for all mills and the remaining 2,000 tons were milled
by the existing mill at the rate of 60%, the average for the cono
malUs. The polished rice is valued at $170 per ton (4,000 tons x
.69 - 2,000 x .63 - 2,000 x .66 = 18G tons valued at 180 x $170
converted by 6.7 to P205,020). There would be additional benefits
of considerable importance re.ulting from prevention of the loss
of paddy before milling, improvement of the quality of rice by
reducing the broken, and also from the demonstration effect
conducive of the desirable modernization of the industry.
2/ That part of the estimated investment cost that would be in
excess of what it would cost to construct a conventional mill of
a comparable operating capacity or to expand an existing mill of
a smililar capacity to a 4,000 ton operating capacity.
3/ That part of the operating cost that would not be incurred if the
paddy were milled by conventional mills, and consists of p15,000
for 60 pairs of rubber rollers at P300 per pair, P8,000 for fumigant
and P40,000 for fuel oil for grain driers.
March 28, 197h



AINNEX 5
Table 3
PHI LIPPINES
LOAN 720-PH: RICE PROCESSING PROJECT'
3. Replacement of the Kiskisans
(in thousands of Pesos)
1        2-lb
Economic Benefitl/                    11         22
Economic Cost of Investment2/        (20)        -
Economic Cost of Operation3/           -         (1)
Net Economic Benefit          (9)        2i
Economiic Rate of Return: Over 100.0%
1/   The value of that part of polished rice (recovered at the
average cono rate of 66%) in excess of what it would be fLf
half of the alto tons of paddy were milled at the average
kiskisan rate of 60% and the remaining half at the industry
average of 63% (440 x .66 - 220 x .60 - 220 x .63 = 19.8
tons of milled rice valued at $170 x 19.8 converted by 6.7
to the peso, 122,552.
2/   The estimated average investment cost for replacing a
kiskisan imill of about 15,000 cavan (660 ton) operatinrg
capacity with a cono mill with 30,000 cavan (1,320 ton)
-operating capacity, and includes the cost of a set of cono
milling equipment with a millin-g capacity of 50-100 cavan/
12 hours and of remodelling and/or purchase of the engine
required.
3/   The estimated net increa.se in operating cost.
March 28, 1974



AMTEh  5
PIT T.TPPT1IP\S
TDlALN 720-PH:RICE PRO,- .;TESSINIG PPOJT2rT
1             2 - 10
Economic Benefit                         ,992           3,986
Economic Cost of Invest,mentg"         (9,000)
Economic Cost of Operatiox '           (1,005)         (1,005)
Net Economic Benefit          (8,013)          2,981
Economic Rate of Return: 34.7
1/  The value of the paddy loss prevented by the drying and of the
value of the ne1t i  e    A in ml1ig re     r    TnhAe l    pre ven+; o
w~~~&        . vcv|w; s  ssw-w|1. 1l W. lv,sWV cA,>y .  ;|tLoo vfivGZV| X
is conservatively estimated to be 2.0% and the increase in
recovery 1 .5% of' the throughput' *The throughput ls alsoc
vatively estimated to be 1.0 ton per day (conpared with 1.7 ton
capacity per I-8 husVU  four UIu sIIIu.-1 reduLioni fIr-Uo 24 tU 1 4p0)
and 100 days per year (100 tons x 0.35 (.02 for loss prevention
anu .0I_ L.or recover;y iI;ruea) --- $170u pe"r tonI A ru.  per
dollar = .3,986).
2/   The estimated total cost of an on-farm paddy drying unit, consis1.-
ing Of' r_3,000 ior a mechanical drier witn a capacity oi 4u cavanl-
(1.7 ton) per 7-8 hours and Y6,ooo for a shed to house the drier
and to provide for a holding space for about 200 cavans ( 9
tons) of paddy.
3/   This covers only the cost of kerosene fuel cost at the rate of
r6.7 kq$1.50) per bon of paddy Go reduce tne mooisture content
from 24% to 14%. While menhanical drying would require less labor
per unit of paddy compared-with sun-drying, this has not been
considered in estimating the benefit.
March 28 1974



ANNEX 5
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
LOAN 720-PH: RICE PR62ESSING PROJECT
5. Expansion of Corn Storage_(Silos)L-
(in thousands of Pesos)
---Years---------------
Incremental                             1           2          3-14        15
Economic Benefit--                      -           578       1,157      1,157
Economic Cost of Investment -        (4.000)     (3,161)        -        1,790
Economic Cost of OperationL4         _ - __-_-_
Net Economic Benefit            (4,000)      (2,583) '    LL        1157
Economic Rate of Return:    13.0
/1   The project is to expand three existing corn storage facilities with
additional grain storage for 18,000 (static) each.     The investment cost
per unit is estimated to be P 12,562, consisting of P 7,537 for civil
works and P 5,025 for ancillary facilities.
/2   This is the value of corn that would have been lost without the additional
storages of this kind. and it is estimated that the average storage loss
of corn is 9.0% and that this can be reduced to 3%, so that on a two-turn-
over basis the quantity of corn saved would be 18,000 tons x 2 x 0.6
2,160 tons. This has been valued very conservatively at $80.00 per ton
and converted at the rate of P 6.70 ner dollar (2-160 tons at S80.00 at
P 6.70 per dollar = P 1,013,040, say, 1,157).     This does not include the
significrant Peonomir val iu of rpAurinir  t-hp nFrnhplTn nf SPAun"Al Oln  a t-  and
_ _ _ _ _ _   -  _ _ _ _   __   - - C2   --  -0a          - _-  --
the negative long run effects of such gluts on production.
/3   The financial cost of investment is P 12,562.     The economic cost of
investment in estimated on the anssp!ntionn   that the eont of CiYil wnrk
necessary for creating conventional facilities of a comparable static
capacnritv wtoild eh at lPAQt 2   of auc-h i-nct- ur.dAar the proJ4et- anrA tfhat-
the cost of equipment and other ancillary facilities required to handle
additional 18,000 tons of i-.n per season would be about 70% of such
cost under the project (7,357 x .75 + 5,025 x .30 = 7,161).      An average
economir liff  of 20 vyars is asumed And at the endi of the 15th year,
25% of the original economic cost of investment is salvaged.
/4   The economic cost of operation would be most likely negative because
of the savings on. transport,   ar-ketin.g, etc.JU made   ossile by efficient
bulk-handling.
March 28, 1974



