RESTRICTED
Report No.    PA-47a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
PHILIPPINES
January 11, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURREXY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1        =  P 5.80  - 6.5  -
P 1           =  US$ 0.17
P 1 million  =  us$ 16,667
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 km                    =  0.62 mi
1 m                     =  3 ft, 3.37 in
1 m ton                 =  2,2o5 lb
1 kg                    =  2.2 lb
1 ha                    =  2.47 ac
1 cavan (paddy)         =  44-46 kg = 97-101 lb
1 cavan (milled rice)  =  56 kg = 123 lb
1 ganta                 =  2.43 kg = 5.36 lb
ABBREVIATIONS
DBP    =  DeveloDment Bank of the Philippines
RCA    =  Rice and Corn Administration
NFAC   =  National Food and Agriculture Council
'Pi    =  Bureau of Plant Industry
.,.Pr,   =  Agricultural Productivity Commission
I lI =  International {ice Aesearch Institute
1/  T'he peso has Jeen allowed to F"loat as of February
1 970 as Part of the exchanze rate reform a.reed to
)y . t -3 L 12.



PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..................i - ii
I.     INTRODUCTION       .............................                1
II.    BACKGROUND ..........       ............................       2
A.  General .........      ............................        2
B.  Rice Production ......        .......................      2
C.  Rice Processing and Marketing ...............              4
Paddy Dryi,ng ......      ......................      5
Rice Milling ......       ......................      5
Storage ........       .........................      6
Credit ........      ..........................       6
Transportation ......        ....................     6
Policies .......       .........................      7
III. THE PROJECT.                                                      8
A. Project Description.                                        8
Technical Features.                                   8
Training.                                             9
B. Project Areas .10
C. Cost Estimates and Financing .10
Project Cost .10
Procurement .12
Disbursement .13
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....         ................     13
A.  Development Bank of the Philippines .........             13
B.  Subborrowers and Terms of Subloans .... ......            14
C.  Financial Procedures and Auditing ....       .......      16
This report ia based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission
to the Plilippines in March/April 1969, composed of Messrs. M.J. Walden,
G. von Gontard and T. Friedgut (of the Bank) and Messrs. L. Svoboda and
N. Bond (Consultants).



-2-
Lage~ No-
V.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....    ...................  16
A. Operating Arrangements and Financial Returns         16
Revenue Generation and Taxation of
Subborrowers   ............................   17
B.  Farmers' Benefits ......    .......................  18
C.  Economic Justification .....   ...................  18
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS .......     ............................  19
ANNEXES
1.    Rice Production Problems and Prospects
2.    Rice Marketing and Processing in the Philippines
3.    Outline Specifications
4.    Training Aspects
5.    Project Cost
6.    Project Cash Flow
7.    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
8.    The Development Bank of the Philippines
9.    The Grain Processing Section
10.   Financial Projections for Typical Project Facilities
11.   Financial Rates of Return
12.   Economic Analysis of the Project
MAP



PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the construction, equipment
and operation of modern rice processing, storage and handling facilities
in the Philippines, for which a Bank loan of US$14.3 million is proposed.
The loan would be made to the Government of the Philippines, which would
on-lend the proceeds to the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) under
a subsidiary loan agreement. DBP would be responsible for administering
the project and would supplement the proceeds of the Bank loan with its own
funds to provide long-term loans to qualified traders and millers in the
private sector. The project is expected to remove a significant bottleneck
to the further growth of rice production in the Philippines.
ii.       Most grain processing and storage facilities are in the private
sector and many are in need of repair, replacement or modernization. How-
ever, lack of credit on suitable terms and inadequate training of plant
operators, superintendents and managers have hindered private investment in
improved marketing systems. The proposed project would provide long-term
credit to private owners and operators for setting up modern, integrated
processing units. Working capital credit would be provided by commercial
banks and the DBP. Training would be provided by the University of the
Philippines with UNDP assistance.
iii.      Processing capacity created by the project is expected to be
distributed among 6 large units and about 60 small units. In total, the
proposed project is expected to provide mechanical drying capacity of about
225 ton/hour, modern milling capacity of about 60 ton/hour, bulk storage
capacity of about 150,000 ton, together with complementary sack warehousing
and ancillary handling, aeration and transportation equipment. These facil-
ities would be able to handle about 480,000 ton paddy per annum, 15-20% of
what is presently estimated to go through commercial channels. The bulk of
project capacity is expected to be located in the highly productive paddy
growing regions of Central Luzon and the Cagayan Valley, near major consum-
ing centers, and in Mindanao.
iv.       Need for improved grain processing and marketing has long been
recognized in the Philippines. However, the scope for productive invest-
ment in modern marketing infrastructure was limited until the mid-1960's
when new high yielding paddy varieties were introduced. In combination
with fertilizer and assured irrigation, the new paddy varieties have led
to production advances which, in turn, have brought out serious deficien-
cies in marketing systems. Lack of mechanical drying equipment is
hindering efficient processing of paddy varieties maturing in the wet
season, and traditional milling and handling techniques are proving in-
creasingly inadequate for handling commercial paddy flows in major pro-
ducing areas. Finally, inadequate storage facilities are contributing



- ii -
to relatively high spoilage losses and to producer price instability.  The
project would produce substantial direct benefits by adding to the coun-
try's milling capacity, reducing grain spoilage, and increasing the effi-
ciency of paddy and grain processing through bulk handling. The economic
rate of return of the project, as customarily calculated for agricultural
projects, is estimated at about 25%.
v.        Estimated project cost is about US$21 million, including contin-
gencies.  The cost estimate is based on engineering consultants' drawings
and preliminary designs. Construction and equipment contracts would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. The proposed
Bank loan would cover foreign exchange costs, estimated at 68% of total cost.
Subborrowers would contribute 21% from their own resources. The balance
would be covered by DBP. Loans to subborrowers under the project would
carry 11% interest and run for 14 years, including approximately one year
of grace.
vi.       Subloans would be made to qualified entrepreneurs according to
guidelines that would be approved by the Bank. A special Grain Processing
Section, to be set up in DBP, would appraise loan applications and be re-
sponsible for procurement operations. This Section would be supported by
expatriate consultants suitable to the Bank. Hiring of such consultants
would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
vii.      Need for the loan arises in part from the progress achieved
under new Government policies emphasizing technological change in agri-
cultural production. The proposed loan would be the fifth Bank operation
designed to strengthen implementation of these policies. Loan 393-PH (US$6
million) contributed to the growth and improvement of the country's higher
agricultural education by providing facilities to the College of Agricul-
ture of the University of the Philippines. Loans 432-PH (US$5 million)
and 607-PH (US$12.5 million) have provided funds for on-farm development
through privately owned rural credit banks. Finally, Loan 637-PH (US$34
million) will finance priority irrigation works in Central Luzon.
viii.     Subject to various assurances and conditions, the project is suit-
able for a Bank loan to the Government of the Philippines of US$14.3 mil-
lion at the standard interest rate for a term of 19 years, including a
4-year grace period.



PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested a Bank loan of
US$14.3 million to finance the establishment of modern rice processing and
storage facilities in the private sector. The loan would be made to the
Government which would on-lend the proceeds to the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP) under a subsidiary loan agreement. DBP would provide
long-term loans to qualified grain traders and millers. The Bank loan would
finance construction of bulk storage and purchase and installation of paddy
drying, rice milling and bulk handling equipment as well as technical serv-
ices required for project administration. Six large, integrated rice pro-
cessing units, providing about 5,000 tons of bulk storage each, and 60 small
units, providing about 2,000 tons of bulk storage each, would be set up
under the project.
1.02      The proposed Bank loan would be the fifth for agricultural de-
velopment in the Philippines. Loan 393-PH supported the expansion of modern
higher agricultural education at the University of the Philippines (Los Banos).
Loans 432-PH and 607-PH provided credit funds for minor irrigation, mechaniza-
tion and other on-farm improvements. Finally, Loan 637-PH will help spread
new farming technologies through finance of expanded and improved irrigation
in an important rice producing region of Central Luzon. The performance to
date of the project financed under Loans 393-PH, 432-PH and 637-PH has been
satisfactory. However, disbursement under Loan 607-PH is falling behind
schedule, due mainly to the effects of the floating exchange rate which was
introduced in early 1970. The de facto devaluation led to cost increases of
about 65% for imported items while farm product prices have increased only
by 25-30%.
1.03      In October 1968, the Government of the Philippines sent the
Bank a project proposal prepared by DBP for financing grain storage and
processing facilities. In March/April 1969, an appraisal mission composed
of Messrs. M.J. Walden, G. von Gontard and T. Friedgut (of the Bank) and
L. Svoboda and N. Bond (Consultants) visited the Philippines. This report
is based on the findings of the mission. It draws on several grain mar-
keting and storage studies, including a study by a US firm, Weitz-Hettel-
sater Engineers, issued in June 1968. Furthermore, it is based on under-
standings reached with the Philippine Government during a visit of Messrs.
M. J. Walden and E. de Alba (of the Bank) in February/March 1970. Finally,
in order to assess the effects of the de facto devaluation of February
1970 on the project costs, the cost estimates were updated in the Philip-
pines by Mr. P. Pohland (of the Bank) in August 1970.
1.04      The project as first presented by the Government included the con-
struction of 8 terminal bulk silos and about 100 small up-country silos and
warehouses, together with complementary driers, modern milling equipment and
other ancillary facilities. During appraisal of the project the need for
some alterations became apparent. The project as now proposed would give
emphasis to integrated drying, storage and milling systems. It would not



- 2 -
include processing facilities for corn as originally proposed. These altera-
tions have been agreed with the Government of the Philippines.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The population of the Philippines, currently estimated at 39 mil-
lion, is growing at an annual rate of about 3.5%. Agriculture employs around
60% of the labor force, produces about a third of the GNP, and generates
about 80% of foreign exchange earnings.
2.02      The country consists of some 7,000 islands stretching over 1,600
kilometers from near the equator northwards. Luzon in the extreme north,
on which the capital (Manila) is located, is the largest island of the
archipelago. Mindanao in the far south is the next largest and with Luzon,
makes up two-thirds of the land area. These two, with nine others, make
up 95% of a total area of 30 million ha.
2.03      The mountainous terrain and the lack of adequate transport infra-
structure restrict thie area suitable for farming. About 8.5 million ha are
cultivated. Another 2.5 million ha of land suitable for cultivation are
still unopened. Approximately 10 million ha are under commercial forests.
2.04      With the tropical climate, year-round cultivation is possible as
long as an adequate supply of water is available. Although rainfall is
generous (average is 2,540 mm), it is highly variable and, in most areas,
there is a pronounced dry season. The present irrigated area represents
only 10% of the cropped land, less than a third of which has dry season
irrigation. Considerable surface and ground water resources remain unex-
ploited.
2.05      Although timber, coconuts and sugar are the major export commod-
ities, about 6 million ha (70% of the cultivated area) are devoted to food
crops for the local market. Of these, some 3 million ha produce rice and
2 million ha, corn. This foodgrain cultivation is small-scale: the aver-
age farm area is only 2 to 3 ha. About half of the paddy and corn farms,
representing a third of the paddy and corn acreage, is farmed by tenants.
B.  Rice Production I/
2.06      Rice is the staple food for about three-fourths of the population
and corn for the balance. During most of this century, rice production
merely kept pace with population growth. In particular, between 1920 and
1960, yields stagnated and production gains resulted mainly from extension
of the cropped area. Since 1960, on the other hand, hectare yields have
risen and the growth in cropped areas has tapered off. The mediocre growth
1/   Annex 1 gives further details on Philippine rice production problems
and prospects.



- 3 -
performance of rice production till the mid-1960's reflected inadequate
investment in rural infrastructure, which, in turn, was a result of the
unduly high premium put on rapid industrialization by past Government
policy. As a result, substantial grain imports were necessary (435,000 ton
on average during 1963-65).
2.07      In 1966, foodgrain self-sufficiency became a major objective
of public policy. The concomitant release of new high yielding paddy va-
rieties developed at the International Rice Research Institute (Los Banos)
and their rapid acceptance by farmers in areas of assured water supply con-
stituted a turning point for Philippine agriculture (Annex 1). Through the
activities of the National Food and Agriculture Council (NFAC), closer
coordination of Government and private agricultural efforts and increased
allocation of scarce inputs to areas enjoying favorable physical character-
istics have been achieved. In these areas, the new paddy varieties are
capable of outyielding the traditional varieties at least twofold, under
normal farming conditions. Following their release to cultivators, paddy
production recorded gains of over 10% in 1967/68, compared to an annual
growth rate averaging less than 1% over the previous 4 years. A drought in
1968/69 brought a slight setback, which would have been much greater were
it not for the new varieties. However, estimates for 1969/70 indicate a
growth rate of over 10% over the previous year. In 1969/70, the new
varieties were estimated to have covered 21% of the paddy area. No com-
parable breakthrough is in sight for corn.
2.08      The advent of a new biological base for paddy production is
significant, but it represents only one requisite for development of the
Philippine rice economy. During the period 1965-68, output expressed in
milled rice equivalent averaged 2.8 million ton while annual rice imports
stood at about 170,000 ton on average. Average paddy yields in the Philip-
pines are among the lowest in Asia. They average 1.3 ton/ha, compared to
3.7 ton/ha in Taiwan and 1.8 ton/ha in Ceylon. The low average productivity
of rice production in the Philippines reflects not only inadequate genetic
paddy materials but also restrictive environmental factors, particularly
a low proportion of irrigated acreage relative to the total paddy area --
less than 30%. It also results from primitive field water management and
lack of terminal field channel systems.
2.09      Timely availability of current production inputs (certified seed,
fertilizer, pesticides) is an important requisite for rapid growth of paddy
output; the new dwarf paddy varieties manifest high fertilizer responses
at relatively high application levels. However, effective production per-
formance depends on the use of pure seed and on whether adequate protection
is provided against disease and insect pests, the incidence of which is
increased by high fertility.
2.10      The new paddy varieties mature in a shorter time than traditional
varieties (100 to 130 days compared to 140 to 180 days). This increases
opportunities for multiple cropping. However, adequate field drainage and
timely land preparation (sometimes calling for increased mechanization of
farm operations) are particularly important for achieving this potential.
2.11      Although the net return of the new paddy technology is usually
much higher than that obtained with traditional varieties, cultivation
risks are considerable. The provision of adequate incentives to increase



- 4 -
the marketable surplus of rice is therefore a further requisite of continued
progress in rice production. This hinges partly on the results of research
now underway and aimed at varietal improvements with respect to grain qual-
ity, cooking features and milling characteristics. It also depends on the
implementation of favorable policies regarding rice procurement, imports and
prices. Finally, it requires modernization of rice transport, processing,
handling and storage.
2.12      On the whole, the present technological breakthrough and current
policy trends in the Philippines offer the opportunity for accelerated
growth in the productivity of rice cultivation. Assuming continuing policy
emphasis on food crops, foodgrains self-sufficiency in the early 1970's is
possible. Looking further ahead, rice surpluses are likely to arise in
good weather years. However, the very success of the foodgrains production
program is likely to increase the scope for further diversification of
agricultural production and regional specialization in the Philippines.
(Profitable avenues for diversification into export crops and livestock
development exist.) Furthermore, keen competition from other Asian producers
is expected in the world rice market for the next several years. All in
all, it is highly unlikely that long-run production trends in the Philip-
pines will be such as to result in consistently large rice exports. Al-
though the proposed project is expected to improve the competitive position
of Philippine rice production on the world market, its success is not de-
pendent on the Philippines becoming an exporter of significant quantities
of rice in the future.
C. Rice Processing and Marketing -/
2.13      Because of transportation bottlenecks, the rice processing and
marketing industry is widely dispersed, involving the services of inter-
mediaries and buying agents. The isolation of farmers from markets and
price information during part of the paddy season has contributed to the
proliferation of buying agents, paddy traders and other wholesalers who
benefit from farmers' immobility and lack of knowledge of prices, buying
at relatively low prices and selling at substantial profits. In some cases
paddy changes hands two or more times before arriving at the mill and a new
set of transactions occurs between the mill and the consumer. To some
extent, vertical integration is being developed by the more progressive
entrepreneurs. To date, most of this activity has taken place adjacent to
Manila, the main area of demand and also the best endowed with roads and
other services.
2.14      Retailing of rice is handled mainly by small shops and by vendors
in public markets who sell out of open bags and bins. Usually the unit of
sale is not standardized, although lately some processors and retailers have
1/   Annex 2 gives further details on the structure of rice marketing and
processing in the Philippines.



begun packaging rice in 1-ganta (2.43 kg) or 2-ganta bags. Brand names are
of little importance, but the various varieties are each classified into
"ordinary", "fancy" or "special" categories. Customers are very much aware
of the difference, and relative prices asked and paid reflect this.
2.15      The amount of land planted to a second crop is only a fifth of
the area planted to the first crop. This implies a seasonal pattern of
production which has a major impact on rice marketing and storage systems.
Over three-fourths of the total crop is harvested from October to January
and behavior of paddy prices at farm level is highly seasonal. Paddy farm
prices are usually highest around May-July and lowest around November-
January. On the average, there is a 20% difference between ruling high
and low prices. However, in areas poorly connected to urban markets, sea-
sonal price swings can exceed 40%. Over the long run, seasonal peaks in
supplies and prices are likely to become less pronounced as the marketing
infrastructure improves and year-round rice cultivation becomes more
prevalent.
Paddy Drying
2.16      For adequate storage and milling performance, the moisture con-
tent of harvested paddy must be reduced from 18-35% (depending on
weather) to 14%. Where the dry season is pronounced, paddy is allowed to
dry in the fields before being threshed. However, since most farmers sell
the bulk of their paddy crop soon after harvesting, the drying operation
is usually left to middlemen and millers. Sun drying on pavement areas or
bamboo mats adjacent to the warehouse or the mill is the rule. This tech-
nique leads to grain loss due to rats, birds, etc. In many cases, it also
leads to overdrying, which results in a high cracked grain proportion and
in significant mill losses. Furthermore, solar drying is largely ineffec-
tive for short duration varieties harvested during the wet season. On the
other hand, late drying causes discolored grains and reduces mill recovery.
In many areas, lack of feeder -oads passable during the wet season limits
possibilities for centralized paddy drying.
Rice Milling
2.17      Although about 6,000 establishments are engaged in rice milling
throughout the Philippines, less than 200, each employing 10 people or
more, account for over 60% of the business. Over half of the milling ca-
pacity is located in Central Luzon, reflecting the close link between high
yields and commercialization of paddy output. Paddy that does not go
through rice mills is pounded by hand or milled with primitive stone grind-
ers.
2.18      Two types of milling machines, both locally made, are commonly
used in the Philippines -- the Kiskisan and the Cono. Both use crude hull-
ers which break much grain while dehusking. Very few mills are equipped
with modern Japanese-type rubber hullers. The Kiskisan is a small machine
(capacity, 2 ton/12-hour day) consisting of a huller/polisher. It is inef-
ficient and much of its output is broken rice. On the other hand, its



- 6 -
operatioa requires limited financial resources anid allows milling close
to the farm. Milling is often done in small lots and paid for in kind.
Kiskisan mills cater mainly to the needs of rural dwellers.
2.19      The Cono is a larger machine (capacity, 6 to 9 ton/12-hour day),
usually located in commercial centers and towns.  It is Imore elaborate and
lhandles the hulling and polishing functions separately. if is equipped
withi graders, separators and other accessories.  As a result, it is more
efficient, averaging a weight recovery of 65 to 70'Z; (compared to 50 Lo 60%
for the Kiskisan). However, its performance falls considerably slhort of
the modern quality and efficiency standards of imported mills which couinon-
ly average 70-75% weight recovery.
Storage
2.20      Reliable data on available storage facilities are scarce; however,
most warehouses are small, less than 700 ton )n the average. Furthermore,
most facilities are designed for sack rather chan bulk storage. The most
recent official estimate puts total storage at 2.6 million ton, over 80%
of which is privately owned. This probably overrates actual storage re-
sources, since it includes deteriorated old facilities. A recent survey
found a substantial proportion of warehouses in poor condition, with rusted
walls, broken windows, inadequate ventilation and damaging levels of
moisture. By contrast, a few more recently constructed warehouses, having
structural steel and open rigid frames, were in relatively good condition.
On the whole, quality storage was found to be in short supply.
Credit
2.21      Lack of credit for financing paddy stocks is retarding moderni-
zation of rice production and marketing in the Philippines. Paddy stocks
are readily secured from farmers only if millers are able to extend pro-
duction credit to their suppliers. While DBP and commercial banks engage
in financing operations for paddy stocks, credit available for such pur-
poses is inadequate for the country's increasing needs. Without adequate
stocks, modern silos and mills cannot be used at capacity. Thus, increased
provision of working capital to entrepreneurs engaged in modern rice mill-
ing and processing is essential to ensure full benefits from investments
in improved marketing.
Transportation
2.22      An important factor limiting productive investment in modern rice
processing systems (and, hence, the size of the proposed project) is the
inadequate network of roads, isolating many important grain areas of the
Philippines from their markets. Without a good road system, paddy farmers
have access to few buyers able to lift their marketable surplus before it
deteriorates. As a result, they often receive low prices for their produce,
both on account of high transfer costs and a, a result of the lack of com-
petition among buyers. Although Manila is tie center for a significant net-
work of first class roads, much if the rice produced in Central Luzon and



the Cagayan Valley must flow to the city through narrow and poorly main-
tained arteries, often made of crushed rock and difficult to travel on.
Road networks on the other islands are even more primitive.
2.23      As part of a UNDP-finance.l transp3rt survey for which the Bank
acts as executing agency, feasibility studi!s of high priority roads were
undertaken, including the highway Cabanatuai - Tuguegarao, about 225 km,
passing one of Luzon's important rice produ:tion areas and connecting it
with the Philippines' main rice milling and consuming region in Central
Luzon, including Manila. On completion, this trunk road would greatly
improve rice transportation in an area which is expected to benefit from
the proposed rice milling project.
2.24      In the absence of a good road network, water transport assumes a
major role. Much water traffic is to and from small ports servicing small,
isolated areas, a situation that leads to costly inter-island shipping
with numerous stops and small cargoes. Rail service is limited and
available on only two islands (Luzon and Panay). Given the poor state
of transport facilities, regional price var4ations are wide. In remote
areas poorly connected to major urban cente-s, e.g. Western Visayan,
South and West Mindanao, etc., price suppor: operations are ineffective.
Policies
2.25      Government marketing policy for rice and corn is implemented
by the Rice and Corn Administration (RCA). RCA is the sole importer of
grain in the Philippines. It also operates a price support scheme. The
bulk of its domestic marketing is accomplisied through the private sector.
Under the so-called "quedan" system, RCA pr cures paddy and corn from farm-
ers against receipts (quedans) issued by botded warehouses, redeemable in
cash at RCA agent banks. Warelousemen and tillers accepting the paddy are
entitled to any rice recovery 'ver and above 63% of dry paddy weight as
well as to by-products. UJnder the quedan s-'stem, RCA is able to deal with
warehousemen, millers, traders, individual farmers or farmers' cooperatives
with access to processing and storage facilities meeting RCA standards.
RCA purchases directly from farmers only where private or cooperative fa-
cilities are not available.
2.26      RCA operations inave so far failed in fully stabilizing a market
beset by erratic weather and undergoing rapid technological change. RCA
lacks operational flexibility, good market connections and financial
resources. As a result, paddy prices have sometimes fallen below the
support level of P34.8 per quintal (equivalent to US$60 per ton of grain)
after harvest. Iowever, RCA's policies have, on the whole, been pragmatic
and generally responsive to producers' interests.



- 8 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The project, part of the Government's grain processing and stor-
age development program, would consist of the construction, equipment and
operation of modern rice processing facilities, involving approximately
150,000 ton of bulk storage as well as complementary drying and milling
machinery and other ancillary facilities and equipment. Training for man-
agement and operating personnel of project facilities and consulting ser-
vices to DBP required for effective project administration would also be
provided under the project.
Technical Features
3.02      While all 6 large processing units would likely be entirely new,
it is expected that half of the small processing units set up under the
project would incorporate existing sack warehouses and mills into their
designs. Outline specifications and drawings are given in Annex 3. The
major features would be:
Small Facility       Large Facility             Total
No.   Aggr. Cap.    No.   Aggr. Cap.       No.    Aggr. Cap.
… ----------- ton/hour ------------------------
Paddy driers      60       180          6         45         66         225
Rice mills        30        36          6         24         36          60
-------------------------- ton ---------------------------
Bulk Silos        60   120,000          6    30,000          66    150,000
Warehouses        30    15,000          6     9,000          36      24,000
Annual Through-
put of Paddy  60   360,000           6   120,000          66    480,000
3.03      The proposed driers would be continuous and column-type.  The
rice mills would include modern rubber hullers. The small silos would be
made of steel and the large silos of steel or concrete. In addition to
drying, storage and milling facilities, the project would include com-
plementary buildings and ancillary equipment for bulk handling, aeration
and fumigation as well as vehicles needed for paddy collection and rice
distribution.



- 9 -
3.04      Project facilities would be owned and operated by private
Philippine entrepreneurs active in grain milling and trade. Finance for
the facilities would be provided by the Bank, DBP and subborrowers (para
3.09). Consultant services required by DBP for appraisal and supervision
of subloans and for technical assistance to subborrowers would be provided
under the project. The project is expected to be executed over a period of
4 years.
Training
3.05      Training is required to provide subborrowers' managerial and
operating personnel with the skills that would enable them to operate
project plants efficiently (Annex 4). The estimated categories and numbers
of trainees for whom training would be required under the proposed project
are approximately as follows:
Small Fac.   Large Fac.   Total
Enterprise managers and owners            60            6          66
Plant superintendents /1                  30             6         36
Shiftleaders and operators /2             90           12         102
Total                         180            24         204
/1   It is expected that only about half of the small facilities would em-
ploy plant superintendents. The balance would be run by owners.
/2   2 shifts for large facilities; 1-2 shifts for small facilities.
3.06      Training facilities and course administration would be provided
by a proposed training center for grain processing being set up at the
University of the Philippines College of Agriculture with UNDP assistance.
Equipment and tuition would be provided by the center, while costs of sub-
sistence and wages of staff during training would be borne by subborrowers.
A Government request to the UNDP, formulated in consultation with the Bank,
was recently approved by UNDP. Approval of the plan of operations is
expected before the proposed loan becomes effective. The Bank has obtained
assurances from the Government that, in case there is a delay in finalizing
a plan of operations satisfactory to the Bank, alternative arrangements,
acceptable to the Bank, would be made with the Philippines College of Agri-
culture (UPCA). It would be a condition of effectiveness that suitable
training facilities had been provided to subborrowers' managerial, technical
and operational personnel.



- 10 -
B. Project Areas
3.07      Site selection would be left to the discretion of project bene-
ficiaries. However, the adequacy of proposed locations with respect to
paddy supply sources, the state of local grain storage and processing in-
frastructure, communications facilities, available utilities, labor sUp-
ply conditions and subsoil features would be reviewed by DBP in the course
of appraisal of each subproject. As a result, the majority of facilities
would probably be erected in the highly productive paddy growing regions
of Central Luzon, the Cagayan Valley and in Mindanao. Generally, the
project areas are expected to coincide with areas receiving priority under
Government agricultural development programs and, hence, should enjoy
supporting agricultural services of relatively high standards (see Map).
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
Project Cost
3.08      Cost estimates for construction and equipment of processing and
storage facilities are based on preliminary engineering specifications for
typical facilities proposed to be set up under the project. In order to
evaluate the effects of the de facto devaluation of February 1970, the
cost estimates were updated in August 1970. The cost estimates include
provision for consulting services required for effective project adminis-
tration by DBP (para 4.04). Adequate contingencies of approximately 10%
for possible cost increases during the construction period have been
provided. The total estimated cost amounts to about US$21 million, includ-
ing contingencies. The estimated foreign exchange component amounts to
about US$14.3 million, 68% of the total cost. Detailed estimates appear
in Annex 5. A summary follows:



- 11 -
----Pesos '000-------   ----US$   -oo---           For.
Local Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total Exch.
1. Processing & Storage Facilitie:;
1.1  Driers                       1,134   6,9h8   8,082       189    1,158   1,347  86
1.2  Mills                        3,060   9,108  12,168       510    1,518   2,028  75
1.3  Bulk Silos                   9,084  13,932  23,016   1,514    2,322   3,836  61
1.4  Grain handling equipment   7,884  32,580  40,464   1,314    5,430   6,744  81
1.5  Sack warehouses & mill
buildings                  2,766   1,764   4,530       461       294     755  39
1.6  Other construction,
equipment & land           4,116   5,700   9,816       686       950   1,636  58
1.7   Vehicles                    1.950   3,000                        500      825  61
Sub-total              29,994  73,032 103,026   4,999   12,172  17,171  71
2. Administrative Costs
2.1  Consultant's fees            1,464   4,800   6,264       244      800   1,044  77
2.2  DBP's staff costs            4,438      -     4,438      740       -       740  -
3. Contingencies (10%)               3        7,968  U1558       98    1,328   1.926  68
Total Project Cost       39,486  85,800 125,286   6,581   14,300  20,881  68
Financing
3.09      The Bank loan would be made to the Government of the Philippines,
which would on-lend the proceeds under a subsidiary loan agreement to the
Development Bank of the Philippines. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk. A Bank loan of US$ 14.3 million, representing 68% of total cost,
is proposed. Bank finance would cover the entire foreign exchange component
of the project. DBP would lend supplementary funds from its own resources to
subborrowers to meet local construction costs amounting to P 6.6 million
(US$ 1.1 million equivalent). This would, together with DBP's local project
administrative costs of about P 6.5 million (US$ 1.1 million) over the project's
lifetime, represent 11% of total project cost. Subborrowers would provide the
balance of P 26.4 million (us$ 4.4 million), 21% of total project costs. In
addition, subborrowers would bear subsistence and wage cost of their employees
during training. The following financing plan has been agreed with DBP during
negotiations:



- 12 -
Pesos '000                       US$'000
Sub-                           Sub-
Bank          borrow-            Bank        borrow-
Loan   DBP    ers /1   Total    Loan   DBP  ers /1   Total
Processing, stor-
age facilities &
vehicles         73,032  5,994  24,000  103,026  12,172   999  4,000  17,171
Administrative
costs             4,800  5,902    -       10,702     800   984    -      1,784
Contingencies     7,968  1,190   2,400   11,558   1,328   198    400   1,926
Total            85,800 13,086  26,400  125,286  14,300 2,181  4,400  20,881
z                  68      11      21      100      68      11     21     100
,1   70 to 90% of local project costs.
3.10      Working capital required for effective utilization of project
facilities (para 2.21) could amount to a maximum of US$9.0 million,
although the average outstanding would be US$4.5 million. It would be
provided by subborrowers from their own resources, from comercial banks
and DBP. DBP has proposed, and during negotiations, assurance has been
obtained, that DBP would meet working capital requirements beyond those
obtainable from subborrowers' own resources and/or commercial banks.
Working capital aspects are considered further in para 4.07.
3.11      The Bank loan to the Government would be for a duration of 19
years including 4 years of grace. These terms take into account lending
terms expected to apply to subborrowers and the time required for dis-
bursement of the Bank loan, plus one year for possible setbacks or delays.
No rollover of Bank funds is int3nded.
3.12      A financial projection of the estimated project cash-flow is set
forth in Annex 6. The project would be self--liquidating (para 4.08), the
interest rate charged to subborrowers (11Z) leing sufficient to cover DBP's
project administrative costs, including rese-ves for bad debts, as well as
the interest costs of the subsidiary loan fr.m Government to DBP.
Procurement
3.13      Contracts would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding. DBP would prepare designs and specifications for drying,
milling, conveying and aeration equipment on behalf of subborrowers. Bids
would be requested in separate calls for tenders based on suitable bulking
of approved subprojects, 15 to 30 at a time. Although equipment required
for smaller facilities is now being manufactured in the Philippines, it is
expected that uost equipment contracts would be awarded to foreign suppliers



- 13 -
since imported equipment tends to be of superior quality at competitive
prices. This has been taken into account in determining the foreign ex-
change component of project costs. A price preference of 15% or the level
of customs duties, whichever is less, would be allowed for all local manu-
facturers supplying equipment under the project. Civil works contracts
would be relatively small under each subproject and at scattered sites
throughout the Philippines. They would thus be unlikely to attract foreign
bidders. On the other hand, substantial competition among local bidders is
likely; a large number of experienced civil works construction firms is
available in the Philippines.
Disbursement
3.14      Disbursements of the Bank loan, over a 4-year period (see Annex 7),
would be made against import documentation for the cif value of equipment
and other goods and services procured for the project. For equipment con-
tracts awarded to local manufacturers, the Bank would disburse 60% represent-
ing the estimated foreign exchange component. For construction contracts,
the Bank would disburse 50% of costs, representing the estimated foreign ex-
change component. Disbursement would take place on presentation by DBP of
evidence of payments. If the project were completed for less than the loan
amount, the surplus would be used to extend the number of facilities to be
financed under the project.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Development Bank of the Philippines
4.01      A detailed review of DBP's finances and organization is given
in Annex 8. With total resources of P 2,740 million (US$457 million),
DBP is the leading development bank in the Philippines and an important
channel for public finance for development of agriculture and industry.
Its professional staff is over 1,200 strong, including more than 350
agriculturists and engineers.
4.02      DBP has maintained a measure of independence in the conduct of its
day-to-day business affairs. Nevertheless, it has not always been success-
ful in fending off political pressures and its investment decisions have
not always been based on strictly economic considerations and sound bank-
ing principles. Furthermore, DBP's financial prospects are clouded by the
fact that its portfolio includes a large volume of long-term loans backed
by medium- and short-term borrowings.



- 14 -
4.03      The Bank loan would be made to the Government for relending to
DBP on the same terns under a subsidiary loan agreement.  This agreement
would specify the main operating procedures to be followed under the project,
including the establishment of a separate project account. Receipts atnd
payments for or in connection with project implementationi would be recorded
exclusively in this account.  Tlat a subsidiary loan agreement between thle
Government and DBP, satisfactory to the Bank, had been executed, would be
a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
4.04      In order to ensure suitable subloan appraisal and supervision
under the project, a special Grain Processing Section (Annex 9) would be set
up in the office of DBP's chairman. While most loan departments still rely
more on security than on sound development criteria, DBP's Investment Bank-
ing Department has developed appropriate appraisal and supervision procedures
for industrial lending. A number of DBP's staff to be appointed to the
Grain Processing Section would have had experience in this department. It
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan that consultants
acceptable to the Bank had been appointed to assist the Section in imple-
menting the project.  The Section would be headed by an experienced and
qualified senior officer of DBP whose appointment would be made after con-
sultation with the Bank. Assurances to this effect have been obtained during
negotiations.
B. Subborrowers and Terms of Subloans
4.05       Each subloan application would be filed with one of DBP's 26
branches, nearest the subproject to be financed. The application would
give details of the applicant's past experience in grain milling and
trading, the status of his processing and storage operations and facili-
ties, the purpose of the loan and the collateral security offered. This
information would be sent to DBP's Grain Processing Section for further
investigation. The selection of subborrowers from available applications
would be made by DBP's Board of Governors, on the basis of DBP's findings
regarding such factors as managerial competence, prior grain processing
or trading experience, technical capacity of proposed mid-level super-
visory personnel and suitability of location (para 3.07). During negotia-
tions, assurances have been obtained that DBP would employ appropriate se-
lection criteria for subborrowers. There is currently a substantial unsat-
isfied demand for finance of rice processing facilities in the Philippines.
There should be adequate genuine demand for the kind of investment financing
provided under the project.



- 15 -
4.06      Detailed design of selected rice processing and storage sub-
projects would be prepared by the technical staff of the Grain Processing
Section and its consultants. Assurances have been obtained during negotia-
tions that a subloan or combination of subloans to the same subborrower, in
excess of US$250,000, would be subject to approval by the Bank. Such sub-
loans would be submitted to the Bank together with DBP's feasibility reports
demonstrating the technical and organizational soundness of each subproject
as well as its financial justification. The form of these reports and the
major covenants to be included in the subloan contracts have been agreed
with DBP. Under the subloan contracts, subborrowers would be required to
submit periodic progress reports and financial statements to DBP. Further-
more, DBP would be empowered under the contracts to request periodic audit
of subborrowers by independent accountants or its own staff.
4.07      In the appraisal of potential subborrowers, the Section would
pay particular attention to the requirements for working capital and the
intended sources. Total seasonal requirements are large, potentially as
high as US$ 9.0 million at any one time (para 3.10). The Grain Process-
ing Section would, as far as possible, endeavor to assist subborrowers in
arranging financing with private commercial banks, since this source would
be the most suitable. Insofar as it may be insufficient for project pur-
poses, however, the Government and DBP have proposed, and the Bank has
obtained assurances during negotiations, that DBP would, wherever required,
provide credit for working capital to individual subborrowers on terms not
less favorable than normal for such finance (currently 10% interest per
annum).
4.08      Subborrowers would repay their loans to DBP at interest of 11%
over 14 years, including a grace period covering the construction period of
approximately one year. An interest rate of 11% is considered appropriate;
it is somewhat above DBP's current lending rate in thie agricultural sector
(usually 9%), but it is approximately in line with terms of on-lending to
ultimate beneficiaries under previous Bank loans. The Private Development
Corporation of the Philippines, to whichi three Bank loans have been made,
currently charges 11% on its loans which are mainly industrial. The loans
for rural credit projects made by the Bank carry an interest rate to farm-
ers of 12%. The proposed lending rate of 11% would leave DBP with a spread
of 3.75% on Bank funds, an adequate margin given the relatively high average
size of proposed subloans. It would also allow satisfactory incentives for
subborrowers to participate (see Section V below and Annex 10). The surplus
funds which would accrue to DBP over the project life are adequate to cover
the default risk of subborrowers (Annex 6). Assurances have been obtained
during negotiations that adequate funds, on suitable terms, would be pro-
vided for project implementation.



- 16 -
C.  Financial I'rocedtires and Auditfnj'
4.09      During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that financial
procedures ensuring timely availability of funds wouild be followed. Fur-
thermore, the following assurances have been obtained about auditing pro-
cedures for DBP's project account:
(a)  DBP's project account would be kept in a suitable
form and be audited annually by a firm of independent
accountants acceptable to thie Bank;
(b)  a copy of the audited account would be sent to the Bank
within three months of the close of the fiscal year until
the end of the disbursement period of the Bank loan.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      Tle proposed project facilities would eliminate major marketing
deficiencies in the areas in which they would be established. The driers
would facilitate the spread of high yielding varieties maturing in the wet
season. The storage structures would minimize grain losses and help sta-
bilize inter-seasonal farm prices. The mills would raise both the quantity
and the quality of the grain produced and allow better utilization of by-
products. Generally, the project is expected to contribute significantly
to rural growth in the Philippines by providing more secure outlets for
rising production of paddy farmers, many of whom are small-scale. Effec-
tive design and location of project facilities would ensure adequate fi-
nancial returns to subborrowers as well as a suitable economic return to
the country as a whole.
A. Operating Arrangements and Financial Returns
5.02      The ability of project facilities to accept wet paddy would tend
to even out peak paddy inflows at the mills. Mechanical handling equipment
would allow faster movement of grain within the mills than the manhandling
methods used in warehouses.  This, combined with the ability to handle wet
paddy, would enable project facilities to turn over their stocks at a rela-
tively high rate. Whereas existing warehouse facilities currently process
only approximately two turnovers of their storage, the small project facil-
ities are each expected to process 6,000 m ton of paddy per annum (3.2
turnover of static storage capacity), while the large project facilities
are each expected to process 20,000 m ton of paddy per annum (4.0 turnover
of static storage capacity).



- 17 -
5.03      Millers would receive paddy from farmers, either directly or
through buying agents, and would immediately test for moisture content.
This, and the time elapsed since harvest, would influence the price payable.
Approximately two-thirds of paddy purchased is expected to require mechan-
ical drying; the remainder would have been solar dried to a satisfactory
level by farmers.  It is expected that the solar-dried paddy would have
suffered fermentation damage equivalent to 25% of stocks. M4echanical
drying would not totally eliminate fermentation damnage because poor trans-
portation between farm and mill would still result in some deterioration,
but the incidence would be reduced to about 10% of stocks.
5.04       Differences in climate, farming and marketing patterns would
result in variations between facilities' patterns of grain flows. However,
given the strict appraisal procedures proposed, it is expected that ade-
quate financial and economic returns will be obtained for all subprojects.
Expected cash flows for typical project facilities, and the assumptions
on which they are based, are shown in Annex 10. The estimated gross income
and associated expenditures are based, as far as possible, on the present
experience of millers in the Philippines. However, as there are at pres-
ent no comparable facilities involving bulk handling and storage, certain
expenditure estimates are based on experience gained in other countries,
adjusted for Philippine prices and costs.
5.05       Due to the floating exchange rate as of February 1970, project
cost and financial returns had to be recalculated since appraisal. The ex-
change rate of US$1 = P6.0 has been used as a standard assumption.  Annex
11 provides an analysis of the sensitivity of the financial returns to
changes in costs and benefits. The financial rates of return on total
assets vary between 12.9% and 23.5% for a small facility and between 17.9%
and 28.6% for a large facility. Rates of return on equity would be signi-
ficantly higher and provide adequate incentives to participate in the
project. Under standard assumptions, the most likely financial return of
a small facility would be 18.9% on total assets over its life of 15 years
and the long-term debt service coverage would be 1.3 during the 13-year
period of loan repayment. The most likely financial return of a large
facility would be 24.1% on total assets over its life of 20 years and the
long-term debt service coverage would be 1.7 during the 13-year period
of loan repayment.
Revenue Generation and Taxation of Subborrowers
5.06       Tthe foregoing financial returnis are calculated after payment of
income taxes.  Details of the incidence of this taxation are shown in
Annex 10; the totals estimated to be received by the Government in respect
of all project facilities would be about p4.0 million per annum (US$0.7
million) in the years of loan repayment rising to P7.2 million (US$1.2
million) tlhereafter.



- 18 -
B. Farmers' Benefits
5.07      In order to cope effectively with an increasing rice production
due to new varieties, the Philippines needs mechanical drying equipment,
effective milling equipment and bulk handling and storage facilities.  Tle
proposed project facilities would improve this situation in selected areas
where they would be established and would thus provide a strong impetus to
the further dissemination of new farming technologies. Witlh lower operating
costs and increased competition due to the project, a lower marketing margin
for the miller would be realized which would benefit farmers in project areas.
Far more important is the fact that new high yielding paddy varieties are
early maturing and in some cases, must be harvested before the end of the
wet season. The supply of these varieties now exceeds the capacity of drying
at harvest in most regions. The provision of mechanical drying equipment
under the project would allow millers to accept increased quantities of wet
paddy, which could be dried without delay. This would significantly improve
the farmers' market position. Based on an expected annual production of
about 230,000-280,000 tons of new variety paddy which would be dried under
the project in the wet season, and on a farm gate price increase of about
P50 per ton over current wet paddy prices, increased farmers' income due to
the project is estimated at P11.5 -- 14 million (US$1.9-2.3 million) annually.
C. Economic Justification
5.08      When all facilities are constructed, project processors would han-
dle about 480,000 ton of paddy per year producing 322,000 ton of milled
rice. This represents 15-20% of what presently is estimated to pass through
commercial channels. The value of milled rice produced by the project, based
on projected world prices, would be between US$30 and US$40 million.
5.09      The economic evaluation of the project has been done in two parts.
The first relates costs and benefits arising from the proposed project in-
vestments to those which would arise from traditional storage investments.
This is necessary to establish that investment in the more expensive bulk
handling and drying facilities is justified. The second is the more custom-
ary economic return analysis which relates all benefits and costs to the
economy attributable to the project.
5.10      The first calculation is based on the assumption that, in an
economy such as that of the Philippines, with substantial entrepreneur-
ial initiative, a realistic alternative to investment in the proposed project
facilities would be investment in traditional sack warehouses equipped as in
the past. Such facilities would be justified economically, simply on the
basis of being necessary to prevent the losses of rice that otherwise would
occur from birds, rodents, spoilage and reduced milling recovery if paddy were
stored in the open. However, as shown below, investment in the proposed
project facilities is more attractive. The major quantifiable economic bene-
fits of the project that would be obtained by not investing in traditional
warehouses but in modern facilities, include:



- 19 -
(a) reduction in spoilage from fermentation of rice;
(b) improved milling recovery resulting from early drying and
modern equipment.
The quantitative analysis presented in Annex 12 relates the additional costs
of building bulk storage facilities, complemented by continuous-flow driers,
to the additional benefits to be obtained from employing efficient equipment.
On this basis, the economic rate of return on investment, including costs
of training and consultants to DBP, would be about 17% (Annex 12).
5.11      If, on the other hand, as is customary, the entire value added by
processing were considered as a benefit attributable to the project, the
overall rate of return would be about 25% (Annex 12). This return is sa-
tisfactory. It does not include substantial intangible benefits which would
result from demonstration of improved grain processing tecliniques, and
adoption of new farming technologies outside the project areas. Savings in
rice storage losses are substantial under the project and when evaluated
at projected world market prices (Annex 12) amount to about US$3.0 million
per annum once all project facilities are fully operational.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$14.3 mil-
lion at 7-1/4% interest, repayable over 19 years, including a 4 year grace
period.
6.02      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(i)  DBP would ensure sufficient credit to subborrowers for
working capital needs arising from each subproject
(paras 3.10 and 4.07);
(ii) all subloan contracts involving subloans of more than
US$250,000 would be subject to agreement by the Bank
(para 4.06);
6.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be that:
(i)  suitable training facilities had been provided to
subborrowers' managerial, technical and operational
personnel (para 3.06);
(ii) expatriate consultants had been appointed to assist
the Section (para 4.04);
(iii)  a subsid-iary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank had
been executed (para 4.03).
January 11, 1971






ANNEX 1
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Rice Production Problems and Prospects
1.        Except for a few commercial farms, grain farming in the Philippines
is a small-scale operation, based on about 2 million family holdings that
produce rice and corn for home consumption and the market. Their crop pat-
terns, mainly conditioned by environmental factors and subsistence consider-
ations, have little flexibility for the cultivation of alternate crops.
Usually, the larger part of a holding is under rice or corn, or both, de-
pending on area and season, and whether soil moisture is adequate. Cereal
monoculture of rice in the flood plains of Luzon, and corn in Mindanao, is
characteristic for many low-land regions.
2.        Land, human labor and animal power are the most significant grain
farm resources. The current rice farming pattern involves a highly season-
al demand for labor. In general, farm labor supply appears to be adequate
to satisfy the demand arising from rice cultivation in Luzon and the Visayan
Islands. In Mindanao, however, where holdings are larger and population
density is low, labor shortage at planting and harvesting of rice and corn
is a limiting production factor. The productivity of farm management and
labor is satisfactory, though hampered by a lack of efficient tools and im-
plements.
3.        The dependable, but slow, work animal is the water buffalo
(carabao). Where farm mechanization has been introduced, it has mainly
supplemented the carabao to improve the timeliness of cultivation. More
sophisticated farm mechanization is often limited by lack of capital re-
sources, small farm sizes, and fragmentation of holdings. All of these
factors make the economic use of expensive power tools problematic. There
is some progress in small-scale mechanization, as evidenced by the increas-
ing number of walking and light tractors, and mechanical weeders acquired
by farmers in recent years. This type of farm mechanization is expected to
increase in line with the adoption of improved cultivation practices, in-
cluding multiple cropping.
4.        Fertilizer consumption in the Philippines is particularly low for
rice and corn. Together these crops occupy about 62% of the total cultivated
area, yet they used only 29% of the estimated fertilizer supply in 1967.
Past fertilizer supply patterns and consumption trends would, however, be
doubtful indicators of the sector's future performance. The growth of the
industry has been hampered by import privileges that were granted to spe-
cialized crop interests; an arbitrary subsidy policy that resulted in a
multiple fertilizer pricing system; and technological problems that slowed
domestic fertilizer production. Fertilizer consumption has also been limited



ANNEX I
Page 2
by a lack of adequate marketing facilities; inadequate sales and credit pro-
motion; and the traditional predominance of fertilizer-unresponsive grain
crop varieties, particularly in rice varieties.
5.        The future presents a different pattern.  Fiscal privileges
are being removed gradually and Government distribution of fertilizers
is slowly phasing out; technological problems of domestic producers are
likely to be overcome; and manufacturers have built up a wide distribu-
tion network of about 2,000 appointed dealers, selling to farmers and
cooperatives. The network is backed by industry-owned fertilizer ware-
houses located at strategic points. Distributors and consumers are as-
sisted by the industry's field staff in technical and credit matters.
One major fertilizer producer is currently organizing credit workshops
in collaboration with Government institutions, DEP, private banks, rural
banks, cooperatives, dealers and farmers to work out the mechanics of pro-
viding fertilizer credit to the trade and consumers. These measures are
expected to play an increasingly important role in the marketing of fer-
tilizer in the widely dispersed grain sector. The increase in adoption
of high yielding paddy varieties by farmers and the progressing consolida-
tion in the industry are further favorable factors for greater fertilizer
use on paddy.
6.        A major yield breakthrough took place only after the release
of the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) variety IR-8, in
1966. This variety, which is photoperiod insensitive, was tested in a
wide range of yield trials throughout the rice groving regions. With fer-
tilizer its maximum is 1 to 2 tons per ha above the best alternative va-
riety and 3 to 4 tons above traditional varieties. Even without fertil-
izer, IR-8 does better than most other varieties.
7.        In the initial effort to establish a plant type with high yield-
ing ability, cooking and eating quality were of secondary importance to
breeders. However, now that physiologically efficient plant type has been
developed the emphasis has turned to breeding for grain quality changes
to suit Philippine taste preferences and to disease and insect resistance.
Progress in this direction has already been made and new varieties of
superior grain quality, with improved disease and pest resistance, are
ready for release.
8.        The introduction of new rice varieties has already shifted the
comparative advantage in rice production throughout the major rice grow-
ing regions of the Philippines. However, the initial speed with which
the new technology was received is likely to taper off. The availability
of an adequate water supply vill be a major factor influencing the rate
and extent of further adoption. The preferable rice producing areas are
likely to be those that combine a climate of high light intensity with a
relatively favorable water supply, such as in the lowlands of Luzon. If
the infrastructure is improved, these regions are likely to become the
major producers of rice. Further, if continued technological progress
leads to ever-increasing rice yield per ha, it would eventually be possible
to reduce the total rice area in these areas and divert resources to other



ANNE.X 1
Page 3
field crops without affecting increases in rice production. Other factors
that would influence the rate of growth of rice production would be main-
ly improvement of the farm institutional structure; the availability of
farm labor and thie quiality of farm management; the availability of com-
plementary inputs including seeds, fertilizer, chemicals and credit, and,
further, the availability of modern rice processing facilities such as
proposed to be set up under the project.






ANNEX 2
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Rice Marketing and Processing in the Philippines
Sales of Paddy
1.        Harvesters and threshers are paid in kind; they receive from
6 to 18% of the output. The landlord's share varies according to indi-
vidual agreements but probably averages about one-third of output. The
balance, approximately one-half of the total amount harvested, is left
for the operator to sell or consume. Since the average farm is about 3
ha, most farmers market the small quantity they have to sell at one time.
When two sales are made in a crop year, it is usually because of double
cropping. Multiple deliveries are much more common with larger farmers,
who have better farm storage and do not have as pressing a need for cash.
According to 1967 figures, average volume of paddy sales per farm in the
Philippines was only 35 cavans, or slightly more than 1.5 m tons.
2.        It is usually profitable for a farmer to store paddy for a few
months after harvest and thus obtain an increase of between 8 and 40% of
the average price (depending on the harvest and its distribution within
a given year) and an increase of up to 50% over the lowest price, the one
generally prevailing at the height of the harvest season. In general,
however, most farmers must sell their paddy immediately to obtain cash
for debt repayment, living expenses or purchase of inputs for other farm
operations. Still others have to fulfill sales contracts signed with
moneylenders or grain traders and millers who supplied them with produc-
tion credit during the growing season.
Paddy Drying
3.        Few farmers have adequate storage facilities on the farm.  Those
who do store paddy keep it in burlap bags, large woven baskets, jars or
boxes. Larger farms may have a small bodega (barn or shed) where they
can keep a few tons. However, more often than not, grain is simply spread
in one or more rooms of the farm house.
4.        Satisfactory drying of paddy immediately after harvest is a
problem because of high humidity and possible rainfall during harvesting.
Drying is particularly urgent with new varieties, which mature earlier
than traditional varieties and which may need harvesting long in advance
of the close of the wet season. Sun drying is common practice throughout
the Philippines and, although it is efficient and economic on sunny days,
it is inadequate to cope with the present and future flow of paddy from
new varieties.



AtNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Probably the best long run arrangement for rice drying in the
Philippines would be large, efficient driers at mills, combined with rapid
transport from field to mill. However, because of the poor feeder road
network, this is not practicable everywhere.
6.        Mechanical warm air driers are not extensively used at present,
except in research institutions, a few Rice and Corn Administration (RCA)-
owned facilities, and some private warehouses and mills.
7.        RCa recognizes the importance of mechanical drying and will not
contract with warehousemen to purchase paddy harvested in the rainy sea-
son unless they can dry the paddy they purchase mechanically. Even this
is insufficient to ensure safe storage for an indefinite period of time,
since studies show that paddy should be dried within 6 to 12 hours after
harvest. This again points to the need for driers at farm and community
levels.
Transport to Mill
8.        Paddy can be transported by the farmer to the warehouse of his
choice by carabao sled, cart, jeep or truck, but in areas without all-
weather roads it is not uncommon for farmers to be stranded with wet paddy,
which can deteriorate rapidly if not dried. In such areas, buying agents
provide an important service by purchasing produce on the farm and carry-
ing it in trucks to the warehouse or to an interim storage shed (sometimes
called a buying station) on a main road. When sufficient quantities have
been collected at the interim storage shed, the buyer will load a truck
and deliver several tons of paddy, either to a local mill or warehouse,
or if the price differential is large enough, to a larger town that serves
as a processing and distribution center.
Milling
9.        Milling transform  the unhusked, rough paddy into the polished
rice demanded by the consumer. Two types of mills are co_on in the
Philippines:  the small, inefficient "kiskisan" and the larger "cono".
A third and much more efficient type, found only in a very few facilities,
is the rubber huller mill.
10.       The rubber huller type mill uses tvo rubber rollers rotating at
different speeds to remove the hulls, which are iuediately aspirated by
a blower. The brown rice (that is, the bran-coated kernel) then drops to
a rotating ribbed cylinder, encased in a screen similar to a kiskisan mill.
The force of attrition caused by the rubbing of the grains against
each other and against the screen removes the bran and polishes the grain.
Rice and Corn Administration
11.       RCA, an autonomous Government agency, attempts to purchase about
10% of total production in each year throughout the country.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
12.       Only in the event of a scarcity or total lack of bonded ware-
houses in a region does RCA purchase grain directly from producers.
Most of its operations are carried out through bonded warehousemen. Two
months before the regular rice planting season, RCA announces floor prices,
which differ regionally according to the varying cost of production,
but which never fall below P16 per cavan of clean and dry paddy weighing
46 kg gross. These prices remain in force for 1 year. RCA also enters
into an agency contract with traders, the Farmer's Cooperative Association
(FACOMA), and farmers with acceptable warehousing and milling facilities.
Upon signing a contract and establishing a performance bond for 10% of
the contract value of the paddy or rice, RCA opens a domestic letter of
credit in favor of the contractor, covering the total value of the paddy
or rice to be purchased for and on its behalf.
13.       Republic Act 4643, which amended the charter of RCA (RA 3452),
enunciates the system of procurement of paddy and corn through payment
against warehouse receipts, commonly called quedans; authorizes the RCA
Board of Administrators to determine the price of paddy and corn for
various producing regions, taking into consideration the varying costs
of production, but not less than P16.00 per cavan of paddy and not less
than P 13.00 per cavan of corn; and directs RCA to sell rice and/or corn
grits through the Rice and Corn Board (RICOB) registered retailers, barrio 1)
councils, and in places where there are neither RICOB retailers nor barrio
councils, through retailers appointed by RCA upon recomendation of muni-
pal treasurers.
14.       Under the quedan system, a farmer deposits his produce (paddy
of corn) in any RCA-designated bonded warehouse of FACOMA and endorses the
quedan issued to him. He may be paid cash on the spot, or, if he so pre-
fers, can cash the quedan with the RCA agent bank in the locality. Recovery
in excess of 63% accrues to the warehouseman/miller as his profit, together
with proceeds from sale of all by-products and, in certain circumstances, a
storage fee paid by RCA.
15.       To stabilize the retail price of rice, RCA has fixed the price
of its stocks, milled from paddy purchased to support farm prices, at no
more than P 1.40 per ganta for the "ordinary" varieties. Sales for "fancy"
and "special" rice are at higher prices, based on normal price differen-
tials. RCA sells this rice only at times and in areas where the free play
of supply and demand forces the market price above the prescribed ceiling.
Otherwise, it does not release rice from storage to its authorized retail
outlets.
1/ Barrio - small community.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Warehousing
16.       The average capacity of existing warehouse facilities is rela-
tively small and is an indication of the very low level of concentration
within the industry. In the private sector, the average size of ware-
houses is less than 700 m tons. Average size of those owned by the Agri-
cultural Credit Administration (ACA) is almost double that of private
facilities. ACA-owned facilities were meant to serve the cooperative
FACOMA; however, a number of these ceased their activities and subsequent-
ly rented to individuals from the private sector. Largest of all are the
RCA-owned warehouses, which have an average capacity of close to 3,000 m
tons, but these are only about 1.5% of the total number of facilities in
the country.
17.       Warehouses are often attached to rice mills, or situated very
close to them. There are some cases, though, where storage facilities
are to be found rather far removed from towns where the mills are situat-
ed. Some of these serve as up-country collection depots for buying agents
employed by the millers. Others belong to paddy traders.
18.       If the estimate of 2.6 million m tons of storage capacity were
correct and if the warehouses were in reasonable condition, it is probable
that storage capacity would only be adequate on a national basis for 1969
harvest requirements. However, the estimate is suspected of being high
and the warehouses are in relatively poor condition. Further, production
is increasing and present capacities are already insufficient in favor-
ably situated areas, including those where private and national irrigation
schemes are being developed.
Wholesaling
19.       Millers and warehousemen have begun to appreciate that "vertical
integration" can overcome some of the problems of their industry. Vertical
integration implies that one group purchases, stores and mills paddy, and
transports any surplus rice to deficit areas for sale to wholesalers or,
preferably, to retail outlets. Vertical integration is not yet widespread,
although some entrepreneurs are now undertaking two or more links in the
chain between farmer and consumer.
20.       If production increases faster than demand, competition will in-
crease at the wholesale and retail levels. Some of the larger millers,
mainly in Mindanao and parts of Luzon, foresee this and have begun to or-
ganize and integrate horizontally. They have formed a nucleus group called
the Rice and Corn Exchange of the Philippines (RICOREX), which aims to
combine operations at the retail level and capture a large share of the
Manila market. They propose to offer both convenience and quality by
offering home delivery of packaged rice of higher quality than that pre-
sently available on the market. If RICOREX and similar groups of producers
and processors succeed, more of the industry can be expected to integrate
both vertically and horizontally. The result would be a more efficient



ANNEX 2
Page 5
production and marketing system. It would also facilitate entry into the
world market, where quality is a far more important factor than it has been
in local rice processing and marketing.
Retail Marketing
21.       The majority of rice sales to consumers is made by retail stores.
The balance comes from rice mills and direct from farmers. Retail outlets
comprise specialty and general stores and, most importantly, public market
vendors. Most retail outlets average about 20 to 25 cavans of 56 kg weekly.






ANNEX 3
PHILIPPINES
RICE PIOCESSING PROJECT
Outline Specifications
1.        The outline specifications given in this Annex indicate the
main features of typical small and large facilities to be set up under
the project. They were used as the basis for estimating project costs.
A. Small Facilities
2.        The general layout of small facilities is shown in Drawing 1.
The main features are:
Storage bins - Six bins of 315 m ton capacity each,
total capacity 1,890 m tons.
Working bins - Eight bins of 38 m ton capacity each,
total capacity 304 m tons.
Capacities - The maximum total capacities of the
storage and working bins would be 2,194 m tons. The
total capacity for working purposes would be approxi-
mately 2,000 m tons.
Construction materials - The storage and working bins
would be of welded sheet or corrugated steel with bolt
fastenings.
Aeration and grain handling characteristics of bins -
The storage bins would have flat bottoms. Aeration
would be provided by axial flow fans (one per two bins)
powered by individual electric motors. The tempering
and working bins would have hopper bottoms and no aera-
tion.
Drier - Continuous flow column type of three m tons per
hour net capacity when drying palay from 25% to 14%
moisture. Oil burner with safety devices.
Mill - Between 1 and 1.3 m tons per hour capacity of
modern design (average 1.2 m tons per hour). Maximum
continuous output at peak periods approximatley 700 m



ANNEX 3
Page 2
tons per month. Mill power provided by diesel engine
with line shaft and belt drive.
Grain handling equipment
(i) Receiving pit.
(ii) Screw conveyor - receiving pit to receiving
elevator 15 m tons per hour. Receiving elevator
15 m tons per hour capacity to cleaner.
(iii) Cleaner (rotating screen or vibrating bar type)
with aspiration and cyclone-type dust collection,
15 m tons per hour capacity.
(iv) Relift elevator - cleaner to conveyor above bins,
15 m tons per hour capacity.
(v) Two screw conveyors above, and one below, storage
bins, each of 15 m tons per hour capacity.
(vi) Two screw conveyors above and two below working
bins each of 15 m tons per hour capacity. Two
elevators to service working bins and drier, each
of 15 m tons per hour capacity.
(vii) Spout flow to rice mill.
(viii) Two receiving hoppers of eight m tons capacity
each in rice mill.
(ix) Spout flow to palay shipping facility.
(x) Power for the grain handling equipment would be
provided by a diesel powered electric generator.
Warehouse and mill building - Building to house mill and
provide 500 m tons sack storage capacity. Dimensions of 90
ft long x 60 ft wide x 14 ft high to eaves. Framework of
structural steel. Walls and roof of galvanized iron.
Screened ventilation louvres in walls and roof. Local con-
struction.
Office and laboratory - Dimensions, 20 ft x 50 ft, metal
frame, steel clad, sealed. Single storage.
Foundations and roadways - Bin and machine footings of re-
inforced concrete based on average expected soil conditions
to extend approximately 2 ft below surface. Slab foundations
for buildings to have grade beans around perimeter extending
12" below surface, for rodent control. Earth roadways.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Security fence and gate - Chain link topped with barbed wire
overhang. 8 ft high. One gate 12 ft wide with guardhouse.
Land required - One hectare of level, well-drained land
with good road access.
B. Large Facilities
3.        The general layout of large facilities is shown in Drawing 2.
The main features are:
Storage bins - Eight bins of 534 m ton capacity each, total
capacity 4,272 m tons, plus a pack factor of 5%.
Working bins - Seven bins of 104 m ton capacity each, which
are interstitial spaces between the eight circular bins,
plus three small bins at the headhouse end of the storage
bins, of 28 m tons capacity each.  Total capacity is 812 m
tons.
Capacities - The maximum total capacities of the storage
and working bins would be 5,084 n tons, plus a pack factor
of 5%, or a total maximum capacity of 5,338 m tons. The
capacity for working purposes would be approximately 5,O0O
m tons.
Construction materials - The storage and working bins would
have hopper bottoms. Aeration would be provided to the
storage bins only by two permanently installed blower systems.
Drier - Continuous flow column type of 7 m tons per hour
net capacity when drying paddy of 25% moisture to 14% mois-
ture. Oil burner with safety devices.
Mill - The rice mill shall be of modern design, with 4 m
tons per hour capacity of palay. Milled rice sorting
equipment of suitable capacity to be compatible to milled
rice production. Characteristics: milling machinery shall
utilize a combination of the attrition and friction tech-
niques of bran removal. Maximum continuous output at peak
period approximately 2,800 m tons per month.
Grain handling equipment
(i) Two receiving pits;
(ii) Receiving conveyors - receiving pit to receiving
elevator 50 m tons per hour capacity. Receiving
elevator of 50 m tons per hour capacity;



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(iii) Cleaner (rotating screen or vibrating bar type)
with aspiration and cyclone type dust collection,
25 m tons per hour capacity;
(iv) Relift elevator - cleaner to conveyors above
bins, 50 m tons per hour capacity;
(v) Two conveyors above bins, of 50 a tons per hour
capacity, and two below storage bins, each of 50
m tons per hour capacity; the same conveyor system
handles both storage bins and working bins;
(vi) Spout to rice mill;
(vii) Three receiving hoppers of 24 m tons capacity each
in rice mill;
(viii) Spout to palay shipping facility;
(ix) One bagging hopper of 8 m tons capacity for bagged
shipments of palay;
(x) Power for the grain handling equipment would be
provided by a diesel powered electric generator.
Warehouse and mill building - Buildings to house mill and
provide 1,500 a tons sack storage capacity. Dimension of
130 ft long x 90 ft wide and 14 ft high to eaves. Framework
of structural steel. Walls and roof of galvanized iron.
Screened ventilation louvres in walls and roof. Local con-
struction.
Office and laboratory - Description: 20 ft x 50 ft metal
frame, steel clad, sealed, 1 story.
Securiry fence and gate - Chain link topped with barbed
wire overhang. 8 ft high. One gate 12 ft wide with guard-
house.
Land required - 2 hectares of level well-drained land with
good road access.



PHILIPPINES: GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT                                       /5 rON/HW
SMALL BULK SILO                                                              CONVEYOR
UPPER                                                    EERN
3/5 TON S/N    A                                                         COR
SECTION
OR IR
8 TON MILL SINS
MILL N/GINGI
Li~~~I 10- C
C>
ELEVATON                                                  B//V PLAN
MARCH 1970                                                                                                                              IBRD   2624RI






ANNEX 3
DRAWING 2
PHILIPPINES
GRAIN PROCESSING PROJECT
LARGE BULK SILO
Concrete toppet on /V
Scal_e onv"
Steel Hopper
I _ _1                                                                                             _     
.   . . _ _ 7  r . _ _                                     ~~~~~B/N BOTTOMS 
26I
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    WM
1 [ 1 r   1 r 1 r                                           /- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 Interstxrw Storop 9in7s
_._~~~~~~~~~~~     'K. /                                                       We/
SECTJ/ON                                             L V- -1  L
Drier
BII FLAN
_o   __          ._  _ __  ____.___  ,  ___  ......._. __ ____, _F _ _  ___ __ _ ._ _  1_






ANNEX 4
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Training Aspects
A. Introduction
1.        Efficient functioning of the Philippines' grain processing in-
dustry will largely depend upon its operating personnel. It is therefore
important that they receive the best possible training to carry out their
duties. Training of operating personnel would, therefore, be a condition
of the proposed grain processing project. Besides meeting the requirements
of a growing and more complex industry, training would improve the opera-
tional efficiency of existing grain processing enterprises.
B. Present Research and Training
2.        Research work combined with graduate courses in the technology
of grain utilization is carried out primarily at the University of the
Philippines College of Agriculture (UPCA) by the Department of Agricul-
tural Engineering. Related subjects covered by the UPCA's research pro-
gram include grain drying problems, storage, milling, grain chemistry and
utilization, feeds and feed quality, and ancillary aspects. The on-going
research and teaching program is sufficiently broad to support a training
program for operation staff of grain processing enterprises. UPCA's De-
partment of Agricultural Engineering will soon occupy new quarters with
modern facilities which will allow the extension of scope of grain pro-
cessing research. Research, experimentation and laboratory work in grain
processing are also done by BPI, while supply of field driers and exten-
sion in grain drying is provided by APC.
3.        Training of operating personnel in grain processing is also
provided by UPCA's Department of Agricultural Engineering. It currently
conducts a standard and short-term course for Farmers' Cooperative Mar-
keting Association (FACOMA) personnel and a basic information course for
warehouse and mill managers. The emphasis is laid on skill training of
improved practices, including theoretical subject of grain processing.
4.        The training program of IRRI provides personnel of other research
and educational organizations concerned with rice development with an op-
portunity to work under the guidance of eminent specialists in the major
phases of rice research including grain utilization and processing. The
program includes trainees of three types: (i) research scholars; (ii)
research fellows; and (iii) other trainees. The last are accepted by



ANNEX 4
Page 2
special arrangements and follow a program of study designed to meet the
needs of the employing organizations, whether it be in rice research or
instruction.
5.        Two expatriate experts, provided under a UNDP technical assist-
ance project, which is executed by FAO, are presently advising RCA and
the industry in grain drying, and warehousing and milling improvement,
and their services would be available under the current project until the
end of 1970. The government applied for a UNDP/SF project for the estab-
lishment of a grain processing center for applied research and training.
The request has been approved by UNDP in June 1970. The center would be
administered by UPCA (Department of Agricultural Engineering) under the
policy guidance of an inter-ministerial committee.
C. Proposed Training Program
6.        The proposed program would train senior staff and operating
personnel employed by project subborrowers.
7.        The program would include three types of trainees:
(i) Enterprise managers (or owners)
(ii) Plant superintendents
(iii) Shift leaders (operators)
Managers and owners would be relatively mature persons with experience in
managing conventional grain processing units, or potential managers who
have a higher educational background. They would require training to fa-
miliarize themselves with modern principles of grain processing. A resi-
dential course of several weeks duration would be adequate for this cate-
gory of trainee. Besides theoretical and technical subjects in grain
processing, this course would also teach economic and legal aspects of
the grain industry, and marketing and logistics. The course for plant
superintendents of the larger facilities is shown as Attachment 1. It
would require a period of about three months in residence and another
three months practical experience. Shift leaders would pursue a similar
course but with more emphasis on operating skills.
8.        The estimated numbers of trainees in the three categories for
whom training would be provided under the proposed project are:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Small Fac. Large Fac. Total
Enterprise managers and owners                 60          6         66
Plant superientendents                         30          6         36
Shiftleaders and operators                     90         12        102
Total                         180        24         204
9.        A candidate for admission to the training program under any of
the three trainee categories would meet the following qualifications:
(i)  is the owner, or staff member, of a grain processing
enterprise or of an agency concerned with the devel-
opment of grain processing;
(ii) has an adequate basic educational background;
(iii)  is reconnended by the organization where the candidate
is employed; and
(iv) is assured a leave-of-absence from his employment during
the period of training, and a position on his return.
Normally, a candidate for the training program would be proposed or nomi-
nated by his employer. During appraisal of subprojects, the Grain Process-
ing Section would determine which subborrowers' staff required training
and would be able to benefit from it.
10.       Equipment and tuition would be provided by the center and the
costs borne by the UNDP or government as appropriate under UNDP/SF rojects.
Costs of subsistence and wages during training would be borne by sub-irrowers.
11.       The government's request to the UNDP/SF for a grain processing
center (para. 5) was formulated in consultation with the Bank and the project
training requirements could be satisfactorily met by the Center.






ANNEX 4
Attachment 1 page 1
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
PROPOSED TRAINING OF SUPERVISORY PERSONNEL
PHASE I
Theoretical and Laboratory Training
1.01      Recognition of different varieties of rough rice and corn.
1.02      Physical properties of rough rice:
(i) Very abrasive
1.03      Constituents of rough rice:
(i)  Hull
(ii)  Brown rice:
(a) Indosperm
(b) Bran
(c) White rice
1.04      Physical properties of corn.
1.05      Reaction of rough rice and corn to external forces:
(i) Temperature
(ii) Humidity
(iii) Physical impact
(iv) Time, in relation to exposure of (i)-(iii)
1.06      Conditions conducive to safe grain storage:
(i)  Grain moisture content
(ii)  Equilibrium grain moisture studies
(iii) Temperature
(iv)  Ventilation
(v)  Aeration
(vi)  Disease, insect and rodent activity
1.07      Materials of bin construction.  Advantages and disadvantages of:
(i) Concrete
(ii) Steel
(iii) Wood



ANNEX 4
Attachment 1 page 2
1.08      Grain drying methods.  Advantages and disadvantages of:
(M)  Solar drying
(ii)  Mechanical drying
(iii) Drier types:
(a)  Shallow bed batch dryer
(b) Deep bed batch dryer
(c)  Continuous dryer
1.09      Conveying and elevating equipment:
(i)  Advantages, disadvantages and limitations of:
(a) Screw, belt, drag, pneumatic, and other conveyors
(b) Bucket, screw, drag, and other elevators
(ii)  Power, power transmission, speeds, etc.:
(a) Speeds of equipment
(b) Speed reducers, line shafling, motors, engines, etc.
1.10      Laboratory equipment:
(i)  Theoretical importance of laboratory equipment:
(a)  Probes, automatic samplers, stream splitters
(b)  Laboratory cleaners and dockage testers
(c)  Moisture testers
(d)  Laboratory sample dryers
(e)  Scales and balances
(f)  Laboratory shellers
(g)  Laboratory mills
(h)  Laboratory graders
(i)  Laboratory aspirtors
(ii) Practical Laboratory exercises in the use of (i)(a)-(b)
1.11      Grain Sanitation:
(i)  Dust control
(ii)  Housekeeping
(iii) Fumigation
(iv)  Rodent control
(v)  Insect control



ANNEX 4
Attachment 1 page 3
1.12      Grain aeration:
(i) Air flows and requirements
(ii) Shedds curues
(iii) Equilibrium moisture
(iv) Use of psychometric charts
1.13      Air Handling:
(i) Types of fans and blowers
(ii) Blower selection
(iii) Interpretation of fan performance tables
(iv) Air measurement
1.14      Grain flows and interpretation:
(i) Understanding of the mechanical operations in processing
facilities
(ii) Assignment of personnel
1.15      Plant maintenance:
(i) Spare parts
(ii) Preventive maintenance
(iii) Repairs
PHASE II
Field Training
2.01      Scheduled visits to units in operation to observe production
procedures and problems:
(i)  observation of drying methods, both solar and mechanical;
(ii)  observation of grain being stored in different types of
bins;
(iii)  observation of conveying and elevating equipment during
operation; and grain flows and processing operations;
(iv)  observation of dust control and solution of problems; and
sanitation problems and solutions;
(v)  field measurement of fan and blower performance; and study
of duct systems and control measures;
(vi)  observation of maintenance and their solutions; and
(vii)  observation of personnel requirments at operating plants,
with a study of possible ways to greater efficiency.



ANNEX 4
Attachment 1 page 4
2.02      It is also proposed that trainees would visit construction sites
of processing units with particular observation in the following
fields:
(i) receiving of incoming construction materials;
(ii) machinery installation; and
(iii) installation of electrical controls.



,ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Project Costs
A. Small Facility (complete); 30 Uni;ts
Item                    Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
-      Pesos '000--= ---             US  '0000------
1.  Processing and storage faci-
lities
'.1  Drier                          14      102       116       2.4      17.0      19.4
1.2  :Iills                         68      216       284      11.3      36.0      47.3
1.3  Bulk silos                     49      192       241       8.2      32.0      40.2
1.4  Grain handling equipment   107          450      557      17.8      75.0      92.8
1.5  Sack warehouses and
mill buildingo,s              63        42       105      10.5       7.0     17.5
1. Other construction,
equipmenL and land and
vehicles                      64       110       174      10.6     18.4      29.0
3ub--total            365    1,112    1,477       60.8    185.4    246.2
2. Contingencies (10,0)                 36       111       148      6.1      18.5      24.6
Tota,l individu,-Jl prcject cost   401    1,223   1i625        66.9    203.9    270.8
(Of hliich duties)           (162.0)    _        (162.0)  (27.0)    -         (27.0)
'3.  Sriall Facii-,'es (expansion); 30 7hi_its
1.  Processing ard storage faci-
lI ties
1.1  Drier                         1l4      102       116       2.4      17.0      19.4
1.2  Bulk silo                      49      192       241       8.2      32.0      40.2
1.3  Grairn handling ecuipment   107        450       557      17.8      75.0      92.8
1.4 Other construction, equip-
,,Lent, arid land             64       110       174      10.6      18.4      29.0
Sub--total           234       854    1,088       39.0    142.4    181.4
2.  Contingencies (10,';)               23        85       109       3.9     14.2      18.1
To-'a' individual project, cost   257        939    1,197      42.9    156.6    199.5
(Of which duties)            (108.0)    -        (108.0)  (18.0)    -          (18.0)



ANNEX5
Page 2
Local         Foreign          Total        Local       Foreign        Total
C.  Large Facilities (ocmplete). 6 units            ------Pesos '000 ------                    -----US$ '0o0------
Item
1. Processing and Storage facilities
1.1 Drier                              49              138             187         8.2          23.0          31.2
1.2 Mills                             170              438             608        28.3          73.0         101.3
1.3 Bulk Silos                      1,024              402           1,426       170.7          67.0         237.7
1.4 Grain handling equipment          244              930          1,174         40.7         155.0         195.7
1.5 Sack warehouses and mill
building                        1146              84             230        24.3          114.0         38.3
1.6 Other construction,equipment
land and vehicles               371              350            721         61.8         58.3          120.1
Sub-total           2,004            2,342           4,346       334.0         390.3          724.3
2. Contingencies (10%)                   200              234             435        33.4          39.0           72.5
Total individual project cost       2,204            2,576          4,781        367.4         429.3          796.8
(Of which duties)                  (312)                            (312)        (52.0)                     (52.0)
D-  Total Project Cost                                                                                                   %
Local      Foreign       Total      Local       Foreign      Total       Foreign
Exchange
------ Pesos '000 ------              ------uS$t '000------
1. Processing and Storage facilities
1.1 Drier                            1,134        6,948        8,082        189       1,158        1,347         86
1.2 Mills                            3,060         9,108      12,168        510       1,518        2,028          75
1.3 Bulk Silos                       9,o84        13,932      23,016      1,514       2,322        3,836         61
1.4 Grain handling equipment         7,884       32,580       40,464      1,314       5,430        6,744         81
1.5 Sack warehouses and mill
buildings                      2,766         1,764       4,530       461          294          755         39
1.6 Other construction )equipment
and land                       4,116        5,700        9,816       686          950        1,636         58
1.7 Vehicles                         1,950         3,000       4,950        325         500          825         61
Sub-total           29,994        73,032     103,026      4,999      12,172       17,171          71
2. Administrative Costs
2.1 Consultant's fee                 1,464         4,800       6,264        244         800        1,0144         77
2.2 DBP's staff costs                4,438           -         14,438       740         -            740         -
3. Contingencies (10%)                  3,590        7,968       11, 558       598       1, 328      1,926          68
Total Project Cost            39,486       85, 800    125, 286    6,581        14, 300     20, 881         68
(o0  which duties)                  (6,972)                  (6,972)    (1,162)                  (1,162)



PHI LIPPINEr                                                                                                                 ANNEX o
RICE PROCESSING PROTECT
Projected Project Cash ltow
(P '000)
<4't'nF  JtR >«237                         1         0         3        -        5         6        7         8        9         10        U'         12        13         14         15        16         17         18        19         20        Total
1. l<or .Osthorroser'.   apIfalJ   Assts        -         97 y     '77      503        33      _         _        _         _        -          _         -          -          _         -          _          _         _          _         _         1,100
rOL (too
'.1    ' r  :bb4orrowcr'z ':pitnl Acseto  1/  _       1,140   28,920   36,54D    I,560        -        -         -        _         _         _          _          _         _          _          _         _          -         _          _        80,520
-,lr t   asuOtais 5cz                     450    I,0boo    1,770    1,fo40      -         -        -         -        -        -          -          -         -          -          -         -          -         -          -          -        5,280
Jo .  : rrssers ' Reapasrent.-
',.17 ooan  27                                 -        -          15       70       156      171      171       171      171       171        171       171        171       171        171        156        93         15        -         _         2,223
3.  (-.7-as                                     -        -      1,091    5,5(1   1i,253   12,419   12,419   12,419   10,419   12,419    12,413    12,413    12,419    12,419    12,419    12,319             o,o48      1,l16b       -         -        bl,436
7%-;. ::'   r.v o. l Ors)tc                            -.        .. (43:)    (239)    (601)    (tb3)    (6o3)    (s43)    (6b3)    (663J      (663)      (f33)     (663)      (643)      (-3)      (604)      (3J )       (62)                 -        (8,610)
,stat Cooucs                           450    9,037   32,214   43,954  1i,461   11,2l17 11,927   11, 27   11,92 (  U.,927    11,927    11,927    11,927    11,927    11,927    10,871               6M573      1,119        _                 241,951
EPPF-LI'A7(: O CURNDS
1. (flns 'o  '.bborrowero                          -       7,237   29,3:37   37,343    7,653       _        _         _        _         -         _          -         _          -          _         _          -          _         _          -        91,620
.C.r,,,alxtomts ' Fees
t.1  Fre>rr   C Fh-oge  -ocp-oent               450    1,800    1,770    1,200        -        -         -        -         -         -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -         -          -         5,280
Lro-L 'u-rency C.oapoo-t                    53b      536       536      -         -        -         -        -         _        _          _          _         _                                                                                   1,_O8
*Oralsirs .ricxccacOo  Sction                   270       540      577       5o3      1§t      l92      196       19       16        19b        9         196       196        196        196       196        196        -                              4,438
.. epFsco - to .Joveersrent
l> 0 Csaur'n>act Foss                           520     so.)      415y      00e0       14      -         -        _         _        -          _         -          _          _         _          _          _         -          _          _        1,599
4.2 Isreaft Dsriog  ostrscrloo                   16       357    1,790    4,291    2, 973       _        -         _        _         _         _          -          _         _          _          _         _          -                    _         9,433
4.3 Debt  3erelce                               -             '4  36                         9'         .47°    ),474    9.470b    9,47b                 9,476     9,476      9,476      9,476       4,476               9           4768               142,140
rOtal Applicatiors                  1,594   11,0(b   34,523   43,5 7   15,574    9,672    3,072    9,67'2    9,o72    9,632         9,072      9,672      9,672     9,672      9,672      9,672   9, 672       9,4'76     9,4(b     4,738    246,118
let Cash Tnfloo (Ostflo.r)             (1,144)  (2,039)  (2,309)      357    2,887    2,255    2,255    2,255    2,255    2,255         2,255     2,255      2,255      2,255     2,255      1,199    (3,097)   (9,357)   (9,476)   (4,738)    (4,167)
Csnslatlre Saab lot lowo  (sIC lows)
including R.sI.e,toeat at 7% p.o. (1,184)  (3,377)  (6,0033  (6,051)  (3,49G)  (1,400)           936    3,229    5,789    8,528    11,459    14,595    17,951    21,542    25,384    28,4o2    27,185    20,439    I2,063             8,002       8,002
'0 TE S:
1/  F-rasis,o no TBRD loan on the baais sC 13%, 40% and 4(I in the llt, 2ad and 3rd year and allowing for a sLippage of 3 ronths.
0/   nL--rest during grace pe-ioi af loans to oubborro-ero io capitled and a-aorti-ad over the os-c-cdihg 13 years at 11% p.a.



t'.ILlriK F' -IJ 
1.l il.002301130 .tOJ22
`sti%r,ated .)isbursemann  Sch-dule
--- (esos '00) --------------------------------------    -----------U13   '000 ----------   ----------------------------------------------
Disibursenient"'                  2otal          ''r Asburseir.ent Ii sburse-                                                               o
'A: A 1  -S e * for r ldito)-l  -oisburs3enr t    urtn .'o; t    lot l         o t -iL         for cartal    uo for                                                   Totaotal  Totai  fotal
{ .c-,i wicinu    for            )Usbu,              sourrOu   ldALsbuaLs u    Aui   '-                       n t tjonsui tante  .,uartcrly  isbursed   Undisbursed
..vl iorlcs  Consultants                              (curl.)      (cum.j        Civil  _orka                _isbursement                                   (cum.)
lSt              -                -                -                -            -                _               _                       _                              -
1971     |  2nd               -               -                                                                _               _                       _
3rd              -                -                -                -         85,300              -- _                                                                14,300
4tli             -              450               410                410      '35,350                            75                         75              75        14,225
.Vnnu.al Total                             45O                1,0               4516     85,350               -              75                        75              75         14,225
1st              -              450 40             450               900      .04,900             -              75                         75             150        14,150
1572         2nd               -             450                450             1,350      04,450               -             75                         75             225         14,075
3rd            4,oci            4510             4. 3O             5,830      79,920              680            75                        755             980        13,320
4th            3,060            450              3,510             ),3Y0      76,410              510            75                        585           1,565        12,735
nnuial Total               7,14v0        1,o00              8,9410            i,390      7_, 413           1,190           300                      1,4L90          1,565        12,735
1st            3,030            450              3,510            12,900      72,900              510            75                        585          2,150         12,150
11)73        "rd             3,720          410              10,170            23,070       .2,730            1,620            75                     1,695           3,645         10,455
3rd            9,720            450             10,170            33,240      ,2,0              1,620            75                     1,695           5,540          8,760
IOtis          3,460            420              ,, )00           40,140      43, n6W           1,030            70                      1,150           6,690         7,610
.mnual Totai             23,9)00         1,770             30,750            40,140       45,660           4,830           295                      5,125           6,690          7,610
1st            6,)430           420              6,900            4,7,04      33,7W0            1,080            70                      1,150          7,840          6,460
1974         2nd            11,+00           420             11,020             :,O '6,940                    1,900            70                     1,970           9,010          4,490
3rd           11,400            420             11,820            70),60o      15,120           1,900            70                      1,9/0          11,780          2,520
0th            7,60              -               7,5W             (0,210        1,560           1,260            -                       1,200          13,040          1,260
A.nnual Total            36,j40          1,260             38,100            7(,240        1,560           6,140           210                      6,350          13,040          1,260
19756        1st            7t,4o0             -              7,560            05d(,ou           0            1,260                                    ,2O0          114,300             0
sn<i             -               -                 -                -                             - _            _
Arulual Tot                7,560                             ,a                              _              1 ,2,00                                 1 ,20             -              _
Total                   0ao,5.o          5,230             ,5,,oo            9,  00            0           13,420          co0                     14,300          14,300               0
it iOS 15srL      L   0.          - 17 1 3,  . 'L  b. disbuns"  . b1,   Li  t. tht 1st,  nd snd 3rc1C; Y(r.  A  three montl average
slingpase hias beero iliedc fo-- i'irsbursement. 2ontinbencies !5sva bseen sJi>U, 2vonly :ccor()ing to amnounts disbursed.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
The Development Bank of the Philippines
A. Introduction
1.        The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) is a long-term
finance institution wholly owned by the Philippine Government. It pro-
vides credit facilities for the development and expansion of agriculture
and industry and for broadening and diversifying the national economy.
With the Government's full support and financial backing, DBP in recent
years has become one of the most important finance institutions channel-
ing public funds into key sectors of the economy.
2.        Established under Republic Act No. 2081 of June 14, 1968, DBP
was the successor of the Rehabilitation Finance Corporation (RFC), which
had been set up in 1946 to provide credit facilities for the reconstruc-
tion of war-damaged property. The RFC, in its turn, had succeeded the
Agricultural and Industrial Bank (AB), which had been created in 1935
from the National Loan Investment Board (NLIB). With each of the changes,
the newly-formed institution took over the assets and liabilities of its
predecessor as well as accepting new responsibilities.
3.        Management of DBP is vested in a Board of Governors appointed
by the President of the Republic. DBP may finance:
(a) agricultural, industrial or public utility enterprises;
(b) self-liquidating or income-producing projects of pro-
vincial or municipal authorities;
(c) purchasing, production and marketing activities of co-
operatives; and
(d) acquisition of shares in corporations by their employees.
4.        DBP may grant long-term loans or purchase redeemable preferred
shares or obligations; underwrite and do business in securities of firms
eligible for financing; extend guarantees; rediscount medium- or long-
term loans of the Philippines National Bank (PNB) or the private devel-
opment banks; and subscribe to the capital of private development banks.
Subject to the approval of the President, DBP may issue bonds, debentures,
securities, collateral and other obligations, which are fully guaranteed
by the Government. It may guarantee acceptance credits, loans and other



ANNEX 8
Page 2
obligations, local or foreign. The aggregate of DBP's direct obligations
must not exceed 10 times its capital and surplus.
B. Sources
5.        DBP has an authorized capital of P2 billion; paid-in capital;
reserves and surpluses on December 31, 1969 amounted to t 479.88 million.
Apart from these resources, DBP administers various public trust funds
assigned to it by Government; on December 31, 1969, DBP had at its disposal
a total of t 2,738.50 million as follows:
Million Pesos
Paid-in capital, reserves and
surplus                                479.88
Long-term liabilities                       947.70
Progress bonds                              498.42
Time and saving deposits                    262.26
Other liabilities                           377.88
Total Own Resources                                  2,566.14
Trust funds                                                 172.36
Total Resources                                      2,738.50
C. Organization and Management
6.        The Chairman and eight members of the Board of Governors are
appointed by the President of the Republic, with the consent of a Par-
liamentary Committee, for a term of 7 years. However, in the event of
a change in the Administration, the Chairman and the entire Board usually
resign to enable the incoming President to make new appointments. The
Chairman is an ex-officio member of the Monetary Board and sits in cabinet
meetings. The Secretary of Justice is the ex-officio legal adviser, and
the Auditor General, ex-officio auditor. Four of the Governors serve full
time and are in charge of operational departments.
7.        DBP maintains a large head office in Manila and a network of
26 branches throughout the country. Tables 1 and 2 list professional
and supporting staff and indicate their distribution within the bank
organization.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
8.        Operational duties are allocated by functions among several
loan departments dealing with industry, agriculture, government, real
estate, rural banking, etc. Other departments provide supporting pro-
fessional services to loan operations, including legal, financial, bank-
ing and administrative services. An auditor appointed by Government,
with his staff, carries out his functions both in the head office and
the bank's branches (Figure 1).
9.        Most loan departments rely upon assistance from the Credit De-
partment in appraising proposed loans. In general, these appraisals are
confined to an analysis of credit standing and to a check on collateral
security. Little attention is given to the financial or economic aspects
of projects, and only cursory consideration is given to their technical
features.
10.       The Investment Banking and Research Department, the only self-
contained operational unit, bases its recommendations on proposed loans
on a complete and comprehensive study of the project. However, at pres-
ent its activities are confined to large industrial projects.
11.       Each loan department is responsible for disbursement, collection
and maintenance of borrowers' accounts for the loans it recommends. How-
ever, supporting services are provided by the separate Treasurer's Depart-
ment and Accounting Department.
12.       DBP operations are guided by a continuous flow of instructions
and directions based on Board resolutions dealing with all principal as-
pects of the bank's activities. They evolve within a pattern of operat-
ing and administrative procedures related to the activities of all depart-
ments, at head office and branch levels.
13.       In communications with clients DBP makes extensive use of cir-
culars and standard forms covering various aspects and phases of the loan
operation. Invariably, this will include application forms for loans and
related questionnaires concerning information on the applicant, his fi-
nancial condition and credit standing and proposed security arrangements
for the loan.
14.       All loan applications in excess of P 5,000 are subject to Board
approval. The findings and recommendations of the staff on each project
are normally incorporated in a brief report channeled through the super-
visory Governor to the Chairman who, in turn, submits it to the Board for
final approval.
15.       The security documents of the loans normally consist of a
Promissory Note and a Mortgage Deed, the latter containing standard
loan covenants concerning normal loan conditions, such as requiring
the borrower to maintain his investment in the enterprise, to keep ac-
counting records and to provide for insurance coverage.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
16.       DBP operating procedures are considered unduly burdensome by
its clients, and thiere have been complaints from various quarters about
some of the DBP's practices in the processing of loan applications.
Follow-up at present is greatly limited and mainly concerned with r:ke
collection of loans and the performance of delinquent borrowers. Project
supervision is weak.
17.       There was a hieavy concentration of executive responsibilities  ir
the person of the Chairman and an apparent lack of active involvement on
the part of other senior officers in decision-making.  hlowever, recently
efforts have been made to decentralize decision-making.
D. Lending Operations
18.       DBP's lending policies, within the provisions of its Charter,
are influenced by the economic guidelines set by the Central Bank, the
National Economic Council and, more recently, the Investment Board. This
has called for a rapid increase in operations. In order to meet these
increased requirements within the limits of its resources, the bank has
had to develop new financial techniques involving, in large measure, non-
cash transactions. Two of these, the issue of Progress Bonds (in lieu of
cash) and the granting of guarantees of foreign exchange loans, have be-
come outstanding features of the bank's operations.
19.       As a Government-owned and controlled institution, DBP maintains
close contact with Government on top policy levels and continuing coopera-
tion with all Government agencies concerned with the various aspects of
its activities. DBP has been instrumental in the implementation of im-
portant Government policies and has embarked on new activities in agri-
culture and agriculturally-related industries.
20.       The terms of DBP loans range from 1 year for special product
credits, such as paddy and fertilizer, to 5-10 years for capital invest-
ments. These terms are either fixed by law for financing of special pro-
grams or they are determined in the light of project requirements and
related security considerations. DBP records show a large incidence of
delayed repayments on some of the production loans, particularly on credits
for paddy, and the extension of the terms of such loans by one or several
years appears to be the bank's normal practice.
21.       DBP normally charges an interest rate of 9% on loans up to
P 100,000 and 10% on loans over P 100,000. Loans approved under special
programs for agriculture aid industry carry preferential rates of 4%;
loans to the cottage industry, 6%; and small agricultural loans and loans
for real estate under the low-cost housing scheme, 8%. A commitment fee
of 1/4 of 12 is charged on all loans not availed of within 90 days. For
loans guaranteed, an initial charge of 1% is assessed on the principal
amount, plus 1% per annum on the unavailed portion and 1.5% on the availed
amount outstanding. Advances made by DBP under loan guarantees carry an
interest rate of 12%, plus an initial service charge of 1/2 of 1% on each
advance made.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
22.       DBP operations are characterized by a very large number of small
loans reflecting an emphasis on agricultural credit and on assistance to
small-scale industries. In the period January 1, 1966 to December 31, 1969,
DBP approved 66,568 loans and equity participation totalling 1 1,910.56
million. Most of the loans were in amounts of 1 5,000 or less.
23.       DBP operations show a great concentration in Luzon.  However,
effort are underway to achieve a better geographical balance in the dis-
tribution of financial assistance and, at the same time, various govern-
mental programs are being implemented to accelerate development of some of
the other islands that bear promise of increased productivity. This in
particular should benefit Mindanao, the second biggest island in the group,
which offers great potential given its fertile soil, favorable climate and
other untapped natural resources.
24.       Sector-wise, industry and agriculture have been the largest bene-
ficiaries of DBP financial assistance, representing 67% and 19%, respec-
tively, by value of loans and investments. Within the agricultural sector,
loans for food and commercial crops accounted for 84% of total loan amounts
approved.
25.       Approvals from January 1, 1966 to December 31, 1969 are summa-
rized in the table below. Further details on DBP's operations appear in
Appendix A.
Equity
Loans           Participation           Total
Sectors             No.     Mil. P       No.    Mil. P    No.        Mil. P
Agriculture      53,363      377.49      -          -    53,363       377.49
Industry          4,451    1,095.37      28      200.82  3,592    1,296.19
Government          115       46.21      -                  115        46.21
Development &
Rural Banks        173       46.31    374         20.58    547        66.89
Real Estate       8,064      123.78      -          -     8 064       123.78
Total      66,166    1,689.16    402        221.40 66,568    1,910.56
E.  Financial Position
26.       The assets owned and controlled by DBP as of December 31, 1969
reached a total of P 2.74 billion, representing an increase of 109% over
their P 1.31 billion level of January 1, 1966. Loans outstanding increased
by P 898 million to P 1,869 million with agriculture sharing 20% and
industry 66% in the total as compared to 24% and 66%, respectively, record-
ed on January 1, 1966. Investments in industrial equities for the first
time reached a significant figure of P 201 million, raising the industry
share in the bank's total financial engagement in loans and equities to
72%.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
27.       DBP, as of December 31, 1969, had a total indebtedness of P 2,259
million, showing an increase over the 4-year period of P 1,166 million.
Liabilities (mostly short-term) increased by P 408 million, deposils ly
P 243 million, progress bonds by P 498 million and trust funds by P 17
million. Net worth stood at P 480 million, an increase of P 264 million.
28.       DBP's total indebtedness on December 31, 1969, P 2,259 million,
was 4.7 times its net worth compared to 5.1 times on January 1, 1966. If
account is taken of outstanding contingent liabilities amounting to P 1,000
millionn, total commitments as of December 31, 1969 were 6.8 times the net
worth, remaining withiin thie bank's debt limitation, provided *nder its
Charter, of 10 times capital and surplus. Cash and near cash resources,
totaling P 236 million, or almost 9% of total assets, were considered
adequate for the current level of operations.
29.       DBP's racords on loans in arrears, covering a period of 21 years,
do not fully reveal the bank's position, as no data are readily available
on the amount and quality of loans taken over from the Rehabilitation
Finance Corporation (RFC) on its termination in June 1958. Judging by the
number of matured loans presently on record, there may be a substantial
carryover of bad debts, dating back to RFC operations.
30.       The slow rate of loan recoveries has been a constant problem with
DBP and a matter of continous concern to its management. A cursory review
of the position in the head office (representing about 80% of total opera-
tions) indicates that, as of December 31, 1968 (after completion of the
refinancing program), P 116.2 million was past-due in payments of principal
and interest in respect to 10,005 loans to agriculture and industry. This
represented about 6.5% of total loans outstanding in the two sectors.
31.       The largest number of loans overdue (60%) was in the agricultural
sector, while industry shared a greater portion of their total value (87%).
The greatest incidence of arrears, P 89.7 million, was in the category of
loans on short or medium term for working capital and trade credits repay-
able in quarterly instalments. Included therein are loans for grain storage
and milling, showing arrears in principal and interest in the amount of
P 8.6 million in regard to 728 accounts, representing 61% of the total amount
and 74% of the number of loans outstanding in this category. Over one-third
of these loans, totaling P 6 million, had been overdue from over 1 year up
to 6 and over, and 63 loans had surpassed their maturities.
32.       During 1968, 41 loans were foreclosed by the bank.  Payments
were overdue for principal and interest totaling P 2.3 million, including
P 1.4 million for agriculture and P 0.9 million for industry. This, how-
ever, represents only a fraction of defaulted loans on maturity, which, for
the two sectors, are stated as P 35.9 million, represented by 1,316 accounts.
While no details have been made available on these defaults, it appears
that a large part thereof dates back to the RFC operations.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
33.       This generally unsatisfactory condition is apparently due to a
number of factors that in various degrees bear on DBP's widely spread fi-
nancial activities, depending on the type and size of the investment and
creditworthiness of the borrower and the viability and financial soundness
of the project financed. The large number of defaults of agricultural
loans in general reflects the higher risks involved in this area of credit
activity and DBP's increased promotional efforts directed to financially
weak production sectors in need of Government support. The larger amounts
of industrial loans in default, inherent in the nature of this kind of
investment, seem to reflect the difficulties encountered by the distressed
industries during the period of adverse economic conditions and DBP's large
financial involvement in financing these industries.
34.       Perhaps some of the financial problems could have been alleviated,
if not resolved, by a proper study of the projects and a close and timely
follow-up on the loans. The measures recently introduced by DBP for a more
thorough appraisal of larger industrial projects by the Investment Banking
and Research Department are a step in the right direction. Complemented by
DBP's increased efforts in loan collections and loan follow-up, it should
in time yield results.
35.       Resulting from the greatly expanded business activities in the
past fiscal years, there has been an improvement in DBP's profitability.
Accordingly, net income for the fiscal year 1968/69 of DBP proper represented
4.7% of its average net worth as compared to 2.3% in fiscal 1965/1966. The
following table shows the operating results over the 4 years as percent of
average investments:
1965/66    1966/67    1967/68    1968/69
_____- -- --- ---__   --( - -)… -… _ …-___ ___
Gross Income                  6.7         8.4        8.6        10.2
Operating costs               2.1         2.5        2.4         2.9
Financial expenses            3.5        3.6         3.9         4.9
Net income                    1.1         2.4        2.3         1.7
The increase in financial expenses indicates the bank's growing indebted-
ness in recent years. However, increases in overall lending margins have
more than offset these financial and operating cost increases, with the
result that the rate of net income has doubled between 1965/66 and 1967/68.
However, recently, increased financing expenses led to a decline in net
income. The increase in operating costs reflects the increased activities
and field work related to technical assistance to small borrowers and to
loan follow-up.
36.       Dividend payments to the Government were started in 1966/67,
representing in each year approximately 20% of earned surplus. DBP's
surplus and reserve 1969 stood at P 85.9 million, representing 5.0% of loans
outstanding.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
37.       During the period January 1, 1966 to December 31, 1.969, DBP raised
a total of P 1,430 million for the financing of current operations, repay-
ment of maturing debts and replenishment of cash resources. A Government
capital contribution and retained surplus, together with loan collections,
provided P 264 million or 18% from own funds, the balance being covered from
new deposits and borrowings as follows:
Million Pesos
Long-term liabilities                     55.47
Other liabilities                        351.98
Progress bonds                           498.42
Time and saving deposits                 243.24
Trust funds                               16.57
1,165.68
F. Financial Prospects
38.       DBP's sharply expanded credit activities have greatly taxed the
bank's administrative capacity and have imposed a heavy strain on its
limited resources. In the absence of any appreciable Government contri-
butions to its capital DBP has had recourse to the Central Bank to meet
current debt repayments and to supplement its borrowings in the market,
local and foreign, most of which is on medium and short term. The situa-
tion is aggravated by the slow recovery and the large incidence of loans
in arrears, in particular in the agricultural sector.
39.       A continuation of these financing methods would tend to further
accentuate an unsound situation characterized by a large volume of long-
term or frozen loans, backed by largely medium- and short-term borrowings,
with heavy maturities falling due in the near future. Central Bank fi-
nance on medium term may provide relief in the bank's precarious liquidity
situation, although it cannot help solve what is basically an unsound fi-
nancial position. This calls for an early review and substantial strength-
ening of the capital structure.
40.       In January 1969, DBP submitted for Government approval a financial
program based on a revised forecast of operations for the fiscal years end-
ing June 30, 1969, 1970 and 1971. Briefly, the proposal seeks the follow-
ing objectives:
(a)  orderly refunding of the medium-term (5 years) dollar
borrowings of 1961 to 1965, which were reloaned in peso
on long term (10 years);
(b)  sustained adequate peso financing from non-inflationary
domestic sources and maintenance of adequate redemption
reserves;



ANNEX 8
Page 9
(c)  establishment and maintenance of reserves for DBP's
guarantee on foreign loans;
(d)  insurance of DBP's capacity to meet the growing demand
from new and expanding enterprises on its resources, in
addition to the normal year-to-year credit requirements;
and
(e)  increased reliance of DBP's growth on sources drawn from
the investing public rather than on financial support of
the Central Bank.
41.        For the fiscal years 1968/69, 1969/70 and 1970/71, DBP estimates
that it would provide for loans and investments totaling P 1,727 million,
compared to P 996 million recorded in the preceding 3 fiscal years. This
represents a substantial increase, although at a considerably lower rate
than that of the preceding 2-year period. While no details are available
on the program, industry and agriculture remain on top of the list, with
increased emphasis on the latter (25% of total loans as compared to 18%
previously).
42.       Based on the planned level of business, DBP's assets proper would
increase from P 1.94 billion to P 3.02 billion. To support this program,
it is estimated that P 2,630 million will be required over the 3-year pe-
riod for current operations and debt repayments. Almost half of this amount
would be covered from loan recoveries, increased savings and time deposits
and accumulated surplus, and the balance by borrowings. No capital sub-
stantial contributions by the Government are contemplated.
43.       The DBP Charter authorizes the bank to issue "bonds, debentures,
securities, collateral and other obligations and/or the renewal or refund-
ing of the same ... in no case to exceed at any one time an aggregate amount
equivalent to ten times of its paid-in capital and surplus." Base(' on this
criterion, DBP has set its debt ceiling at P 4 billion, one-half, oi P 2
billion, for peso obligations, the other half, or approximately US$ 500
million, for direct DBP dollar borrowings and outstanding dollar guarantees.
Assuming that the programmed resources are fully realized, DBP, on comple-
tion of the program, would remain well within the set limitation, leaving
a comfortable margin for an additional increase in both classes of obliga-
tions. Moreover, DBP intends to split out its proposed dollar borrowings
over 10 years for a maximum dollar exposure of US$ 50 million per annum
in regard to direct borrowings and contingent liabilities on guarantees.
44.       While these arrangements would appear to ensure the DBP a con-
tinued liquidity, their effectiveness in the end will depend on the bank's
capability for raising the amounts of additional funds required and rolling
over continuously the large portion of short- and medium-term debt accu-
mulated over the years and substantially added by the program. An early
increase in capital would seem the most appropriate and needed action to
provide adequate protection and to ensure a sound basis for future expan-
sion.






ANNEX 8
APPENDIX A
Page 1
Details of DBP Operations
Agriculture
1.        In support of the Governmentts drive for self-sufficiency,
DBP has intensified its lending to agriculture, particularly in the
past 3 years. In addition to its normal loan operations, DBP in 1967
adopted a program of special supervised agricultural financing plans
designed to support large-scale agricultural promotion schemes lead-
ing to increased foreign exchange earnings and yielding greater
food production to meet the growing local demand.
2.        A summary of the major sectors served by DBP's agricultural
credits during the 4-year period ending December 31, 1969 is given below:
No.    Millions of P
Rice and corn                     25,799         112.97
Commercial crops (mainly
coconut)                        17,800         105.13
Livestock (including
fisheries)                       6,139          99.18
Other products                     3,625          60.21
Total                        53_363         377.49
3.        Of the total P 377 million in loans approved for agricul-
ture, P 115 million was granted for the special supervised agricultural
plans. These cover large-scale production of rice and corn, beef
cattle, hogs, poultry and fish; coconut and banana plantations; and
vegetable production.
The Greater Manila Terminal Food Market (GNTFM)
4.        DBP has been entrusted with the promotion of this large-scale
venture, which, in its larger part, is planned to be passed on eventually
to the private sector. The project involves the establishment of a
combined producer transit-wholesale market complex in Port Bonifacio,
Manila, to serve the farmers/producers and the wholesale trade by
providing storage facilities and related grading and marketing services.
Located in an area of 120 ha, GMTFM is intended to become an entrepot -
a vast storage and distribution center - for produce such as rice,
cereals, fruit, vegetables, poultry, fish and meat. It will serve
initially some 1 million farmers from 27 principal supplier provinces
in Luzon, Visayas and Mindanao. Work on the infrastructure is in
progress, and building construction is scheduled to start soon.
5.        The enterprise has been formally set up as Greater Manila
Terminal Food Market Inc., with authorized capital stock of P 100



ANNEX 8
APPENDIX A
Page 2
million, of which P 20 million has been subscribed, almost entirely by
DBP. The initial cost of the project is estimated as P 180 million,
part of which is to be financed by deferred credits and the balance
from equity and progress bond issues. This is, as yet, the greatest
single industrial venture promoted by DBP
Industry
6.        During the 4-year period, DBP approved P 1,296 million for
financing industry, including P 201 million in equity investments
in the form of preferred shares.
7.        The food processing industry and trade, with a total of
P 353 million, took the biggest portion of the financing. This was
divided among the rice and corn sector (P 195 million), sugar (P 92
million) and other food processing industries (P 66 million). Most
of the 1,532 loans approved for the rice and corn industry was for
working capital (paddy) and a smaller portion for capital investments
in rice and corn mills, warehouses, drying equipment and transportation
facilities. In the manufacturing sector, textiles were on top of the
list, with P 211 million in loans and equity investments, followed by
cement, P 127 million, and metal and electrical industries, P 132 million.
Transportation absorbed P 121 million, including P 73 million for
shipping.
8.        The above figures include the refinancing of distressed industries,
particularly in cement and textile subsectors. By June 30, 1968, when the
program was formally terminated, P 678.4 million had been approved for the
purpose, involving 3,831 accounts. This represented roughly 50% of the
value of industrial and agricultural loans outstanding as of June 30, 1968.
9.        The Bank continued to implement its program of refinancing of
industries through the securities market. The program, which consisted of
the issue of DBP Progress Bonds, refinancing of industries in its loan
portfolio and foreign exchange financing of imported machineries and
materials, met requirements not only of companies which are financially
distressed, but also those which have expansion programs as well as new ones
in need of initial capitalization.
10.       Up to December 31, 1969, financing has been extended to 69
companies in the form of:
Direct purchase of preferred shares             P   200.81
New or additional loans                              197.84
Long-term guarantees                               1,116.19
Short-term guarantees                                250.24
Total                                      P 1,765.08



ANNEX 8
APPENDIX A
Page 3
Loans to Local Authorities
11.       A total of P 46 million was approved to provincial governments,
cities and municipalities in respect to 115 self-liquidating projects,
mainly markets and slaughterhouses, P 32 million; water works, P 8
million; and telephone systems, P 3 million.
Real Estate Loans
12.       This category comprises loans for construction of residential,
public and commercial buildings. Of the P 124 million approved for the
purpose, P 33 million was for local housing in respect to 7, 036 pro-
jects, P 28 million for hospitals, and P 22 million for first class tourist
hotels.
13.       Apart from its contribution to local housing, DBP has also
extended support to the Government's housing program by an initial
subscription of P 5 million to the capital stock of the National Housing
Corporation and the guarantee of a loan from Germany for construction
of a prefabricated low-cost housing units and school buildings factor.
Private and Rural Development Banks
14.       As part of a program for expansion of institutional credit
to rural area, DBP has given its support to 460 private development
banks and rural banks involving P 66 million, including P 34 million
in the form of subscriptions to capital stock and P 32 million in
rediscount facilities to the private development banks.
Guarantees
15.       The guarantee of loans, introduced by DBP in 1964, has become
a major instrument of the bank's credit operations. It has been made
use of to facilitate imports of machinery and raw materials financed by
foreign loans. The total of such guarantees during the period 1964
through 1969 was P 3 billion.
16.       Availments on guaranteed loans amounted to P 1,469.88 million of
which P 1,104.00 million was outstanding as of December 31, 1969 (P 884.54
million in long-term and P 219.46 million in short-term guarantees). Re-
payments on guarantees are staggered over a period of thirteen years up
to fiscal year 198111982 with highest repayment in fiscal year 1970-71 of
P 278.68 million. This, however, includes guarantees renewable yearly in
the amount of P 135.56 million.
17.       Guarantees approved were for highly essential and basic industries
such as barb wire manufacturing, car and applicance assembly, cement manu-
facture, corn trading and warehousing, chemical products, communications,
construction (highway), fertilizer, food manufacturing, flour mills, glass
manufacturing, hotels, hospitals, lumber, mining, paper mills, steel mills,
sugar mills, textile mills, tobacco, transportation, leather manufacturing
housing and others.



ANNEX 8
APPENDIX A
Page 4
18.       In evaluating its loan guarantee operations, the DBP places
particular emphasis on their economic significance. Through these
operations, DBP acts as a channel for foreign financing of imports of
capital goods and essential raw materials, which were traditionally
paid for in cash and therefore unduly strained the country's international
reserve. DBP guarantees have helped to extend payments for these
items on an instalment basis, thereby relieving the immediate pressures
on the country's international reserve and providing it sufficient
time to realize dollar benefits or savings from the operations of the
newly established or expanded agricultural and industrial projects so
financed.
19.       These guarantees no doubt have fulfilled an important function
in extending the country's foreign loan resources and strengthening its
international credit standing. However, prudent financial policy would
not appear to warrant a further rapid expansion at the present rate of
the bank's already large financial exposure, particularly at this early
stage when the borrowers' performance under loans has not yet been
sufficiently established and tested.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Status of Personnel
(1969)
Distribution of Professional and Supervisory Staff
Head Office
Departments                                             Number
Agriculture                                               92
Industrial                                               62
Real Estate                                               65
Government Loans and Acquired Assets                     34
Treasury                                                  20
Credit                                                    44
Accounting                                               24
Administrative                                           18
Branches and Agencies                                     41
Secretarial                                                2
Development and R.ural Banks                              24
Investment Banking and Research                          37
Securities Marketing                                     59
Medical-Dental                                            15
Auditing                                                 56
Legal                                                    29
Office of the Chairman and Board of Governors            52
Total                                        674
Branches and Agencies                                   595
Total                                      1,269



ANNEX 8
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Status of Personnel
(1969)
Distribution of Personnel by Qualification
Head Office   Branches and Agencies    Total
Accountants                    295                 35°               645
Engineers                       86                                    86
Economists                      24                  -                  24
Agriculturalists                69                 185               254
Statisticians                   12                  -                  12
Lawyers                         93                  60               153
Security Marketing Officers    50                   -                 go
Architects                      12                                     12
Journalists                      9                                      9
Personal Assistants              9                                      9
Doctors                          5                  -                   5
Dent ists                        4                  -                   4
Nurses                           4                  -                   4
Pharmacists                      2                  -                   2
Clerical                       484                340                824
Service Personnel              247                 178               425
Total                   1,405              1,113                 18



PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSIWi PROJECT
DEVSLnOPMlN  IK W CF  ,-i PHI! IPP.,NS
DiGkYTGZAr-ON CONtl
OARD OF UOVUEROBS
CHIEr LEGAL
COUNSFL
LsP. ASSM. -O
Supervls-1c~~                              3q-- *5:rO sin                                    Suywrr.sing                                         3,| ervising 
Governor                                           I voernor                                                                                                  G IaAI    overor  I
securitis    Invest.: bkg. &          r         Rs ea' E.State    Acctg.        Branhas &           Ind.       Agr0.Got. L.,anc f                  et o   e.A5                  Se.          ejt        edaL
*wktK. Dept. | | Researh  D De. |                       Dept.          Dep t.      Agjncmes Dept. |      ep      t.            AcqxirLd Assets   |   Rqra1 Banks |                  Dept         e         &   e
D ra.achcs
LZZ I 1
I-






ANNEX 9
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
The Grain Processing Section
A. Introduction
1.        The Grain Processing Section which would be established at head-
quarters of the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) would be concerned
only with execution of the proposed rice processing project.
2.        DBP does not itself possess technical competence in modern grain
processing facilities construction and operation. Consequently, it would be
necessary for it to be supported by consultants who would enjoy wide ex-
perience in the design and operation of grain processing facilities.
B. Organization
3.        The head of the Grain Processing Section would be a permanent and
experienced officer of DBP, assigned full time to the Section. Other
officers of DBP would also be assigned full time. Services of DBP branch
and other head office would be made available on a part time basis as re-
quired.
4.        DBP would charge the project account with the full employment
costs of all DBP staff assigned full time and their direct expenses such
as travel and subsistence.
5.        The consultants and the DBP staff of the Section would be located
in the same offices. These are expected to be: in Manila, DBP head office;
in the field, in DBP branch offices.
6.        The Grain Processing Section would be established in the office
of DBP's chairman.
7.        Day to day matters would be handled by the Section but the Board
would be directly responsible for the following:
(a) Approval of sub-borrowers
(b) Bid opening
(c) Award of suppliers' contracts



ANNEX 9
P;ige 2
C. Procedures
8.        DBP branch offices would canvass their respective areas for
applications. All applications thus obtained would be screened by the Graini
Processing Section with regard to managerial and technical competence, prior
business experience, credit standing and suitability of location. All
screened applications would then be submitted to scrutiny from general,
preliminary technical and financial standpoints.
9.        The general review would ascertain whether facilities should be
constructed at the locations proposed by the applicants. Particular attention
would be given to the need for facilities in the specific area and the extent
to which it would be met economically by existing facilities.
10.       The preliminary technical review would check the suitability of the
facilities proposed. This would inclu(le operational aspects and requirements
for qualified staff. The primary obje(tive would be to ascertain whether the
total plant of the subborrower (as set up or expanded by the project) would
be the most efficient for subborrowers' requirements.
11.       The financial review would provide an estimate of the cash flow.
and of the financial return on investment. The working capital needs of
each subborrower would also be assessed.
12.       Detailed design of subproject facilities would only be undertaken
after the investment priority and feasibility of a suitable number (15 to 30)
of applications has been established. During this phase, the Grain Process-
ing Section would endeavor to arrive at a large quantity of individual units
with a low number of different design types.  Consultants would then fit
the required units into an individual design for each plant adapted to the
particular circumstances of each subproject. They would also review tech-
nical staff requirements and make recommendations for training and finally,
they would draw up specifications for bidding and assist the Grain Process-
ing Section in supervision of subproject execution.
13.       Prior to bidding for each phase, the Section would submit to each
sub-borrower of that phase the detailed proposals for his sub-project on
which bids would be sought. These would be accompanied by an estimate of
the expected maximum cost of his sub-project. He would then sign his sub-
loan agreement. Amongst other covenants, the sub-loan agreement would:
(a) empower DBP to act as agent for the sub-borrower for
foreign procurement, including invitation of bids,
awards and contracts;
(b) limit the power of DBP with regard to (a) to a specified
maximum sum.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
14.       After signature of the sub-loan agreement the Section would invite
bids internationally. The awards made by DBP would be followed by contracts
between DBP and the suppliers. DBP would be acting as agent of its sub-
borrowers. Payments made by DBP (directly or through IBRD's disbursement
procedures) to the various suppliers would be apportioned appropriately
between sub-borrowers and charged to their individual loan accounts.
D. Consultants
15.        Consultants would be required for two to three years.  While there
are several firms of consulting, engineers in the Philippines with extensive
structural engineering experience, their knowledge of modern rice processing
and storage construction is liDlited. Therefore, in order to provide such
experience and ensure access to a wide range of basic design forms, it would
be necessary to engage qualified expatriate consultants. In order that local
knowledge is also brought to bear on subproject appraisal and design, it
would be desirable to have the foreign consultants act in association with
a local firm.
Duties of Consultants
16.       These would be as follows:
(i)   For each phase of the project, the consultants would be
given details of potential sub-borrowers already screened
by DBP.
(ii)  The consultants would ascertain wiether the sub-borrowers'
proposals met the sub-borrowers' technical needs and would
recommend such amendments as might be necessary.
(iii)  After (ii) for all sub-borrowers of a phase, the consultants
would standardize the phase requirements as far as possible
and agree any suggested alterations with relevant sub-borrowers;
(iv)  The consultants would then prepare detailed drawings for each
applicant.
(v)  Trhe consultants would app raise the qualifications and experience
and ability to benefit from training of sub-borrowers' staff.
(vi)  Resulting from (v) the consultants would make recommendations
regarding existing staff suitability, necessity for any
additional staff and training required.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
(vii)  Based upon the total of the facilities' requirements for each
sub-borrower of a phase derived out of (iii) and (iv), the
consultants would draw up specifications and other bid documents
and, under the authority of DBP, organize the bidding.
(viii)   The consultants would submit to DBP their technical
evaluation of bids received and assist in drafting contract
documents.
(ix)   The consultants would supervise construction and handover
of facilities to sub-orrowers and advise sub-borrowers on
technical aspects durLng initial operations.
17.       The consultants would be required for a period of between two and
three years. The following expatriate staff is likely to be required.
(i) Chief of consultants' staff
(ii) One senior rice processing engineer
(iii) Three field engineers.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Financial Projections for Typical Project Facilities
A. Assumptions -/
1.        Production Volume (Small Facility): 6,000 m ton of paddy per
annum (i.e. 3.2 turnovers). Present facilities of about 2,000 ton storage
capacity each have about two turnovers per annum (Annex 2). However, this
was based on former rice varieties giving a greater peaking effect (Annex 1)
and does not include the benefit of bulk handling facilities.
2.        Production Volume (Large Facility): 20,000 m ton of paddy per
annum (i.e. h turnovers). No relevant previous data.
3.        Gross Profits on Sales: P 117 per ton of paddy processed, of
which P 22 from sale of by-products.
4.        Purchasing and Selling Commission: P 0.25 per cavan of grain
bought and sold.
5.        Trucking Expenses (Including fuel and maintenance cost): Assumed
at P 4.30.
6.         Fuel (Small Facility):
(a) Mill Engines. 52 hp 3.8 gallons per hour at P 0.83 per gallon.
Fuel cost P 3.15 per ton of paddy processed.
(b) Drier. On average 1/3 hour operation per ton paddy dried,
W.l2 gallons per hour at P 0.83 per gallon. Fuel cost
P 1.78 per ton of paddy dried.
(c)  Generator.  100 KW.  Average turnover requires 700 hours
operation.  6.4 gallons per hour at P 0.76 per gallo    Fuel
cost P 1.86 per ton of paddy processed.
7.        Fuel (Large Facility):
(a) Mill Engines. 150 hp. 9.5 gallons per hour at P 0.86 per
gallon. Fuel cost P 2.72 per ton of paddy processed.
1/ Except where specifically stated, these apply to both small and large
facilities.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(b) Drier. Same as for small facility.
(c) Generators. 300 KW. One turnover requires 700 hours
operation on average (i.e. 0.14 hour/ton of paddy processed).
18 gallons per hour at ' 0.83/gallon. Fuel cost is R 2.09
per ton of paddy processed.
B.        Fumigants. R 1.03 per ton of paddy processed.  Based on present
Philippine average in hygienic mills.
9,        Bags. Based on present millers average of P 9.80 per ton of
paddy processed.
10.       Taxes.
(a) Residence tax: from P 5.00 p.a. to P 2,000 p.a.
(b) Fixed tax based on mill capacity
1. Small - 12 ton/hr, R 900
2.  Large -  4 ton/hr: p 4800
(c) Real Estate tax - 1% on assessed value of property
(land & building)
(d) Licenses - variable
11.       Salaries and Wages. Original estimates prepared by IBRD + 30%
increase to cover increase in labor cost.
(a)  Small facility:  B  90,327  total labor cost
(b)  Large facility:  e 154,463  total labor cost
12.       Repairs and Maintenance. 1% p.a. for bins and buildings and 2%
for machinery and equipment.
13.       Insurance.  1% of capital assets
14.       Depreciation.
(a)  Bins and buildings       - 30 years
(b) Machinery and equipment - 15 years
(c)  Others                   - 10 years
15.       Interest Rates.
(a)  Capital assets   11%
(b) Working capital 10%
16.       Income Taxes.
(a) 25% on first P 100,000 taxable income
(b) 35% in excess of P 100,000



B. Estimated Staff and Labor Requirements and Costs 5/
2,000 TONS BULK SILO AND MILL 1/                 5,000 TONS BULK SILO AND MILL 2/
No. Man-Months             Cost                  No. Man-Months              Cost
per year   per Man-Month 2/ Total per Yr  /      per year   per Man-Month  Total per Yr
__   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _                    ____P__________  p--------------
Job Classification
Management
Manager (Owner)             1       12        1,073          14,801            1    12           1,300           17,940
Plant Superintendent        _ -                 -                              1    12             975           13,455
Administration
Accountant                  1       12          286            3,947           2    24             286            7,894
Clerk-Typist                2       24          260           7,176            3    36             260           10,764
Messenger                   1       12          195           2,691            1    12             195            2,691
Guard                       2       24          234           6,458            3    36             234            9,687
Plant Operation
Shift Leader          )    3        36          325          13,455            2    24             390           10,764
Operator (Drier, Mill,)                                                             48             286          15,787
etc.)                )4
Weighmaster-Grader          2       24          260            7,176           3    36             260          10,764
Maintenance (Mechanic,
Electrician)               1       12          286           3,947            2    24             286            7,894
Labor :
Permanent                  4       48          234          12,917            7    84             234           22,604
Casual                   (11)/    66           234          17,76i          (15)X4  go            234           24,219
TOTAL           175'    270           -           90,329           29 !g/438             -          154,463
6 months per year double shift working; 10 working hours per shift.
Basic monthly pay.
3/ Includes 15% fringe benefits.
Permanent jobs only.
2/ These estimates have been prepared in March/April 1969.  Following the increase of the minimum wages by 30% in           m
early 1970 it is conservatively assumed that the entire wage and salary structure will be adjusted accordingly.         (D
LO
0



ANNEX 10
Page 4
C. Income Statement - Small Facility
(Pesos '000)
Production volume (m ton paddy) per annum                      6,000
Gross Profits on sales (F  117 per m ton)                         702
Variable Costs
Purchasing commission                                             3
Selling commission                                                19
Trucking expenses                                                 26
Fuel and lubricants                                                41
Fumigants                                                           6
Bags                                                               59
Licences                                                            4
Miscellaneous                                                       5
Total Variable Costs                                    194
Fixed Costs
Salaries and wages                                                90
Repairs and maintenance                                            25
Insurance                                                         18
Office .upplies etc.                                                3
Total Fixed Costs                                       136
Total rariable and Fixed Costs                          330
Net profit before Depreciation, Interest
and In7ome Taxes                                                   372
Depreciation                                                   --ff
Interest:  on subloan                                             96
on working capital                                     45
Net Erofit Before Income Taxes                                     143
Income tax                                                        40
Net Profit to Proprietors                                          103



10
Page ,
D. C1sh 1-low Statement - Small Facility
('esos 1000)
Construction      Years         Years
Period          1-13            "-15
Source of vTunds
lNet Profit before Depreciation,
Tnterest and Income Taxes l/                 1,376              372           372
Suibloans (IBRD .° DBP)    1/7
Subborrowers contribution                      321                -            -
Total Sources                   1,697              372          372
'.lpoiA,ations of Fumnds
'5ebt Service of Subloans                   -                20             -
Debt Service of Working Capital Loan                          45            45
.Total. Debt Service                                249           45
Income Taxes                                -                  0            74
Cost of Project Facility                 1,697                 -             -
Tctal Applications           1,697                289          119
S;bborrowers' ITet Cash Inflli-               -                  83           253
.on-term Debt Service Coverge                                      1.3
!/ ½'.l^d'ls P 72,000 interest during construction



;8ANNEX 10
Page 6
S. Income Statement - Large Facility
(Pesos '000)
?rodnction Volume ('ri ton paddy) per annum                     'S0I00O
Gross Profits on Sales (P 117 per m ton)                         2,3JL0
V- ri.-ble Costs
Purchlsinp Co-mission                                          I111
Selling Commission                                               63
Trading Expenses                                                 81
Ise>3 Lubricqnts                                              132
.'nA.ants                                                       21
Phm gs                                                          196
T.icences                                                        11
TMI scell-neonis                                                 10
Total Variable Costs                         628
Tixed Costs
SaTlhries and. Wages                                            1 55
RePairs and Mlainten-nce                                         80
Tnsurance                                                       48
Office Suonlies, etc.                                             9
Total Fixed Costs                           292
Total Variable and Fixed Costs              920
Net Profit before Deprecintion, Interest
and Income Taxes                                                12,420
De-reciation                                                    271.
Inte,rest     on subllloan                                      282
on working ca.nitl                                11?I
co  ? rofitss be2ore Income Taxes                                 7
Tncorme Ta"                                                     25)
E'pt, Pro,1it to  Proprietors                                      5ci



MINIE X _I;
Page  7
Cash Flow Statement - Large Facility
(Pesos '000)
Construction        Years          vears
Period            1-13           1.'-l.
Source of Funds
T4et Profit before Depreciation,
Interest and Income Taxes                       -              1,420          1,420
Subloans (ITRD Vt D9P) -3,184
3ubborrowers' own contribution               1,763
Total Sources          L,947             1,420          1,420
_n.icntion of Funds
Tlebt Service of Sublouns                       -                  472
Debt Service of Working Capital Loan            -                  112          112
Total Debt Service                             584          112
Incr-me Taxes                                                      254          4148
'ost of Project Facility                    1 -947
Total Applications         ,947                 838          560
&ibborrowerst Net Cash Inflow                                      582          860
TLongterm D Zbt Service Coverage                                   1.7
:   Includes P 165 000 interest during construction






ANNEX 11
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Financial Rates of Return
1.        The estimated financial rates of return on the basis of conservative
estimates of turnover, gross margin and costs detailed in Annexes 5 and 10 are
18.9% for a small facility and 24.1% for a large facility. The financial rate
of return of a small facllity is lower because its fixed investment costs and
operating costs are higher as a proportion of annual turnover than those of a
larger facility. The exchange rate of US$ 1 = P 6.0 has been used as standard
exchange rate. A change in the exchange rate of about 10% (Us$1 - P6.5 and US$1 -
P g;.wdwulcMead to a variation in the rates of return of about 4% (Rates of return:
2.        An analysis of the sensitivity of the project facilities to alternate
assumptions regarding the costs and benefits is presented below.
Financial rates of return of a small facility :
(a) Standard assumptions as presented in Annexes 5 and 10
Rate of Return: 18.9%
(b) Construction cost overrun of 15%
Rate of Return: 13.1%
(c) Operating costs 25% higher
Rate of Return: 12.9%
(d)  Benefits 10% higher
Rate of Return: 23.5%
(e)  Benefits 10X lower
Rate of Rieturn: 14.1,
Financial rates of return of a large facility
(a)  Standard assumptions as presented in Annexes 5 and 10
Rate of Return: 241,41
(b) Construction cost overrun of 15%
Rate of Return: 17.9`-
(c) Operating costs 25% higher
Rate of Return: 19.0%
(d) Benefits 10% higher
Rate of Return: 28.6%
(e)  Benefits 10,% lower
Rate of Return: 19.50
The above returns on total assets would provide satisfactory incentives
go grain traders and millers to participate given the debt leverage on equity
provided by the project.






ANNEX 12
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Economic Analysis of the Project
1.        The economic evaluation of the proposed project calls for two
rates of return. The first return relates costs and benefits arising from
proposed project investments to those which would arise from traditional
storage inveetments. This is necessary to establish that investment in
the more expensive bulk handling and drying facilities is justified. The
second, and more customary, evaluation relates total costs and benefits to
the economy attributable to the project.
2.        In the first instance it was assumed that without the project
local entrepreneurs would meet additional demand for rice storage by con-
structing traditional sack warehouses. Under this assumption an alternative
project to the proposed Bank project was formulated in which storage facili-
ties consist of warehouses instead of bulk silos.
3.        Warehouses would have a capacity of 2,000 mt and 5,000 mt res-
pectively. Their total handling capacity would be 480,000 mt paddy per
annum as would the bulk silos. This is a conservative assumption since at
present, traditional warehouses would not be capable of employing effective
drying equipment and hence would have difficulties in solar drying large
quantities of paddy harvested during the rainy season. For the comparative
analysis it nevertheless was assumed that solar drying is employed.
4.        Investment cost for the small and large bulk silo facilities
appears in Annex 5. For the purposes of the economic analysis all duties
and local taxes were deducted. A comparison of investment cost for tradi-
tional warehouses and project facilities appears in Table 1. Annual labor
costs for traditional warehouses and bulk silos appear in Table 2. Compar-
ison of annual operating cost for each type of operation is in Tables 3 and 4.
5.         Incremental benefits attributable to mechanical drying were
calculated as shown in Table 5.
6.        The price of milled rice produced by project facilities was
assumed at $107 per mt for 38% broken rice, while that for 45% broken rice
in traditional warehouse-mill complexes was valued at $100 per mt, the
projected world market prices.
7.        Benefits due to reduced fermentation were based on the example of
paddy flow in northern Luzon.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
8.        The aggregate incremental project costs include construction of
60 small bulk silo complexes, 6 large bulk silo complexes, as well as cost
of consultants, training and vehicles. The aggregate incremental benefits
are based on employing more effective milling equipment and reduced fer-
mentation due to mechanical drying.
9.        The annual incremental cost and benefit flows were arrived at
by assuming that 17%, 33% and 50% of the total project facilities will be
constructed in the 1st, 2nd and 3rd year respectively; general project
costs for consultants, training, etc., were divided accordingly over the
first three years of the project (Table 6).
10.       Table 7 indicates the estimated incremental costs and benefits
stream of the 23 years of the project. The economic rate of return based
on the net incremental benefit stream is about 17%.
11.       Table 8 gives the net benefit stream used for calculating the cus-
tomary economic rate of return. The net benefit stream was derived from
Annex 5 (project investments) and Annex 10 (gross profits). The project in-
vestments were adjusted for duties and costs of training. Under these assump-
tions the overall economic rate of return of the proposed project is about
25%.



ANNEX 12
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
investment Cost of_2000mt and 5SOU mt Facilites
Standard Sack Warehouse 3
(P'OOO)
1.   Warehouse Capacity:  2,000 mt
Total Cost                                    693.6
Less Taxes                                     19.6
Less Machinery (Drier) 2/                     116.4
Plu,s Mills a'                                312.0
(Of which duties)                             (62.4)
Cost for Econcmic Evaluationt                 807.2
2.   Warehouse Capacity:  5,000 mt
Total Cost 4/                                 613.8
Plus Mills :/                                 668.4
Less Taxes                                     18.6
1,263.6
(Of which duties)                             (133.7)
Cost for Economic Evaluationt               1,129.9,
3.   Incremental Investment Cost (without du
(a)  Small Facility:                          655.8
(b)  Large Facility                         3,339.1
1/  Based on Weitz-Hettelsater re?ort - (Table 85  page 343) and updated following
the introduction of the flEaaing exchange rae,
2/  Estimated amount for drying equipment.  Mechanized drying seems not to be
possible for this traditional storing in the near future, see Annex 5.
3/  Based on estimates for the bulk silo (2,000 mt); US$ 52,000,see Annex 5
Iv  Without machinery
5/ Based on estimates for the bulhs silo (5o000 mt);US$1ll,,400  see Annex 5



ANNEX 12
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Calculation of Cost of Labor for 2,000 mt and 5,000 mt
Sack Warehouses
1.        Permanent labor requirements are based on Annex lOB - Income State-
ment, and adjusted for differences in operation of a sack warehouse and a bulk
silo (in P's):
Standard               Standard
Bulk Silo  Warehouse  Bulk Silo  Warehouse
(2,000 -t) (2,000 mt) (5,000 mt) (5000 mt)
Management                       14,801      14,801     31,395      31,395
Administration                   20,272      20,272     31,036      31,036
Shift leader & operator          13,455      13,455     26,551      26,551
Weightmatter - Grader             7,176       7,176     10,764      10,764
Maintenance                       3,947       1,303 -    7,894       2,632 1/
Labor - permanent                12,917      12,917     22,604      22,604
Labor - variable                 17,761      38,640 21  24,219    129,200 2U
Total                            90,329    108,564    154,463    254,182
1/ Maintenance Costs have been assumed at 1/3 of silo maintenance costs.
2/ Variable labor requirements were calculated on the basis of manual handling
of a cost of P 0.08 per movement: (a) Off-loading to drier, (b) Drier to
stack, (c) Stack to mill, (d) Mill to truck.



ANNEX 1.
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Comparison of Annual Costs of Processing 6,000 mt
of Paddy in a 2,000 mt Warehouse and in a mall
Bulk Silo
(in Pesos)
Variable Costs                      2100( mt Silo   2,000 mt Warehouse   Differences
Conmm'issions                        same                  same
Trading expenses                     same                  same
Fuel:
Mill                          salve                  same
Drier                      10,700                                     10,700
Generator                  11,200                       1,000         10,200
Lubricants                           300                         75            225
Fumigants                            same                  same
Bags                                 same                  same
Taxes                                same                  same
labor (variable)                  17,761                      38,640     -  20,879
Miscellaneous                      8,000                       4,000         4,0O0
Total variable cost   difference                                   .4,246
Fixed Costs
Salaries & Wages                  72,613                      69,92it         2,689
Repairs and Maintenance           25,000                       8,700        16,300
Insurance                         18,000                       8,700         9,300
Miscellaneous                      same                        same
Total fixed cost  difference           ...                                   28,289
Total operating cost difference:  P 32,$35



ANNEX 12;
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Comparisons of Annual Costs of Processing 20,000 mt
of 1kaddy in a 5YO00 nt Warehouse and in a 5,000 mt Bulk
Silo
(in Pesos)
5,000 mt               5,000 mt           Difference
Variable Cost                     Silo                  Warehouse
Commissions                       same                     same
Trading Costs                     same                     same
Fuel:                             same                     same
Mill                        same                    same
Drier                     35,600                       -           35,600
Generator                 41,800                    4,000          37,800
Lubricants                      1,000                       250             750
Fumigants                        same                      same                 -
Bags                             same                      same                 -
Labor (variable)               24,219                   129,200       - 104,981
Miscellaneous                  19,000                     9,500           9,500
Total variable cost  difference        ......                    _  2,33i
Fixed Cost
Salaries & Wages               130,244                  124,982           5,262
Repair and Maintenance          80,000                   11,300          68,700
Insurance                       48,000                   11,300          36,700
Miscellaneous                   same                       same         110,662
Total  perating cost difference:  P 89,331



ANNEX 12
Table 5
PHILIPPINES                        Page 1
RICE- PROCESS')ING PROJECT
Benefits Attributable to Mechanical Drying and
Bulk Storage
Traditional, Bulk         Traditional Bulk
Warehouse    Silo         Warehouse    Silo
2,000  mt    2,000 mt    5S,000  mt    5,000 mt
1. Annual turnover             mt    6,ooo        6.000        20,000      20,000
2.  of which: Solar dIied      "      6,000       2.000        20,000        6,700
3.            Mechanically ,y,000                                 -        13,300
Dried          4-0                                   3,0
i. Fermentation:
5.          25% of solar dried        1L,500        500         5,000        1,675
6.          10% of mechanicall10                                             1,330
7.          Total fermented           1,500         900         5,000        3,005
8.  Proportion of turnover    %          25           £5           25           15
9.  Ylling recovery:
651, on solar dried      m,t   3,900        1,300        13,000       14,355
10.    67% on remainxider               2- 2680                    -          8,911
11l.    Total milled, rice            3,900        3!,980       13,000       13,266
12. Value of mailled rice if
unfermented     $   390,00C)     1416,760    1,300,300   1,388,977
13.  Losses due to
fermentation         22,500       ')t0 5,ooo                45,07'7
111,  Market value of rice     1$  3Y7`60O    1ho3Tl           T,222>s000  41. 5
Incremental benefits
attributable to buLlk
handling and dxring             d            351760                   118,900
P               2i 4,560                   71L3,)ho



ANNEX 12
Table 5
Page 2
Notes for Table "Benefits Attributable
to Mechnaical Drying and Bulk Storage"
Lines 2 and 3: Amounts mechanically dried in bulk silos were determined
from quantities delivered in predominantly rainy months in each region
according to paddy and milled rice flow models.
Line 5: Based on information gathered in the field that 25% of sacks in
storage may have 2-8% fermented grains in them.
Line 6: Based on assumptin that solar dried paddy arriving at the bulk
facilities would continue to be 25% infested with fermented grains but that
only 10% of the mechanically dried paddy would be fermented.
Lines 9 and 10:  Based on rule of thumb that harvested paddy, left undried,
loses 2% in milling recovery for every 24 hours it remains in this state.
Average milling recovery is assumed to be 65% and a conservative estimate of
2% increased milling recovery due to availability of mechanical driers was
attributed to the bulk facilities.
Line 12: Calculated on the assumption that the normal proportion of broken
grains in traditional facilities is 45% and that mechanically dried rice would
yield only 38% broken grains- a difference of 7%. Expected world prices for
rice between 1970 and 1975 are $ 100/mt for 42% broken Burmese rice and
$ 140/mt for 5% broken Thai rice. On the average $1/mt is the deduction for
each additional percent of broken rice. Hence line 12 = $100 x line 9 +
$107 x line 10.
Line 13: Fermentation reduces the value of a sack of milled rice by P 5-8.
Taking the lower value for the purpose of calculation, the reduction in the
value of a ton of milled rice due to fermentation, would be P 5 x 17.86
sacks at 56 kg per ton, or P 89.30 which at P6 per $ equals $14.88, say $15 per ton.
Therefore: Line 13 = $15 x line 7



ANNEX. J1
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Allocation of Incremental
Investment Costs
1.   Silo construction                                      'o000
60 small silos @  p   655.8                       39,384
6 large silos  (9  P 3,339.1                      20,035
2.   Vehicles 1/                                         5,115
i.   Training                                            1,655
4.   Consultants & Overheads                           11,772
Total.........         77,961
Total additional Investment for
each of the first three,yearst
lst year (17%) s 13,253
2nd year (33%) : 25,727
3rd year (50%) s 38,981
1/   Total investment costs of vehicles is estimated at US$ 907,5OC '(P5445L090)
of which 10% of the foreign exchange component has been deducted as the
duty conponent.
2/    Estimated total costs of the UNDP Project is US$ 827,600.  One third is
estimated to be attributable to the proposed project.






PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Aggregate Incremental Cost and Benefit Streams
Pesos (million)
Incremental Flow              1        2       3       4        5                  17       18       19      ---       22        23
Incremental Investment         13.30   25.70   39.00   -
Incremental Operating
Costs - Small Facility         -        0.33    0.99   1.98    1.98                1.65     0.99      -                 -        -
Incremental Operating
Costs - Large Facility         _009    0.26   0.53    0.53                        0.53     0.53      0.53   --         0.414    0.26
Total Incremental
Project cost                  13.30   26.12   40.25   2.51    2.51    ---         2.1b     1.53      0.53   ---        0.144    0.26
Incremental Benefits:
Small Facility                -        2.15    6.45  12.90   12.90    ---        10.75     6.45      -                 -        -
Large Facility                -        0.71    2.13   4.26    4.26    ---         4.26      4.26     4.26              3.55     2.13
Total Incremental
Benefits                       -        2.86    8.58  17.16   17.16    ---        15.01    10.71      4.26   ---        3.55      2.13
Net Incremental Benefits      -13.30  -23.26  -31.67  14.65   14.65    ---        12.83      9.19     3.73   -3.11                1.B7



ANNEX 12
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
RICE PROCESSING PROJECT
Net Benefit Stream for Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Pesos (million)
Investment         Gross Profits         Gross Profits        Net Benefits
Year                       Small Facility        Large Facility
1       20.37                  -                     -                (20.37)
2       39.54               3.72                  1.42                (34.40)
3       59.90              11.16                  4.26                (44.48)
4         -                22.32                  8.52                 30.84
5         -                22.32                  8.52                 30.84
6         _                22.32                  8.52                 30.8h
7         -                22.32                  8.52                 30.84
8         -                22.32                  8.52                 30.84
9         -                22.32                  8.52                 30.84
10         -                22.32                  8.52                 30.84
11         -                22.32                  8.52                 30.81
12         -                22.32                  8.52                 30.84
13         -                22.32                  8.52                 30.84
14         -                22.32                  8.52                 30.84
15         -                22.32                  8.52                 30.84
16         -                22.32                  8.52                 30.84
17         -                18.60                  8.52                 27.12
18         -                11.16                  8.52                 19.68
19         -                    _                  8.52                  8.52
20         -                    _                  8.52                  8.52
21         -                                       8.52                  8.52
22         -                    -                  7.10                  7.10
23         -                                       14.26                 4.26
1/ Adjusted for duties and training costs.



0      CAGAYAN VALLEY
KLOCOS &
MOUNTAIN PR9V,                        logan g.                                         J
Son Ftsrnn do
Pagupan City _
I  Cobanctuan                                         ~~~~~~~~~~SULU
jarlac                               I\\_          <
CETRl.LUZON 
Son Fernondo
4*           WESTERN V[SAYA~~SOUTHERN                                  |  
aGALOG                   {$Puer;   C  CEIEBES
gJfe ;/      I f                                                              -          j        J-            J__ 
(} %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIsANILA                                                                                11 )   SA  ;
M- LEGtONAL SOUNOARISC                                                C'
aJ  a                                                         -
a  25  50  75  100         rf   _i_                                             \ ~~~~~~~~~0 a)
arsagon
n             ~~~~EASTERN VISAYAS
I,                             0       I_S- 
'9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
RN VISAYAfP A N A YOzrnsHIN1AN                                   N
RICE PROCESSING PROJ~~~~ECT
RGLOMETNDRS                                                                          C
HARCI-, 1970                                                                                                                                    1800 - 28235



