Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15817
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
ALEPPO SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2692-SYR)
June 25, 1996
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 25, 1996
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Note on Syria
Aleppo Sewerage Project (Loan 2692-SYR)
Attached is the Project Completion Note (PCN) on the Syria Aleppo Sewerage
Project (Loan 2692-SYR, approved in FY86) prepared by the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. A Bank loan for US$70.0 million equivalent was approved on May 13,
1986, and the project was cofinanced by the European Investment Bank (EIB). The loan
was cancelled by the Bank on December 31, 1987. No disbursements took place. No
comments from the Borrower were received.
The objectives of the project were to: (i) develop sewerage services in Aleppo and
improve the health and environmental conditions of its inhabitants; (ii) improve the quality
of water in the Kouek River; and (iii) formulate and develop institutional and financial
structures for the sewerage sector in Aleppo and train staff for that purpose. The project
comprised: (i) the expansion of the existing sewerage system in Aleppo, including a
sewage treatment plant, 50 km of trunk sewers, and two pumping stations to serve new
areas to be developed and presently unsewered areas; (ii) capacity building components
including the provision of technical assistance for setting up organizational and
management systems for the new sewerage company; staff training; and the supply of
operational and maintenance equipment and vehicles along with workshops; and (iii)
engineering studies for the development of future sewerage plans for other cities, and for the
reuse of treated sewage for irrigation.
The project had two conditions for effectiveness: signing of the EIB loan agreement
and Cabinet approval of a key consulting services contract. The former condition was met
but the latter remained pending for a long time. Over a period of fifteen months, the
Government requested extensions to allow more time for ratification of the consulting
contract. The Bank granted four extensions, up to December 31, 1987. This coincided with
a period during which Syria accumulated significant arrears to the Bank, ultimately
resulting in its being placed on non-accrual status in February 1987. After the extended
date for loan effectiveness had passed, the Bank advised the Government that the date could
no longer be extended given the unmet condition and non-receipt of debt service payments
and cancelled the loan.
This document has a restricted distrlbution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their
official duties, its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
As the loan was never made effective and the project was not carried out, project
outcome, institutional development and sustainability are not rated.
No audit is planned.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
ALEPPO SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2692-SYR)
This is the Project Completion Note (PCN) for the Aleppo Sewerage Project, Loan 2692-SYR
in the amount of US$70.0 million, prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Region. The loan,
approved on May 13, 1986 and signed on May 27, 1986, was terminated on December 31, 1987 for
failure to become effective after four extensions. Since no progress was made towards the resolution of
the debt service arrears, the terminal date for effectiveness was not extended beyond December 31,
1987. Consequently, the Bank termninated the Loan Agreement in accordance with Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
The PCN was prepared by Mr. Mario Zelaya, Senior Sanitary Engineer, assisted by Mrs.
Marie-Ange Le, Operations Analyst, MN2PI. It was reviewed by Mr. Alastair J. McKechnie, Division
Chief, MN2PI, and Ms. Tufan Kolan, Acting Project Advisor, MN2DR.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed %i.hout World Bank authorization.  l






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
ALEPPO SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2692-SYR)
A. Background and Project Objectives
1.    A loan of US$70.0 million for the Aleppo Sewerage Project was approved by the Board on
May 13, 1986 and signed on May 27, 1986. The original and final loan effectiveness dates were
scheduled for September 29, 1986, and December 31, 1987, respectively. The objectives of the
Project were to: (i) develop the sewerage services in Aleppo and to enhance the health and
environmental conditions for its inhabitants; (ii) improve the quality of water in the Kouek River; and,
(iii) formulate and develop institutional and financial structures for the sewerage sector in Aleppo and
to train staff for that purpose.
B. Project Scope and Project Cost
2.    The project consisted of two parts:
PartA: (i) Supply and erection of the electro-mechanical equipment for the Sheikh Said
pumping station; and (ii) supply of about 8 km of force mains for the two pumping stations of
Sheikh Said and Ramouseh.
Part B: (i) Construction of a sewage treatment plant providing primary and secondary
treatment; (ii) construction of Ramouseh and Sheikh Said pumping stations and supply and
erection of electro-mechanical equipment for the Ramouseh pumping station; (iii) construction
of about 50 km of trunk sewers and overflow structures to serve new areas to be developed as
well as areas not presently sewered; (iv) construction and equipping of workshops for the new
sewerage company; (v) supply of operating and maintenance equipment and vehicles for the
new sewerage company; (vi) technical assistance and consultants' services to assist with
tendering, procurement, construction supervision, operation and maintenance of the project
facilities, updating of the sewerage master plan, establishment of organizational and
management systems, and implementation of the Government cost recovery policy; (vii)
engineering studies for reuse of treated effluent for irrigation and future extension of sewerage
networks and treatment facilities; (viii) consulting services to establish standard designs for
stabilization ponds to serve cities from 2,000 to 100,000 inhabitants; and (ix) staff training,
including management and accounting personnel.
3.    The estimated cost of the project was US$211.61 million, which included a foreign exchange
component of US$82.04 or 39 percent of the total cost.



Project Completion Note                                                                  2
C. Financing Plan
4.     The financing plan (in US$ million) was as follows:
Sources                    Local              Foreign              Total
IBRD1                                    -                 70.00               70.00
European Investment Bank (EIB)2          -                 12.04               12.04
GECOS (Internal Funds)                  5.99                                   5.99
Government                             123.58       __123.58
TOTAL                      129.57              82.04              211.61
D. Loan Effectiveness
5.    There were two special conditions of effectiveness, namely, the signing of the EIB loan
agreement and the signing and Cabinet approval of a consulting services contract to assist the Ministry
of Housing and Utilities in project execution. Only the first condition was met.
6.     On June 26, 1986, the Bank suspended disbursements on all projects under implementation in
Syria because of US$4.6 million of arrears in debt service payments, which were overdue by more than
75 days. On February 1, 1987, Syria was placed (and continued to remain) on a non-accrual status as
about US$90 million in service payments were overdue, with the oldest arrears by more than 260 days.
7.     The Government requested five times an extension of the loan effectiveness as follows:
(a)    In September 1986, the Government requested the Bank to postpone the effectiveness date
of September 19, 1986, by three months to December 29, 1986 (first extension). The EIB
loan agreement had been signed, but the consulting services contract was still pending
signature and awaiting ratification by the Government. The Bank granted the requested
extension.
(b)    In December 1986, the Government requested the Bank to postpone the effectiveness
deadline by another three months, to March 30, 1987 (second extension).
(c)    In March 1987, the Government requested the Bank to postpone the effectiveness date by
three months to June 30, 1987 (third extension) to allow time for the ratification of the
consulting services contract.. The loan documentation had been ratified and the Bank had
received a copy of the legal opinion but not a copy of the Official Gazette publishing the
text of the Loan Agreement. The Bank decided to grant the request in order not to
To finance 100% of foreign costs of Part B.
2 To finance 100% of foreign costs of Part A.



Project Completion Note                                                                3
jeopardize the dialogue to resolve the arrears situation, and with the expectation that Syria
would be current on the arrears to the Bank by June 30, 1987.
(d)   In June 1987, the Government requested the Bank for an extension of the effectiveness
deadline by six months to December 31, 1987 to allow time for the ratification of the
consulting services contract (fourth extension). The Bank granted the requested extension.
(e)   In December 1987, the Government requested the Bank for an extension of the
effectiveness deadline by six months to June 30, 1988 (fifth extension) to allow time for the
signing and Cabinet approval of the consulting contract. On January 12, 1988, the Bank
advised the Government that the deadline for effectiveness could not be further extended
given that no service payments had been received by the Bank since January 1987.
E. Reason for Loan Cancellation
8.    The Loan Agreement was terminated on December 31, 1987, in accordance with Section 12.04
of the General Conditions for the reasons given in Section D.
F. Lessons Learned
9.    There is one principal lesson to be drawn from this experience: loans to countries with
overdue payments which could lead to a non-accrual situation should not be presented for Board
approval until such a condition is resolved. In this case, the loan was approved when there were debt
service payments overdue for more than 30 days. A firm decision of the Bank not to process and
present a loan to the Board could have two favorable effects: (i) it would send a strong signal to the
Government for meeting overdue payments; and (ii) it would help prevent additional project processing
costs.
March 29, 1996
m:\syr\alep-icn.doc









I    IA,}ING.T
E-eport No:           1581,7
Type: F'PCN



