Dofmnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCALM USE ONLY
Report No. P-4142-SYR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$70.0 MILLION
TO THE
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR AN
ALEPPO SEWERAGE PROJECT
April 23, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutiest s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 1986)
Currency Unit   =   Syrian Pound (SL)
Official Rate           US$1    =  3.95          SLI        $0.253
Parallel Market Rate   US$L    =  5.45           SL1   =   $0.183
Tourist Rate            US$1    = 10.00          SLl   =   $0.100
Foreign Travel Rate    US$1    = 11.25           SL1   =   $0.089
The official exchange rate was used for Parts III and IV of this
report.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EIB       European Investment Bank
GECEC     General Company for Engineering ard Consulting
QECOS     General Company for Sewerage
GECOW     General Company for Water Supply
MHU       Ministry of Housing ard Utilities
PEWSS     Public Establishment for Water Supply and Sewerage
PMU       Project Management Unit



FOR OMCLFCL USE ONLY
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
ALEPPO SEWERAGE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Syrian Arab Republic
Beneficiary:       Aleppo General Company for Sewerage
Amount:            US$70.0 Million
Terms:             Fifteen years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
On-Lending Terms:  The Borrower would on-lend $69.2 million to the Aleppo
General Company for Sewerage (GECOS) under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement for a term of 17.5 years, including
3.5 years of grace, with interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate. The Borrower would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project            The proposed project supports the Government's
Description:       objectives to provide adequate sewage treatment facilities
in major urban areas in order to improve health and
environmental conditions. It would assist in establishing
effective institutions in the sewerage sector and
developing appropriate financial and operational policies.
The project consists of the construction of a sewage
treatment plant, pumping stations, force ma5ns and about
fifty kilometers of trunk sewers. It would also provide
for the establishment of a new sewerage authority for
Aleppr. Other items to be financed would include the
construction of workshops, provision of operational
equipment and vehicles, training and technical assistance
for project management, construction supervision, and
financial, organizational and engineering studies.
Benefits:          When the treatment facilities are operational in 1991, the
project would directly benefit the estimated 1.3 million
inhabitants by reducing health hazards and improving
environmental conditions. Technical assistance would help
to establish the Aleppo GECOS and develop its technical and
financial capabilities. The main risks of the proposed
project would relate to the newly established Aleppo GECOS
and the country's limited experience with sewage treatment
plants. The thoroughness of project preparation, the
provision of experienced consultants for project management
and construction supervision, implementation of a
comprehensive training program and adoption of financial
policies aimed at making the sewerage company financially
viable, should minimize these risks.
This document has a restrkted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii1 -
Estimated Project Costs:                                      $ million
Local      Foreign       Total
Treatment Plant                                  44.33        23.81       68.14
Pumping Stations                                  6.72        10.08       16.80
Trunk Severs                                     29.12        13.70       42.82
Force Mains                                       1.05         2.93        3.98
Workshops, V-.hicles, and Operation
and Maintenance Equipment (GECOS)               2.76         2.15        4.91
Technical Assistance                              1.31         3.06        4.37
Training                                          0.28         1.06        1.34
Construction Supervision (GECEC)                  4.10          -          4.10
Total Base Cost                                89.67        56.79      146.46
Physical Contingencies                            8.97         5.68       14.65
Price Contingencies                              30.93        19.57       50.50
Total Proiect Cost                            129.57 a/    82.04       211.61 a/
Financing Plan:                                               S Million
Local      Foreign       Total
IBRIC                                                         70.00       70.00
European Investment Bank                           -          12.04       12.04
Government                                      123.58          -        123.58
Aleppo GECOS                                      5.99          -          5.99
Total                                         129.57        82.04      211.61
Estimated Disbursements:
M Million
IBRD Fiscal Year: 1987  1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993    1994    1995
Annual            3.42  5.25  10.50  13.01  12.67   10.36   7.89   5.16    1.74
Cumslative        3.42  8.67  19.17  32.18  44.85   55.21  63.10  68.26   70.00
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5826-SYR, dated March 28, 1986.
Mps: Nos. 19098 and 19080.
a/ Includes about $44.44 million equivalent of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR AN ALEPPO SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Syrian Arab Republic for the equivalent of US$70.0 million to help
finance an Aleppo Sewerage Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years
including 3 years of grace, with interest at the standard variable rate. The
Borrower would retain $0.8 million and would on-lend to the Aleppo General
Company for Sewerage, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the balance of
$69.2 million for a period of 17.5 years including 3.5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate. The Borrower would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The project would be co-financed on a parallel basis with the
European  Investment  Bank  (EIB).   The  EIB  loan  of  16.0 million  European
Currency Units (US$12.04 million equivalent) would have a term of 17 years
including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of about 5 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Syria-Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 3303-SYR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1982. An economic mission
visited  Syria  in  October 1984  and  September 1985.   Its  report  entitled
"Syria - Recent Economic Developments and Prospects" is expected to be
distributed in May 1986 and its findings are reflected in this section.
Economic Characteristics and Constraints
3.       Syria  is a medium-sized economy with a relatively well balanced
sectoral structure and a population of 9.9 million which is growing rapidly at
3.4 percent per annum. GDP per capita was estimated at $1870 (at the official
exchange rate) in 1984 and the social indicators compare favorably with those
of other middle-income  countries.   Employment  is relatively evenly spread
among agriculture, industry and services, while unemployment has been main-
tained at a low rate of about 3.5 percent cf the labor force. The balanced
structure of the economy reflects a diversified resource base, with 5.6 million
hectares of cultivable land of which 0.6 million hectares are irrigated, a
stable oil production of about 8.5 million tons per annum, some gas and phos-
phate reserves, and relatively developed manufacturing, construction and trade
sectors. In the past, the country has experienced a trade surplus in agricul-
ture and oil, but with the rapid increase in domestic demand, the oil surplus
has disappeared and there  is now a deficit  in the  food balance.   Large
transfers from the oil-exporting countries of the Gulf (in the form of grants
and workers' remittances) have enabled Syria to finance a large trade deficit
and to maintain civilian external debt at a modest level.



- 2 -
4.       Social  indicators show considerable  improvement over the past  two
decades and the country has made substantial progress in reducing imbalances
in economic and social conditions, both between the rural and urban areas and
between regions. However, the rural population still has only limited access
to social  services.   The rapid population growth has exerted considerable
pressure and a high cost on the economy for the provision of housing, health
care and social services.
5.       Other structural characteristics of the Syrian economy derive from
its centrally-planned socialist system. The Syrian Government directly owns
and manages the mining, large manufacturing, energy and banking sectors. It
also controls prices, credit, international trade, and all major investments.
Public investment represents about two thirds of total investment (and exceeds
three quarters  of  investment  excluding dwellings).   Although  the  private
sector functions in a controlled environment in agriculture, small and medium-
scale industry, construction, housing and domestic trade, it is fairly dynamic.
The social orientation of the Government is reflected in its near full employ-
ment policy (at relatively low wage levels), price-supported basic consumer
goods and services, free or subsidized education and health services, and
attention to rural and regional development. The Government's economic and
social objectives and the proposed policy measures to achieve them are set out
in  five-year plans of which  the sixth, covering  the  1986-90  period,  is
currently under preparation. Social and equity objectives have been given as
prominent a place in the successive plans as economic objectives. The plans
also set out quantitative production and manpower targets for each sector
besides the macroeconomic targets and an indicative investment program.
6.       The Fifth Five-Year Plan (1981-85) aimed at achieving an annual rate
of growth of 7.2 percent in real terms. Planned total investment amounted to
about $26 billion (compared to $13.8 billion in the previous Plan), 80 percent
of which was by the public sector. Actual expenditures under the Plan have
been about 70 percent of the target. Compared to the Fourth Plan, the focus
of the Fifth Plan shifted from investment in heavy industries to completion of
ongoing projects, better utilization of existing capacity and the development
of human resources. The sectoral strategies aimed at increasing the share of
commodity-producing sectors in GDP.  Major emphasis in the Sixth Five-Year
Plan (1986-90) is being placed on the agriculture and energy sectors. Total
investment under the Sixth Plan is expected to be roughly equivalent, in real
terms, to the amount allocated under the Fifth Plan.  Greater attention is
also likely to be placed on exports, particularly of textiles and refined
petroleum products.
7.       Agriculture accounts for around one-fifth of GDP.  The sector employs
about one-third of the labor force and has strong linkages with most indus-
trial  activities,  trade  and  transportation.   Cotton  is  the  second  most
important export earner following petroleum. Half of agricultural production
is rainfed and production is thus influenced by fluctuations in rainfall.
Water is a scarce resource and irrigated land witb relatively high produc-
tivity comprises only a small portion of the cultivated area. The main issues
in agriculture are the need to expand the irrigated area in order to dampen



- 3 -
excessive annual fluctuations in output (due to climatic conditions), and the
level of exports of agricultural commodities. Export growth is hampered by an
overvalued exchange rate which does not allow Syria to utilize to the full
extent its comparative advantage (e.g. in livestock production and pulses) and
encourages import of foodstuffs and animal feed. In some cases, however (e.g.
maize, sugar beets), the domestic procurement price is too high relatively to
import price--converted at the market exchange rate--which thus leads to
production inefficiences and imposes a heavy burden on the Government to
subsidize the retail price paid by consumers.
8.       Syria's  industrial  development  started  with  the  processing  of
agricultural products and received an impetus from increases in petroleum
production in the 1960s and petroleum price rises in the early and late
1970s. Manufacturing (including petroleum refining) now contributes about
18 percent of GDP and employs 13 percent of the labor force. Syria's indus-
trial strategy has focussed largely on import substitution in consumer goods
and a substantial expansion of resource-based industries, such as cotton
textiles, cement and fertilizers. More recently, emphasis has been placed on
expanding manufactured exports to compensate for the decline in oil exports.
During the 1970s, despite the large investments channelled to manufacturing,
its growth averaged only 8 percent per annum.   Two problems were the long
delays in completing projects and frequent start-up difficulties.  Growth in
manufacturing production between 1980-82 averaged 15 percent, as new plants
came on stream. In 1983 and 1984, it slowed down to 8-9 percent. Value added
growth in manufacturing public enterprises has been much lower due to the
subsidized prices. The Government is aware that in the absence of a revised
industrial policy, it will be difficult to improve public enterprise perfor-
mance and increase manufactured exports. The Government has commissioned a
study to identify the main bottlenecks to growth of the sector and to propose
policy reforms.
9.      In recent years, relatively extensive public investment outlays have
taken place concurrently with large expenditures on national security related
to the unsettled political conditions in the Middle East.   The growth  of
national security expenditures has absorbed virtually the entire increase in
the current budget. In addition, subsidies paid out directly from the budget,
mainly for basic foodstuffs and some petroleum products, though declining,
have been a major drain on public sector resources. Foreign grants finance a
significant share of budgetary and balance of payments deficits. On average,
one half of the overall budget deficit in 1980-83 was financed by grants from
neighboring oil-exporting countries (mainly Saudi Arabia, but also Kuwait,
UAE, Qatar, Libya and Iran). However, with the decline in revenue in the
oil-exporting countries, it cannot be expected that the past high level of
assistance from them will be maintained.
10.     The export base of the Syrian economy is weak and depends heavily on
the petroleum sector,  cotton and  textiles.   Petroleum  exports,  despite a
decline in volume since 1976, accounted for about 60 percent of total
merchandise exports during the period 1978-1983. However, the import bill for



-4-
light crude oil (needed for blending with domestic heavy crude for refinery
input) and for refined petroleum products has represented a growing share of
oil export revenues. By 1984, Syria's balance of trade in oil and oil-related
products had become negative.  However, a new significant oil discovery was
made by Shell-Pecten in late 1984.  Its exploitation, plus stable output in
the old oil fields, would allow total oil production to increase 30 to
50 percent above the present level by the early 1990's.  The  country has
considerable natural gas reserves which, if developed, could replace part of
the oil now used in domestic industry and electricity generation.   If appro-
priate investments in gas and oil exploitation are made under the Sixth Plan,
the prospects are good for increased exports of oil.
Recent Economic Developments
11.      Following very rapid growth which averaged almost 10 percent annually
during 1970-81, GDP grew by only 3.2 percent in 1982 and then declined in 1983
and 1984 by 0.4 and 2.1 percent, respectively. The estimates for 1985 show
GDP stagnant in real terms. This would put real GDP at the same level as in
1981, while population increased during 1981-85 by an estimated 14 percent.
The main causes for the stagnation of GDP were three consecutive years of
decrease in agricultural production and a flat production of oil. Growth of
government and other services and of construction only partly offset unfavor-
able developments in agriculture and oil production and in trade.
12.      In addition to the decline in output since 1982,  total available
resources have been constrained by a substantial drop in net imports of goods
and services. This drop was the result of a decrease in the level of external
grants to the public sector, which fell from $1.8 billion (10.4 percent of
MNP) in 1981 to $1.2 billion (6.2 percent of GNP) in 1984. The fall in grants
has contributed to the persistence of a large overall budgetary deficit
despite Government measures to curtail it. The budget deficit inclusive of
external grants exceeded 9 percent of GDP in 1982 and 1983. In 1984, as both
non-tax revenues and grants decreased, the budget deficit is estimated to have
risen to over 16 percent of GDP. The budgetary gap was financed largely by
borrowing from the Central Bank, leading to a rapid increase in money supply
and increased inflationary pressures.   Existing inflationary pressures were
not entirely translated into the recorded rate of inflation because of wide-
ranging price controls.   The retail price index increased by 14 percent in
1982, 6 percent in 1983 and 9 percent in 1984. Inflation is estimated to have
accelerated (by several percentage points) in 1985, mostly due to significant
price increases which took effect in September 1985.
13.      During the past three years,  the Government  has  pursued  policies
aimed at checking the deterioration in the financial situation resulting from
the decline in grants and petroleum exports.   The measures have included:
(i) increasing prices of subsidized petroleum products; (ii) restraining the
growth of current public expenditures; (iii) limiting capital expenditures
mainly to ongoing projects; (iv) imposing import deposits for the private
sector; and (v) introducing a four-tier exchange rate system which led to a



- 5 -
partial devaluation of the Syrian Pound. The four exchange rates currently in
Syria are: the official rate (SL 3.95 per $1) at which public sector imports
and some of the exports are transacted; the parallel rate (SL 5.45 per $1) for
private sector trade and a portion of public sector exports; the tourist rate
(SL 8.85 per $1  raised  to  SL 10 per $1  iu March 1986)  for  receipts  from
tourism and workers' remittances, and since September 1985, a fourth rate
(SL 11.25 per $1) for tourist expenditures by Syrian nationals.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      Syria has made impressive progress in the past decade in raising its
gross domestic product, expanding its economic and social infrastructure and
providing basic services and employment opportunities to the bulk of the
population. In these achievements, Syria benefited from a diversified and
moderately rich resource base, a dynamic labor force, increases in oil prices
and considerable assistance from oil-exporting countries toward financing its
defense expenditures.  It also profited from the opportunities for employment,
trade and construction in the oil countries.
15.      Syria enters the second half of the 1980's with a small net oil
deficit (both in value and quantity terms).   It is also not unlikely that
highly concessional external financial assistance, as well as opportunities
for employment in and exports to the oil countries, will decline. The Govern-
ment has already taken a number of measures to reduce the short-term financial
imbalance including restricting imports, directing investments to high
priority projects in the energy and agriculture sectors, and trying to
increase the efficiency of public enterprises. However, to regain balance on
a long-term basis, there is a need to prepare and implement a program for the
gradual reduction of subsidies, to review the appropriateness of the exchange
rate and deposit interest rates and to introduce greater flexibility in the
price adjustment system.
16.      The Bank's medium-term projections indicate that with the implementa-
tion of the macroeconomic and sectoral policies described in para. 15, it
would be possible for the Syrian economy to continue to grow on average at
4.1 percent per annum during 1983-88 and at 5.0 percent beyond 1988, while
correcting the financial imbalances in the medium term. The key to achieving
this rate of growth is the expansion of agricultural and oil production and
improvement in the productivity of the manufacturing sector.  Based on the
latest estimates of the recent finds of oil and gas, the oil and gas sector is
projected to grow at 8 percent per annum in 1983-88 and at 5.7 percent per
annum thereafter. Other key policy assumptions include limiting the growth of
government current expenditures to 2 percent per annum in real terms (compared
with 4 percent in the past), reducing subsidies to 40 percent of their current
size by 1988, and appropriate exchange rate adjustments.
17.      In the projections of external accounts, it is assumed that exports
are supported by the necessary production policies in oil and gas, as well as
by the appropriate price policies.  Exports are projected tc grow at about
6.4 percent per annum in volume between 1983-88.  It would also be necessary



to restrain the growth of food and intermediate imports if the trade deficit
is to be reduced and the growth of external debt contained within acceptable
limits. This is more so given that the workers' remittances can, at best, be
expected to remain stable in real terms and that grants are likely to decline.
The restraint on import growth would require both raising the price of impor-
tables (through exchange rate adjustment) as well as appropriate policies to
raise the domestic output of such goods. With these assumptions, the deficit
of goods and non-factor services is projected to be reduced from $2.6 billion
in 1983 to $2.3 billion in 1988 but would rise to $3.0 billion in 1992.
However the stagnation of workers' remittances and rise in interest rate pay-
ments on both long and short-term debt, would lead to the growth of the
current account deficit (inclusive of transfers) to $3.2 billion by 1992 (all
in current dollars).
18.      'he  recent  sharp drop of world oil prices,  if sustained, may be
expected to have a considerable impact on trade and financial projections and
on the long-term economic prospects of Syria.  In the short term, the large
drop in the international price of oil would not have a significant impact on
Syria's trade balance.  Since the balance of trade in oil has been slightly
negative since 1983 and would be close to a balance in 1986-87, the drop in
the value of oil exports would be largely offset in this period by the drop in
the value of oil imports.  In the long term, however, as the volume of net oil
exports increases, the value of net exports (with lower oil prices) would rise
substantially less than as projected in the base case.   Thus, assuming the
projected oil price trend would start from an average $15 per barrel in 1986,
there could be a net loss of over $150 million in 1988 rising to over
$400 million in 1992.  The lower oil prices would create  larger financing
requirements and a more rapidly growing debt. The debt service ratio would
reach 20.4 percent as early as 1988 (compared with 17.4 percent in the base
case) and rise to 30.8 percent in 1992 (as compared with 24.9 percent in the
base case). These figures underline the importance of increasing net exports
of oil (through higher production, gas substitution and restrained demand) in
order to avoid an undue deterioration of creditworthiness.
External Debt
19.      Total civilian external debt remains low compared to other middle-
income countries. Total medium and long-term debt outstanding and disbursed
at the end of 1983 amounted to about $2.3 billion, less than 12 percent of
GDP.   Out  of  the  total,  75.7 percent  was  owed  to  bilateral  sources,
18.8 percent  to  multilateral   creditors,   4.9 percent   to  suppliers  and
0.6 percent to financial institutions. East European countries (39 percent),
OECD   (19 percent),  the  Arab  countries  and   their  bilateral  agencies
(16 percent) and Iran (4 percent) were the main sources of bilateral loans.
Total debt (including undisbursed) owed to IBRD at the end of 1983 amounted to
$469.6 million, or 11.9 percent of Syria's total debt.  The average terms of
external loans during 1979-81 were quite soft, but hardened somewhat after
1982, reflecting the rise in international interest rates.  Average interest
rates remained at slightly above 6 percent with maturity at about 20 years and
grace periods generally of two to four years. Civilian debt service remained
at the level of about $600 million per annum during 1980-84.



20.      Syria has followed a cautious external debt policy and the loans
contracted  have  been  mainly  on  concessional  terms.   The  prospects  for
expanding petroleum exports are good if domestic demand is restrained and the
Government develops the country's known oil and gas reserves as planned.
Furthermore, current measures have to be strengthened to reduce the short-term
financial imbalances caused by the stagnation of exports and the decline of
external grants. Given its low debt service ratio and prudent debt management,
Syria is eligible for continued borrowing from the Bank.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SYRIA
21.      As of March 31, 1986, the Bank and IDA have lent $536.4 million 1I to
Syria, through 18 projects. There have not been any investments in Syria by
the  International  Finance  Corporation.   As  of  March 31, 1986,   overall
disbursements amounted to about 58 percent of appraisal estimates, which
compares  favorably to other countries in the region.  Annex II provides a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits.
22.      Bank lending to Syria began in 1963 with a highway project, and was
followed by an active lending and economic and sector work program in the
1970s.   Syria  sought  less assistance from the Bank over the past 5 years
mainly because of its access to concessional aid on more favorable terms from
Arab and socialist countries. Bank Group assistance has been concentrated on
projects aimed at assisting in the development of physical and social infra-
structure. The growth of public services to meet the demands of the expanding
economy has been supported by three operations in the power subsector, one in
telecommunications, and three in highways.  Three loans have focussed on the
development of the water supply systems in Damascus and Aleppo, the country's
two largest cities.   Bank participation in these sectors has supported the
adoption of appropriate financial policies and *Lias helped to strengthen the
planning and execution capabilities of the implementing agencies. Lending in
agriculture focussed initially on expanding irrigated land, although the Bank
has also provided loans for livestock development, regional development in
Southern Syria and a national agricultural extension project. Two projects in
the education sector have aimed at increasing the supply and improving the
quality of skilled manpower.
23.      Overall implementation performance in the water and telecommunica-
tions sectors has been satisfactory.  Bank participation has contributed to
strengthening the institutional framework of the water and telecommunications
companies and to the introduction of appropriate cost recovery policies in
these sectors. Projects in the power sector have been successfully completed,
although there were delays in raising electricity tariffs. Most projects in
the agricultural sector have been carried out satisfactorily.   In general,
project execution has been affected by the centralized decision-making
structure of the Government and the inexperience of implementing agencies. A
1/ Net of cancellations.



-8-
Bank procurement seminar was held for Government agencies involved in project
implementation in 1984. This has led to progress in standardizing procurement
documents which should help to alleviate project implementation delays due to
unfamiliarity  with  Bank  procurement  procedures.   A  follow-up  procurement
seminar is scheduled for mid-1986. The Government has also agreed to follow
international competitive bidding procedures for all components of the
proposed Aleppo and Damascus Sewerage Projects.  This is a reversal of the
Government's policy in the early 1980s to award contracts for civil works to
state-owned construction companies without competitive bidding.  This policy
hitherto limited the number and size of projects eligible for Bank financing.
24.      About  18 months ago,  the Government  requested increased financial
assistance from the Bank as well as a more extensive dialogue on sectoral
issues and options  in economic management.   The Government has also shown
interest in reviewing with the Bank such matters as resource allocation and
improving the efficien'cy of public sector enterprises.   The report of the
recent economic mission, expected to be distributed in May 1986, will form the
basis for reviewing macro economic policies and identifying ways to promote
growth and efficiency in the economy.   The energy assessment review, also
expected to be distributed in May 1986, will help to identify measures which
would encourage the optimal development and economically efficient use of the
country's energy resources and promote institutional development. Sector work
currently being undertaken includes an agricultural sector survey and a study
on the water supply and sewerage sector. The Government has indicated that it
wishes to take into account the findings of these reports in the preparation
of the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan (1986-1990). With the same objectives
in mind, the Government also asked the Bank to provide advice on a manpower
planning report and to review a study which is intended to serve as a basis
for defining the Government's industrial strategy. Future lending and sector
work would be concentrated mainly on those sectors accorded priority in the
Sixth Plan and on which the Bank has already had some impact, such as agricul-
ture, sewerage and energy.
25.      This is the second loan for Syria to be presented to the Executive
Directors this fiscal year. Other loans under preparation are for petroleum
engineering and gas appraisal, a second livestock project and a Damascus
sewerage project.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Institutional Framework
26.      The Ministry of Irrigation manages all water resources in the country.
Under the tutelage of the Ministry of Housing and Utilities (MlU), thirteen
water authorities located in the capital city of each Governorate are respon-
sible for all aspects of water supply in their respective cities.  In other
municipalities, water supply systems are operated by municipal  staff.   At
present there are no specialized national, regional or municipal sewerage



- 9 -
authorities.   Although governorate and municipal service departments operate
and manage existing sewerage networks in addition to their other responsibi-
lities, they generally lack the managerial and financial resources to provide
adequate services. The MHU provides guidance and assistance to the municipal
service departments and existing water authorities through two departments at
its headquarters in Damascus dealing with potable water supply and sewerage.
At the request of the Municipalities and Governorates, these two departments
give advice as well as design facilities to develop water souirces, water
treatment plants, main distribution systems and reservoirs for water supply.
They provide the same services for sewage collection systems and small indus-
trial sewage treatment facilities.
27.      The  main  constraints  to the development of an efficient sewerage
sector have been inadequate financial policies, weak institutional organiza-
tion and insufficient manpower development. The Government is aware of these
bottlenecks, and measures to redtructure the sector by establishing financially
viable sewerage companies are under way.  Furthermore, with assistance from
the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, a training center
specializing in water supply and sewerage operations is being established in
Damascus.   In  addition  to  developing  the  organizational  structure  and
financial and operational policies of the sewerage sector, the Government's
objectives are to provide adequate sewage treatment facilities and to improve
health and environmental conditions through reducing the pollution created by
urban and industrial raw sewage discharges.
28.      The Government has taken significant  steps on institutional reform
aimed at improving the efficiency of the sector. In October 1984, legislation
was passed allowing for the creation of a Public Establishment for Water
Supply and Sewerage (PEWSS) in each Governorate and providing for the eventual
creation of subsidiary companies for sewerage. Under the tutelage of the MHU,
each PEWSS would entrust its executive powers for operation and maintenance to
General Companies for Water (GECOW) and General Companies for Sewerage
(GECOS).   For each Governorate, the existing water authorities would become
the GECOW under the new arrangements, while the GECOS would be created from
the Technical Sewerage Divisions of the respective municipalities.   Each of
these companies would be chaired by a General Director vested with appropriate
authority (in relation to staffing, equipment and operating budget) to operate
effectively.  This new organizational structure would enable  the GECOS  to
benefit from cooperation and coordination with the existing local water supply
companies, particularly for billing, customer files management and accounting
procedures.  The proposed project would build on these institutional measures
through establishing the Aleppo GECOS which would be operated on a commercial
basis.
Water Supply and Sewerage Service Levels
29.      The current level of access to water supply in Syria (measured in
terms of house connections) is above average for the Middle East Region.  This
is a reflection of the Government's emphasis in the early 1970s to reduce
water supply shortages which were mainly caused by rural to urban migration



- 10 -
and inadequate investment in the sector.   The Government,  with the Bank's
assistance, completed three projects to expand the water supply in the two
largest cities of the country, Damascus and Aleppo.  It is estimated that the
urban population served by house connections may rise from the present level
of about 80 percent to about 85 percent in 1990 and possibly reach 95 percent
by the year 2000. Rural population with access to public water supply could
increase from the present 62 percent to 85 percent in 1990, reaching nearly 90
percent by the turn of the century. These estimates are in line with the
Government's sectoral investment objectives. The share of public investment
funds allocated to the water supply and sewerage sector in the Fifth Five-Year
Development Plan (1981-85) was about 2.5 percent of the total. Priority will
continue to be given to this sector in the Sixth Plan (1986-90), with about
the same share of public investment being budgeted for water supply, while
investment allocations for sewerage systems would increase four-fold in
constant terms.
30.      The development of the sewerage sector has not kept pace with that of
water supply. Although sewerage systems exist in most medium-sized and large
cities, they have not been extended to cope with the rapid expansion of the
cities, nor are they adequately maintained and operated. There are currently
no sewage treatment plants in Syria. Construction of the first two sewage
treatment plants in Homs and Hama, being carried out under Loan 2420-SYR, is
expected to start in 1986 (para. 33). Furthermore, no specific laws or regu-
lations exist for governing treatment plant performance or receiving water
standards. All cities and villages discharge untreated sewage into lakes and
rivers, while coastal communities discharge their effluents at the shore
line. This practice results in pollution of the environment and creates a
serious health hazard to the population. The discharge of untreated sewerage
into rivers prevents their traditional use as water sources for domestic water
supply. Widespread use of the undiluted raw sewage and polluted river water
for irrigation of small agricultural plots is common. From 1970 to 1984, at
least eight major outbreaks of cholera took place in areas where sewage is
utilized for contact irrigation of vegetables, particularly in Aleppo,
Damascus, Darna, Hama and Homs.
31.      It is estimated that about 66 percent of the total urban population
of Syria  is currently  served by municipal sewage collection systems.  In
Aleppo, approximately 80 percent of its population of 1.1 million inhabitants
is connected to the existing network of gravity combined sewers. The quality
of recently constructed sewer networks is acceptable, and extension of
secondary networks has generally kept pace with planned urban development and
upgrading of unplanned  residential areas.  Repairs and  extensions  to the
sewage network system planned under the proposed project would improve service
standards. Although a relatively high percentage of Aleppo's population is
connected to the sewer networks, the lack of sewage treatment facilities has
resulted in frequent outbreaks of waterborne diseases.
32.      The Government is taking steps to improve solid waste collection and
disposal. As a result of a study carried out by the MHU, a draft decree to
create  specialized  public  enterprises  in  each  Governorate  is  pending



- 11 -
Parliamentary ratification.  In Aleppo, solid waste is already treated in a
composting plant, while the construction of a solid waste treatment and
composting plant in Damascus is scheduled to start by mid-1986 with financial
assistance from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development.
The Bank's Role in Water Supply and Sewerage and Experience with Past lending
33.      Bank lending has supported the Government's objectives in the water
supply and sewerage sector. Bank participation in this sector began with two
water supply projects for Damascus. An IDA credit of $15.0 million was made
in 1973 (Credit 401-SYR) which financed the first phase of the city's water
distribution works as well as pollution control studies for the Barada and
Assi Rivers.  An IBRD loan of $35.0 million for a Second Damascus Water Supply
Project (Loan 1241-SYR) was approved in 1976 and works were completed in 1980
within four months of the original contract schedule.  The combined Project
Completion Report for the First and Second Damascus Water Supply Projects
(No. 4823 of December 1983) concluded that these projects met their objectives
of augmenting the water supply of Damascus and contributed greatly towards the
development of the water authority into a technically sound and financially
viable institution. The report highlighted the importance of providing
technical assistance for training, procurement, bid evaluation and project
supervision. In 1977, the Bank made a loan of $50.0 million for the Aleppo
Water Supply Project (Loan 1458-SYR) to help finance construction of a 73
kilometer transmission line between Lake Assad and Aleppo, expansion of a
water treatment plant, and improvements to existing water distribution
systems. Project facilities were completed and operational in June 1983. The
Project Completion Report of November 1985 noted that the project objectives
of increasing the water supply to Aleppo and the carrying out of feasibility
studies were met. Although there were delays in meeting the financial objec-
tives of the project, tariffs throughout the country were raised in 1985 to a
level which would generate revenues to finance operation and maintenance
costs, debt service and depreciation plus a portion of investment.  In 1984,
the Bank approved a loan of $30.0 million for the Homs and Hama Sewerage
Project (Loan 2420-SYR). As recommended under the project, the Government has
enacted legislation introducing major institutional reforms in the sewerage
sector (para. 28). The project is to provide sewage treatment and disposal
facilities for the inhabitants of Homs and rama. After initial delays due to
unfamiliarity  with   procurement  procedures,   project   implementation   is
proceeding satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.      The proposed project was identified in 1982 as a result of a sewerage
master plan feasibility study undertaken in connection wich the Aleppo Water
Supply Project (Loan 1458-SYR).  Project preparation began in 1984 and the
project  was  appraised  in  May  1985.   Loan  negotiations  took  place  in
Washington, D.C. from March 17 to 20, 1986 with a Syrian delegation headed by



- 12 -
H.E. Hamid Merei, Deputy Minister of State for Planning Affairs of the State
Planning Commission and including representatives of the Ministry of Housing
and Utilities.   A  report  entitled  "Staff Appraisal  Report  - Syrian  Arab
Republic:  Aleppo Sewerage Project"  (No.  5826-SYR) dated March 28, 1986 is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.   A summary of the
proposed project is provided at the beginning of this report and Annex III
contains supplementary project data.
Project Rationale
35.      The  Government's  objectives  in  the  sewerage  sector  include  the
provision of adequate sewage treatment and disposal facilities for urban areas
in order to improve health and environmental conditions through the abatement
of pollution from urban and industrial liquid wastes. Bank support is aimed
at assisting the Government to develop effective institutions in the sewerage
sector and to adopt  appropriate  financial  and  operational  policies.   The
proposed project is consistent with these objectives and complements initia-
tives taken under the Homs and Hama Sewerage Project (Loan 2420-SYR). Aleppo
is the second largest city in the country and the principal industrial and
commercial center in northern Syria. Urbanization and industrialization have
caused serious pollution and health problems in Aleppo and the proposed
project would address these issues.  In addition to providing sewage treatment
and disposal facilities for the inhabitants of Aleppo and establishing a
semi-autonomous sewerage company, the project would also improve the water
quality of the Kouek River, thus promoting reuse of treated water for agricul-
tural purposes.
Project Description
36.      The project consists of the following main components:
i;   construction  of  a  sewage  treatment  plant  at  Sheikh  Said,
including primary and secondary treatment;
(ii)   construction of the Sheikh Said and Ramouseh Pumping Stations,
including  the  supply  and  erection  of  electra-mechanical
equipment and supply and installation of about 8 kilometers of
force mains;
(iii)   construction  of  about  50  kilometers  of  trunk  sewers  and
overflow structures to convey sewage from existing and planned
urban developments to the sewage treatment plant;
(iv)   construction of workshops as well as provision of operating and
maintenance equipment and vehicles for the Aleppo GECOS;



- 13 -
{v)   about  1,570  man-months  of  expert  services  to  assist  with
setting up the organizational and management systems of the
Aleppo GECOS and with other project activities including
procurement,    construction    supervision,   engineering   and
financial studies and operation and maintenance of project
facilities;
(vi)   about  170  man-months  of  expert  services  to  carry  out
engineering  studies  for  reuse  of  treated  effluent  for
irrigation  and  a  study  to  establish  standard  designs  for
stabilization ponds to serve cities with between 2,000 and
100,000 inhabitants; and
(vii)   a  training  program  for  Aleppo  GECOS'  staff  in  technical,
managerial and accounting areas.
Project Implementation
37.      The MHU would be the executing agency for the project.  A qualified
engineer has been appointed as Project Director and would be vested with
adequate authority to fulfill his responsibilities.   The MHU has agreed to
establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) by July 1, 1986 under the authority
of the Project Director within the Public Establishment for Water Supply and
Sewerage, with terms of reference and staffing acceptable to the Bank. The
PMU would be responsible for supervising implementation of all project
activities.   The General Company for Engineering and Consulting (GECEC), a
state-owned firm, would provide assistance to the PMU in procurement, bid
evaluation, engineering design, construction supervision and staff training.
GECEC has satisfactorily undertaken similar arrangements for the Government in
the sewerage sector and is qualified to assist in execution of the project.
GECEC would also be reinforced for the duration of the project by consultants
familiar  with  international  procurement  procedures  and  treatment  plant
t technology. These consultants would furthermore provide assistance in staff
training, the carrying out of feasibility and engineering studies and project
execution. The terms of reference for these consulting services have been
approved by the Bank.   The signing and approval of a consultancy contract
acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
38.      Upon completion of the proposed works, the MHU would transfer the
related infrastructure to the Aleppo GECOS (para. 42). The technical staff of
the Aleppo GECOS will require considerable assistance, particularly at the
outset, to become proficient in operating and maintaining the plant and
networks. Provision has been made under the project for implementation of a
comprehensive training program.  In addition, the suppliers of equipment for
the treatment plant and pumping stations will provide guidance on operations
during plant commissioning and assistance in operation and maintenance
procedures for two years thereafter. Assurances were obtained that the Aleppo
GECOS would develop a monitoring system for key indicators of performance
covering  such  areas  as  population  served,   financial  and  operational
conditions, and the training program.  The Aleppo GECOS would also maintain



- 14 -
technical records of the sewage treatment operations to monitor the quality of
the  effluent  discharged  from  the  treatment  plant.   All  industries  are
presently connected to the municipal sewerage system.   New  industries  are
compelled by law to treat their own sewage or connect to the municipal
sewerage system. Therefore, no adverse impact on the environment is antici-
pated from industrial wastewater after the commissioning of the proposed
sewage treatment plant.
Project Cost and Financing
39.      The total project cost is $211.6 million, which includes  taxes and
duties  amounting  to  $44.4 million.   The  foreign  exchange  component  is
estimated at $82.0 million or 49 percent of total project costs (net of taxes
and duties). A physical contingency allowance of 10 percent has been added to
the  cost  of  all   project   items.    Price  contingencies,   amounting   to
$50.5 million or about 31 percent of the base cost plus physical contingen-
cies, have also been included. Price contingencies for local costs have been
calculated at 15 percent for 1986, 9 percent for 1987-90, 8 percent for
1991-92 and 7 percent thereafter; and for foreign costs, at 7.5 percent in
1986, 8 percent for 1987-90 and 5 percent thereafter.  Technical assistance
costs include salaries, housing, relocation and international travel costs of
consultants, as well as the cost of local services such as local travel,
subsistence and overhead.
40.      The  proposed  project  would  be  co-financed  with  the  European
Investment  Bank  (EIB)  on  a  parallel  basis.   The  EIB  loan of  16 million
European  Currency  Units   (US$12.0 million  equivalent)   was  approved   in
December 1985.   The terms  of the EIB loan would be for 17 years,  including
5 years of grace, at an interest rate of about 5 percent.  Once the existing
sewerage system has been transferred to the Aleppo GECOS, EIB funds would be
on-lent to the Aleppo GECOS under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  The EIB loan
would finance the electro-mechanical equipment for the Sheikh Said Pumping
Station and the force mains.  The signing of a loan agreement between the
Syrian Arab Republic and the EIB would be a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank  loan.   The  proposed  Bank  loan  of  $70.0 million  would  finance  the
remaining foreign exchange requirements of the proposed project, or the
equivalent of 42 percent of total project costs (net of taxes and duties).
The balance of project costs would be financed by an equity contribution of
$123.6 million from the Government and $6.0 million from internal funds
generated by the Aleppo GECOS.
On-lending Arrangements
41.      The proposed Bank loan of $70.0 million would be made to the Syrian
Arab Republic for 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.  The Government would retain $0.8 million to finance
the foreign exchange cost of the engineering and feasibility studies not
related to the Aleppo GECOS. Upon transfer of the existing sewer network to
the Aleppo GECOS, the balance of the Bank loan of $69.2 million would be
on-lent to the Aleppo GECOS under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, on terms and



- 15 -
conditions acceptable to the Bank, f or a period of 17.5 years (including
3.5 years of grace) with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. This
would allow for the commencement of debt service charges to the Aleppo GECOS
when the sewage treatment plant and pumping stations begin operating in 1991.
In line with its policy for socially oriented projects, the Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Organization
42.      The Municipality of Aleppo is responsible for operation and main-
tenance of the sewerage system. The current technical and financial manage-
ment of the sewerage system is unsatisfactory. In line with recent Government
legislation to restructure the sector, a semi-autonomous Public Establishment
for Water  Supply  and  Sewerage  has  been  established  in each  Governorate
(para. 28). The General Director of the Aleppo PEWSS has been appointed. The
Aleppo PEWSS would set up two separate companies, one responsible for the
operation and maintenance of all sewerage facilities and the other for water
supply. Under these arrangements, the existing Aleppo Water Authority would
become the new GECOW. A draft decree for the establishment of the Aleppo
GECOS, the contents of which are acceptable to the Bank, was sent to the
Cabinet in March 1986. Assurances were obtained that this decree would be
enacted by September 1, 1986. Agreement has been reached on a timetable for
implementation of all necessary actions to put in place by December 1, 1986
the operational structure of the Aleppo GECOS including (i) appointment of the
GECOS General Director; (ii) recruitment of operating personnel and implemen-
tation of the training program; and (iii) engagement of management and
accounting consultants to assist in establishing the organizational structure
and implementing administrative procedures and a commercial accounting system.
It was also agreed that the ownership, management and operation of the
existing sewer network would be transferred to the Aleppo GECOS by July 1,
1987, and the ownership, management and operation of the treatment plant and
other facilities to be constructed under the project would be transferred to
the Aleppo GECOS upon their completion.
Status of Project Preparation
43.      Final designs and contract drairings for the proposed project have
been completed. Bidding documents for the trunk sewers, pumping stations and
sewage treatment plant have been reviewed by the Bank.  Contracts for trunk
sewers, the sewage treatment plant and pumping stations are expected to be
awarded in December 1986, July 1987 and June 1988, respectively. The contract
for consultancy services between the GECEC and MHU has been signed. The terms
of reference for consultants to assist GECEC. in following international
competitive bidding procedures, carrying out bid evaluation, construction
supervision, engineering studies and the staff training program have also been
approved by the Bank. The right of use of land for the sewage treatment plant
has been obtained. Construction of sewers is scheduled to start in December
1986.



- 16 -
Financial Proiections
44.      Sewage disposal  is one of the  range  of  services  currently  being
provided by the Aleppo Municipality and separate accounts have not been
maintained.   Capital  funds  are  provided  by  the  Central  Government  with
operating and maintenance expenditures financed from the municipal recurrent
budget. In 1983, total revenues of the Aleppo Municipality amounted to about
$141.1 million equivalent.   The  three main sources of these revenues were
those collected directly by the Municipality (21 percent). Central Government
funds derived from taxes earmarked to the Municipality (20 percent), and
Government  loans  and  grants  (59 percent).   The  principal  source  of  the
Municipality's direct income is from the sale of land left over from road and
housing development construction.   The Municipality  also  collects  sewerage
charges levied on property owners when a sewer is constructed or rehabilitated.
45.      The Government has introduced a cost recovery policy for the sewerage
sector which includes adoption of a progressive tariff structure aimed at
recovering all operating costs and depreciation-' for existing and future
sewage facilities, as well as repairs to and rehabilitation of the existing
network. This would provide revenue for the operation and development of the
system and reduce the burden on limited government and municipal resources.
In order to determine the most appropriate manner for achieving the
Government's cost recovery policy, a tariff study would be commissioned by
July 1, 1986 and completed by March 31, L987, taking into account the Bank's
views.  In addition, assurances were obtained that the Government would cause
the Aleppo GECOS to implement by July 1, 1987 the financial measures
formulated on the basis of the study.
46.      The proposed project would assist the Aleppo GECOS to develop its
financial capabilities.  The projection of revenues for the Aleppo GECOS has
been based on the Government's financial policy for the sector (para. 45).
The Aleppo GECOS would take over operations of the existing sewer network by
July 1, 1987. From 1988, revenues are estimated to grow over four times (in
current  terms)  to $25.4 million  by  the end of 1993.  This would provide
sufficient internal funds to cover full debt service and an average of 4
percent of investment costs. Fixed assets in operation would also increase by
more than three times to about $364 million, while the debt-to-equity ratio
would remain around 16:84. The debt service ratio would not drop below 1.02.
Procurement and Disbursement
47.      All works, equipment and machinery to b, finuanced by the Bank would
be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines through international competi-
tive bidding.   For the purposes of bid evaluation, a 15 percent margin of
preference, or an amount equal to the customs diuties, whichever is lower,
would be applied to equipment manufactured in Syria.  Consultants would be
recruited in accordance with Bank guidelines.  The suprly and erection of
11  Depreciation for the Aleppo GECOS would remain higher than projected debt
service during the life of the project.



- 17 -
electro-mechanical equipment for the Sheikh Said Pumping Station and the
supply of force mains would be carried out in accordance with EIB procurement
procedures.
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
Procurement Method              Total
Project Component                         ICB        LCB       OTEER          Cost
Land                                       -          -        10.79          10.79
Trunk Sewers                             66.19        -          -            66.19
(21.18)                             (21.18)
Pumping Stations
Civil works and pipe laying             7.43        -          -             7.43
(2.6")                              (2.60)
Equipment and force mains               7.37        -       16.49 bI       23.86
(5.09)                              (5.09)
Treatment Plant
Civil works, supply and                84.45        -          -           84.45
installation of equipment             (32.23)                             (32.23)
Aleppo GECOS
Workshops                               1.29        -          -             1.29
(0.41)                              (0.41)
Vehicles and operations                 3.51        -          -             3.51
and maintenance equipment              (2.66)                               (2.66)
Technical Assistance                                  -        12.02          12.02
(4.26)        (4.26)
Training                                              -         2.07           2.07
(1.57)        (1.57)
Total Financing                   170.24       -        41.37         211.61
(64.17)      -        (5.83)        (70.00)
a/  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts, in $ million equiva-
lent, to be financed by the Bank. Total cost includes contingencies.
bI  Goods  and  services  to  be  financed by  the  EIB  would be  procured  in
accordance with EIB guidelines.



- 18 -
48.      The proposed loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and local expenditures ex-factory for machinery, equipment and
vehicles; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for training and technical
assistance; 62 percent of total expenditures for suppliers' contracts for the
operation and maintenance of the treatment plant and pumping stations;
35 percent of total expenditures for the construction of pumping stations and
laying of force mains; 32 percent of total expenditures for the construction
of tra-vt sewers, overflows and workshops; and 30 percent of total expenditures
for treatment plant civil works. The project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1993, which is consistent with the country disbursement profile.
In order to ensure that Syria would have ready access to foreign exchange, a
Special Account would be established in the Central Bank of Syria to which the
Bank would make an initial deposit of $2.0 million. The Special Account would
be replenished against withdrawal applications to be submitted by the Borrower
at agreed intervals. All disbursements from the loan account would be fully
documented except those against contracts valued at equivalent of $50,000 or
less. Disbursements against these contracts would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures. The supporting documentation would be retained by
the Borrower and made available for review by the Bank.
Accounting and Audit
"9.     The Government would be responsible for maintaining adequate records
and accounts of expenditures under the project.   An annual audit of these
accounts, the special account and statements of expenditures would be carried
out by auditors acceptable to the Bank.  Starting in 1987, the Aleppo GECOS
would be required to maintain adequate records and accounts of its operations
and have them audited annually by independent auditors.  It has been agreed
thac these audit reports would be furnished to the Bank within 9 months after
the end of each fiscal year.  The Aleppo GECOS would take out and maintain
insurance coverage in accordance with acceptable public utility practices.
Benefits and Risks
50.     The  project  would  directly  benefit  the  estimated  1.7 million
inhabitants expected to be living in the project area by 1995 through the
provision of sewerage facilities and by reducing health hazards and improving
environmental conditions.  The treatment of sewage would improve the water
quality of the Kouek River and thus promote reuse of treated water for
irrigation.   About  29 percent  of  the population  in  the  project  area  is
estimated to be living close to or below the poverty level.  The portion of
project costs attributable to the lower income level group would be about
16 percent of the total cost.  Analysis indicates that the projected increase
in water and sewerage rates  would be  affordable  to  low income  families.
Technical assistance and training to be provided under the project would
contribute to strengthening the technical and financial capabilities of the
Aleppo GECOS. The project would also provide a pattern for further sectoral
development in other urban areas.



- 19 -
51.      The risks  associated with  the project  are  related  to  the newly
established project institution and the country's limited experience in
treatment plants. The thoroughness of project preparation, the provision of
experienced consultants to assist the Aleppo GECOS in project management and
construction supervision, and the implementation of a comprehensive training
program should minimize these risks.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
52.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 23, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-20-                                                   ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
T A 7 L 9 34
StilL. AN"  UP.        - JOC7UIC l1tU          BURT            A          a
*"U.IZ UFUUA                                 CblRW AKM
MOST                    (HST uCES  ESTIMATE) /b
a~.otk        RECENT            NIM   NU                INDU NC=m
160b       197Q! ULbTi!-  gD T. p
UTINA,r/h    N. AFRICA  aD EAS     LAT. AISICA  C& R
AM (INUWM IS M)
TOTA                               3.2         18n.a      18.2
AGRIWULIUIAL                      319.4        134.6      141.1
ow  m OCPI   MS)                        ..         ..       1760.0             1133.9                   1873.9
a      comnso  a  CAPIy^
(KILOGAM Or OIL EQUIVALEIT)        219.0      311.0       7U2.0              623.9                    993.6
vmun. am VTAL  JftTIS
POPULATION.aIO-ta  (TN0UsApDS)   4341.0      4256.0      9801.0
O1*  POPlTI0  tZ RO TOTAL)          36.8        63.3       48.4               49.0                     67.7
rpounao  n        vljunous
POMlATI  IN WAR 20DD WILL)                               17.1
SAnIuONA  FOIAnTIm CHILL)                                41.0
rOPUTIO  SWUNTI                                           2.0
POUToN umasin
FE  SQ. at.                       24.6       33.3        11.9               37.8                     63.0
C SQ. N. ARI. LAND                30.5       66.5        65.9              u70.1                     91.1
POPULATION Al! ST3DCTtUE (R)
0-14 us                          4.3         48.1       47.8               43.5                     38.3
13-56 us                         55.8        67.7        49.1               53.0                     37.1
65 AID ABOV                        3.7        4.0         2.9                3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROW  RATE (C)
TOTAL                              2.7         3.2         3.3               2.8                      2.4
t38l5                              6.3        4.8         6.3                4.6                      3.6
CU    Bttl NATZ  PU (RTWO)          *7.0       *6.3        45.9               *0.0                     30.9
CUD DEAT Rma  (PER Tom)             17.7        13.5        7.0               11.5                      8.0
CMs UPRODUCTON RAT!                  3.6        3.7         3.5                Z.8                      2.0
PAIL? PUANNING
ACEPTORS. ANWAL (TWUS)             ..
ES (Z or KaE  11)                  ..         ..         23.0 kc            21.4                     45.3
INDEX oF PMm 1o0. a  CAPrTA
(1969-71-100)                      128.0       87.0       158.0              95.1                     109.6
PU CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALOIEs (Z OF aer  uamnS)         99.0       93.0       128.0              118.2                    113.2
PROT-  (CUA11 PE  DAY)            68.0       63.0        91.0              77.8                      69.4
Of RI7   AJEIAL AND PULSE        16.0        19.0       23.0 I             17.3                     34.2
C0HD CAGES 1-) DEUL  tATE           23.2       14.8         6.0               12.8                      6.8
Lin EXPCT. AT aim  (TEaM)           49.7       57.3        67.3               57.a                     14.6
ITNANT HOLT. RAtE CPU MM005)       132.0       96.0        56.0              96.8                      59.7
ACCESS TO SAE WATER (X10)
TTAL                              41.9 /b    71.0        71.0 /a            67.2                     65.3
tRnS                              76.7r    98.0          98.o               9 S3.4                   78.5
ADVAL                             22.6 71     30.0       34.0 7-            6.38                      4.2
ACCCSS TO ZXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z Or POPULATIO)
TU                                 .4 ..                 65.0               45.9                     56.3
RUR7. 0                                                             /      63.0                      73.4
28.0 7            28.6                     25.5
POPLATINF PUITXSCI                4630.0     3860.0      2240.0            4331.0                    1909.7
POP. PER NORS    PERSON          10850.0 If  6670.0      1390.0 7l          1845.0                    808.2
POP. PU BSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            930.0      1010.0      940.0 Ic           621.8                    362.0
USD431                           520.0 IL   870.0       770.0 7T           545.0                    622.0
RAL                                ..         ..          ..              2311.3                   2716.7
ADISSItS PU HSPITAL  ECD             ..        26.1        3L.g k            23.7                      27.5
AVERAGE SXZE OFr FOSELD
TOTAL                              3.9        5.9
1Dam                               6.0        6.0
RURAL                              3.9        5.9
AVERAG N0. Or PERSONS/BOON
IOAL                               2.3
MUIAN                              2.1
RORAL                              2.5
PERCETArZ Or  muLLNS wl! eLEC.
TOTAL                             38.0       41.7
URBAN                             87.7       84.7
RUAL                              10.5       10.2



- 21 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
T A A L 9 34
SYRSAN AM  REP.        - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SYRIAN ARA6 RIP.                     SNRIRENCE GROUPS (UtCGNO AVERACES) /a
HOST                    (HUST RECENT esTIATE) 
RECENT           MIDDLE INCO            MIDDLE      E
14b        197gaL  zSTimATL.b    v. amiCA & PaD  AsT      LAT. ANMCA a CAR
ADISTED ENROLLET RATIOS
PRUMAY:  TOTAL                   65.0        78.0       101.0              89.8                    106.7
KALE                   89.0        95.0      t11.0              101.7                    1O6.5
FEMAL                  a9.0        59.0       90.0               75.2                    104.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  16.0       38.0        5l.O              42.9                     44.2
KALE                   25.0        54.0       62.0               S0.9                     42.7
FEMALE                  7.0       21.0        40.0               34.6                     ".9
VOCATIONAL (2 O SECOIDAXY)         6.3         3.4         6.3              10.0                     13.3
PUP-TEAOIU RATIO
PRAl?                            46.0        37.0        27.0              29.7                     29.9
SECONDAXr                         21.0       22.0        17.0              18.8                     16.7
CO_
PASSENG  CARS/ITISAND POP           3.6         4.7         8.0 /c           17.8                     46.0
RADIO RECCIVERS/THOUSAND POP       57.0       218.4       199.0             175.9                    328.3
TV RECCIVERS/TKOUSAND POP           0.2        18.5        46.3              51.2                    112.4
NIISPAPER ("DAILY CENnAL
INTERZST-) CIRCUIATION
PER THOUSAND POPULAION             ..          ..          7.0              37.2                     61.1
CINEISA ANMUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA    2.0         4.0 /1      1.6               2.4                      2.4
LUAM ra
TOTAL LAO  FORCE (THOIJS)         1277.0     1574.0      2399.0
FEMALE (PERCLIT)                  9.4        10.9        12.4              11.0                     23.6
AGRXCULTURE (PERCENT)             54.0       51.0        33.0 /a           42.4                     31.4
INDUSTRT (PERCENT)                19.0       21.0        31.0 7            27.9                     24.3
PARTICIPATION RAZE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             28.0       25.1        25.0              26.2                      33.5
:ALE                              49.4       43.7        42.7              46.2                     51.3
FEMLz                              5.4        5.6         6.2               5.6                     15.9
ECONOMIC DEPEDENCf RATIO            1.7         2.1         2.0               1.8                      1.3
3Cm DISTRYION
PERCENT OF PIVATE INCOME
RECIVED BY
NICZEST 520o HOOSEKOLDS           25.0
HIGEST 202 0? HOUSrOLDS          49.0
LOWEST 202 o0 HOUSEIOLDS          6.0
LowJsT 402 OF HOUSEOLDS           16.0
roDanTAW 
ESTITED ABSOLUTZ POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (tu5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..          ..              226.3                    288.3
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..              134.0                    185.3
ESTDIATED RELATIVE POVELTY INCME
LZVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..        278.0 /d          431.5                    519.8
RURmL                              ..         ..        278.0  d          326.0                    359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                             ..
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..               29.0
. OUr AVAILABLZ
wr APPLICAL
N OT E S
/a  Th. group average. for each in'tcator are popeation-weLghted aritbutic  a. Coverage of coantrie
among the Indicators depend cG SvallablUty of data and in not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 nd 1961; "Dte- for 1970" between
1969 =ad 1971; end data for 'kc Recent Zatimata" between 1981 end 1983.
/c  1978; /d 1977; /. 1980; /f 1962; &  1976; lh Percentag  of honaing unites wth piped water;  Il 1966.
JUN. 1985



-22-                                               ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
DEomMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
NoRa. Although tedat are drawn from sum gen y judged the mos authortauve and rumble. it should also be noted that they aynotx be mnemationally
comparble beau  jr die lak f standardised definmsa and conopu used by differem  cuntnes in Collectng the dlta. The data are. nethelesL useful to
describe ardes o magnitude. indictle treid. and chactenue rmiin major dilleencmes between counines
The rknee goups e (1) the same ountry grocp of the abject coutry and 12ja country group with somewhat higher average income than the country
group of tie subjed country (campt for -High Incone Oil Exponers" group where Middle Income North Afnca and Mddle East' s chowen becaue of ttronger
scan-cultural fliniutim) Ia the referent group data the aeg  are populaton weighted andenetic meana for meth indictor and shown only whbe majolty
ftbe coutnuti ioa group a datam for thatl eador Simx the coveraf contries among the tmdintoua depends -n the avalabibty of data and is not uniform.
cautuon must be ecased io rdtelg awerags of one ndicau  to another Thse awveage are only ueful in companng the value of one indictor at a tinie among
the country and yreren  groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            Crude Bes Rate (per thousaadj-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surface area colmprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1913 data.                                         Cnud Deah Rase (per thousuand-Number of deaths in the year
AgriEstirul-Estimate of agrultural area used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
petnanendy for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Grass Reprdude. Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960.1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated by smne conversion method as World       may Plamaig-Acceprrsz Ama  (rhoreadrl-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (I98l-83 basis); 1983 data.                            ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.        Fay Plassio    -Users (peremn of sined uwmeuj-The  percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   uge or married womnen ofchild-bearing age who are practicing or
tncity) in kilograns of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISICS                                    groups.
Total Pn paaiu Mid- Yea (thousadsk-As of July 1:1960.1970.        FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Ihdex of Fed Production Per Capita r(1969-71 = lvoff-lindex of per
Urban PopsLad. (percet of total).- Ratio of urban to total        capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: diferent definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal reed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       indude primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugr)
Pepala P#t-dou                                                    which are edible and contain nutients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of popultion for 20Do.     excluded): they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
miade for each economy separately. Starting with information on   vegetabes fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptons until the populadon became stationary.                 Per Capita SppIy f Callfie (percnt ef-reqAer f-Comput-
Sfaronary popudaion-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-    ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specifc  per carita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rates 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement klvel.                                        waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momerno-ls the tendency for population growth to       Per Capita Sapply of Protein (grms per dyi-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per dav. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which IO grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
pAldoa Density                                                    aveage for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.kmn.-Mid-year population per square kilometcr I 100 hec-   Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
tares) of total ara; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Capita Pboteh Supply froem  U  d and Pie-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricuurwal land-Computed as above for agricultural    of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
PbpAlhiea Age Structure (pereant)-Children (0- 14 ycars). work-   Cild (ages 1-4 Deth Rate (per thousaJd)-Nuumber of dcaths of
ing age (I5-4 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derivee
Poprdatiea Grewsth Rate (percear-b4ot&l--Annual growth rates of   from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Popatin  Growt Ran (pereent)-r_a--Annual growth rates            Lbfe Expectancy at ilirt (yearsj-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing pattens of mortality for all people



- -23                                    ANNEX I
23                                           Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the s"Me throughoul its life:    PAvp-eacher Ratio - primary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     roiled in primary and secondary levels divided by numben of
14*m UwMep Ra  fpa  hauuaudJ-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
yea, 1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                 CONSUMPllON
Acc   so S    W     (p1cM  Of pa1111t1ou)-ta    b.. and phssqar Cns (per themsd pepailmu)-Pbasenger cars com-
rnuIr-Number of people (totaL urban and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cas seating kss than eight persons: excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (inldudes treated surface watrs or  ancme hearscs and military vehicks.
untreated but uncotainsted waer such as that from protected   Redi Rehms (per thommdpepabdaej-All types of receivers
boreol  spngs and saniary w) as percentags of ther spec-      ror radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
tive populations In an urban are a public fountain or standpost  exdudes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 20D meters from a housc may be c        registration or radio sets was in effect data for recent years may
as being wihiin rvesonable acr of that house. In nura are s   not be comparable sirnce most countries abolished licensing.
resonable aems noud imply that the housewife or nembers of the
houekoM do not have to spcnd a disproportionate part of the day  TVRocecal (peruipJ- thouumndpopuluteion:cVreers forubroadcast
in fetching the raDys  water needs.                           to geneal public per thousand population: excludes unikense TV
inAf ag the faE Ws watc     ( wdef                  m_receivers in countries and in years when regstration orTV sets was
ACCES to Ezff. Duspml (Perww of ppeo)-tal* urban,             in erect.
aiNd  rd-Number of people (total urban. and rural) served by
excrt disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newsppe Crcutaie (per thousand popediaui-Shows the aver-
Exacreta disposal nay include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper. defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodkal publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar instaflationr.  It is consided to be -daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Pspuldnz per J'ysdirn-lPtpulation divided by number of prac-  Cinems Amu_e Anendaune per Capira per Year-Based on the
tisingphysiciansqualifiedfromamedicalschoolatuniversityleve.  number of tickets sold during the year. icluding admissions to
Apulad. per Nursin ?sn,--Population divided by number of      drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicng male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
pracical nures and nursing auxiliries.                           LABOR FORCE
Php^dun pg H.*tdiel -ol. urban, md -W-Population              Todin Lar Force  oandn t)-E        c onomically acti ve persons. in-
(totaL urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  dudmg armed forces and unemployed but excludmg housewives.
hospital beds availabte in public and  private general and   salaized  students. etc.. covenng population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centes. Hospitals are establishments  vanous countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pemanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femuae (percent)-Fernale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodl care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
howve include bealth and medl  cnters  not pernanently staffed  A4gwicawe (percentJ-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medkal assistant. nurse, midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 19N0
which offer in-pati  accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medial facities.                                           Indasyar (percenr)-LUbor for"e in mining, construction. manu-
Adusi ans p  Hopitl Bed-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and electricitv. water and gs as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
.iielpUion Ratr fpercenruJ-rot4 anke, amndfemae-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, male. and female labor force
Arag Size of HIsehold rp-  per househd)-tor, arban,           as percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
adurra-A howeltoldconsists ofagroupofindividuals who share    respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meanL A boarder or lodger may or  particpation rates reflecting age-sex structure or the population. and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Numie. of Persan per Room-t-otal. wham, and nrwl-     Economic Dependenwy Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64j.
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIDLTION
Pltcetae of Dwellins with Eleckrictp-eotdol. awhan, and rural-  Peentage of Total Disposble lwnse (both in cash and kiadj-
Conventional dwellings with eklctricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
age of total urban. and rural dwellings respectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     fPOVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Auted Eurollment Rats                                         The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pfimary school - total. male and femal-Gross total, male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution
female enrolment of all ages at the primary level as pcntages of  Etimated Absolte Poerty Inome Level r(US per capta i-urban,
respective primary school-ge populations. While many countries  and r a--Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  telow which a minimal nutritionaliv adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are refected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estumaed Relare Pbverty Imconie Level L SS per capit -ban
education   ss enrolnment may exceed 100 percent since some   ad rural-Rural relative roverty income level is one-third of
pupis are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secoedry school - total, mak and female-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estited PopulWaion Below Absolute Poberty lacomc Level (per-
may insitruclion: provides genral, vocationaL or teacher training  centi-urhan and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence coures are generally exduded.
Vocatrme  Eilbnmi (perct of serandary)-Vocational institu-             Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technicaL industriaL or othcr programs which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of seondary institutions.                             June 1985



ANEX I
-21.- -a   5 of 6
St" - DM1M    WA
bpIaiimg       9.9 mum. (198S)
GW ft  Ck     tM57 sL)
hMar                 hume m1i Juuu. CZ)                       Sham aof  IEP eE  Ftice  CZ)
fi"11Mt 35             (at taintin  191 prices)                       (at c.r.g prics)
loniatka                           at cunc  pncn)
1984           19l871  1970-75  1975-80  19-d           1965    1970    1975   1960   1986
NIIL AlMlXD
1am die4  product a/                     18,69d             3.6     14.2      5.3      2.6       100.0   100.0    h.O   100.0  100.0
Agrdal53  at                           3,713             5.5      12.0      8.9     -2.1       29.0    18.7    17.9  2D.0   19.9
1zubaauy a/ 8/                        4,414             U3.0     14.9      0.8       1.1       22.1    29.3    24.8   24.3   23.6
Sarwie.. .1                           10,571             5.9     14.6       6A       4.8       48.9    52.0    57.3   55.7   56.5
umoctmo                                 17,019              9.0     22.9      5.8       3.        90.4    90.4    87.6   87.9   91.0
Gross inva ema                           4,116              7 0     22.0      10.3      2.8        9.6     D.l    24.9   27.3   2S.2
at rm ad 3s                       2,212             3.0       1.8    -3.3       2.3       16.7    17A      21.2   17.9   n.s
a ofBMW  ad W15                   4,6A8             4.5      23.2      4.1      5.1       16.7    20.9    33.8   33.1   24.9
(G.. tnal dJv rf                         2,5J6              2.5     -7.4      2.1    -5.1          9.6     9.6    12A    13.0   136
Cqmatiaat of lcMd2din bi  CZ)
(at current priem)
lb94       1976    191U    1984
ISSlEUB VAI d/
)hahuui. uqwta                           1,732     10U.0   130.0  U10.0
Pd_mq                                 1,268      9J.0    93.4    73.2
-5buttial l ce                         fi"4      10.U      6.6    2b.8
Imhdi.d   iqin                          3.51       100.0   100.0   1W.0
F4xill                                  13       17.2    14.1    17.3
f     ltmini                          1.215       9.7    25A      3%.3
3dh-y -d eqipa                         669       33.6    21.6    18.9
(khg                                  L.065       39.5    3.9    29.5
1918     1979     190    1981        1982     1363     198.
MM AD INS Cf MU1 
a-  d.flarw (19  - 100)                       7U.7  12.2   l100    U6.4    119.6    126.4    13D.8
Eam   zog  e/                                  3.95     3.95     3.95      3.95     3.95     3.95     3.95
q.tPM= peice izc                              45.1     71.0      MO    105A        93.6    91.1      89.9
Iqint price inc                              65.0      8D.0    11L0    93.0       87.0    87.0      87.0
mtof te  jod..                                69.4.   8W.8    10U.0    113.3    107.6    104.7    103.3
As Z of ("
(at       prices)
1975     1910    I196
rw  mveam                                   27.5     26.b     I&A
OQrat uqindift&w                            24.9     3U..     3.L5
Scpk  W+ cc ddiett                         -W9.2   -21.4    -22.2
lminamt e _pait                             2L7      17.7     16.1
vHzdp finzicila                             11.2     11.3      5.0
19754W0   110-84
I! &pich nte (C)                                  5.7       2.7
OW p- caita pw  ra  CO)                           L9       -1.7
mm                                                7.0      10.4
1niim1 niwar   (2) f/                            -0.1    -2U.2
tr elmdcizy                                       1.0       1.9
a   At dr lit p.
hI  Iambi.. uiau  -  qatyizn. -mrhur-. ud e'',tricity. pa. water ud comtrutim.
BMW CM Wtt 1975 p
br .W  aaE        tt at E      F  tar period ptar co IO pun domestic smvbg.
I Offici; =t-e
fl si_p to IPus it-i mviap.



AII I
- 25 -                                                     IP        6 oF B
1KM - UAz~ et    . U_0L OITh.ains
f65lUws e364 aE r ,      i
lupl-4im        9.9 Y1m16  (l
iw   r q4mai ESId    ( .)
kh.a1 cI
mhz oslu oC Lp3   & Ws                        -37   -3         -21      -2m11    -111    -253a -2.36    -2             S    -67    -Ce         21
_dm  of   ol 23t  Ws                        LIN      2  2N    W       21W      2I      31A0    33r2 mr.    3.              2r       N       4
i a   fd wat   3                            2wSi    31        7 4715  sUB     41s9    30    46           169    673.   5122        57    GM
lo'a   aic,,,                                    W.      InU     13.      381      1K      3X2      1    Ue 3         33i      39       UB      411
PA FrE ilmeo 42                                   4       7      -12      -L       -      -1        -91     -363    -17       -Ue    -m        -401
Qmt 7oxio   ial.                              -21    -IeMW  -a          -2136    -       -25   -1912    -21V5    -            212     -2       210
Ufitcial  _auatea tumufas                       171   1Nab    1sla    U307    1370    13.9    1119           IIIL4    Wt       m        30      ss
Dkla  pCito          e                            -      12      -3.      -23       3        -        2        a       N       am      U0       IK
3hUc Ix (u.s.a                                 iL       362       K       4St     63       "7a     714 1       g      1       486      rig21    la
_metiont -  IN                                 -VA     -436    -6111   -452 w     2-4     -41      -43       -m      -zS      -232    -21      -251
Pul10 IUdX (.71                                 351     ILb      -20       43      -7      295      31       33h      42b      317     *79      41
a      67      -32       to      -5      LU      -3        115       SY     386      Sw      MM
0.. I.. .aa_w   1 _- 1mIn* 9B    -2                              63       37       23Z     363    6a1         -1      -16     -61      -73      -4
'asip ahaI    muD  _01t   0                                               239     inI       43       91       92      1ei      173     31*      336
9.00%aa _s .00an cd  __4mdi-O  _Icbu              2       2        I      0U.1  t .         L.1 0L   3       0.3      0.      0.5      0.6      0a
19ill    1918      1919      IS        low 1     91a     198
0.  d          iahW-.  .6 OIX  a03                                   W1       381      664       361       385      312       323
i3.gWiemL                                                         33       233       I"       238  W     l         2D      173
bilatal                                                        S0       7.3       113      232       211      212       361
lOt.                                                            I         9        I         2         3        2         I
Mar wtLotoral1                                                  -         -        13        4         7        6        it
Woi-wACaaaLmul                                                     1       lOb       mB        83        61       Y0        91
ifficial 1ptcad.                                                3        12       16w       25        19        1.       3
ISO                                                             -        32       5S        SS       3A        21        51
(r   .ltill.a1                                                 -         2        S         3         a       14        17
Pri'ace                                                            S        22       29        2b        J         3        61
Oack .aatsi.   Nd M l _Ahdi                                         23Z      1737     IY3       I10o     DYS 2.              D0
official                                                         Lo       113W      3        19560       5      21S D 6   2138
1011)                                                           -       l03       Ud       21D       36b      216       am
MA                                                              -        3S 9     41        42        45       47        47
vuwa~                                                          W5      141 I     1m       170       L7        tea     I3
;'1.d                                                             43       lot       1W       IQ        127       96       127
I6bt oa38iArAu u_1dis .4kwwaaY 4                          3           2      427      636       69        33       422      6133
TOW debt                                                             3b       23D      26.       29d      296       31.6   D B
ft3                                                               30       173      195       221       263      11"       N32
1.10-                                                              b        Ss       71        77        5D       72        72
l1w  0611 waca a 1 ol  e           f w-
*   ma ' wasumoca                                               11.0      1L.6      12.1     U.3  0 4.          UL7       ILI
_ incat raw on as 1    LU                                           lA       4.1       3.7       4.2       3.6   D .4         b.3
Official                                                         2.5       4.1      3.4       4.0       3.5      6A        6.5
i_Us                                                             6.5       7.7      bSi       1.0       6.7      7S        6A.
I_u  MMz e 1 c7    3cm  (h0s)                                        .7      Kul  D     .1      14.       11.8     1.        17.1U
Official                                                        11.7      71.2      2.1      1.1       11.8     21M.      11A
Frias                                                            5.b       b.9      11.2      6.2      21.7      7.5      104
IUSa/tYa  1ID                                                      -         5.9       7.9      20.2     U.2       I14      15
1D dinhwainaj 1             S11   diabW.m._                        -         6.3      122       13.9      9.2       6.7     15.7
51W ddC1  _m.r5Atl doC a_min                                        -        3.b       5.6       7.0      2.2       9.3     13.2
ML Wicl IDM                                                         .6       2.2       2.1       2.0      2.1       2.1      2.0
1SI* dznowi 10W.] gina diaeent                                     3.1       1.5      0.3      0.S       0.9      0.2       0.3
Ull dbt m im1alI dge  _.io                                          -        0.2       0.2       0.1      0.1       0.2      0.3
hA. e of 31t   atmiu
at lWd of malt 110c
yaar (198)
lElA S 11"3
EOsitj 1SsOZ  of ddbL Daa              (U)
3m1.s a.   2uUn 5 pam                                                                   32.b
"iwau     di selin  31 y1a1                                                           G4OA
e.in3    tmo   of ditg        e       )
_on=c  am  %do. fis Yam                                                               12.2
/a  All Wn_a  CO 50c1 cse 6t dac eisoit as *1 na - in no_news D3ew                      LIhC  1S1'- (oly phibc =  prism  W          m-mad di l.
1.cbma, ad  oi   im . am fir ptwijscl yo   IZ iz  loi at DV. dnt-a. _ A uiducifiud cqntl elil.
Jr     soce of pa I     dal fo  197b41  wA all capita ctunmoi 1w eLMM             caw s   'a  dw officiel   I  g_.  m of 61 - 3.135  jrMi pum.da
T        diem  ows.a a cd  eumiofd eA               *l.ue EC&. 38il. .0thn nMltu    as              tat d1  *C  ie ist         Votea
nd Icsii   ins             _o      biclbi. _33



- 26 -
ANE 
SLOBW OF B41K aXIP 0a1 liX   IN SYRLIm
Stateit of Bank Loans ana IL Cedits a/
(AS of March 31, 1986)
Loman   Fiscal                                          Amount ($ Millions) bi'
Number  Year           Borrower            Prpose         nk   IDA   Undisbureed
Eaeven loans ani fonw credits fuly disbusea            335.8   48.7
1546    1978    Syrian Arab Republic    Hi&ays        52.1                2.4
1682    1979    Syrian Arab Republic    Drainage      24.7                8.8
1975    1981   Syrian Arab Republic    Edration       15.6               15.6
2124    1982    Syrian Arab Republic   Agriculture   22.0                14.3
2420    1984    Syrian Arab Republic   Sewerage        30.0              29.9
2621    1986   Syrian Arab Republic   Agriculture       7.5               7.5
Total                                 487.7    48.7      78.5
of which has been repaid             92.4     2.9
Total oww outstarKdirg                395.3   45.8
Auounr Sold                  1.05
of which has been repaid   1.05    - 0 -   - 0 -
Total ow held by Bank & mk c/         395.3   45.8
Total Ukdisbursed                      78.5   - 0 -
a/  Ihe status of the project listed in this table is described in a separate
report on all Bank/lIfinmxoed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the ExecutiLie Directors on April 30 aid
October 31.
b/ Net of carcellations.
c/ Prior to exchange adjusoments.



ANNEX III
- 27 -                    Page 1 of 2
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
Aleppo Sewerage Proiect
Supplemental Proiect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(A) Time taken to prepare the project: Two and one-half years
(B)  Agency that prepared the project:   Ministry of Housing and
Utilities
(C)  Project first identified:             November, 1982
(D)  Date of Bank appraisal mission:       June, 1985
(E)  Negotiations completed:               March, 1986
(F)  Planned date of Effectiveness:        October, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(A) Special Conditions of Effectiveness:
1.   Signing and approval of a consultancy contract to assist
the MHU in project implementation (para. 37); and
2.   Signing of the EIB Loan Agreement (para. 40).
(B) Other Main Conditions:
1.   Establishment of a Project Management Unit within the
PEWSS by July 1, 1986, with terms of reference and
staffing acceptable to the Bank (para. 37);
2.   Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and the Aleppo GECOS upon the transfer to the
Aleppo GECOS of existing sewerage systems (para. 41);



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
3.   Enactment by September 1, 1986 of a decree establishing
the Aleppo GECOS (para. 42);
4.   Agreement to a timetable for implementation of all
necessary actions by December 1, 1986 to put in place the
operational structure of the Aleppo Sewerage Company
including (i) appointment of the GECOS General Director;
(ii) recruitment of operating personnel and implementation
of the training program; and (iii) engagement of
management and accounting consultants to assist in
establishing the organization and implementation of
administrative procedures and a commercial accounting
system (para. 42);
5.   Transfer of ownership, management and operation to the
Aleppo GECOS by July 1, 1987 of existing sewer network and
other facilities to be constructed under the project upon
their completion (para. 42); and
6.   Commissioning of a tariff study by July 1, 1986, to be
completed by March 1, 1987 taking into account the Bank's
views, and implementation by July 1, 1987 of the financial
measures formulated on the basis of the study (para. 45).



'6               40         -. 
TURKEY      - 
'~Aleppo(
'1  ]6-                  II~~~~ANDARAT ~~
SYRIAN     *4   (                              -            .
ARAB REPUBLIC                                           49
Domascu.                IRAO
JORDAN                      ,_.
1                                                 .
BELE RAMUN N
\\  0  z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SPOUT CITY  ~ ~      ~       RAMO
Romlouse. P..mp.To              - , 4
I.~~~~~r 0o/ \<N\OD/P



IBRD 19080
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
ALEPPO SEWERAGE PROJECT
SEWERAGE MASTERPLAN
TRUNK SEWERS:
Fint Phase
Second Phase
FORCE MAINS:
First Phase
........-. Second Phase
o     Overflows
*     Pumping Stations
Treatment Plant
LAND USE:
z  Built-up Areas (Residential)
UYJ 13  I IPublic Areas and Parks
FE;  i  j  3  Industrial Areas
Future Public Areas and Parks
Future Residential Areas
[Z;  1 T3  Future Industrial Areas
[fi     \ I I1   Irrigated Lond
Municipal Boundory
Railways
Main Roads
To pjbobo                                            Occupied Territories
[* ToOerezZOr--
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 0"r-x.o
AIRPORT
                      - - - - - - - - -  -      
Rai6my~ Yord
23                                VW= ,.~  ~ . ...r&..o. k. th. 1~ ...... IS. 4&W P..* and ff1 Ir.fI.b,
G..O.,     r.W  .IdhY.. -0 .d ff S. t   .5o.. rIM  -t. .r" -W   l
av- 50 5f fTN. tba Gra and it. k.*,s-.aI no-. GCwp.,a  ~n
Kilointn1 0wQ O**"  IV l..If-  r   Ar-.'..I.  ,I..    & ..                                  ~ . -rd.-tm...
AUGUJST 1985



TURKEY
Aleuppo                      n
HIANDARAI i
SYRIAN           I
- t      ARAB REPUBLIC
- @   i   IRAO
Damascus    , (
> - o   , . -   J O R D A N  \                              S K H A Y E F   )   t
JORD                              -                                        aAN
4-
/
I~~~~~~~~'
1'          *.        C                             ,.
.       . .~       -,.
RABEOUSEk                 :
G
I,-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
'', -   ''   ;cnc.
el~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8,,,,,*-r   a
_  { / .~ ~ ~~~Oi



IBRD 19098
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC
ALEPPO SEWERAGE PROJECT
EXISTING SEWERAGE SYSTEMS
Existing Trunk Sewers
     Overflows
LAND USE:
Built-up Areas (Residentiar)
EL]Public Area-. and Parks
_g (                                              EE~E1Industrial Areas
Unsewered Areas and Areas
-   '-^>   ;                                                           Under Construction
\  <    l                                 I ~~~~~~~~~~~ I ~~~Irrigated Land
<    w5  .                                 ----  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Municipol Boundaory
- . \ -     Railways
- .     \ Main Roads
> \ >X.X-ZZv'>fi ~~~~~~~~~~~Occupied Territories
j   AIRPORT                                                                          19_5
I--- --------
NEJIRAB S/                             
1 2 ~~~~3                  4            r_                             Va^h bireu r~ ftr 110 rW Vob rW kl
' dSl-P ~~~~~~~cow.6-O, rh                           ~rff@ s           r_   __,  f. -n 0. "Wn
Kilometers                               0 PW O MU  rrw ral. k-_M _f _.V rcd ter a M f kr1D~t
AUGUST 1985



