FILE CoP                     Document of
e World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1855-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
EMPRESA MINERA DEL CENTRO DEL PERU
(CENTROMIN)
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR THE
CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
May 17, 1976
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents my not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorimation.



RATE OF EXCHANGE
Currency Unit                         Sol (S/.)
us $1                                 S/. 45.o
s/. 1                                 US$0.02
S/. 1,000                             US$22.22
S/. 1,000,000                         US$22,222.22
Peru Fiscal Period - January 1 to December 31
of the following year.
CENTROMIN Fiscal Period - January 1 to December 31
of each year.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIPEC             Conseil Intergouvernmental des Pays Exportateurs
du Cuivre, an association of major copper exporting
countries
COFIDE            Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo, a Government-
owned development corporation
EDC               Export Development Corporation of Canada
ELECTROPERU       Government-owned electrical utility
HIERROPERU        Empresa Hierro del Peru, a Government-owned iron-mining
company, formerly known as Marcona Mining Company
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank
MINEROPERU        Empresa Minera del Peru, a state-owned mining company
MINPECO           Mineroperu Commercial, a Government-owned minerals
marketing agency
MTPY              Metric Tons Per Year
SPCC              Southern Peru Copper Corporation, a U.S. Controlled
copper mining company
STPY              Short Tons Per Year



FM OfMIAL US ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO EMPRESA MINERA DEL CENTRO DEL PERU (CENTROMIN)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR THE CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru (CENTROMIN) with the guarantee of
the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$40.0 million to help finance
the CENTROMIN expansion project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, in-
cluding 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum. The
Government of Peru would charge CENTROMIN a guarantee fee of 1-1/2 percent
per annum on the outstanding amount of the Bank loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Peru"
(No. 655-PE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 3, 1975.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Since 1968 the   Government has followed a development strategy in
which economic growth is linked to a transformation of the society to achieve
broader popular participation in the country's economic, social and political
life, thus addressing one of the most serious problems of Peru's economy and
society -- the sharp differences in wealth and opportunities between income
classes and geographical regions. As was recognized by the Consultative Group
for Peru, which met in Paris in April 1975, progress has been made during
recent years in implementing this strategy. The land reform in the coastal
areas is advanced and, although greater difficulty has been found in improving
the lot of the Sierra peasants, efforts to organize production cooperatives
there are being accelerated. In the field of industry most enterprises have
complied with the Industrial Community legislation -- which provides for a
gradual participation of the workers in the ownership of enterprises -- and a
new Social Property Law was approved aimed at promoting new industrial and
entrepreneurial capacity within a system of self-management by the employees.
4.        A new government headed by General Morales Bermudez took office in
August 1975. It has been reassessing the progress made since 1968 and has
publicly acknowledged that errors had been committed during the past eight
years in the difficult task of reconciling growth, financial stability and
better income distribution. The main problems that arose were a contraction
in domestic savings, a fall in efficiency in the productive sectors and a
retrenchment in the level of investment by the private sector. The President
has publicly stated the need for important modifications in policies that
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofiicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
would leave the basic long term objectives unchanged, but would call for a
more gradual approach to reforms of the economic and social system, and would
emphasize measures that increase domestic savings, boost private sector
investment and improve efficiency in production.
5.        GDP grew at an annual rate above 5.5 percent during 1970-74.    Gross
domestic investment rose from less than 13 percent to almost 17 percent of
GDP between 1970 and 1974, largely because of the increase of public and
private investment In mining and petroleum. However, as consumption also
grew faster than GDP and heavy losses were incurred by public enterprises
marketing imported petroleum and foodstuffs, gross national savings fell from
15 to 11 percent o'f GOP between 1970 and 1974. The excessive growth of aggre-
gate demand combined vith the sharp rise in Peru's import prices since 1973
resulted in an acceleration of the annual rate of domestic inflation -- from
an average annual'rate of 7.2 percent during 1969-73 to over 18 percent in
1974 -- and an increase.in the deficit of the balance of payments on current
account from 0.5 to 6p2 percent of GDP between 1972 and 1974.   Net long-term
capital inflows rose from $110 million in 1972 to $840 million in 1974 and
allowed a $275 million increase in net international reserves in spite of the
widened resource gap.
6.        During 1975 the Government approved a series of tax and price
measures directed at attacking some of the causes of Peru's financial diffi-
culties, l.e. excessive growth of aggregate demand with a resulting fall in
national savings, stagnation of food output and low of export growth. In
January 1975 indirect taxes were increased and subsidies on food were reduced.
On June 30 a second set of measures included: (a) increases in prices of
basic foodstuffs, petroleum (ranging from 25 percent for diesel fuel to 100
percent for premium gasoline), and other basic goods such as steel and cement;
(b) a 40 percent reduction in prices of fertilizers; (c) strict controls on
salary adjustments in, the public and private sectors. Subsequently, in
September the Sol was devalued by about 14 percent.
7.        The measures taken did not suffice to stop a sharp deterioration
of Peru's external and internal finances largely because of two factors. In
the first place, export earnings fell because of the decline in world prices
of Peru's exports, adverse weather conditions and labor strikes. The decline
in export demand, together with work stoppages, resulted in a drop in mining
output; ecological conditions limited the recovery of fishmeal production
and reduced the catch of food fish; while bad weather conditions, inadequate
supply and'high prices of fertilizers and other production inputs, and in-
adequate price and marketing policies followed in previous years affected
agricultural output. Secondly, while gross domestic investment rose to
19 percent of GDP, savings continued to drop and the resource gap widened
to over 9 percent of GDP. The fall in savings was principally caused by
the large losses of state enterprises marketing petroleum, foodstuffs and
fertilizers. Import demand grew rapidly not only because of the expansionary



- 3 -
financing of public sector deficits, but also because of the sharp increase
In food and petroleum imports and because the new investments (mainly in
petroleum and mining) had a high Import content. Net long-term capital in-
flows totalled an estimated $1.1 billion in 1975, but were not sufficient to
finance the current account deficit and net International reserves fell from
$680 milliop in December 1974 to around $127 million in December 1975 equiva-
lent to less than three weeks of merchandise imports.
8.        This year will be a difficult one for Peru's finances.     By March
15, 1976, although gross international reserves were still around $440 million,
net international reserves had become negative by about $110 mlllion. A viablE
financial position will require import cuts since: (a) terms of trade are not
likely to improve In 1976, while the volume of exports will remain well below
the 1972 level; and (b) Peru may have dlfficulties in obtaining substantial
additional funds from commercial sources. Both the President and the Minister
of Finance in recent public statements have underllned the seriousness of the
economic and financial difficulties and have emphasized the need to increase
both domestic savings and labor productivity. This has been reflected in a
series of measures approved early this year. On January 10, 1976 a package of
measures was approved aimed at reducing the public sector deficit, discouragin2
imports and stlmulating agricultural production. These measures Include: (a)
further increases in prices of petroleum products and basic foodstuffs; (b)
increase in taxes on income, property and consumption abroad; (c) inclusion of
agricultural cooperatives and public enterprises in the income tax rolls; and
(d) a 5 percent cut in Central Government budgeted current expenditures.
Partly because of these measures, the public sector's overall deficit may fall
from 10.9 percent of GDP in 1975 to 8.1 percent in 1976. However, a substantia
unfinanced gap of approximately 1 percent of GDP remains, which the Government
intends to eliminate with additional revenue measures and expenditure cuts.
In April the mining and fisheries sectors were declared in a state of emergency
among other things this effectively prohibits strikes. More recently, the
President has also emphasized the importance of a dynamic private sector and
the need for a more stable environment that would enhance the investment
climate.
9.        On March 3 the IMF approved SDR 97.3 million (approximately $112.5
million) of financial assistance (first credit tranche and oil facility) on
the basis of a letter of intent which refers to additional measures to reduce
the public sector deficit and increase interest rates and puts ceilings on
credit to the private and public sectors. On April 16, an additional SDR 61.5
million of financial assistance was approved by the IMF under the compensatory
financing scheme.



- 4 -
10.       During 1968-70 commitments of medium- and long-term loans to the
public sector averaged less than $200 million annually. Thereafter, they
rose sharply to an annual average of almost $1.1 billion in 1973-74 and
$0.9 billion In 1975. The rapid increase was mainly the result of the sharp
increase in public Investment and during 1974-75 large requirements of com-
mercial borrowlng for balance of payments support.
11.       While total public sector external debt (outstanding and disbursed)
more than tripled between 1970 and 1975 -- from $0.9 billion to $3.6 billion --
average terms deteriorated markedly. Average maturities fell from 17 years
in 1970 to 14.3 years in 1974, since over 65 percent of net disbursements
during 1970-74 came from commercial banks. During 1975, the situation worsened
since not only commercial banks continued to account for about 70 percent of
net disbursements but their terms hardened. The average terms in 1975 of
commitments from commercial banks were: 5.8 years maturity (including 2.3
years of grace) and 9.5 percent interest rate.
12.       The public debt service ratio rose from 22 percent in 1974 to an
estimated 30 percent in 1975 reflecting both a sharp increase in interest
payments and the decline In the value of merchandise exports. During 1976
the public debt service ratio is expected to fall to 26 percent because of
the expected recovery in exports and a small decrease in debt service pay-
nents.  However, given the very serious foreign liquidity squeeze the country
is now going through, this level of debt service will place a heavy burden
Dn the balance of payments. The Government has committed itself to give
Eirst prlority in foreign exchange allocation to debt service payments.
During 1977-80 the public debt service ratio may rise further to 35 percent,
3ut would decline in the 1980s if the government is successful in increasing
aational savings and stimulating nontraditional exports and if more suitable
Lending terms are obtained In future years.
13.       Peru is a country with some very serious constraints to its devel-
Dpment efforts but also with a large untapped resource potential. The Govern-
nent is trying to accelerate growth while broadening the participation of
the population in the development process. It has been caught by a short-
term financial squeeze at a time when some of the unavoidable negative effects
)f the structural transformation were being felt. Consequently, the present
situation is difficult. The Government is aware of these difficulties and is
letermined to resolve them. The President has publicly called for a process
)f consolidation and re-examination of social and economic policies. Improve-
nents in the balance of payments position during 1977 and thereafter will
lepend on: (a) continued efforts to increase savings, contain import growth
and reduce dependence on foreign borrowing; (b) reducing dependence on imported
petroleum with the completion of the oil pipeline and with additional petroleum
axploration; and (c) increasing export volume with the timely completion of
nining projects now underway and -- since it is now unlikely that Peru will
become a substantial net exporter of petroleum in the foreseeble future -- the
axpansion of nontraditional exports. On the basis that such improvements will
take place, Peru will continue to be creditworthy for Bank lending. The Bank
3oth as a lender and as chairman of the Consultative Group will continue to
nonitor developments closely.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
14.       The Bank has made 29 loans in Peru for a total amount of $430.7 mil
lion, net of cancellations. Of this amount 51 percent has been for trans-
portation (mainly highways and ports), 24 percent for electric power, 19 per-
cent for agriculture and about 6 percent for education. In addition a small
loan was made for industry.
15.       IFC commitments to date have been about $24.0 million ($15 million
to Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the Cuajone Copper mining project and
the rest all in industry) of which $15.3 million is held by the Corporation.
Project execution has been generally satisfactory. Annex II contains a
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1976, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       On July 25, 1975, the Government nationalized the assets of the
Marcona Mining Company in Peru without making provision for the payment of
compensation.   Subsequent negotiations between the Company and the Governmelnt
did not reach a conclusion and the matter was taken up for negotiations
between the United States and the Peruvian Governments. Substantial progress
is being made in these negotiations and an agreement is expected to be signed
in the near future. I intend to review further progress made on this matter
prior to presentation to the Board of other loans now at an advanced stage of
consideration (see paragraph 18 below).
17.       The Bank plans to assist the Government in achieving its economic
and social development goals by aiding in: (a) the expansion of productive
capacity in crucial sectors; (b) the creation of a physical and social in-
frastructure capable of sustaining and fostering the positive evolution of
the nation's productive capacity; and (c) the consolidation of structural
and institutional reform which will help the socioeconomic transformation now
underway. Also the Bank expects to continue to play a role in coordinating
external assistance by being a catalyst for new sources of funds for major
investment projects through the mechanism of the Consultative Group.
18.       The Bank's program in agriculture has a two-fold objective:     to
raise the standard of living of the large rural population of the highlands
and to increase food production. Following up on the agricultural sector
mission which visited the country in 1974, Bank staff and the Bank/FAO
Cooperative Program are assisting the Government in the preparation of
projects for rural development in the Sierra and Irrigation rehabilitation
in the coastal area; a first irrigation rehabilitation project is being
appraised by the Bank. A sites and services project to help alleviate
poverty among the urban poor is being negotiated. Also, a DFC project
is currently being appraised. In addition, the Bank has identified other
projects in the water supply and transport sectors.



19.       At present, Bank loans to Peru constitute about 6.0 percent of total
outstanding debt, including undisbursed, and absorbed 4.0 percent of the
country's external debt service obligations in 1975. No significant changes
in these ratios are expected for the next five years.
PART III - THE MINING SECTOR
A.   Background
20.       Peru is a mineral-rich country with large proven deposits of copper,
zinc, silver, iron ore and lead. Exploitation of Peru's mineral resources
goes back to the mining of gold, silver and copper by the Incas prior to the
Spanish conquest in order to fashion them into adornments, weapons and utensils.
The growth of the mining sector was particularly impressive during the 1950s,
when the enactment of a simplified mining code with a clear and favorable tax
regime greatly improved the investment climate and foreign capital flowed into
the sector. Copper production increased from 30,000 MT to 180,000 MT during
the decade, the output of lead, zinc and silver more than doubled, and exploit-
ation of Peru's iron ore potential began. In total, the value of mineral
production rose from US$41 million in 1950 to almost US$200 million by 1960.
21.       In contrast to the previous decade the 1960's were years of relative
stagnation in the sector, characterized by decreasing investor confidence and
little investment. After the 1968 coup the Government began to assume a more
active role within the sector. In 1970 a state-owned mining company, Empresa
Minera del Peru (MINEROPERU), was established with the purpose of bringing
ito operation a series of high-priority mining and metallurgical projects.
The Cerro de Pasco Corporation, now CENTROMIN, was nationalized in early 1974
and the Marcona Mining Company, now HIERROPERU, in mid-1975. Compensation
has been paid for Cerro de Pasco and a compensation package for Marcona is
being negotiated. The Government has also taken over all overseas marketing
of metals and centralized this function in a new state enterprise, MINEROPERU
COMERCIAL (MINPECO).
B.   Current Institutional Situation
22.       Four companies -- CENTROMIN, HIERROPERU, Southern Peru Copper
Corporation (SPCC) and MINEROPERU -- now constitute the large-scale mining
group, which accounts for 65% of the country's mining output and almost 45%
of the sector's work force.   CENTROMIN has the most diversified output,
producing copper, silver, zinc, lead and other metals at seven mines in
Peru's central Sierra and accounts for around one-third of the sector's
output and employment. HIERROPERU operates Peru's major iron ore mining
complex. SPCC, the only remaining private company in large-scale mining,
is the country's single largest producer and exporter of copper. MINERO-
PERU's only plant in operation thus far is a large copper refinery at Ilo.



23.       Peru's medium-scale mining operations consist of a heterogeneous
collection of some 60 companies producing partially-treated copper, lead,
zinc and silver ores. These operations, which account for 30% of Peru's
mining output and employ 40% of the scirtor's work force, are almost all
privately owned. The small mining optLations comprise more than 1,000
privately-owned small mines, most of tehem poorly mechanized, labor-inten-
sive operations. A large portion of the concentrates produced by the small
and medium miners is sold to CENTROMIN for smelting and refining. Expansion
of medium and small-sized mines is expected to be much slower than for the
large companies during the seventies, and their present share of output will
probably decline.
24.       Peruvian experience in the planning of major mining development
projects is limited both in the companies themselves and in the various Gov-
ernment institutions, since this function has traditionally been performed
in the headquarters of the foreign parent companies. All mining operations
including sector planning now come under the jurisdiction of the Ministry
of Energy and Mines, which is responsible also for the petroleum and power
subsectors. The Ministry's Planning Department establishes investment
priorities but leaves to Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE) the
primary responsibility for financing the investment projects of the state-
owned enterprises. COFIDE is relatively inexperienced in the mining industry
and has been slow to help the public sector companies with planning their
investment programs, partly because of the uncertainty of government funding
to COFIDE for such programs. The Planning Department of the Ministry of
Energy and Mines has not proven to be effective enough in establishing real-
istic priorities and programs for the industry's expansion.
25.       The operational problems in the sector include labor unrest.
Government policy has raised the wages of workers and miners, resulting in
substantial increases in operating costs, but despite the improvement in
worker benefits, labor unrest has continued. Besides disputes over wages
and working conditions, there has been controversy and uncertainty over the
management participation of the mining communities, i.e. the associations
representing the mine workers. As has been the case in the private indus-
trial sector since 1970, this participation in the private mining sector
now takes the form of profit-sharing and a mechanism for increasing share
ownership up to a maximum of 50%. The effects and future structure of this
experiment in worker participation are still uncertain. In the case of
CENTROMIN, the mining communities receive bonds rather than shares, and
the Govenment has resisted any excessive influence over decision-making by
the mining community or other agencies. Although CENTROMIN is nominally
a subsidiary of MINEROPERU, it is effectively controlled by the Ministry of
Energy and Mines.
C.   Mineral Exports, Prices and Strategy
26.       The volume of Peru's mineral exports has increased in recent years
only marginally and changes in their value have occurred mainly because of
fluctuations in world prices. Exports rose from US$465 million in 1970 to



- 8 -
US$875 million in 1974 but fell back to an estimated US$567 million in 1975.
Peru accounts for 19% of world mine output of silver and about 12% of world
exports of zinc and lead and 5% of world copper exports. Since copper
constitutes roughly 40% of the value of Peru's mineral exports, variations
of its price have a substantial impact on the country's exports. Despite
large fluctuations, copper prices followed a long-term upward trend in
real terms from 1929 through early 1974, reaching an all-time high of
US$1.52/lb. on the London Metal Exchange in early 1974. Since then, copper
prices fell sharply to below US$0.55/lb., mainly because of the slowdown in
world economic growth, but have recently firmed up to about US$0.70/lb.
In November 1974 the Conseil Intergouvernmental des Pays Exportateurs du
Cuivre (CIPEC) -- a grouping of copper exporting nations of which Peru is
an important member -- agreed to reduce exports temporarily by 10% in an
attempt to halt the decline in copper prices. A further cutback of 5% was
agreed to in April 1975. In November 1975 the cutbacks were extended through
June 1976. Because of the reduced demand for copper some of the major
U.S. and Canadian copper companies have also cut production. Peru's export
earnings from metals are expected to increase substantially with the economic
recovery now under way in major metal consuming countries. Metal prices have
recently begun to recover from their depressed levels. An upward trend in
real terms is expected over the next few years and the long-term upward
trend in world metal demand will call for continuing expansion in the world
capacity to produce various minerals.
27.       Peru's development strategy, given the relative paucity of her
agricultural resources (outside of fishing), and the still small industrial
base, is to rely heavily on her richly endowed mining sector to provide the
bulk of the foreign exchange earnings needed to maintain her economic growth.
In line with this strategy, Peru's four large-scale mining companies have
been projecting expansion which, in combination with the prospective invest-
ments of other entities in the sector, would have called for total invest-
ments in excess of US$3.5 billion during the 1975-80 period. Taking into
account the limited project preparation and executing experience of the
companies and probable financial constraints, investment in the sector is
not likely to exceed US$2 billion during 1976-80, 60% of which would be
public. Even this, however, depends on the country's ability to raise the
necessary financing. Given this investment rate, the value of Peru's min-
eral exports could reach some US$2.5 billion in current prices by 1980 or
about 70% above the 1974 value, with about half of the increase resulting
from increased production. The largest single project to date is SPCC's
development of the Cuajone mine, which is scheduled for completion in early
1977. Cuajone will effectively double Peru's copper producing capacity.
After 1980 sector growth is expected to be fuelled primarily by investment
in copper and to a lesser extent in zinc, phosphates, lead, and silver.



- 9 -
THE PROJECT
A.   Project Concept
28.       Bank staff have worked closely with CENTROMIN on the formulation of
a Stage I expansion program consisting of six projects designed to improve
the Company's operating performance through replacement of obsolete facili-
ties, to expand production and the degree of processing, and to reduce envi-
ronmental pollution. The six projects include the expansion of the Cobriza
and Casapalca mines, the modernizatiDn and expansion of the copper smelter/
refinery, the zinc refinery and the lead sinter plant at La Oroya, and the
replacement of a copper cementation plant with a solvent extraction and
electro-winning plant at Cerro de Pasco. The following two components of the
Stage I expansion program comprise the proposed project and have been selected
for Bank financing because of their high priority to the country, their
advanced state of preparation, and their self-contained nature:
(a) The Cobrlza Mine Expansion - This project would expand under-
ground mine production from 0.7 million STPY of ore grading
2.2% copper to 3.5 million STPY grading 1.8% copper. This
ore will be treated in a new concentrator, increasing concen-
trate output from 50,000 STPY to 223,000 STPY containing 25%
copper and 5.5 oz of silver/ton. Related adminstrative, in-
dustrial, and social infrastructure are also included in the
project. Project cost is estimated at US$134.1 million.
(b) The Cerro de Pasco Mine Water Treatment Plant - This project
would improve the economics of copper recovery by replacing
an existing cementation plant with a more efficient solvent
extraction and electro-winning plant producing refined
copper In place of cement copper, and eliminating the
existing plant's polluticn of the San Juan and Mantaro
rivers. Project cost Is estimated at US$12.4 million.
B.   Costs and Financing
29.       The total cost of the two projects (excluding interest during con-
struction) is estimated at US$146.5 million equivalent with an estimated
foreign exchange component of US$76.3. The estimated direct foreign exchange
costs of the project (US$61.3 million), consisting of equipment, supplies,
erection, englneering, project management and technical assitance services
would be financed by the IBRD and the IDB on the 55:45 basis. The IBRD/IDB
loans would also finance interest during the construction perlod. Total
financing requirements are estimated to be US$176.2 million equivalent, of
which the Bank would provide US$40 million and the IDB US$33.4 million. The
IDB Loan has been negotiated and is expected to be submitted to the IDB
Executive Directors during the month of June.



- 10 -
30.       The remainder of the financing (US$102.8 million) would be covered
almost entirely by US$99.8 million in loans from COFIDE having a term of about
10 years, including four years of grace and an interest rate of 8% per annum.
The IBRD loan would have a term of 15 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace,
at the prevailing interest rate of 8-1/2% per annum, in addition to which the
Company would pay the Government a guarantee fee of 1-1/2% per year. The IDB
loan would have to same term with an interest rate of 8% per annum.
31.       The plan for virtually 100% debt financing of the two projects
should cause no problems since at the present time the Company is in a sound
financial position and has very little debt. Even after borrowing for these
two projects CENTROMIN will have a low debt/equity ratio and thus should be
able to borrow additional funds without impairing its financial position.
Projected financing of the Company's other requirements during the execution
of the Stage I Program is outlined in paragraphs 41-48.
C.   Market and Production Aspects
32.       The value of the concentrate produced at Cobriza would increase
from US$10 million in 1975 to about US$63 million in 1981 in constant 1975
dollars. About 62% of the concentrate produced at full production of the
expanded plant would be smelted and refined at La Oroya, and that balance
exported in concentrate form. Operating costs per tone of concentrate pro-
duced would be reduced by about 40% in real terms as a result of the larger
and more efficient plant. The value of the copper produced by the mine water
treatment plant is expected to be about US$8.5 million in constant 1975 dollars
by 1979 when full production is achieved. The annual copper output of the
plant is expected to decline slowly from the 7,000 ST level projected for
1979, due mainly to the depletion of copper values in the mine dumps. The
two projects would increase Peru's annual mineral exports by more than US$50
million, about 9% over the 1975 leve!l.
33.       CENTROMIN markets all of its products through MINPECO, the autono-
mous government-owned minerals marketing agency which handles all the overseas
marketing of Peru's mineral output. On completion of CENTROMIN's Stage I
program in 1981, some 35% of the Company's sales will be copper. Given the
high quality, low impurity grade of the copper products, the additional out-
put should be readily marketable.
34.       No major problems are foreseen in obtaining the inputs needed for
the planned expansion. Ore reserves in the Coris area which are presently
being mined total about 50 million tons, sufficient for 14 years at the pro-
posed rate of mining. In addition, CENTROMIN has investigated an extension
of the deposit in the adjacent Pumagayac ridge. Additional reserves are
indicated to be of the order of 60 million tons of comparable grade. There-
fore, at least 20 years operations are reasonably assured. The mining method
will be cut and fill, the method presently utilized. The concentrator flow-
sheet is conventional, involving crushing, grinding and flotation. No



- 11 -
technical difficulties are foreseen. Existing infrastructure is sufficient
for the current operations of CENTROMIN and adequate plans to meet the in-
creased needs resulting from Stage I expansion program have been made. The
main infrastructure need for the two projects to be financed by the Bank is
the construction of a power transmission line to the Cobriza mine. In addi-
tion, capacity to transport concentrates will have to be expanded. Assur-
ances regarding the timely availability of both items are included in the
loan documents in Section 4.02 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section
3.03 (i) and (iii) of the draft Guarantee Agreement.
D.   Implementation
35.       CENTROMIN's organizational structure is sound and its operations
are well-managed. There is a lack of experience in project and financial
planning, however, because these activities had been done abroad by the
former parent company and very little planning and investment activity has
been done during the last 10 years. These shortcomings are recognized by
the Company's present senior managers and various steps are being taken to
overcome them, including the appoincment of engineering firms as project
engineers and managers. CENTROMIN has already appointed a foreign engineer-
ing firm for the Cerro de Pasco project and is presently selecting a firm
for the Cobriza project to take responsibility for detailed engineering,
procurement services, and overall project management until start-up of the
plants.
36.       In view of the heavy management load resulting from the simultaneous
execution of six remote and widely separated Stage I projects, CENTROMIN is
also planning to retain on a contract basis a number of senior staff experienced
in the execution of mining projects. With government approval, salary levels
will be sufficient to attract qualified staff from overseas. The additional
senior staff will assist in project management and train company staff on the
job in the techniques needed for project execution. The costs of this techni-
cal assistance will be financed by the IBRD/IDB loans. Assurances have been
obtained that the Company will fill key positions in the expansion management
structure by July 31, 1976, before a substantial amount of expansion activity
is under way, (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Company will
also give increased emphasis to training of Peruvian staff, including arrang-
ing for them to gain additional experience abroad.
E.   Procurement and Disbursement
37.       It is expected that the Company will start placing orders for
internationally-bid equipment by the fourth quarter of 1976. All foreign
equipment and supplies (US$51 million) will be procured under international
competitive bidding guidelines of the IBRD and IDB. Equipment which is
manufactured locally must be procured in Peru under the Peruvian law and
would not be financed from the IBRD/IDB loans. This will apply to only
a few minor items amounting to less than US$5 million. Disbursements will
made on the following basis: a) 55% of the CIF cost of imported equipment and



- 12 -
materials; and of the expenditures made in foreign exchange for consultant
services; and b) 100% of interest and other charges on the loan due on or
before April 30, 1980. Some retroactive financing for engineering services
will be required, but will not exceed US$700,000 equivalent.
F.   Financial Analysis
1.   Current Financial Position of CENTROMIN
38.       Production and sales volumes have been fairly static over the 1970-
75 period but, with the exception of strike-caused drops in 1971 and 1975,
generally improving metal prices resulted in steady growth in sales revenue
and profits through 1974. Metal prices were particularly high in 1973 and
1974 and more than compensated for steady increases in operating costs.      In
contrast to the fluctuations in metal prices, labor and other costs have risen
steadily in the past few years such that, given the recent depressed state of
most metal prices, 1975 profits were dramatically lower than those of 1974.
These cost increases reflect the recent rapid inflation in Peru. As mentioned
previously, government policies have allowed substantial increases in workers'
wages which, together with energy and other cost increases, have greatly in-
creased CENTROMIN's operating costs. The devaluation of the Sol by 14%
against the US dollar in September, 1975 helped to restore the deteriorating
relationship between Company revenues and operating costs.
39.       The Company's financial structure has remained sound, despite recent
low metal prices, local inflation and the significant drain on CENTROMIN's
resources resulting from the financing of its acquisition from the Cerro Cor-
poration, for which payments of US$76 million were made in 1974.     One of the
Company's strengths is its wide range of mineral products; the recent deterio-
ration in CENTROMIN's earnings power would have been much worse, but for the
firmer silver, gold and zinc prices partially offsetting the low copper and
lead prices.   As mentioned previously, the Company's borrowing capacity is
largely unused.
2.   Financial Projections
40.        Company financing during the execution of Stage I (1976-81) is
projected to be as follows:



13 -
(In US$ Million)
Sources                                Applications
Cash Generation            354.2          Cobriza                      148.7
Long-Term Debt                            Cerro de Pasco                 15.0
Foreign Loans                        Other Stage I Projects       233.4
IBRD                 40.0             Subtotal Stage I (fixed
IDB                  33.4             assets including interest
Other               132.3             during construction)      397.2
Other Replacements/
Local Loans                             Improvements               99.9
Housing and Related
Infrastructure            164.9
Mining Community    20.2          Subtotal, Fixed Assets       662.0
Other (including
COFIDE)     193.9         Amortization of Long-Term
Subtotal                   419.8            Debt                        52.8
Increase in Other Assets        1.2
Share Capital              164.9          Increase in Working Capital   57.8
TOTAL                      938.9                                       773.8
Cash Surplus                  165.1
41.       This projection of CENTROMIN's future financial performance, as
well as other projections summarized below, assumes that metal prices in
real terms will recover in the next few years from their recent depressed
levels with economic recovery in major metal consuming countries and that
prices will also reflect the effect of world inflation assumed at 7,-8%
per annum to 1980 and 7% per annum thereafter. The financial projections
also incorporate the forecast impact of all six projects which comprise
CENTROMIN's Stage I Program.
42.       The projected US$165 million cash surplus over the 1976-81 period
provides some cushion in the event of depressed metal prices or overruns in
the Stage I Program, as well as a basis for initiating a Stage II Program.
Most of this surplus would occur during 1980 and 1981, when some of the
Stage I facilities are scheduled to be on stream, and by which time invest-
ment in Stage II should have commenced.
43.       Assuming that execution of all Stage I projects is under way be-
fore the end of 1976, their full operation is expected to be achieved by
1982, by which time net sales are projected to more than double from the
1974 level to US$707 million in current terms. Of the US$389 million



- 14 -
increase, approximately US$81 million, or 21% is due to the two Bank-financed
projects. While the Company's profitability is projected to improve from the
1975 level of 4.5% to 7.2% of sales, reflecting improvements in operating
efficiency and metal prices, it would still fall short of the all-time peak
in 1974, when metal prices hit unprecedented heights and depreciation and
interest were relatively minor expense items. After completion of Stage I,
the profit break-even point for the Company is projected to be about 79% of
production capacity and for the expanded Cobriza and the Cerro de Pasco
plants 69% and 43%, respectively.
44.       The Cobriza and the Cerro de Pasco projects have incremental finan-
cial rates of return in real terms of about 15% and 18%, respectively, and
the incremental financial return of the full State I Program -- though less
firmly based than that of the two Bank-assisted projects -- is expected to
be at least 20%. Sensitivity analyses for the main parameters affecting
the financial rate of return i.e., variations of 10% in capital and operating
costs and revenues, indicate that even under adverse circumstances the Cerro
de Pasco project shows good rates of return while those of the Cobriza project
become somewhat marginal if copper prices over the life of the project were to
be significantly lower than projected. However, such a situation is unlikely
to arise and the project risk in this respect is acceptable. The Cerro de
Pasco project is sensitive mainly to the operating cost savings that it will
bring about as compared to similar cost increasing factors acting on Cerro de
Pasco without the Project.
45.       Projected sources and application of funds for 1976-84 indicate
that CENTROMIN should have little difficulty servicing its debt. Sensitivity
analysis shows that average long-term metal prices (1980-84) could drop by
25% below the base case projections before long-term debt service coverage
would drop to 1.0.
3.   Financial Covenants
46.       While the metal price trends used in the projections are considered
to be realistic, CENTROMIN's financial planning must allow for the possibility
of revenue, cash flow and profit levels being below those projected during
periods of depressed metal prices as has been the case since mid-1974. To
safeguard CENTROMIN's financial soundness the agreed covenants would (a) limit
the increase of additional debt in terms of long-term debt/equity ratio (maxi-
mum 50:50) and projected debt service coverage (at least twice covered on the
basis of projections satisfactory to the Bank) (Loan Agreement Section 5.04
(a) and (b)); (b) limit annual investment additional to the Stage I expansion
program and the housing program to US$30 million (Loan Agreement, Section
5.06); and (c) require maintenance of a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of no less than 1.5 to 1 (Loan Agreement, Section 5.05). During
negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that it would make
contributions to CENTROMIN's equity in amounts equivalent to CENTROMIN's
investment in the housing program and its payment of dividends to the Govern-
ment -- CENTROMIN is required by law to pay 50% of its net profits to the
Treasury, and to commit share capital increases, if and as necessary, to
maintain the long-term debt/equity 50:50 ratio-



- 15 -
47.        Execution of all the projects in CENTROMIN's Stage I Program is
important for the future financial soundness of the Company, even though
the two Bank projects are technically and financially viable without the
other four Stage I projects, which involve mainly modernization and expansion
of the La Oroya smelting and refining facilities, most of which are old and
require extensive maintenance. If major modernization of the facilities,
especially the copper smelter, were not undertaken within the next five years,
the Company would be faced with continuing increases in maintenance costs,
the increasing risk of production losses through down-time, and the need
for substantial investment just to maintain present production levels.
It is difficult to quantify the likely effects of such a situation precisely,
but it is quite probable that the Company could be placed in increasingly
serious financial difficulties. To avoid the risk of such a possibility,
the Company and the Government have agreed that the Stage I Expansion Program
will be carried out in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the
Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03 and Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03
(ii)). Financing offers have been received by the Company from the Export
Development Corporation (EDC) of Canada and Canadian commercial banks for the
zinc refinery and the copper smelter/refinery, and from the U.S. Export-
Import Bank and a U.S. commercial bank for the lead sinter plant. These
offers are sufficient to cover most of the foreign exchange costs of these
projects. The Company plans to finance the Casapalca mine expansion from its
own funds.
G.   Economic Analysis
48.       The estimated economic rate of return for the Cobriza project, which
represents about 91.5% of total project cost, is about 16% and for the Cerro
de Pasco project is about 20%. The weighted average rate of return is estimate(
at 16.3%. The economic importance of the projects somewhat exceeds their
direct financial benefits to CENTROMIN due to the import duties and other
taxes paid to the Government. CENTROMIN plays a major role in the Peruvian
economy by accounting for about 5% of the Government's income tax revenues and
about 20% of its foreign exchange receipts. The proposed projects and the
Stage I Program will help accelerate the country's economic growth and maintain
Peru's market position in a number of key minerals.
49.        The net annual foreign exchange benefits generated by the Stage
I Program are projected to reach about US$59 million equivalent in 1975
dollars by 1982 of which the two projects to be financed by the IBRD and
IDB represent US$30 million. The Government will benefit greatly through
the increased fiscal and profit sharing revenues, and the foreign exchange
earned by the projects.
50.       The workers too, will benefit, with expanded incomes under the
existing profit sharing arrangements. An additional 700 jobs will also be
created by the Stage I expansion. Furthermore, if the Company did not
undertake this program of modernization and expansion, jobs would be jeo-
pardized by the deteriorating production situation resulting from outdated
facilities.



- 16 -
H.   Conclusions, Recommendations and Major Loan Conditions
51.       Although the Peruvian mining sector has been going through a
difficult period of change and uncertainty and suffers from a lack of
investment and certain institutional deficiencies, it is vital to economic
growth in Peru.
52.       The most suitable vehicle for the Bank's involvement in the sector
is CENTROMIN, which despite its increasing costs and old and obsolete plant,
has considerable mining experience, basically sound technical and operating
capabilities, a diverse range of products, and is in a good financial posi-
tion. Furthermore, the Company has now put together a well conceived program
of modernization and expansion, and the Bank's most effective role in the
sector at this time would be to assist in financing the most advanced projects
in this program, and to aid indirectly in attracting funds from other insti-
tutions for the other projects. A positive contribution could thus be made
through helping to move sectoral development from the planning to the execu-
tion stage. Subsequent Bank involvement could then, on the basis of some
successful demonstration of its participation, address itself more directly
to some of the institutional deficiencies elsewhere in the sector.
53.       The major risks inherent in the two projects proposed for Bank
financing and for CENTROMIN's Stage I Program overall are: (a) a protracted
period of low metal prices; (b) the problems of simultaneously managing a
number of remote and widely separated projects given the limited experience
of the Company's management in this regard; (c) the limited experience of
the Company's management in overall corporate and financial planning; (d)
the possibility of significant production losses due to protracted strike
action; and (e) a continuing high rate of inflation in Peru, especially rela-
tive to metal prices. However, to the extent that these risks can adequately
be foreseen and are controllable by the Company and/or the Government, they
have been taken into account in the actions taken or planned by the Company
and Government, e.g. in strengthening project implementation management and
improving workers' benefits, and in the covenants which have been agreed
upon. In addition, realistic assumptions have been used for metal price
trends and domestic inflation rates in the financial projections.
54.       The most important of the agreed covenants, which have been
summarized above, are concerned with (a) strengthening of the Company's
financial and project management capabilities through the recruitment and
appointment of suitably qualified staff; (b) ensuring Government and Company
commitment to the completion of the full Stage I Program; (c) ensuring pro-
vision of funds by Government, if needed, to carry out the project and the
Stage I Program; (d) restricting the Company's borrowing so as to provide
protection against swings in metal prices; and (e) restricting the Company's
investments in addition to the Stage I Program so as not to overtax its
management capabilities or overstrain its financial position.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and CENTROMIN, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the Bank, the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement and the text of the draft resolution approving the proposed
loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
56.        Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
IV. A special condition of effectiveness of the loan is that all conditions
precedent to the initial disbursement under the IDB Loan Agreement with
CENTROMIN have been fulfilled (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 17, 1976






ANNEX I
fpeg 1 of 3 pmess
00U1TtY DATA - PERU
4.00    fle  bof arabia land
ay   m    Oa11u   m   unLMABZ8)                                  ..             520 L     ~      750 La        800 Li    4.,4.0 L.
Crude dooth IOUJp~P thousand)12-L8                                                             9         1o.6 
infant m*vUty;p a,to CrpAu xs     d live biith.)                91             73L              61   ,       79         II.lL
1Sf. WA*Qno     atWit    (zeus)                                 60             6663                 S        63La         73 L
PonjlsAtis  Powi rate                                          292:35                                       23           07
Poulnation   OEMh Tau.                                           5              5tit3                                    1.
Age structure (peioent)                            ~154                                 4        .4n          9         2.
Ag:.r   ma                                                                0               1             o 
.=     A   .rIi  &j                              I.             1.9 L4           2.0           1.6         0.8a
Urban popouation a. peremnt ot total                           1.7/hn.u        55 /a            61 L"        76&     ~    81 /r
Fmily Plamins       ft at  seaptoe ~oat1wsv (tbzs. )           ...
lo. of user (S of wwried muen)               .               .
R MS ., foras (thmusands)                     ~~3,20C          1.,300 4gb     13,00          3,000 /     3,600a
Peoantap     Iaud in evboolwa                                 50 Z~           .       ~       10197                         as7
ftr*~ta    on-3oy.d                                            3                               1.           5~         2t5  s
z-at o  1101=1inao mraoaiwdvdby hlgh.st 5                 50 /h           31. sox          36 11.       30 /,
Feresot Of national  eaoms reostYOd by higboet 2(W              69  h          60  w cZ61.                   57~j.
For oent of natieal inoome received by low,t 20%                 3      ~       2       ~        1. 
Peroaent of natiAfll Income t*ai,,d by lowest 9,(W7                                             1            13~.
93
% oiwAd by 60a1149t 10% Of owsr                                               0.1
MwarTARM11%  stmian                           ~~~~~2,200 /.    1,920 /i        i,1.1o        2,020 P/g~    720 4
Population Po" cursin   peeu                                   .            3,200Z           1,570        5,17!0         180 L
Papuletion per hospital bad                                    1.91 /ao       6080             810 Li       250           70 L
Per smpita calorie supply am % of requiremn,ts /i               97 ~h          98              110          101          18A
For capita protein supply,otl(esprdy                            6              62               65           7180 
Of iddoih .animal and pulse                                   25/i           21. LZ           28 49        32           567
Death rste 1-4. years LI                                        10 ~           .11                            3A~.       0. 1. z
M M      t  primary sicool enrollmenmt ratio                89 4/h         US1 4-ah, 4     101 .i        1 19 /ol.ai   97
Adjuetud    seocoalwy school enrollmeot ratio                   1e 7ah         1.1              23           29          102 a
Years of .thoo.isg provided, first and second le,al            012            10               12           12           12
Vocational enrollment as % of mec. school enroLlisnt            20 /Ah         17 Z91h          21. i.       33           35
Adolt lituacey rate %                                           6] 7l-ka.a1    72               81. al.sa    90 /il       9'9 Z!~
MIsE     Eo. of pnersa    per room (urban)                      2.0  h,an       .               2.2 I9p      13       an  2.7/a
Percent of o mYpied vits   mitbmt piped wtetr                   85    on a     ..               61  _n1.0            an    3
Aomoss tosoiactuiolty (as %ot totapopuplation)                  2A.s          .                 59  on       85          ..3
Perosnt of #ural popplatimo woueotd to electricity                 Th.L an                      28 tM        30    a   
oroivera par 1000 population                           100             138 A            3U/.1        11.9          32 A,
Paessanger oars per 1000 population                              8             17               31 7         1 22        307, /i
Electric power oom,asptin (k.d, P.o.)                          297 /h         1.32 Li          662 7        890ZT      8,988Z'
Wfevaprt consuaption P.C. kg per year                          1.9            2.9    ,         2.6          6.9   as    27.6 r.j
Nuts,,i Figa,rs mefer either to the latest periods or to             account of anviromuctal toeratore, body wol*tm, so
the Intent yeare. Latest periods refer in principle to               distribution by age and sex of mtimal popuaUtions
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70, the latest reare in PA.            A   Protein standards (requirements) for al1 countriss as matcb-
dipl. to 1960 and 1970.                                              'Liohed by USDA Ecoomic Research So-ins prolid. for a   Laimnla
a. The Per Capita GOP estimta Is aat rarket Prices for               .,3lowance of 60 peas of total protein per day, and 20 From  of
yoOro othor th5f 1960, caldlated by the booma comrsion           animal and pulas protein, of whicb ID grms should be aeilca
technique an the 1972 World Bank Atl.a.                          protein.  Thess standards are asenrbat Ioer than those of 75
LZ. Average number of daughters per women of reproductive            geso of total protein and 23 pams of anleal protein as on
ago.                                                             aerag   for the world, proposed by tAO in the Third World Food
F Ppulation growth reteo are for the decodes aning in              Surve.
1960 and 1970.                                               L7 Sow studies have suggested that crude death rates of Children
Ratio of Population under i5,and 65 and over to popula.           ages 1 through 1. say be "asd as a first appraomiation index of
tion of 0g00 15-61. for We depandency ratio and to, labor        ealautrition,.
force of age   15-65 for econ,omic dependency ratio.         L8  Percmtage ewolled of eorreeponding population of school age
/i  FAO roforeno.sotan,dards represent phyeiological re-              as defined f  or ah Country.
quirenenta fornormel activity and health, taking
/oa 1972;    /b  i960-65 uN estinate;    /c  1965-70 UT; estimate;   /d  1965;   /e   1967;   /f  bugistered onlyj    Li171;
7T  1961;    Zr 1969;    a~1969-70;      7r 1955-61,    /1   1960-72;   /m  1956-.UI    Li Capitols of districts andEA   ooe9
Populated carnern with such urban churacteristics ;a streets, pla.as , w,ater Supply systems, sewerage systems, electric
lights, etc.;   Li. 196,1-73;   /p  incaU-tien of 2,500 or wure inhabit:nto      L.populated Cantor, which have definite
urban characteristics Contributed bY cortain public and municipl     reecc      ~     Built-up aroaso with at least 200
inhabitants and usually not more than 200 metem    betwean houses;    /0  Data. ae ude adjustment for underanumeration; and
Indian jungle population;    It  1970-75 UN ostimate;    /u  ExciudinF Indian jungle populatin; entimated at 100,830 in
1961;   /v   PopulaatIon;  Li970-71;       /.  Economica3.F active population;          ousehols     /c  1968;   /m    1973;
/ab 1970 eatirsto bamed on re4It of houaeholdosurvey.     Excludes Indian jungle popuat1; .96L,               /a    Goeronant
only;   /ae   1962;   /af  1960.62;   I'g   1961.-66;   p   Including evening schools;     laXIncluding ovoemp studants;
,[Estimate;    /.   17 yesre and over;    __I  DefiitionLhooot        /-a  15 years and   oer;   /-   Data refer to housing
unite,    /an, Urban and rurel I/a      Water piped inside;   Lii.  Xt   is not comparable;    7&   1960-73;   /as   10 yeare
and over;    /aLt 1971.;  /uUrbaarsony
elodon boo been oclected as an objective country for Peru beca use of its high level of income accompanied by an active
socio-ocononic policy aimed at sattiing a mmr equitable income distribution; WAn an economic policy which stresees
the Important role of the state in the scoonany.
81. September 12, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 2
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.      .                                      1961 - 67-          1969-72-          1975
GNP at Market Prices                13,780    100.0                                        5.9               6.2               3.4
Gross Domestic Investment            2,615     18.9                                        9.4               4.5             17.6
Gross National Saving                1,047      7.5                                        3.6              10.4 3/          -10.7
Current Account Balance             -1,568    -11.3                                         .4/
Exports of Goods, NFS                1,752     12.7                                        2.7              -0.8               3.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                3,123     22.6                                       12.9               4.7             17.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 197
Value Added                                    Labor Force                 V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.     %                                     Thous.   %                  US $         %
Agriculture                          1,199     17.7                                   1,961   44.4               610          40
Industry 6/                          2,356     34.8                                     872   19.8             2,700         175
Services                             3,221     47.5                                   1,440   32.6             2,240         145
Unallocated                           ,          .                                      142    3.2
Total/Average                 6,776    100.0                                   4,415  100.0             1,535         100
1/
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                        Central Government
(Soles Bln.)      % of GDP                           (Soles Bln.)         % of GDP
1975      1975         1973-75                        1975       1975             y7-T
Current Receipts                            115        2U             20                           68        ,15                15
Current Expenditure                         109        19             18                           92         16                15
Current Surplus 7/                            6         1              2                           -           -1                2
Capital Expenditures                         34         6              5                           31          5                 5
External Assistance (net)                    17         3              2                           17          3                 2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   1965                1970              1973                 1974/          1975 /
(Billion Soles outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                       26.5                55.9              90.4                110.3          125.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                 4.4                12.2              27.6                 26.3           51.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector               20.8                39.8              73.2                 85.2          106.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           23.0                23.7              25.4                 24.6           21.9
General Price Index (1970 = 100) 8/          ..                100               126                  149            183
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                          ..                  7.3              14.6                18.2            22.9
Bank credit to Public Sector                51.3                 5.4              60.0                 -4.7           94.7
Bank credit to Private Sector               25.6                16.2              24.1                 16.4           25.5
1/ Preliminary estimates.
2/ As there was a severe economic crisis in Peru 1967-68, it would not be meaningful to show the usual period 1965-70. Instead
the chosen periods are "before the crisis" and "since the crisis".
3/ No trend exists, values are very scattered with a sharp peak in 1970, a year of record current account surplus.
4/ Refers to 1962-68.
5/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed
workers seeking their first job.
6/ Comprises Manufacturing, Construction and Mining.
7! Includes capital revenues
8/ GDP deflator
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 3
TRADE    PAYMENTS    AND    CAPITAL    FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973     1974     1975                                            US $ Mln      %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           1,347    1,842    1,752       Fish products                          213       16.o
Imports of Goods, NFS           1  00    2 442    3,123       Copper                                 273       20.4
Resource Gap (deficit =        - )               -1371        Sugar                                  180       13.5
Iron ore                                65         4.8
Interest Paymentsl/              -83     -126     -215        Silver                                 124        9.3
Workers' Remittances              ..       ..       Z. Zinc                                          135       10.4
Other Factor Payments (net)     -79       -47      -26          All other commodities                 X        25.6
Net Transfers                    42   _   48        45                Total                        1,332      100.0
Balance on Current Account      -173     -725    -7568
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1974              US $ Mln
Direct Foreign Investment         86     1-33      316
Net MLT lublic Sector Borrowing  333     713        806           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                2,042
Disbursements                 (690) (1,093)    (1,132)          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                  UL7) i(-60)       (-326)          Total outstanding & Disbursed
Subtotal                       4119    b46     1,122                                      2-/
Capital Grants                   D..       ..                   EBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974 --
Other Capital (net)v             -13      -7        -13
Other items n.e.i.              -225     161       -95
Increase in Reserves (+)          +8    +275      -553            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                   20.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)        564     949       459           Total outstanding & Disbursed
Net Reserves (end year)          405     680       127
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                               IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 31, 1976)     (Million US$):
Through September 25, 1975                                                                          IBRD        IDA
U84 1.00 = S/. 3b.703J
s/. 1.00 = US$ 0.0258                                           Outstanding & Disbursed          149.3
Undisbursed                        74.0
Since-September 26, 1975                                          Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    213.3
US$ 1.00 = sI. 45.oo
S/. 1.00 = 0.0222
1/ Public sector only, interest on private debt included in "Other Factor Payments".
2/ Ratio of debt service in foreign currency (excluding prepayments) to exports of goods and non-factor services.
3/ This was the main rate (certificate rate); there was also a secondary rate (draft rate US$1.00 = S/.43.38).
g   Net loans to the private sector.
not available
not applicable
May 7, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at March 31, 1976)
Loan or                                                      US$ million
Credit                                                Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year       Borrower         Purpose          Bank          Undisbursed
22 loans fully disbursed                    206.7
418      1965    Republic of Peru     Irrigation       6.5               0.1
706      1970    Republic of Peru    Roads            30.0               8.3
933      1973    Banco de Fomento
Agropecuario       Agriculture      25.0              17.4
949      1973    Republic of Peru     Education       24.0              23.8
1025      1974    Republic of Peru     Roads           26.0              24.4
Total                                        318.2
of which has been repaid                  104.9
Total now outstanding                       213.3
Amount sold                  18.3
of which has been repaid   18.3             _
Total now held by Bank  j                   213.3
Total undisbursed                                              74.0
Note: No IDA credits have been made to Peru
j Prior to exchange adjustments. A $76.5 million loan for a
Transport Corridor project and a $36 million loan for a Fifth
Power project were approved by the Executive Directors on
December 30, 1975, and March 2, 1976, respectively.  Both loans
will be signed shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1976)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year            Obligor                    Business      Loan     Equity    Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S. A.     Home           0.3                 0.3
Appliances
1960        Luren S. A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S. A.     Bricks         0.3                 0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S. A.        Building        0.3                0.3
materials
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos,S.A.  Fertilizers    4.1                 4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S. A.          Cement          2.2       0.2      2.4
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo      Cement         1.1        0.5      1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.     Mining        15.0                15.0
Total gross commitments                      23.3        0.7     24.0
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                   8.3       0.4       8.7
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                15.0        0.3     15.3
Total Undisbursed                             5.0        -       5.0
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION    /
Loan No. 418-PE:  San Lorenzo Irrigation Project; US$11 million Loan of June
18, 1965; Effective Date: November 24, 1965;    Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
Because of inadequacy of water supply, the Bank agreed to reduce the
project area; consequently, the project was redefined and the original loan amount
of US$11.0 million was reduced to US$6.5 million. (See Memorandum to the Executive
Directors 'Peru; Proposed Change in Loan 418-PE", February 28, 1968-33). The
Closing Date, originally June 20, 1967, was postponed four times, first to June 30,
1969, then to December 31, 1973, then to December 31, 1974, and then to June 30,
1976. The last postponement of the Closing Date was granted to allow the Borrower
to use the undisbursed amount of the loan (US$350,000) for the replacement of a
valve at the San Lorenzo reservoir, which is important for the overall operation
j   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and witn the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
of the system. The project has encountered a number of difficulties, both
administrative and technical but these problems are being overcome. Project
management has been strengthened and the last part of the project related to the
drainage scheme is progressing satisfactorily. The Loan is expected to be fully
disbursed by the revised Closing Date.
Loan 706-PE: Road Reconstruction Project; US$30 million Loan of September 14.
1970; Effective Date: October 26, 1970; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
This Loan was signed only three and a half months after the earthquake
in the Callejon de Huaylas. However, the identification, feasibility study and
final engineering of the roads to be improved have taken much longer than expected
because of a too optimistic assessment at the time of appraisal, because of
administrative and coordination difficulties in connection with the on-going
decentralization of the Central Government, and because of problems with the
consultants engaged to study and supervise the project. Construction of a short
section of road near Huaraz, the capital of the region, is near completion. Work
is well advanced on the two remaining sections along the Callejon; bidding for
the access road has now taken place and construction of this last section has
also started. The road reconstruction element of the project is expected to be
completed by the end of 1976, 15 months later than the original Closing Date of
the Loan, which has been extended accordingly.
Loan 933-PE: Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million Loan of September
12, 1973; Effective Date: December 12, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The Loan was signed in September 1973 and became effective on December
12, 1973. Although the project had a slow start, progress is now satisfactory.
Disbursements are slightly behind schedule.
Loan 949-PE: Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
IFective Date: March 5, 1974;  Closing Date:  June 30, 1979
This Loan became effective on March 5, 1974. Serious initial delays
were caused by administrative difficulties with the Project Unit and late appointment
of counterpart staff to the consultants who were to define curricula for the ESEPs
(Escuelas Superiores de Ensefianza Profesional).  The recent change of status of the
Project Unit which has been upgraded to the rank of Directorate General and the
strengthened management of the project have markedly improved the prospects for
efficient implementation of the project.
Loan 1025-PE:  Sixth Highway Project;  US$26 million Loan of July 1, 1974'
Effective Date: August 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Bids for construction works were invited in October 1974, on the basis
of the official cost estimates, but contractors failed to respond. After an
upward revision of the cost estimates new invitations to bid were issued in March
1975. Contractors response this time has been positive and bids for all sections
have been submitted and contracts were awarded in August 1975. Project
implementation is eight to ten months behind schedLJe.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
PERU
CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru (CENTROMIN)
Guarantor:     Republic of Peru
Amount:        US$4O million equivalent
Terms:         Amortization in 15 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace
with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum,  plus a guaran-
tee fee of 1-1/2 percent per annum payable by the Borrower
to the Guarantor.
Project Description:
(a) The Cobriza Mine Expansion: This project would expand underground
mine production from 0.7 million STPY of ore grading 2.2 percent
copper to 3.5 million STPY grading 1.8 percent copper. This ore
will be treated in a new concentrator, increasing concentrate out-
put from 50,000 STPY to 223,000 STPY containing 25 percent copper
and 5.5 oz of silver/ton. Related administrative, industrial and
social infrastructure are also included in the project. The exist-
ing concentrator will be dismantled, with some of the equipment to
be used in the new concentrator, to be constructed on a more stable
site.
(b) The Cerro de Pasco Mine Water Treatment Plant: This project would
improve the economics of copper recovery by replacing an existing
cementation plant with a more efficient solvent extraction and
electro-winning plant producing refined copper in place of cement
copper, and eliminating CENTROMIN's pollution of the San Juan and
Mantaro rivers. Production of copper would be 7,000 STPY by 1979.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of l
Estimated Cost:
(US$ Million)
Local   Foreign  Total.
Mine Development and
Site Preparation                   7.5      1.9     9.4
Plant and Equipment
(including spare parts)            9.0     30.4    39.4
Civil Construction and
Erection                          10.7       6.3   17.0
Freight and Transport                1.1       3.8    4.9
Engineering, Project,
Management and Supervision         2.5       7.2    9.7
Total Base Cost Estimate            30.8      49.6   80.4
Physical Contingencies               4.5       6.4   10.9
Price Escalation                    22.5      20.3   42.8
Total Fixed Assets                  57.8      76.3  134.1
Working Capital                     12.4        -    12.4
Project Cost                        70.2      76.3  146.5
Interest during Construction        17.6     12.1    29.7
Total Financing Required            87.8      88.4  176.2l/
Of which US$160.9 million is for the Cobriza mine expansion and
US$15.3 million for the mine water treatment plant.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
Financing Plan:
(US$ Million)            Cash
Total     IBED     IDB      COFIDE axatLfn
Foreign Exchange Costs of Project
(a) Direct                             61.4     33.0     28.4        -
(b) Indirect                           14.9      -        -         15.0
Subtotal                     76.3     33.0     28.4       15.0
Local Currency Costs of Project          70.2       -        -         67.2    3.0
Total Project Costs         146.5     33.0     28.4        82.2
Interest during Construction              29.7     7.0       5.0       17.6
Total Financing             176.2     40.0     33.4       99.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Calendar Year                  US$ Million
1976                            5.o
1977                           11.0
1978                           14.0
1979                            9.0
1980                            1.0



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
Procurement Arrangements:
All foreign equipment and supplies (us$51 million) will be
procured under international competitive bidding following Bank and IDB
guidelines. Equipment which is manufactured locally and which meets
technical, quality and delivery requirements, must be procured locally
under Peruvian law and is, therefore, precluded from IBRD/IDB financing.
This will apply to only a few minor items amounting to less than Us$5
million. Some retroactive financing for engineering services will be
required, but the amount is unlikely to exceed US$700,000 equivalent.
Consultants:
CENTROMIN has already appointed a foreign engineering firm for
the Cerro de Pasco project (Holmes and Narver, Inc. of the U.S.) and
is presently selecting a firm for the Cobriza project to take respon-
sibility for detailed engineering, procurement services, and overall
project management until start-up of the plants.
CENTROMIN is also planning to retain on a contract basis a
number of senior staff experienced in the execution of mining projects.
The additional senior staff will assist in project management and
train Company staff on the job in the techniques needed for project
execution.
Rate of Return:
Project                                     Economic ROR
Cobriza Mine Expansion                                   16%
Cerro de Pasco Mine Water
Treatment Plant                                        20%
Weighted average                                         16.3%
Appraisal Report:
Staff Project Report No. 997-PE



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
PERU
CENTROMIN EYPANSION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the projects:
(i) Cerro de Pasco Mine Water Treatment Plant: approximately
five months (June 1974 to October 1974); date of consul-
tants' feasibility study October 1974.
(ii)  Cobriza Mine Expansion:  approximately ten months (Sep-
tember 1974 to July 1975); date of consultants' feasi-
bility study February 1975.
(b) Projects prepared by Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru with
assistance of Holmes and Narver, Inc., and Ralph M. Parsons
Co., both U.S. consultants.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: October 1974
First Bank mission to consider projects: April-May 1975
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Missions:  First:  April 20, 1975
Follow-up: August 18, 1975
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:  May 14, 1976
(f) Planned Effectiveness: August 1976
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
III. Special Conditions
(a)  Expansion management structure will be staffed by July 31, 1976
(para. 36)
(b) Arrangements satisfactory to the Bank will be made for the
transportation of concentrates from Cobriza to La Oroya
(para. 34)
(c) All Stage I projects will be carried out on a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 47)
(d) No new borrowings if debt/equity ratio would exceed 50:50 or
long-term debt service coverage would fall below 2.0 times
(para. 46)
(e) Current ratio will not fall below 1.5 (para. 46)
(f) No new investments above US$30 million per annum other than
housing and Stage I without Bank approval (para. 46)
(g)  Government will make equity contributions to CENTROMIN in
amounts equivalent to CENTROMIN's investment in its housing
program and to payments of dividends by CENTROMIN to Govern-
ment, and to commit share capital increases, if and as
necessary, to maintain the long-term 50:50 debt/equity ratio
(para. 46).
(h) Necessary actions will be taken to ensure power supply (para. 34)



IBRD 11756
78     A  N   C  A   S  H   7   H  U   A  N   U  C   076                         75          SEPTEMBER 1975
(         .         ToTrujillo                            /        \    Salcachup6n
/       '~-- -0   -,   /    P  A      S C
Goyllarasquizga        __   _ /   p  A   S C   0
S O U T H  ,         /             /          Yanahuancao                           Oxapampa
Lma G7 
. >   .  \   {  /   '1      \   CERRO DE PASCO          Villa Rica,-.,
A M E R I C A                       <                            hlby           \       /
. /     ,.                RSupe     L I M A       Mina Ragra              oucLt !r
. :7   , ,         110                                    I              C >1 ( X& orhuamayo                            11
Huch                                             Junin            Son Rom6n
Satipo
L X  H  0 %                            1x\;         X Xca              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pucard  StP
The b-undaenct ehown on ths map do not
im.ply  end-rsmet or .-cptan-  by  rite
WarMd B,,kd oS$dmiSff,)kr-cePtance by rhe Ouaral               /                              \              < .Lcil royX /)Mariposa
ChancaY      /           M    oro        1~~~~~*  J  U  N  I|N
+      /       CasapolcaMahrsa alca
%\  /~~~~Sta. Rosa          :Tunl\         Jauja 
AncWntd                        \  Std  CeistobPl  la
01 /  ChosictM atucana                    Concepci6n
12'                                       o l(1'                                                              - --,1       '
S. Lorenzo     Cieneguilla               Cuc                  Huancayo
CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROLJMCTPchacamac                           Yauricocha                 Panmpses
CENTROM      PN EXPANSION PROJECThL                           l MA4                                   Pampas Colcabamba
Detail Area                                              Yauyos    Cercapuquio
2   Mines included in project                                                /    Mariscal CdcereCOre
Xl Existing mines                                                                                            V
Major paved roads                           Mala
Secondary roads       1                                                   /
-4--+--+-Railroads b                                                          /       Huancavelica             f <
--- Department boundaries                            )    
c13           20      40      60                                          Lunahuana                            Lircay
MILES                                                              H U A N C A V E L I C A
0    20   40  60   80   100  120                           S anVicente de Ca?ete  (                             )
KILOMETERS                                               I 7                         5 C\ C A
7,8                       77                X  To I ca  760       ~5' /



