Document of
The World Bank    FL                             O'
FILE COQ94
F0R OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 997-PE
PERU
CENTROMIN EXPANSION-PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
May 12, 1976
Industrial Projects Department
This document has a restricted distibution and may be wsed by recipients only In the perfor mnce of
their olmclu duties. Its cootents may not otherwise be disclosed withot World Bank autborIation.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECCNSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMIT
INTERNATICNAL DEVELOPMNET ASSOCIATICK
PERU
CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
STAFF HIJJECT REPORT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Except where otherwise indicated, all figures are quoted in Soles (S/.)
and U.S. Dollars (US$)
Up to September 26, 1975       After September 26, 1975
S/. 1.00         US$0.026      S/. 1.00          US$0.022
S/. 38.70     = US$1.00        S/. 45.00      = US$1.00
S/. 1,000,000  = US$25,840    S/. 1,000,000  = US$22,222
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASARCO               Formerly American Smelting and Refining Company,
a U.S. mining company.
GAF                  Corporacion Andina de Fomento
CENTROMIN, Company   Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru
CIDEC                Conseil International pour le Developpement
du Cuivre, an association of copper producers
CIPEC                Conseil Intergouvernmental des Pays Exportateurs
du Cuivre, an association of major copper
exporting countries
COCI               Mining Compensation Fund
COFIDE               Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo,
a Government-owned development corporation
CPE                  Centrally Planned Economy
EDC                  Export Development Corporation of Canada
ELECTROPERU          Government-owned electrical utility
Government           Republic of Peru
HIEEROPERU           Empresa Hierro del Peru, a Government-ouned
iron-mining company, formerly known as
Marcona Mining Company
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
INCITEKI             Institute for Scientific and Technological Research
INP                  National Institute of Planning
JETRO                Japanese External Trade Organization
IME                  London Metal Exchange
MINEROPERU           Eknpresa Minera del Peru, a Government-owned mining cmpany
MINPECO              Mineroperu Commercial, a Government-owned minerals
marketing agency
MTPY                 Metric Tons Per Year
Kw                   Megawatt, one million watts
SPCC                 Southern Peru Copper Corporation, a U.S. Controlled
copper mining company
STPY                 Short Tons Per Year
USBM                 U.S. Bureau of Mines
WBMS                 World Bureau of Metal Statistics
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Short Ton         2,000 pounds
1 Metric Ton     =  2,205 pounds
1 Kilometer (km) - 0.62 miles
CENTROMIN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Industrial ProJects Department
May 1976



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
S LIKRY  ................................... i
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..............................................    ......            t
II.   THE PERUVIAN MINING SECTOR               .............................            2
A.    Recent Trends and Developments                     .....................   2
B.    Structure of the Sector ............................                       4
C.    Legislation Governing the Mining Sector  ............                      6
D.    Sector Investment Program and Financing Needs  ......                      7
E.    Contribution to the Economy  .........4- ..            ..........          9
III. THE COMPANY                .............................................    10
A.    Background and Ownership  ..................g or ........s                10
B.    Organization and Management  .........                  ...............    11
C.    Operations  .......   0 ........ ........................ .............    13
D.    Past Performance and Recent Financial Position                            17
E.    The Stage I Expansion Program                     .....................    23
1.    Description of the Program                 ....................    23
2.    Utilities and Transport  .               .....................    25
3.    Employment and Training  .......................   25
IV.  THE METAL MARKETS  ........ .................................    25
A.    The Copper Market  ....                       .......................  ......    26
1.    International Supply and Demand  ............              ...    26
2.    Price Structure and Projections  ...........O.. ..    29
B.    The Zinc Market  ....................................    30
1.    International Supply and Demand  ............ .              ..    30
2.    Price Structure and Projections  ............            .....    32,
C.    The Lead Market  ...              .................................    33
1.    International Supply and Demand                   ...............    33
2.    Price Structure and Projections                 ................    35
This report has been prepared by Messrs. R. Rodger and H.E. Wackman of the
Industrial Projects Department.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
D.  The Silver Market ......................... ........    36
1.  International Supply and Demand . ...........    36
2.  Price Structure and Projections ............    37
E.  Marketing Arrangements ............. .............    37
V.    THE PROJECT      ..........................................    38
A.   The Cobriza Mine Expansion ............... ........    38
1.  Technical Description .....    .................    38
2.  Environmental Aspects .....    .................    41
B.  The Cerro De Pasco Mine Water Treatment Plant  ...    42
1.  Technical Description       ..................*.    42
2.  Environmental Aspects .....................    44
C.  Capital Costs and Financing Plan ....    ............    44
1.  Capital  Costs   ...... ........................  44
2.  Financing  Plan  ............. . ................  47
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .48
A.  Project Organization and Management. ......           48
B.   Implementation ..................     ............   49
C.  Procurement and Disbursement and Allocation
of Bank Loan.......  50
1.  Procurement ..... .       ...... ..              50
2.  Allocation of Bank Loan and Disbursement ...    50
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS......                                   54
A.  Financial Rate of Return of the Project    .. .    55
B.  Future Sales and Profitability of CENTROMIN .....    62
C.   Break-even Point of CENTROMIN after
Stage I   *.a.. 6 .          .a...aa..a.....a      62
D.  Financial Rate of Return of Stage I   ...             62
E.  Company Financing During Stage I and Financial
Position ..........                      .....     63
F. Debt Service Coverage          . . .65
G. Further Expansion            . . .65
H. Major Risks             ...65
I.  Auditing Requirements .        .                      66
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...66
A.   General Economic Effects and Government Benefits.    66
B.  Foreign Exchange Effects      ..66
C. Employment Effects.                                    67
D.  Economic Rate of Return               .               67



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
IX.  AGREEMENTS    .........................................  67
A.  Commitments from the Government .... *so ........   67
B.  Commitments from CENTROMIN .....    ................    68
ANNEX
Additional Reports and Data Related to the Project Available in the Bank
MAPS
IBRD 11755 - Peru
IBRD 11756 - CENTROMIN Expansion Project - Detail Area






PERU
CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
SUMMARY
THE MINING SECTOR
A.   Background
1.        Peru is a mineral-rich country with large proven deposits of copper,
zinc, silver, iron ore and lead. Exploitation of Peru's mineral resources
goes back to the mining of gold, silver and copper by the Incas prior to
the Spanish conquest in order to fashion them into adornments, weapons and
utensils. The growth of the mining sector was particularly impressive dur-
ing the 1950s, when the enactment of a simplified mining code with a clear
and favorable tax regime greatly improved the investment climate and foreign
capital flowed into the sector. Copper production increased from 30,000 MT
to 180,000 MT during the decade, the output of lead, zinc and silver more
than doubled, and exploitation of Peru's iron ore potential began. In to-
tal, the value of mineral production rose from US$41 million in 1950 to
almost US$200 million by 1960.
2.        In contrast to the previous decade the 1960's were years of relative
stagnation in the sector, characterized by decreasing investor confidence
and little investment. After the 1968 coup the Government began to assume a
more active role within the sector. In 1970 a state-owned mining company,
Empresa Minera del Peru (MINEROPERU), was established with the purpose of
bringing into operation a series of high-priority mining and metallurgical
projects.  The Cerro de Pasco Corporation, now CENTROMIN, was nationalized
in early 1974 and the Marcona Mining Company, now HIERROPERU, in mid-1975.
Compensation has been paid for Cerro de Pasco and a compensation package
for Marcona is being negotiated. The Government has also taken over all
overseas marketing of metals and centralized this function in a new state
enterprise, MINEROPERU COMERCIAL (MINPECO).
B.   Current Institutional Situation
3.        Four companies --CENTROMIN, HIERROPERU, Southern Peru Copper
Corporation (SPCC) and MINEROPERU-- now constitute the large-scale mining
group, which accounts for 65% of the country's mining output and almost
45% of the sector's work force. CENTROMIN has the most diversified out-
put, producing copper, silver, zinc, lead and other metals at seven mines
in Peru's Central Sierra and accounts for around one-third of the sector's
output and employment. HIERROPERU operates Peru's major iron ore mining
complex. SPCC, the only remaining private company in large-scale mining,
is the country's single largest producer and exporter of copper. MINERO-
PERU's only plant in operation thus far is a large copper refinery at Ilo.



- ii -
4.        Peru's medium-scale mining operations consist of a heterogeneous
coLlection of some 60 companies producing partially-treated copper, lead,
zinlc and silver ores. These operations, which account for 30% of Peru's
mining output and employ 40% of the sector's work force, are almost all
pr:Lvately owned. The small mining operations comprise more than 1,000
pr:Lvately-owned small mines, most of them poorly mechanized, labor-inten-
sivie operations. A large portion of the concentrates produced by the small
and medium miners is sold to CENTROMIN for smelting and refining. Expansion
of medium and small-sized mines is expected to be much slower than for the
large companies during the seventies, and their present share of output will
probably decline.
5.        Peruvian experience in the planning of major mining development
projects is limited both in the companies themselves and in the various Gov-
ernument institutions, since this function has traditionally been performed
in the headquarters of the foreign parent companies. All mining operations
including sector planning now come under the jurisdiction of the Ministry
of Energy and Mines, which is responsible also for the petroleum and power
subsectors. The Ministry's Planning Department establishes investment
prJiorities but leaves to Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE) the
primary responsibility for financing the investment projects of the state-
ownied enterprises. COFIDE is relatively inexperienced in the mining industry
and has been slow to help the public sector companies with planning their
investment programs, partly because of the uncertainty of government funding
to COFIDE for such programs. The Planning Department of the Ministry of
Energy and Mines has not proven to be effective enough in establishing
reaLlistic priorities and programs for the industry's expansion.
6.        The operational problems in the sector include labor unrest.
Government policy has raised the wages of workers and miners, resulting in
substantial increases in operating costs, but despite the improvement in
worker benefits, labor unrest has continued. Besides disputes over wages
and working conditions, there has been controversy and uncertainty over the
management participation of the mining communities, i.e. the associations
representing the mine workers. As has been the case in the private indus-
trial sector since 1970, this participation in the private mining sector
now, takes the form of profit-sharing and a mechanism for increasing share
ownership up to a maximum of 50%. The effects and future structure of
this experiment in worker participation are still uncertain. In the case
of CENTROMIN, the mining communities receive bonds rather than shares, and
the Government has resisted any excessive influence over decision-making by
the mining community or other agencies. Although CENTROMIN is nominally a
subsidiary of MINEROPERU, it is effectively controlled by the Ministry of
Energy and Mines.
C.   Mineral Exports, Prices and Strategy
7.        The volume of Peru's mineral exports has increased in recent years
only marginally and changes in their value have occurred mainly because of
fluctuations in world prices.  Exports rose from US$465 million in 1970 to



- iii -
US$875 million in 1974 but fell back to an estimated US$567 million in 1975.
Peru accounts for 19% of world mine output of silver and about 12% of
wforld exports of zinc and lead and 5% of world copper exports. Since
copper constitutes roughly 40% of the value of Peru's mineral exports,
variations of its price have a substantial impact on the country's exports.
Despite large fluctuations, copper prices followed a long-term upward trend
in real terms from 1929 through early 1974, reaching an all-time high of
US$1.52/lb. on the London Metal Exchange in early 1974. Since then, cop-
per prices fell sharply to below US$0.55/lb., mainly because of the slow-
down in world economic growth, but have recently firmed up to about US$0.70/
lb. In November 1974 the Conseil Intergouvernmental des Pays Exportateurs
du Cuivre (CIPEC) --a grouping of copper exporting nations of which Peru
is an important member-- agreed to reduce exports temporarily by 10% in
an attempt to halt the decline in copper prices. A further cutback of 5%
was agreed to in April 1975. In November 1975 the cutbacks were extended
through June 1976. Because of the reduced demand for copper some of the
major U.S. and Canadian copper companies have also cut production. Peru's
export earnings from metals are expected to increase substantially with
the economic recovery now under way in major metal consuming countries.
Mletal prices have recently begun to recover from their depressed levels.
An upward trend in real terms is expected over the next few years and the
long-term upward trend in world metal demand will call for continuing ex-
pansion in the world capacity to produce various minerals.
8.         Peru's development strategy, given the relative paucity of her
agricultural resources (outside of fishing), and the still small industrial
base, is to rely heavily on her richly endowed mining sector to provide the
bulk of the foreign exchange earnings needed to maintain her economic growth.
In line with this strategy, Peru's four large-scale mining companies have
been projecting expansion which, in combination with the prospective invest-
ments of other entities in the sector, would have called for total invest-
ments in excess of US$3.5 billion during the 1975-80 period. Taking into
account the limited project preparation and executing experience of the
companies and probable financial constraints, investment in the sector is
not likely to exceed US$2 billion during 1976-80, 60% of which would be
public. Even this, however, depends on the country's ability to raise the
necessary financing. Given this investment rate, the value of Peru's min-
eral exports could reach some US$2.5 billion in current prices by 1980 or
about 70% above the 1974 value, with about half of the increase resulting
from increased production. The largest single project to date is SPCC's
development of the Cuajone mine, which is scheduled for completion in early
1977. Cuajone will effectively double Peru's copper producing capacity.
After 1980 sector growth is expected to be fuelled primarily by investment
in copper and to a lesser extent in zinc, phosphates, lead, and silver.



- iv -
THE PROJECT
A.   Project Concept
9.        Bank staff have worked closely with CENTROMIN on the formulation
of a Stage I expansion program consisting of six projects designed to im-
prove the Company's operating performance through replacement of obsolete
facilities, to expand production and the degree of processing, and to re-
duce environmental pollution. The six projects include the expansion of
the Cobriza and Casapalca mines, the modernization and expansion of the
copper smelter/refinery, the zinc refinery and the lead sinter plant at
La Oroya, and the replacement of a copper cementation plant with a solvent
extraction and electro-winning plant at Cerro de Pasco. The following two
components of the Stage I expansion program comprise the proposed project
and have been selected for Bank financing because of their high priority
to the country, their advanced state of preparation, and their self-con-
tained nature:
(a) The Cobriza Mine Expansion - This project would expand under-
ground mine production from 0.7 million STPY of ore grading 2.2% copper to
3.5 milLion STPY grading 1.8% copper. This ore will be treated in a new
,concentrator, increasing concentrate output from 50,000 STPY to 223,000 STPY
,containing 25% copper and 5.5 oz of silver/ton. Related administrative, in-
dustrial, and social infrastructure are also included in the project. Proj-
ect cost is estimated at US$134.1 million.
(b)  The Cerro de Pasco Mine Water Treatment Plant - This proj-
ect would improve the economics of copper recovery by replacing an exist-
:ing cementation plant with a more efficient solvent extraction and electro-
winning plant producing refined copper in place of cement copper, and
eliminating the existing plant's pollution of the San Juan and Mantaro
rivers. Project cost is estimated at US$12.4 million.
B.   Costs and Financing
10.       The total cost of the two projects (excluding interest during
construction) is estimated at US$146.5 million equivalent with an estimated
foreign exchange component of US$76.3. The estimated direct foreign exchange
costs of the project (US$61.3 million), consisting of equipment, supplies,
erection, engineering, project management and technical assistance services
would be financed by the IBRD and the IDB on a 55:45 basis. The IBRD/IDB
loans would also finance interest during the construction period. Total
financing requirements are estimated to be US$176.2 million equivalent,
of which the Bank would provide US$40 million and the IDB US$33.4 million.
The IDB loan has been negotiated and is expected to be submitted to the
IDB Executive Directors during the month of June.
11.       The remainder of the financing (US$102.8 million) would be
covered almost entirely by US$99.8 million in loans from COFIDE having
a term of about 10 years, including four years of grace and an interest



- v -
rate of 8% per annum. The IBRD loan would have a term of 15 years, includ-
ing 4-1/2 years of grace, at the prevailing interest rate of 8..50% per annum,
in addition to which the Company would pay the Government a guarantee fee of
1.5°% per year. The IDB loan would have the same term with an interest rate
of 8% per annum.
12.       The plan for virtually 100% debt financing of the two projects
should cause no problems since at the present time the Company is in a
sound financial position and has very little debt. Even after borrowing
for these two projects CENTROMIN will have a low debt/equity ratio and
thus should be able to borrow additional funds without impairing its fi-
nancial position. Projected financing of the Company's other requirements
during the execution of the Stage I Program is outlined in paragraphs 21-28.
C.   Market and Production Aspects
13.       The value of the concentrate produced at Cobriza would increase
from US$10 million in 1975 to about US$63 million in 1981 in constant 1975
dollars. About 62% of the concentrate produced at full production of the
expanded plant would be smelted and refined at La Oroya, and the balance
exported in concentrate form. Operating costs per ton of concentrate
produced would be reduced by about 40% in real terms as a result of the
larger and more efficient plant. The value of the copper produced by the
mine water treatment plant is expected to be about US$8.5 million in con-
stant 1975 dollars by 1979 when full production is achieved. The annual
copper output of the plant is expected to decline slowly from the 7,000
ST level projected for 1979, due mainly to the depletion of copper values
in the mine dumps. The two projects would increase Peru's annual mineral
exports by more than US$50 million, about 9% over the 1975 level.
14.       CENTROMIN markets all of its products through MINPECO, the auto-
nomous government-owned minerals marketing agency whicli handles all the
overseas marketing of Peru's mineral output. On completion of CENTROMIIN's
Stage I program in 1981, some 35% of the Company's sales will be copper.
Given the high quality, low impurity grade of the copper products, the addi-
tional output should be readily marketable.
15.       No major problems are foreseen in obtaining the inputs needed for
the planned expansion. Ore reserves in the Coris area which are presently
being mined total about 50 million tons, sufficient for 14 years at the
proposed rate of mining. In addition, CENTROIIIN has investigated an exten-
sion of the deposit in the adjacent Pumagayac ridge. Additional reserves
are indicated to be of the order of 60 million tons of comparable grade.
Therefore, at least 20 years operations are reasonably assured. The mining
method will be cut and fill, the method presently utilized. The concentrator
flow-sheet is conventional, involving crushing, grinding and flotation. No
technical difficulties are foreseen. Existing infrastructure is sufficient
for the current operations of CENTROMIN and adequate plans to meet the in-
creased needs resulting from the Stage I expansion program have been made.
The main infrastructure need for the two projects to be financed by the Bank



- vi -
is the construction of a power transmission line to the Cobriza mine. In
addition, capacity to transport concentrates will have to be expanded.
Assurances regarding the timely availability of both items are included
in the loan documents in Section 4.02 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement and
Section 3.03 (i) and (iii) of the draft Guarantee Agreement.
D.   Implementation
16.       CENTROMIN's organizational structure is sound and its operations
are well-managed. There is a lack of experience in project and financial
planning, however, because these activities had been done abroad by the
former parent company and very little planning and investment activity has
been done during the last 10 years. These shortcomings are recognized by
the Company's present senior managers and various steps are being taken to
overcome them, including the appointment of engineering firms as project
engineers and managers. CENTROMLN has already appointed a foreign engineer-
ing firm for the Cerro de Pasco project and is presently selecting a firm
for the Cobriza project to take responsibility for detailed engineering,
procurement services, and overall project management until start-up of the
plants.
17.       In view of the heavy management load resulting from the simul-
taneous execution of six remote and widely separated Stage I projects,
CENTROMIN is also planning to retain on a contract basis a number of senior
staff experienced in the execution of mining projects. With government
approval, salary levels will be sufficient to attract qualified staff from
overseas. The additional senior staff will assist in project management
and train company staff on the job in the techniques needed for project
e-xecution. The costs of this technical assistance will be financed by the
IBRD/IDB loans. Assurances have been obtained that the Company will fill
Icey positions in the expansion management structure by July 31, 1976, be-
fore a substantial amount of expansion activity is under way, (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Company will also give increased
emphasis to training of Peruvian staff, including arranging for them to
gain additional experience abroad.
E.   Procurement and Disbursement
18.       It is expected that the Company will start placing orders for
internationally-bid equipment by the fourth quarter of 1976. All foreign
equipment and supplies (US$51 million) will be procured under international
competitive bidding guidelines of the IBRD and IDB. Equipment which is
manufactured locally must be procured in Peru under Peruvian law and would
not be financed from the IBRD/IDB loans. This will apply to only a few
minor items amounting to less than US$5 million. Disbursements will be made
on the following basis: (a) 55% of the CIF cost of imported equipment and
materials; and of the expenditures made in foreign exchange for consultant
services; and (b) 100% of interest and other charges on the loan due on or
before April 30, 1980. Some retroactive financing for engineering services
wiLll be required, but the amount will not exceed US$700,000 equivalent.



- vii -
F.   Financial Analysis
1.   Current Financial Position of CENTROMIN
19.       Production and sales volumes have been fairly static over the
1970-75 period but, with the exception of strike-caused drops in 1971 and
1975, generally improving metal prices resulted in steady growth in sales
revenue and profits through 1974. Metal prices were particularly high in
1973 and 1974 and more than compensated for steady increases in operating
costs. In contrast to the fluctuations in metal prices, labor and other
costs have risen steadily in the past few years such that, given the recent
depressed state of most metal prices, 1975 profits were dramatically lower
than those of 1974. These cost increases reflect the recent rapid inflation
in Peru. As mentioned previously, government policies have allowed sub-
stantial increases in workers' wages which, together with energy and other
cost increases, have greatly increased CENTROMIN's operating costs. The
devaluation of the Sol by 14% against the US dollar in September, 1975
helped to restore the deteriorating relationship between Company revenues
and operating costs.
20.       The Company's financial structure has remained sound, despite
recent low metal prices, local inflation and the significant drain on
CENTROMIN's resources resulting from the financing of its acquisition
from the Cerro Corporation, for which payments of US$76 million were
made in 1974.  One of the Company's strengths is its wide range of min-
eral products; the recent deterioration in CENTROMIN's earnings power
would have been much worse, but for the firmer silver, gold and zinc
prices partially offsetting the low copper and lead prices.  As mentioned
previously, the Company's borrowing capacity is largely unused.
2.   Financial Projections
21.       Company financing during the execution of Stage I (1976-81) is
projected to be as follows:



- viii -
(In US$ Millions)
Sources                                   Applications
Cash Generation                354.2      Cobriza                         148.7
Long-Term Debt                            Cerro de Pasco                   15.1
Foreign Loans                           Other Stage I Projects          233.4
IBRD                        40.0        Subtotal Stage I (fixed
IDB                         33.4        assets including interest
Other                      132.3        during construction)          397.2
Other Replacements/
Local Loans                               Improvements                   99.9
Housing and Related
Infrastructure               164.9
Mining Community            20.2        Subtotal, Fixed Assets        662.0
Other (including COFIDE) 193.9
Subtotal                       419.8      Amortization of Long-Term
Debt                          52.8
Share Capital                  164.9      Increase in Other Assets          1.2
Increase in Working Capital    57.8
TOTAL                          938.9                                      773.8
Cash Surplus                    165.1
22.       This projection of CENTROMIN's future financial performance, as
well as other projections summarized below, assumes that metal prices in
real terms will recover in the next few years from their recent depressed
levels with economic recovery in major metal consuming countries and that
prices will also reflect the effect of world inflation assumed at 7-8%
per annum to 1980 and 7% per annum thereafter. The financial projections
also incorporate the forecast impact of all six projects which comprise.
CENTROMIN's Stage I Program.
23.       The projected US$165 million cash surplus over the 1976-81 period
provides some cushion in the event of depressed metal prices or overruns in
the Stage I Program, as well as a basis for initiating a Stage II Program.
M4ost of this surplus would occur during 1980 and 1981, when some of the
Stage I facilities are scheduled to be on stream, and by which time invest-
ment in Stage II should have commenced.
24.       Assuming that execution of all Stage I projects is under way be-
fore the end of 1976, their full operation is expected to be achieved by
1982, by which time net sales are projected to more than double from the
1974 level to US$707 million in current terms. Of the US$389 million
increase, approximately US$81 million, or 21% is due to the two Bank-
financed projects. While the Company's profitability is projected to



- ix -
improve from the 1975 level of 4.5% to 7.2% of sales, reflecting improve-
ments in operating efficiency and metal prices, it would still fall short
of the all-time peak in 1974, when metal prices hit unprecedented heights
and depreciation and interest were relatively minor expense items. After
completion of Stage I, the profit break-even point for the Company is
projected to be about 79% of production capacity and for the expanded
Cobriza and the Cerro de Pasco plants 69% and 43%, respectively.
25.       The Cobriza and the Cerro de Pasco projects have incremental
financial rates of return in real terms of about 15% and 18%, respec-
tively, and the incremental financial return of the full Stage I Program
-though less firmly based than that of the two Bank-assisted projects--
is expected to be at least 20%. Sensitivity analyses for the main para-
meters affecting the financisl rate of return i.e., variations of 10% in
capital and operating costs and revenues, indicate that even under adverse
circumstances the Cerro de Pasco project shows good rates of return while
those of the Cobriza project become somewhat marginal if copper prices
over the life of the project were to be significantly lower than projected.
However, such a situation is unlikely to arise and the project risk in this
respect is acceptable. The Cerro de Pasco project is sensitive mainly to
the operating cost savings that it will bring about as compared to similar
cost increasing factors acting on Cerro de Pasco without the Project.
26.       Projected sources and application of funds for 1976-84 indicate
that CENTROMIN should have little difficulty servicing its debt. Sensi-
tivity analysis shows that average long-term metal prices (1980-84) could
drop by 25% below the base case projections before long-term debt service
coverage would drop to 1.0.
3.   Financia Covenants
27.       While the metal price trends used in the projections are con-
sidered to be realistic, CENTROMIN's financial planning must allow for the
possibility of revenue, cash flow and profit levels being below those pro-
jected during periods of depressed metal prices as has been the case since
mid-1974. To safeguard CENTROMIN's financial soundness the agreed covenants
would (a) limit the increase of additional debt in terms of long-term debt/
equity ratio (maximum 50:50) and projected debt service coverage (at least
twice covered on the basis of projections satisfactory to the Bank) (Loan
Agreement Section 5.04 (a) and (b)); (b) limit annual investment additional
to the Stage I expansion program and the housing program to US$30 million
(Loan Agreement Section 5.06); and (c) require maintenance of a ratio of
current assets to current liabilities of no less than 1.5 to 1 (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 5.05). Assurances have also been obtained from the Government
that it would make contributions to CENTROMIN's equity in amounts equivalent
to CENTROMIN's investment in the housing program and its payment of dividends
to the Government--CENTROMIN is required by law to pay 50% of its net profits
to the Treasury-and to commit share capital increases, if and as necessary,
to maintain the long-term debt/equity 50:50 ratio.



28.       Execution of all the projects in CENTROMIN's Stage I Program is
important for the future financial soundness of the Company, even though
the two Bank projects are technically and financially viable without the
other four Stage I projects, which involve mainly modernization and expansion
of the La Oroya smelting and refining facilities, most of which are old and
require extensive maintenance. If major modernization of the facilities,
especially the copper smelter, were not undertaken within the next five
years, the Company would be faced with continuing increases in maintenance
costs, the increasing risk of production losses through down-time, and the
need for substantial investment just to maintain present production levels.
It is difficult to quantify the likely effects of such a situation precisely,
but it is quite probable that the Company could be placed in increasingly
serious financial difficulties. To avoid the risk of such a possibility,
the Company and the Government have agreed that the Stage I Expansion Program
will be carried out in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the
Bank (Loan Agreement Section 4.03 and Guarantee Agreement Section 3.03 (ii)).
Financing offers have been received by the Company from the Export Develop-
ment Corporation (EDC) of Canada and Canadian commercial banks for the zinc
refinery and the copper smelter/refinery, and from the U.S. Export-Import
Bank and a U.S. commercial bank for the lead sinter plant. These offers
are sufficient to cover most of the foreign exchange costs of these proj-
ects. The Company plans to finance the Casapalca mine expansion from its
own funds.
G.   Economic Analysis
29.       The estimated economic rate of return for the Cobriza project,
which represents about 91.5% of total project cost, is about 16Z and for
the Cerro de Pasco project is about 20%. The weighted average rate of
return is estimated at 16.3%. The economic importance of the projects
somewhat exceeds their direct financial benefits to CENTROMIN due to the
import duties and other taxes paid to the Government. CENTROMIN plays a
major role in the Peruvian economy by accounting for about 5% of the
Government's income tax revenues and about 20% of its foreign exchange
receipts. The proposed projects and the Stage I Program will help
accelerate the country's economic growth and maintain Peru's market
position in a number of key minerals.
30.       The net annual foreign exchange benefits generated by the Stage
I Program are projected to reach about US$59 million equivalent in 1975
dollars by 1982 of which the two projects to be financed by the IBRD and
IDB represent US$30 million. The Government will benefit greatly through
the increased fiscal and profit sharing revenues, and the foreign exchange
earned by the projects.
31.       The workers too, will benefit, with expanded incomes under the
existing profit sharing arrangements. An additional 700 jobs will also be
created by the Stage I expansion. Furthermore, if the Company did not
undertake this program of modernization and expansion, jobs would be jeo-
pardized by the deteriorating production situation resulting from outdated
facilities.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Peru and Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru
(CENTROMIN-PERU) 1/, a government-owned mining company, have asked the Bank
for a loan of US$40 million equivalent to assist in the financing of two
projects which are part of a CENTROMIN modernization and expansion program
in the Central Andean Region. The program is to be completed by 1981 and is
expected to cost US$346 million equivalent. The larger of the two projects
would expand the output of copper concentrates from the Cobriza mine (564 km.
southeast of Lima (Map IBRD 11755) from 50,000 short tons per year (STPY) in
1974 to 222,000 STPY by 1980.  The other project would replace an existing
copper cementation plant at Cerro de Pasco (312 km. north-east of Lima) with a
solvent-extraction/electro-winning and waste neutralization (mine water treat-
ment) plant which would produce about 7,000 STPY of refined copper by 1978.
This replacement would virtually eliminate the serious river pollution caused
by the existing plant and produce refined rather than cement copper at a lower
cost.
1.02      Financing requirements for the two projects are estimated at US$176
million equivalent, of which USS161 million would be for Cobriza and US$15 mil-
lion for Cerro de Pasco. The Bank loan would be used to finance the foreign
exchange cost of equipment procured by international competitive bidding and
consulting services. The remainder of the projects' costs would be covered
by a US$33.4 million loan requested from the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) plus local loans and Company cash generation.
1.03      Other projects in the first phase (Stage I) of the  expansion
program are aimed at modernizing CENTROMIN's smelting and refining facilities
and expanding refined copper output from 6n,000 to 85,000 STPY, refined zinc
output from 76,000 to 99,000 STPY, refined lead output from 89,000 to 104,000
STPY, and the production of copper/lead/zinc ore at the Casapalca mine from
630,000 to 870,000 STPY. CENTROMIN plans to commence execution of the other
Stage I projects closely behind the two Bank projects, and an important aspect
of the Bank's involvement is to assist the Company in formulating the overall
expansion program and help attract the additional finance required. The two
projects appraised by the Bank do not depend on the other projects for their
viability.°
1.04      The appraisal was carried out during two missions:  The first in
April/May 1975 led by Mr. R. Bosson with Messrs. K. Allen, R. Rodger and
H. Wackman of the Industrial Projects Department and Mr. E. McCarthy of
Latin American and Caribbean Country Programs, and the second in August 1975
led by Mr. Wackman with Mr. Rodger, at which time the IDB also had a mission
in the field.
1/   Although the legal acronym is CENTROMIN-PERU, the Company is generally
referred to and is denoted hereinafter as CENTROMIN.



II.  THE PERUVIAN MINING SECTOR
A.    Recent Trends and Developments
2.01       The 1950 Mining Code had a decisive impact on the growth of mining
production in Peru after a long period of stagnation. The simplification
and unification of a series of cumbersome and complex mining regulations
into one legislative code, establishing a clear and guaranteed tax regime as
well as providing incentives to exploit the country's mining potential, was
ptimarily responsible for a significant increase in investment after 1950.
Major investment took place in copper, with output increasing from 30,000 MT
in 1950 to 180,000 MT by 1960. Sizeable increases in lead, zinc and silver
production were also recorded in the same period, as well as the first exploi-
tation of Peru's iron ore potential. The value of Peru's mineral production
rose from US$41 million in 1950 to almost US$200 million by 1960.
2.02       In contrast, the following decade (1960-70) was one of relative
stagnation, characterized by decreasing investor confidence and an absence of
any major new investment. Except for iron ore and zinc, production of Peru's
principal mineral products increased slowly. After 1968 the Government started
to assume a much more active role in determining the strategy for future growth
in the sector and in elaborating the necessary policies to achieve its object-
ives. There was an increasing emphasis on public ownership of Peru's major
mining operations which culminated in the nationalization of the Cerro de Pasco
Corporation (now CENTROMIN) in early 1974, and the Marcona Mining Company (now
HIERROPERU) in mid-1975.
2.03       For some years prior to these nationalizations and up to the present
time, considerable uncertainty has existed in Peru's mining sector, other changes
besides the trend to public ownership having contributed to this uncertainty.
The Government's policy of income re-distribution has had the effect of greatly
raising the wages of workers including those of mining workers, while limiting
the salaries of executives. This has resulted in substantial increases in ope-
rat:ing costs, and made it difficult to hold or attract experienced senior staff,
particularly expatriates. Recent government legislation putting a ceiling on
salaries has increased this latter difficulty, but the legislation allows
for exceptions to be made to avoid the risk of losing significant numbers
of skilled executives. Despite the improvement in worker benefits, indus-
trial unrest has continued in the sector. Although the outlook is for
improvement in this, further disruptions to production can be expected.
Besides disputes over wages and working conditions, there has been contro-
versy and uncertainty over the ownership involvement of the Mining Communi-
ties, i.e. the associations representing the mine workers (para. 2.12-2.13),
which should now be resolved with the recent approval of the Company's statutes.
2.04       Despite the absence of any large-scale investment after 1960 Peru
has been able to maintain its position as one of the world's principal mineral
producing and exporting countries. Peru's share of world output and exports
1/    All references are to the non-fuel mineral sector.



-3-
PERU~
CEITROWN EXPANSION PROECT
Table 2-1: WORj  TAND PERUVIAN MINE OUTPUT AND
EXPORTS OF MAJOR METAL PRODUCTS
1960              1973              1980
(Million Metric Tons)
COPPER
Mine Output
World                   3.62              6.04               7.40
Peru                    0.18              0.22              0.4
% Share                 5.0               3.6               6.o
Exports
World                   2.85              4.30               5.43
Peru                    0.17              0.20              0.41
% Share                 5.9               4.7               8.0
ZINC
Mine Outpuxt
World                   2.37              4.53               6.10
Peru                    0.16              0.41              0.50
% Share                 6.8               9.1               8.2
Exports
World                   1.58              3.32              4.60
Peru                    0.16              0.39              0.45
% Share                10.0              11.8               9.8
LEAD
Mine Output
World                   1.81              2.60               2.91
Peru                    0.13              0.20              0.29
% Share                 7.2               7.7              10.0
Exports
World                   1.16              1.48              1.6
Peru                    0.12              0.18              0.24
% Share                10.0              12.0              15.0
IRON ORE
Mine Output
World                 340.2             556.7              861.4
Peru                    5.2               8.8               9.5
% Share                 1.5               1.6               1.1
Exports
World                 155.8             310.5             532.7
Peru                    5.2               9.3               8.4
% Share                 3.3               3.0               1.6
SILVER
(Killion Ounces)
Mine Output
World                 205               246                  n.a.
Peru                   35.8              46.1              51.2
% Share                17.5              19.2                -
Exports
World                   n.a.              n.a.              n.a.
Peru                   32.7              43.0              49.1
% Sham                  -                  _                 _
1/  Excluding Centrally Planned Economies
Sources: IBRD Commodities and Export Projections Division; Industrial
Projects Department; Peruvian Ministry of Mines and Energy
Industrial Projects Dept.
March 1976



- 4 -
has been maintained for its major metal products with the exception of copper,
where there has been some decline (Table 2-1 on previous page). Most of the
period of change and uncertainty now appears to be over, and planned sector
investments (paras 2.18 - 2.24) should re-establish Peru's share of world
copper trade and maintain its position in most of the other major metals
(Table 2-1).
B.    Structure of the Sector
2.05       The Peruvian mining sector comprises three major groups of opera-
tions - large scale, medium-scale and small-scale. The respective shares of
thiese groups of sectoral output and employment is approximately as follows:
Share of Peruvian Mineral Sector Output
and Employment by Size of Company
Approx.             % Share of            % Share
No. of           Sectoral Output       of Sectoral
Size Group                Companies            (By Value)          Employment
Large                           4                  65%                43%
Me,dium                        60                  30%                40%
Small /1                    1,000                   5%                17%
/1    Defined by law as having an annual mineral output whose total value
does not exceed S/. 10 million (US$2.2 million).
2.0)6      The three largest mining operations, which have dominated the sector
since the early 1960's are: CENTROMIN (the former Cerro de Pasco Corporation),
HIERROPERU (the former Marcona Mining Company), and the Southern Peru Copper
Corporation (SPCC). CENTROMIN, which is nominally a subsidiary of MINEROPERU
but effectively controlled by the Ministry of Energy and Mines (paras 3.02 and
3.03), has the most diversified output of the three, and accounts for approxi-
mately 35% of the total value of the sector's mineral production and about 30%
of total sector employment (details in Part III). It was officially expropri-
ated as at January 1, 1974 and compensation payments were completed shortly
thereafter (para. 3.01). The second large mining operation, an iron-ore mining
complex, was nationalized 1/ on July 25, 1975 and a new state company, HIERRO-
PERU, took over all its operations. The third company, Southern Peru Copper
Corporation (SPPC), is the single largest producer and exporter of copper in
Peru. It is owned by a consortium consisting of four U.S. mining companies:
ASARCO, Cerro Corporation, Phelps-Dodge, and Newmont Mining. Since 1960, SPPC's
open-pit copper operation has been the most profitable of Peru's large mines,
producing almost two-thirds of Peru's total copper output. The financing
arrangements for a major new SPPC copper mining development, the Cuajone Fine,
include the participation of a number of U.S., European and Japanese Banks, a
US$15 million IFC investment approved in September 1974, and equity participa-
tion by Dutch and British interests in addition to the U.S. owners. Both
HIERROPERU and SPCC are highly capital-intensive operations, accounting for
less than 15% of total sector employment.
1/    Negotiations towards compensation settlements are close to conclusion.



2.07       During the seventies, the Government has been playing an increasing
role in the ownership and development of Peru's mineral sector. Empresa Minera
del Peru (MINEROPERU), the fourth large mining company, is also state-owned.
It was established in 1970 and entrusted with the role of bringing into opera-
tion a series of large high-priority mining and metallurgical projects. These
include a new copper refinery at Ilo (the anode plant for which recently
began operations), a potentially large copper mining development in Southern
Peru (Cerro Verde-Santa Rosa), the first stage of which is underway, the
development of Peru's phosphate deposits, and an increase in zinc refining
capacity (para 2.19). Since its creation is relatively recent, the company
lacks technical and managerial experience and will require considerable
strenthening if its ambitious investment program is to be implemented as
currently planned. It has no operations in the production stage other than
the Ilo refinery.
2.08       Peru's medium-scale mining operations consist of a heterogeneous
collection of some 60 companies producing partially-treated copper, lead,
zinc and silver ores. These operations are almost entirely privately owned.
The small mining operations comprise more than 1,000 privately-owned small
mines, most of them poorly mechanized, labor-intensive operations. A large
portion of the concentrates produced by the small and medium miners is sold
to CENTROMIN for smelting and refining at La Oroya. Expansion of these smaller
operations is expected to be much slower than for the large companies during
the seventies, such that their present share of output of about 35% will
probably drop below 30%. Nevertheless, some expansion of the smaller opera-
tions will help fill the planned capacity increases of CENTROMIN's smelting
and refining operations.
2.09       All of Peru's mining operations come under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Energy and Mines, which is responsible also for the petroleum and
power subsectors. The Ministry's Planning Department plays a direct role in
establishing investment priorities but leaves to the Government development
bank, Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE), the primary responsibility
for financing the investment projects of the state-owned mining enterprises.
COFIDE is relatively inexperienced in the mining industry, and has been slow
to help the public sector companies with planning the financing of their badly-
needed investment programs. This situation has partly stemmed from the uncer-
tainty of adequate government funding for COFIDE, which has only recently been
confirmed in amounts sufficient to enable the coverage of local debt require-
ments for CENTROMIN's Stage I Expansion program. The Planning Department of the
Ministry of Energy and Mines has apparently not been sufficiently effective in
establishing realistic programs for the industry's expansion, nor in establish-
ing priorities for the numerous potential development projects.
2.10       The overseas marketing of all of Peru's mineral production has been
recently centralized through the state-owned, autonomous agency, MINEROPERU
COMMERCIAL (MINPECO), which is also responsible to the Ministry of Energy
and Mines. Sales are made on a wide geographical basis, with the United
States still the principal market in spite of the increasing importance in
recent years of sales to both Western and Eastern Europe.



- 6 -
C.    Legislation Governing the Mining Sector
2.11       The mining sector has been governed by basic legislative codes which
have evolved through four main stages since 1783. The most recent of these is
thie 1971 Mining Code which establishes the direct participation of the State
in all phases of the mining industry, modifying the earlier concept of the
private sector as the major force in the exploitation of the country's mineral
resources. At the same time it allows for participation of private capital,
generally in partnership with the Government or in the medium-scale mining
operations.
2.12       A major new element in the 1971 Mining Code is the Mining Community
system, an extension of the system previously established for other indus-
trial enterprises. The Mining Community system seeks a greater participation
of the employees of each mining company in the management, ownership and
profits of the company. At the same time, it seeks to stimulate "construc-
tive forms of relationship between labor and capital" and a redistribution
of profits throughout the sector through the Mining Compensation Fund (COCOMI).
Each mining company deducts 10% of its pre-tax income which is distributed as
follows:
(i) 4% is paid out in cash, a fifth of which is directly
shared amongst the company's employees with the
remainder going to COCOMI to be then redistributed
(according to a formula) to employees throughout the
entire mining sector; and
(ii) 6% is paid out in share capital 1/ which is used to
create new capital until the company's Mining
Community is the owner of 50% of the company's total
capital, with a proportionate share in the control
of the company.
2.113      The cash payments in 1973 amounted to S/.452 million (US$11.7 mil-
lion), equivalent to a month's extra pay for most employees. At present about
7% of the total capital of Peruvian mining companies is estimated to have been
acquired by the Mining Communities. The future structure and effects of this
experiment in worker participation are still uncertain, and it has been a
subject of controversy. CENTROMIN's statutes were only officially approved
in May 1976, or more than 2 years after the Company's nationalization. The
Government seems determined to prevent excessive control by the Mining Commu-
nity and the legislation establishing the Company reflects this, as well as
setting up an ownership structure which results in CENTROMIN's being nominally
a subsidiary of MINEROPERU but with control effectively in the hands of the
Ministry of Energy and Mines.
1/    In the case of state-owned companies such as CENTROMIN, this 6% of net
profit becomes the value of bonds of indefinite term issued to the
Company's Mining Community, with interest currently payable at 8% per
annum. No Company ownership rights attach to these bonds, although by
law there are two Mining Community representatives on CENTROMIN's
Board of Directors.



2.14       The tax regime in the 1971 Mining Code reaffirms an earlier regu-
lation by which mining companies are exempt from all taxes except income
taxes, import duties and sales taxes. It also provides special incentives
such as accelerated depreciation aimed at increasing mining investment.
The Government has recently enacted some far-reaching environmental legisla-
tion to control pollution from mining operations.
2.15       All mining companies must pay 1% of their net profits to INCITEMI,
a state institute for scientific and technological research. Applied
research is also done by the larger mining companies such as CENTROMIN.
D.   Sector Investment Program and Financing Needs
2.16       The geological environment in Peru is considered to be very favorable
for base metal mineralization. Known copper reserves are particularly extensive,
and are currently estimated to be at least 20 million tons of contained copper
(average grade 1.0%), about 70 years life at present production levels. Lead,
zinc and silver, though less well delineated, also offer considerable poten-
tial. Peru's phosphate deposits, so far unexploited, are substantial. Iron
ore potential is not as extensive but known prospects are promising. In sum,
taking into account that large areas of the country have not been geologically
explored, Peru's mineral potential can support substantial growth in the future.
2.17       The principal objectives of the Government's investment program
in the mining sector are to increase substantially foreign exchange earnings
through increasing the volume of Peru's mineral exports, and to produce
processed minerals with a higher value-added domestic component. At the
same time the Government attributes a high priority to several social objec-
tives to be achieved through dynamic sector growth - improvements in the
housing, health and educational facilities of Peru's mining community and a
strict control of environmental standards. To achieve these goals the
Government is determined to strengthen the role of the State in all phases
of Peru's mining operations.
2.18       The major elements comprising the sector's medium term investment
program into the early 1980's are: (i) MINEROPERU's expansion; (ii) CENTRO-
MIN's modernization and expansion; and (iii) SPCC expansion, primarily the
large Cuajone mine development. HIERROPERU will probably proceed with some
further expansion, but on a smaller scale than the three other companies, and
details at this stage are uncertain. Except for SPCC's planned investment,
private sector investment is not expected to be substantial and will have
relatively little impact in expanding output from Peru's mining operations.
2.19       MINEROPERU's expansion program includes a large number of mining
and metallurgical projects which are at various stages of preparation and
execution. Only four of these projects, however, are sufficiently far
advanced at this stage to have an impact on the sector's output before 1980.
These projects are the following:
(i) Electrolytic Copper Refinery; US$60 million first
stage (150,000 MTPY) underway with Japanese consortium



- 8 -
financing; US$90 million second stage (300,000 MTPY)
planned for completion after 1980;
(ii)  Cerro Verde-Santa Rosa Copper Mining Development;
more than US$100 million first stage (33,000 MTPY)
mining and heap leaching to be financed by British
and Canadian sources (Export Development Corporation,
commercial banks); second stage (200,000 MTPY) envisaged
for completion after 1980;
(iii)  Electrolytic Zinc Refinery; US$102 million project
(100,000 MTPY) expected to be financed by German and/or
Belgian sources;
(iv)  Bayovar Phosphate Mining Development; US$46 million first
stage underway with Corporacion Andina de Fomento (CAF) and
COFIDE financing; a US$150 million second stage is envisaged;
IDB is considering participation in the foreign exchange
financing.
Projected capital investment requirements of these projects could exceed
US$800 million in the 1975-80 period, assuming commencement of expenditures
on the second stages of the above developments approaches US$500 million
before 1980. This depends, inter alia, on the actual rate of execution of
the more definite first stages of the projects, and the ability of the
companies to raise the necessary finance.
2.20      CENTROMIN's six-project investment program (Stage I:  1976-81;
paras. 3.19-3.23) is somewhat smaller than the 1976-80 program envisaged
for MINEROPERU. These first-stage projects focus primarily on the need to
make! up for several years of non-investment prior to nationalization and to
increase the efficiency of what is a relatively high-cost operation. Six
first priority projects (Stage I), with total financing requirements of approxi-
mately USA422 million, are well-advanced in terms of project preparation and
coverage of financing needs, and all are expected to be on-stream by 1981.
Only the Cobriza mine expansion will significantly increase CENTROMIN's mineral
production but the other projects will modernize and markedly increase the
Company's refining capacity, resulting in cost savings at various stages of the
processing operations. (See Part III for further details).
2.21      The most suitable vehicle for the Bank's involvement in the sector
is CENTROMIN, which despite its increasing costs, and old and obsolete plant,
has considerable mining experience, basically sound technical and operating
capabilities, a diverse range of products, and is in a good financial position.
Furthermore, the Company has now put together a well conceived program of
modernization and expansion, and the Bank's most effective role in the sector
at this time would be to assist in financing the most advanced projects in this
program, such that funds from other institutions would be attracted for the other
proje,cts. A positive contribution could thus be made through helping to move
sectoral development from the planning to the execution stage. Subsequent Bank
involvement could then, on the basis of some successful demonstration of its
participation, address itself more directly to some of the institutional
deficiLencies elsewhere in the sector.



- 9 -
2.22      Private sector investment will be confined almost exclusively to
SPCC's Cuajone mine development (para. 2.06), already well advanced and ex-
pected to start operation in the first half of 1977. This is the largest
investment project ever undertaken in the Peruvian mining sector with a total
capital cost of some US$700 million; the project will result in an annual
production of 170,000 tons of blister copper, more than doubling SPCC's pre-
sent capacity. Investments by the small and medium mines are expected to be
small, particularly in relation to the programs planned by the large companies.
2.23      Earlier estimates of total sector investment during 1975-80, includ-
ing SPCC's expansion and the investment programs originally proposed by
MINEROPERU and CENTROMIN were in excess of US$3,500 million. It is quite
unlikely that such a level could be achieved, given the limited project pre-
paration and execution experience in the sector as well as the likely financing
constraints. Such overly ambitious estimates are indicative of the lack of
planning experience, but with some assistance from the Bank, CENTROMIN has
now established realistic priorities and prepared a more achievable program
in the stages discussed above. Investment in the sector is unlikely to
exceed US$2,000 million during 1975-80, of which over 60% would be public
investment, but even this level depends very much on the country's ability
to raise the necessary finance. Wlith such a program, the value of Peru's
mineral exports is expected to approach US$1.5 billion in current prices
by 1980 or about 70% above 1974 exports, with about half the increase due
to increased production and half to price increases.
2.24      After 1980 sector growth is expected to be fuelled primarily by
copper investment, and to a lesser extent by zinc mining development,
further phosphate expansion, and some lead and silver expansion. Consider-
able uncertainty exists, however, regarding several key factors which are
likely to have a major impact on sector growth: (i) the overall investment
climate in the private sector, given the substantial program in the public
sector and the increasing worker participation in ownership; (ii) the ability
of the Government to strengthen present institutional deficiencies (paras
2.07 and 2.09); and (iii) its success in securing the financing requirements
for a large investment program.
E.   Contribution to the Economy
2.25      The mining sector has played a dominant role in Peru's economic
development. Almost all of Peru's mineral production is exported and has
constituted the principal source of foreign exchange revenue for the country
since 1950. The export value of Peru's mineral products increased from
US$41 million in 1950, to US$195 million in 1960, and US$875 million in
1974. Mineral exports have for several years contributed approximately 50%
of Peru's total merchandise exports, and this share is expected to at least
be maintained in the future. The principal export commodity is copper, which
has accounted, on the average, for almost half of the value of mineral exports
since 1960. The expansion of mining output is a key element in the Government's
strategy to increase export earnings substantially in order to finance the
import requirements of the remainder of its large investment program.



- 10 -
2.26       Although not as significant in its contribution to gross domestic
product (GDP) as in its share of exports, the mining sector nevertheless makes
up about 7% of Peru's GDP. There has been a slow decline in this share in
real terms since 1960, illustrating the greater relative growth in other
sectors of Peru's economy (particularly manufacturing, which includes metal-
lurgical processing). It is expected that this decline will be arrested
following the proposed sector expansion program (paras 2.18 to 2.24).
2.27       The mining sector makes an important contribution to fiscal revenue,
primarily in the form of income taxes. The fiscal contribution of the mining
sector from 1967-73 has fluctuated between 12% and 19% of the total gross
value of mining production. In 1973 mining taxes paid to the government were
approximately 10% of government revenues, a much higher contribution than in
the previous two years, reflecting the substantially improved metal prices
and the resulting impact on sector profits. Of the taxes paid by the mining
companies, income taxes account for over 80% of the total.
2.28       Although the mining sector has been a fairly modest source of
employment for Peru's labor force, it is particularly important in Peru's
remote and less-developed Andean region. In 1972 direct employment in the
sector was slightly over 50,000, or about 2% of the domestic work force.
Out of this total approximately 21,500 were employed in the capital - inten-
sive, large-scale mining operations: of these operations CENTROMIN is the
largest employer with approximately 15,000. Some 20,000 workers are employed
in the labor-intensive small-scale operations. The proposed sector expansion
program is expected to expand direct employment by about 5,000 jobs. Wages
and salaries paid by the mining companies are amongst the highest in the
country, with the highest remunerations being paid by the large-scale mining
operations.
III. THE COMPANY
A.    Background and Ownership
3.01       Mining activities in the Central Andean Region of Peru date from
before the Spanish conquest and silver has been mined at CENTROMIN's major
ore deposit at Cerro de Pasco since 1630. Organized exploitation of the
region by what became the Cerro de Pasco Copper Corporation in 1915 was
commenced in 1902 by an American syndicate. The Corporation continued to
expand and in 1956 it became the Cerro de Pasco Corporation, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Cerro Corporation of New York. After a period of nego-
tiations with the Peruvian government, the Corporation was nationalized
with January 1, 1974 being the official date of expropriation 1/. Follow-
ing negotiations between the U.S. and Peruvian governments, agreed compensation
payments were completed in early 1974.
3.02       The law 2/ governing the operations of the newly named CENTROMIN-
PERU was passed in March, 1975. The Company will also be governed by the laws
1/    Decree Law No. 20492, dated December 24, 1973.
2/    Decree Law No. 21117, dated March 18, 1975.



- 11 -
prevailing for private enterprises as well as its own statutes which complete
its conveyance to the State. CENTROMIN will operate as an autonomous wholly-
owned subsidiary of MINERO-PERU, a government-owned mining enterprise under
the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Energy and Mines, which also must approve
the policy, objectives and goals of CENTROMIN in accordance with the National
Development Plan formulated by the National Institute of Planning (INP).
3.03      MINERO-PERU's capital is to be increased by the amount of CENTROMIN's
capital (S/. 3,961 million including reserves and retained profits as at
December 31, 1974) and certificates of contribution of the same value issued
by MINERO-PERU to Corporation Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE), the govern-
ment-owned development corporation which now holds MINERO-PERU's shares.
Although CENTROMIN is nominally owned by MINERO-PERU, representatives at the
Shareholders' Meeting are four individuals appointed by Supreme Resolution at
the suggestion of the Minister of Energy and Mines. The Resolution also
appoints the Chairman of the General Shareholders' Meeting and the Executive
President of the Board. This avoidance of more direct control over CENTROMIN
by MINEROPERU and COFIDE is desirable in light of their inexperience in the
mining sector.
B.   Organization and Management
3.04      The Board of Directors consists of nine members:  the Executive
President, six directors appointed by the General Shareholders' representa-
tives and two elected by the Mining Community (workers' organization) of
CENTROMIN. The present Board includes the Executive President and Chairman
of the Company, Ing. Guillermo Flores, plus the Director Superior (Vice-Minister)
of the Ministry of Energy and Mines, a director of MINERO-PERU, a representative
of MINERO-PERU COMMERCIAL (MINPECO), three executives of CENTROMIN (the legal
advisor, and the finance and operations managers) and two Mining Community re-
presentatives. Most of the Board Members have had extensive experience in the
Peruvian mining industry, and a suitable balance of skills are combined for
the sound direction of the Company.
3.05      The Company is organized along functional lines (Table 3-1).  The
Executive General Manager and the General Manager of Administration are based
in Lima, and the General Manager of Operations is based in La Oroya, the hub
of CENTROMIN's mining and processing operations.  Each of the three General
Managers reporting to the Executive President has had a sound record of expe-
rience and accomplishment with the Company and/or in Peruvian industry.
3.06      CENTROMIN is basically a production company, with more than 95%
of its sales being for export and made through MINPECO, a state-owned company
with responsibility for the marketing of mineral products (para 4.44). The
Company's short-term management objectives are primarily to maintain its cur-
rent production levels and control operating costs (para. 3.14). Project and
financial planning for the Company was formerly directed by the Cerro Corpora-
tion in New York. This fact, coupled with the lack of planning and investment
activity over the past 10 years, accounts for the limited planning experience
in the Company. CENTROMIN's management has thus been faced with a major new






| .        IAS3      NS3dF                             | DIHD
|  ,W0ND3P    | 0 >|  S    3d|  D   O.    11J0M3E                             ' 7    rTHODSS|h03                                                  3U 
t!E    XE                                                                         gE                                                                                      t    






- 13 -
task in preparing, financing and executing its overdue modernization and expan-
sion program, especially given its remote and widely separated multi-project
nature. The Company has some excellent technical staff capable of maintaining
the existing operations at satisfactory performance levels although there has
been some attrition of expatriate staff following nationalization. These losses
will be compensated by increased training efforts for local staff, with outside
foreign assistance retained to bridge the gap temporarily. Some technical
assistance, to be financed by the Bank, is planned as part of the project
(paras. 6.01-6.03). The Company has recently appointed additional qualified
financial staff and a commitment was obtained that project plans wil.l be
annually consolidated into formal five-year corporate plans, including
financial projections, in a manner suitable to the Bank. A number of steps
are being taken to make up for the lack of project planning experience
in the Company, and these will be supported by appropriate commitments (paras.
6.01-6.03).
C.   Operations
3.07      CENTROMIN operates seven mines at six locations:  Casapalca, Cerro
de Pasco, Morococha, Yauricocha, San Cristobal and Cobriza (Map IBRD 11756),
all of which are underground except the McCune open pit mine at Cerro de
Pasco. Six concentrators at the mines produce concentrates for the smelting
and refining complex at La Oroya. The main products sold in order of impor-
tance by value (at 1975 prices), are as follows: refined silver, refined zinc,
refined copper, zinc concentrates, refined lead, blister copper, gold and bis-
muth. A variety of other minor metals and chemicals are also produced. Past
production statistics for the most important metal products are summarized in
Table 3-2 and output of the Company's mines is given in Table 3-3.
3.08      Table 3-2 shows that output of each of CENTROMIN's major metal pro-
ducts has been relatively static for the last 10 years, with the exception of
copper, the production of which in blister form has expanded largely due to
development of the Cobriza mine and increased utilization of the copper smelter.
Refined copper production has been fairly static, however, due to the capacity
constraints of the refinery. The La Oroya smelting/refining plant is one
of the most complex such operations in the world, and its metallurgical
operations are such that good recoveries are obtained, especially of the
companion metals such as silver, bismuth, tellerium, gold and cadmium.
Significant proportions of the metals produced (e.g. 30-40% of copper, 50-
60% of silver, 32-47% of lead) come from custom concentrates purchased from
smaller mining/concentrating operations. Strike action during 1975 depressed
production of some metals, particularly copper, zinc and lead, but silver and
gold production levels were maintained.
3.09      Production of ores from CENTROMIN's own mines has generally increased
slowly over the past five years (Table 3-3). Concentrate production also in-
creased in the early seventies but this growth slowed in 1973 and output dec-
lined about 6% during 1974, reflecting mainly a shift to the mining of lower-
grade ore during the period of high metal prices, a common practice in mining
operations. The lower production of Company concentrates in 1974 was offset
by higher purchases of custom concentrates, enabling metal output levels to



PERU
CENIROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
Table 3-2:  PAST PRODUCTION OF MAJOR METAL PRODUCTS (194'9-75)
Refined Lead       Electrolytic Zinc    Blister Copper          Refined Copper   Total Refined Silver    Refined Gold                Bismuth
Production           Production            Production 1'          Production           Production            Production           Production
Year               Million Lbs.          Million Lbs.         Million Lbs.           Million Lbs.          Million Ozs.          Thousand Ozs.       Million Lbs.
1949                   79.4                   2.7                 47.7                   46.5                   7.0                   27                   0.4
1950                   69.8                   2.7                  51.9                  45.5                   6.7                   24                   0.5
1951                   98.0                   1.9                 55.6                   50.7                   7.0                   31                   0.5
1952                  107.1                  10.9                 46.8                   47.0                   8.6                   37                   0.7
1953                  130.0                  19.6                  53.5                  51.6                   9.5                   44                   0.6
1954                  127.2                  26.3                 60.3                   55.8                  10.1                   43                   0.6
1955                  133.0                  28.8                  74.1                  60.8                  11.2                   54                   0.7
1956                  131.7                  19.4                 66.7                   39.4                   8.3                   35                   0.6
1957                  151.7                  57.2                  92.3                  61.9                  10.8                   42                   0.7
1958                  141.2                  62.4                  85.3                  62.5                  10.9                   35                   0.8
1959                  124.5                  59.1                  75.9                  61.5                  11.0                   39                   0.7
1960                  159.8                  70.3                 81.1                   66.0                  14.2                   38                   0.8
1961                  167.8                  70.0                 80.0                   74.5                  16.7                   40                   1.0
1962                  149.7                  71.5                  70.0                  75.8                  16.8                   38                   1.0      i_
1963                  178.0                 121.4                 84.3                   81.3                  19.6                   39                   1.2       -
1964                  197.1                 134.2                  89.6                  83.3                  21.2                   38                   1.5
1965                  190.8                 135.3                  85.8                  89.1                  20.2                   37                   1.6
1966                  195.1                 135.3                  92.6                   79.8                 1B.9                   33                   1.6
1967                  180.0                 136.0                  87.6                   78.5                 19.0                   36                   1.7
1968                  190.3                 145.2                 120.7                  84.9                  17.5                   33                   1.7
1969                  170.9                 137.4                 107.9                   76.0                 15.6                   39                   1.4
1970                  158.6                 151.4                 109.7                   79.8                 18.2                   32                   1.7
1971                  147.9                 126.1                  95.2                   71.8                 15.8                   25                   1.3
1972                  188.5                 148.1                 116.9                  86.42                 20.3                   34                   1.5
1973                  182.7                 148.0                 128.4                  85.9                  16.6                   29                   1.1
1974                  176.6                 152.0                 126.7                  85.9                  17.7                   30                   1.4
1975                 1]6/                   v19.L                 1 3.Q                   80.7                 17.9                   31                   1.1
>j,'  ti, of' blister copper used to produ..n- refined copper, i4th balancr available for sale in blistcr forni.
SOIiItCF:  CENTROMIN Metallurgical Accounts
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



- 15 -
PERU
CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
Table 3-3: PAST PRODUCTION OF MINES AND CONCENTRATORS (1970-1975)
MINE                        1907                  197.2.    1L93       197L       1975
(000 Short Tons)
Cerro de Pasco
(McCune and Lourdes)
Ores                   1,664      1,633     1,875      1,904      1,986     1991
Concentrates             298        319       370        366        338      334
Casapalca
Ores                     492        472       566        619        658       577
Concentrates              49         46        48         61         51        41
Yauricocha
Ores                     434        436       416        510        504       451
Concentrates              71         63        72         78         79        75
Morococha
Ores                     497        444       536        523        571       570
Concentrates              40         37         47        49         38        39
Cobriza
Ores                     490        586        647       669        686       726
Concentrates              41         52         51        50         50        59
San Cristobal
Ores                     447        485        530       553        589       589
Concentrates              41      * j           58        52         ( 2       65
Total
Ores                   4,024      4,056     4,570      4,778      4,994      4904
Concentrates             540        562       646        656        618       613
SOURCE: CENTROMIN Metallurgical Accounts
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



- 16 -
be maintained. During 1975 production levels were depressed slightly due to
strikes. Some changes in staff and management have taken place since the
nationalization, but it does not appear that the changeover has been or will
be a substantial factor affecting operating efficiency or production levels.
3.10      CENTROMIN operates under difficult conditions, with most of its
operations located above 3,500 meters in areas with difficult terrain and
remote from population centers and the major port of Callao (180 km. from
La Oroya). The Company, which employs over 15,000 people, has had to provide
most of its own infrastructure needs (rail, power and water) in addition to
housing and other social amenities. With the exception of Cobriza and McCune,
the operations are mainly old, high-cost, and labor intensive, but are never-
theless well maintained and operate at reasonable efficiency levels. Proven
ore reserves are sufficient for more than 15 years' operation at existing
levels of production, and study of CENTROMIN's extensive geological informa-
tion shows that indicated additional reserves are sufficiently extensive that
there should be no problem to increase proven reserves to a level of at least
15 years' operation at the proposed output levels following the expansion.
3.11      The Company maintains 214 km. of rail line with a full complement
of rolling stock linking its mining and refining operations, and owns and
operates five power generating stations with an installed capacity of 188 M4w.
Social infrastructure includes nine hospitals and 32 schools, all fully staffed
an,d equipped. The Company is, however, behind in providing adequate housing
and related infrastructure for its employees, and plans to spend some US$165
million equivalent on this during the 1976-81 period (para 7.08).
3.12      Although industrial relations have gone through difficult periods
in the past, the outlook is for improvement in the future. Production
time lost due to strikes was particularly severe in 1971 (50 days), with the
result that production and sales were seriously affected and a net loss was
incurred. Time lost during 1975 amounted to 21 days, adversely affecting
production, sales and profits. Continuing improvements in wage levels, profit-
sharing and other benefits, housing, working conditions and worker representa-
tion should help to brighten the labor relations picture. The Government has
recognized the need to improve wage levels and working and living conditions
in the mining industry and has been taking steps to alleviate the grievances
on these issues from the mining workers. The housing program mentioned above
and the increasing incomes of workers relative to salaried employees are
evidence of the Government's policies. Nevertheless, the political environment
is such that the potential for conflict still exists and some interruptions to
production are likely, particularly in the shorter term. In the longer term,
however, Company management is confident that industrial relations will improve.
Accident rates have also declined, and are markedly better than the averages
for the Peruvian mining industry. There is, however, scope for further improve-
meni: and the Company is planning to engage the assistance of Japanese industrial
safety experts to assist in this area.



- 17 -
D.   Past Performance and Recent Financial Position
3.13      Sales and cost statistics  and financial statements for CENTROMIN
for the 1970-1975 period are summarized in Tables 3-4 to 3-7.
3.14      Although production and sales volumes have been fairly static over
the period (with the exception of the strike-caused drops in 1971 and 1975),
generally improving metal prices resulted in steady growth in sales and profits
to 1974. Metal prices were particularly high in 1973 and 1974, and more than
compensated for steady increases in operating costs, which are also substan-
tially influenced by metal prices due to the large volume of custom concentrates
purchased by the Company for smelting and refining. Purchased concentrates
accounted for about 40% of total operating costs in 1974, but only about 21%
in 1971, when some metal prices were depressed. In contrast to the fluc-
tuations of metal prices, labor and other costs have risen steadily in the
past few years, such that, given the depressed state of most metal prices
since mid 1974, 1975 results were dramatically poorer than 1974's. These cost
increases reflect the recent rapid inflation in Peru. As mentioned previously
(para. 2.03), government policies have allowed substantial increases in workers'
wages which together with energy and other cost increases have greatly increased
CENTROMIN's operating costs. The devaluation of the Sol by 14% against the
US dollar in September, 1975 helped to restore the deteriorating relationship
between Company revenues and operating costs.  Nevertheless, depressed metal
prices and the continuing high rate of local inflation present clear risks for
the Company, resulting in possible future pressures on profits and cash flow,
with the implications these have for the return on planned investments and
pressure on the value of the Sol.
3.15      One of CENTROMIN's strengths is its wide range of mineral products,
and the recent situation would be much worse but for the firmer silver, gold
and zinc prices partially offsetting the relatively low levels for copper and
lead. The effect of swings in the copper price particularly have often been
offset by the generally firmer prices for most of the Company's other products,
resulting in somewhat better financial results over the years than might be
achieved by less diversified mining companies. This stronger situation is
illustrated by the comparison shown below of the index for the copper price
realized by CENTROMIN each year since 1970 versus the price index for the
five major metals sold by the Company, with the price for each metal weighted
in accordance with CENTROMIN's sales mix. The financial impact of the trends
discussed above is also illustrated by the indices shown for the Company's
financial results.



- 18
PERU
CDJTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
Table 3-4: HISTORICAL SALES - 1970-1975
1970      1971      1972      1973      1974          1975
Copper
Refined
Volume (Mill. lbs.)                81.0      69.9       83.3      88.6      81.5          78.5
Revenue (SI. Mill.)                1875      1278       1507      2501      2908         1700
Revenue/lb.(S/.)                     23        18         18        28        36            2
(US$)                   0.60      0.47      0.47       0.73      0.92         04
Blister
Volume (Mill. lbs.)                21.5       30.1      28.9      39.7      38.1          26.7
Revenue (SI. Mill.)                 441       480        503      1214      1077           531
Revenue/lb. (S/.)                    21        16         17        31        28            20
(list)                 0.53      0.41      0.45       0.80      0.73           50
Silver
Refined
Volume (Mill. oz.)                 17.8       15.7      20.5      16.8      14.6          19.6
Revenue (S/. Mill)                 1209       934       1313      1660      2510          3304
Revenue/oz. (5/.)                    68        59         64        99       172          169
(us$)                  1.75      1.54      1.66       2.55      4.43         4.22
In Blister Copper
Volume (Mill. oz.)                 2.2        2.8       2.9       3.2       3.0            2.4
Revenue (S/.Mill)                  141        142       165       248       409            361
Revenue/oz. (5/.)                   64         51        57        64       137            150
(us$)                  1.69      1.31      1.47       2.00      3.54         3.73
Zinc
Refined
Volume (Mill. lbs.)                159.0      123.8     152.3     145.4     131.6        149.7
Revenue (5/. Mill.)                  796       661        987      1487      2227        1855
Revenue/oz. (5/.)                      5          5         6        10        17           12
(US$)                   0.13      0.14      0.17       0.26      0.44        0.31
Concentrates
Volume (000 short tons)            114.1      177.3    224.9      222.4     165.7        206.9
Revenue (S/. Mill.)                  332       616        846      1336       828         1479
Revenue/ton (5/.)                   2913      3472       3760      6006      h997         7146
(us$)                  75.22     89.72     97.19    154.26    129.13       177.46
Lead
Volume (Mill. lbs.)                155.1      147.5    191.6      182.7     162.5        155.1
Revenue (5/. Mill.)                  755        580       892      1057      1343         1023
Revenue/lb. (S/.)                      5          4         5         6         8            7
(us$)                   0.13      0.10      0.12       0.15      0.21        0.16
Bismuth
Volume (Mill. lbs.)                 1.6        1.3       1.4       1.1       1.3          0.5
Revenue (S/. Mill.)                 368        228       186       190       397           126
Revenue/lb. (S/.)                   228        171       128       176       317           252
(US$)                  5.88      4.41      3.32       4.56      8.20         6.80
Gold
Refined
Volume (000 oz.)                   38.7       24.9      33.3      29.4      27.6         32.5
Revenue (S/. Mill)                   60         45        87       116       167          210
Revenue/oz. (S/.)                  1561       1814      2600      3938      6048         6518
(us$)                 40.34     46.88     67.18    101.76    156.28        161.86
In Blister Copper
Volume (000 oz.)                    4.9        7.1       7.5      11.0       8.9          5.6
Revenue (5/. Mill.)                   5         10        18        31        43           32
Revenue/oz. (S/.)                  1058      1377       2448      2861      4883         5754
(us$)                 27.34     35.58     63.25      73.93    126.18       142.88
Other Products
Revenue (S/. Mill.)                 569        568       860       410       381          465
TOTAL REVENUE (S/. Million)         6,551      5,541     7,365    10,242    12,290       11,086
Industrial Pojects Department
March 1976



- 19 -
PERU
CENTROM4IN EXPANSION PROJECT
Table 3-5: PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENTS - 1970-1975
(S/. Million)
2/
1970   1971   1972   1973   197y-  1975
(Unaudited)
Net Sales .1/                             6353   5211   6961  10242  12291   11086
Less Cost of Sales                      4354   4032   4616   5985   7832    909829/
GROSS PROFIT                              1999   1179   2345   4246   4459    1988
Less Administration                      437    387    511    528        2 /    - _2/
Shipping 4/                         168    194    296    312    - 2/    -  2/
Provision for Severance             284    229    280    338    443       575
Payment of Pensions  5               71     69      73     72      76      88
Amort. & Depreciation-              530    518    456    461    424    -437
Sub-Total - Indirect Costs              1490   1397   1616   1711    943    1100
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS)                    509   (218)   729   2535   3516        888
Less Other (Income) Expenses             (99)  (120)  (121)  (221)   (12)    (62)
Financial Charges                         60      49     37      34    108      126
Interest on Long Term Debt
Local Loans (incl. Mining
Community)                         -      -       -      -       17      36
Foreign Loans                        -       -      -       -       5       -
Total Interest on L.T.D.             -       -      -      _       22      7
NET OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE INCOME
TAX AND MINORITY INTEREST                548   (147)   813   2722   3398        788
Mining Community & Research                _ _  -   83    301    377        91
NET PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX               548   (147)   730   2421   3021        697
Less Income Tax7/                        229    (10)   213   1320   146C        195
NET PROFIT AFTER INCOME TAX       8/
(Incl. Reinvestment Allowance)-          319   (137)   517   1101   1561        502
WJ+, Prft1t Af.t'- TrcIem Tax:
As % of Net Sales                            5      -       7      11     13       7
As % of Average Equity                        7     -      11      30     48    n.a.
I/   Exchange Rate:  US$1.00 = S/.38.70 to September 26, 1975, US$1.00 = S/.45.OO
thereafter.
2/   1974 sales understated by about S/.1600 million due to stock sale credited
to 1973 as part of nationalization.
3/   1970 through 1973 sales vary from Table 3-4 totals due to change in account-
ing classification; differences are netted out in "Other Income (Expenses)".
4/   Between La Oroya and Lima/Callao.
3/   Straight line at rates varying from 3% to 30% depending on the type of asset.
61   Fixed by General Mining Law No. 18880 at 4% of net profit in cash and 6% in
bonds to the Mining Community, and 1% to scientific research (para. 2.12 and 2.15)
7/   On a sliding scale according to profitability, but generally about 30% to
50% of net profit after Mining Community and research deductions.
8/   Up to 40% of taxable profit, to a limit of S/.300 million.
9/   Administration and Shipping included in Cost of Sales
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



- 20 -
PERU
CEfTRQMIK-PEIrrSANsIoN PROJECT
Table 3-6: BIANC SHMTS 1971-9
1973.          1972          1973                             17.            19745
ASSETS                                                                                                                                     3o.731st        (uneudited)
Current Assets
Cash                                                                        8             732          5062/          506               366             172
Accounts Receivable                                                       733             584          4411 -        4447 2/           2112 23          1592
Inrventories                                                              911             959          1321 2/       1321 2/           2475 2/         3126
Supplies                                                                  828             744           898           709              1127             1884
Total Current Assets                                                  2480            3019         7136           6983              6080            6774
Fixed Assets
Mirnes, Land, Plant & Equipmaent                                        10162           10215         10226          7878 3/            7849          (10711
Construction in Progress                                                   78              49           256           280               748           (-
Gross Fixed Assets                                                   10240           10264        10482           8158              8597           10711
Accumulated Depreciation                                             (5045)          (5453)        (5770)        (5870)             (6191)          (7185)
Net Fixed Assets                                                            5195            4811          4712           2288              2403            3527
Other Assets (Including Investments)                                      407             387          352            402               390             358
TOTAL ASSETS                                                             8082            8217         11640          9673              8874            10659
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Cerro Corporation Loan/Expropriation Agreement                            588             588          588           2915 V             -
Banics - Overdrafts and Promissory Notes                                  562             315         1220 31         201 31            1116             731
Accounts Payable and Other Current Liabilities                            120             309          1220          2681 2/            1796            2906
Total Current Liabilities                                             1270            1212         3028           5797               2912           3637
Long Ten'r Debt
Loans                                                                     -               -              10            10
Mining Community                                                          -               _             -             -                 (415           (495
Total Long Term Debt                                                   -               -             10             10               415             495
Provision for Severance                                                      933            1091          1261          1261              1586             1616
Other Liabilities (Mainly Cerro Corpn. Accounts)                            1545            1108          1256           -                  -
Equity
Share Capital                                                            4353            4353         4394           2605 2            2396 4          (4911
Reserves and Retained Profits                                             (19)            453          1692            _               1565             _
Total Equity                                                          4334            4806         6086           2605              3961            4911
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                           8082            8217         11640          9                  8874           10659
=  ~~~~==                 -L2L7                                           05
Current Ratio                                                            2.0             2.5           2.4           1.2               2.1               1.9
Long Term Debt/Equity                                                    0:100           0:100         1:99           1:99            9:91              9:91
1/  1973 and Jan. 1 1974 statements are distorted by the effects of the acquisition, which included the sales of stocks to
Cerro Sales, which sales were credited to 1973 but for which payment was not received until 1974. Also, current liabilities
were substantially higher in the adjusted Jan. 1 1974, balance sheet reflecting the settlement payment due to the Cerro
Corporation.
2/  See para. 3.18
3/  See pars. 3.17
4/  Reduction in share capital due to conversion of former Mining Community shares into bonds (paras 2.09 and 3.17).
Industri.,l Projects Department
March 1976



- 21 -
PERU
CENTROMIN-PERU EXPANSION PROJECT
Table 3-7: SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENTS 1971-1975
(S/. Million)
1971     1972     1973      1974     1975
SOURCES
Cash Generation
Net Profit After Income Tax                        (137)     518     1101      1561      502
Amortization & Depreciation                         518      456      461       424      437
Provision for Severance 2/                          229      280      350       443      575
Total Cash Generation                           610      1254     1912      2428     1514
Long Term Debt
Bank Loans                                          -        -          10        5       30
Mining Community                                    -        -         -        415        50
Total Long Term Debt                             -        -         10       420       80
Decrease in Other Assets                             16       12        22       42        32
Dividends Received in Shares                         -        -                   4 1X    -
Head Office (Cerro Corporation)                      -        -       183         -
'hare Capital  -/                                    -        42      168      (210)      -
TOTAL SOURCES                            626      1308     2295     2684      1626
APPLICATIONS
Fixed Assets                                        280       68       269      658      1106
Severance Payments 2/                                71      122      180       118       545
Amortization of Long Term Debt                      204       -         -       201        -
Investments                                          -        -         -        27        4
Head Office (Cerro Corporation)                     532      499                 _         _
Expropriation Payment                                -        -        -       2915        -
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)                (h61)     619      1846    (1235)      (29)
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                       626      1308     2295      2684     1626
1/ Includes variations in 1974 due to the expropriation of the Company
and the conversion of Mining Community equity into bonds.
2/ Payments due to employees on leaving the Company.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



- 22 -
CENTROMIN: Index Comparison (Current Terms)
for Metal Prices and Financial Results: 1970-75
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974       1975
Copper Price Index               100      79       78     122      154        90
Composite Index for
Major Metals Sold /1          100      85       91     135      202       149
Sales                            100      85      112     156      188       175
Cost of Sales                    100      93      106     137      159       187
Net Profit after Tax             100     -43      162     345      489       157
Cash Generation                  100      52      107      164     208       130
Base Year: 1970 = 100 for all indices
/1   Weighted by 1970 sales of copper, silver, lead, zinc and bismuth.
3.16      Key ratios from the Company balance sheets for 1971-75 (Table 3-6)
are summarized below:
CENTROMIN: Balance Sheet Analysis 1971-75
1971    1972    1973    1974       1974    1975
(Jan. 1) (Dec. 31)
Long Term Debt/Equity Ratio               -        -        -     1:99      9:91    9:91
Current Ratio                            2.0      2.5      2.4    1.2 /1   2.1      1.9
Accounts Receivables/Sales (M)          14.1      8.4    37.6/1 43.1 /1  16.8    14.4
Accounts Receivables/Sales
(days)                                  52       31     157 /1   137/1   61         52
Inventory Turnover
(Sales/Ave. Inventory)                   5.5      7.4     9.0    9.9        6.5    4.0
/1   See footnotes to balance sheets (Table 3-6).
3.17      The Company's financial structure has remained sound, despite metal
price fluctuations and the significant drain on the Company's resources re-
sulting from the need to finance the acquisition from the Cerro Corporation.
A S/.2,914.5 million payment was made to Cerro in 1974 by (i) decreasing
receivables, (ii) increasing bank overdraft, and (iii) using part of the sub-
tantial cash flow (Table 3-7) in a year of peak metal prices. The substan-
tial reduction in equity which is indicated in the adjusted financial state-
ments as at January 1, 1974, reflects a write-down in the value of mining
concessions following the acquisition as well as the settlement payment
to the Cerro Corporation. The Company has only recently begun to incur long-
term debt (inter-company loans were not classed as long term) and this has
been mainly in the form of bonds held by the Mining Community on which interest
is payable, but which have an indefinite term. Borrowing capacity is therefore
largely unused.



- 23 -
3.18      The high level of accounts receivable as at December 31, 1973 anu
January 1, 1974 reflects the withholding of payments by Cerro of money re-
ceived for sales made before the final acquisition settlement, including the
sale of stocks mentioned in footnotes to Table 3-6. Despite this the current
ratio showed a drop when the accounts were adjusted following nationalization,
due to the sizeable payment owed to the Cerro de Pasco Corporation as part
of the negotiated settlement. The increase in inventories between 1973 and
1974 reflects some build-up of silver stocks due to transport difficulties
and a drop in demand for refined zinc. The decline in inventory turnover
during the last two years reflects the general drop in metal prices, as well
as the strike influenced sales drop in 1975.
E.   The Stage I Expansion Program
1.   Description of the Program
3.19      Since the formation of its Planning Department in May 1974,
CENTROMIN has been actively preparing to increase production of all major
products, increase the proportion of refined products produced, and improve
production efficiency through economies of scale and modernization of its
plant, much of which, as previously mentioned, is very old and badly in need
of replacement. Of a number of various projects considered, six have been
categorized by the Company and the Government as highest priority and have
been designated as Stage I of the Company's long-term expansion program.
The objectives, estimated completion dates, estimated capital costs and
proposed financing sources for the six Stage I projects are summarized in
Table 3-8. The program is an ambitious one, given its size, the remote and
widely separated locations of the six projects, and the Company's lack of
experience in project planning and execution.
3.20      Although only two of the Stage I projects are being considered for
Bank financing and have been appraised in detail (accounting for about 42%
of the Stage I capital requirements), feasibility studies have been completed
for all six, and the Bank has concluded that if major modernization of the
La Oroya smelting/refining facilities, especially the copper smelter, is not
undertaken within the next five years, the Company is faced with continuing
increases in maintenance costs, the increasing risk of production losses
through down-time, and the need for substantial investment just to maintain
present production levels. It is difficult to quantify the likely effects of
such a situation precisely, but it is quite probable that the Company could
be placed in increasingly serious financial difficulties. To avoid the risk
of such a possibility, the Company and the Government have agreed that they
will take all actions necessary on their respective parts to carry out the
Stage I projects in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
3.21      The Bank is being kept informed of progress on negotiations by the
Company for its foreign currency loans. The Company intends that most of the
foreign costs will be met by overseas long-term borrowings, and that, in
addition to the proposed Bank and IDB loans, finance will be obtained from
bi-lateral export credit institutions and commercial banks. The participation
by the Bank and the IDB is expected to help catalyze this additional finance,
and their interest has already helped to encourage other institutions.



PERIJ
CENTRiOMIN EXPANSION PItOJ LCT
Table 3-8: PROJECTS IN STAGE I OF CENTROI-IN EXPANSION PROGRAN (1971-81)
Estimated
Estimated        Estimated            Financing              Proposed
Completion     Project Cost,'       Requirements3/       Financing Sources
Project             Project Objectives                Date         (US$ Million)       (US$ Million)        Local      Foreign
1. Cerro de Pasco           Replace copper cement            1979             12.4                  15.3            COFIDE    IBRD/IDB
Mine Watermlreat-        precipitation plant
ment Plant-              with solvent extraction/
electrowinning plant to
produce 7,000 STPY of
refined copper at lower
cost and with elimination
of river pollution
2. Expansion of             Expand output of copper          1980            13h.1                 160.9            COFIDE    IBRD/IDB
Cobriza Mine nd          concentrates from 50,000
Concentrator'            STPY to 222,000 STPY
3. Modernization and        Reduce production costs          1978             22.7                  26.3            COFIDE    U.S. Export-
Expansion of             and expand output of                                                                              Import Bank;
La Oroya Lead            refined lead from 89,000                                                                          U.S. Commercial
Sinter Plant             STPY to 104,000 STPY                                                                              banks
4. Modernization and        Reduce production costs          1978)            54.0                  64.5            COFIDE    Export
Expansion of La          and expand output of                                                                              Development
Oroya Zinc Refinery      refined zinc from 76,000                                                                          Corpn. of Canada;    n-
STPY to 99,000 STPY                                                                               Canadian
Commercial Banks
5. Modernization and        Reduce production costs          1981            109.2                 140.7            COFIDE    Undetermined
Expansion of             and expand output of
La Oroya Copper          refined copper from 60,000
STPY to 85,000 STPY
6. Expansion of             Expand output of copper/         1978             13.9                  13.9            Cash Generation
Casapalca Mine           lead/zinc ore from 630,000
and Concentrator         STPY to 870,000 STPY
346.3                 421.6
1/   See Part V for details
2/   Including price escalation and working capital
3/   Including interest during construction
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



- 25 -
CENTROMIN has received a financing offer for the zinc refinery and the
copper smelter/refinery from the Export Development Corporation of Canada
and Canadian commercial banks, and a preliminary commitment from the US
Export-Import Bank and a US commercial bank for the lead sinter plant.
The Company plans to finance the Casapalca project from its own cash
generation. Local costs are to be met by local debt (e.g. COFIDE), Com-
pany cash generation and equity from the Government as required to maintain
a sound financial structure (Part VII).
2. Utilities and Transport
3.22        Expanded utility and transport requirements for the Bank financed
projects (Cobriza and the water treatment plant) are dealt with in more detail
in Part V. For the Stage I program overall, adequate fuel, power, transport
and other facilities are being planned. Electrical power demand is projected
to increase from 115 Mw to about 150 Mw, and the extra demand will be met by
reserve capacity in the Company's own system and increased inter-connection
with the ELECTROPERU system (para. 5.10). While increased transport volume
is expected to be met by contract trucking, the Company is currently investiga-
ting alternate ways of filling these needs (para. 5.09). Government and
Company rail facilities are adequate to handle the expanded output from the
six Stage I projects, but will probably have to be augmented in the longer
term for further stages of expansion.
3. Employment and Training
3.23        The present CENTROMIN work force of about 15,000 people is projected
to be increased by about 700 by 1981 for the Stage I program, more than half of
whom will be for the Cobriza expansion. This relatively modest increase is
consistent with the improved economies of scale envisaged for most of the
projects. Nevertheless, some additional in-company training will be required
and, in addition, the Company plans to engage outside technical assistance
and to send engineers overseas for further training (paras. 3.06 and 6.03).
Some of the larger projects envisaged by the Company in the longer term are
likely to present much greater staffing requirements, especially for engineers
and other skilled personnel.
IV. THE METALS MARKETS
4.01        The key world 1/ market factors and current and projected prices,
have been reviewed for the Company's major metal products - copper, silver,
zinc and lead. These are expected to account for over 90% of CENTROMIN's
sales over the forecast period. Price projections used in this report are
summarized in the table below, and are discussed in more detail in the
sections below. It should be noted that these projections are trend lines,
1/ "World" in this section refers to all countries except the "Centrally
Planned Economies" (CPE's).



- 26 -
and actual prices at any point in time could be above or below these trends.
A key feature of metal prices is their volatility, as indicated in the dis-
cussion for each metal. Projections of current prices reflect the effect of
assumed inflation, illustrated by the index.
Metal Price Projections
(Real 1975 and Current Prices in US$)
% of
CENTROMIN's    1974    1975    1976    1978    1980   1984
1975 sales   (Actual) (Actual)
Index/1                                90      100    109      127     146    191
Copper (/lb) - Real        20         102       56     62       82      82      82
- Current               92       56     67      104     120    157
Zinc  (i/lb)  - Real       30          62       34     36       38       40     46
- Current               56       34     39       49       58     81
Lead (#/lb)   - Real        9          30       19     17       22       24     24
- Current               27       19     19       31       35     46
Silver (0/tr.
oz.) - Real       33         500     442    415      490      530    530
- Current              450      442    450      620      775   1010
/1   Developed countries' exports of manufactures SITC 5-8.
Source:   IBRD Economic Analysis and Projections Department.
A.   The Copper Market
1.   International Supply and Demand
4.02      Copper is one of the most important commodities traded in the world.
The value of copper consumption in 1974 represented some US$20 billion and ex-
ceeds that of all other metals, except steel.
4.03      Copper often occurs in ores in association with other metals, al-
though it is generally the primary metal. The copper content of ores ranges
from 0.3% in porphyry deposits to 5% in metamorphosed sedimentary deposits.
Proven published copper reserves in the world are conservatively estimated at
272 million metric tons of copper content. Some 60% of these reserves are
located in the Western Hemisphere while the African Copper Belts account for
25%. Reserves have increased over time, while the average copper content of
the ore reserves has declined, as illustrated by the average content of 2.5%
copper in 1966 versus 1.1% copper in 1972. The distribution of reserves is
ishown in the following table.



- 27 -
Published Proven Copper Reserves
(Million Tons Copper Content)
USA            73.5            Peru            20.0
Chile          50.8            Zaire           18.5
Canada         27.2            Others          58.0
Zambia         24.5               Total       272.0
Source:   US Bureau of .4ines (USBM)
4.04      The world copper supply comes from two main sources - primary mine
production and secondary or scrap recovery, and is consumed in two different
forms: as refined copper produced from mined ore or scrap, or as scrap for
direct use. Six countries - USA, Canada, Chile, Zambia, Zaire and Peru -
accounted for about 74% of the 1974 world mine production of 6.2 million
metric tons, while Peru accounted for 4% or 225,000 metric tons. Scrap
plays an important role in the world's copper supply. It averages about
40% of total copper production, with old scrap from end-uses accounting for
15% of supply and new scrap from fabricators accounting for 25%. Scrap
recovery has proven price elastic and thus acts as a supply-demand balancing
factor. World production of refined copper increased by an average of 4.1%
per annum over the 1950-74 period to reach 6.9 million metric tons in 1974.
Net exports of copper in the form of concentrate, blister copper, and refined
metal have increased at a higher rate, averaging 7% per annum over the period
1960-74. The major importers are Western Europe, Japan and the USA, while
the CIPEC 1/ countries and Canada are the major exporters.
4.05      CIPEC was formed in 1967 by Chile, Peru, Zambia and Zaire to coor-
dinate their actions and protect their interests in the market. Indonesia
joined CIPEC as a full member, and Australia and Papua/New Guinea as associate
members in November 1975. Thus far, little effective collective action has
been exercised, in spite of the fact that they account for some 46% of mine
production and 70% of net copper exports.
4.06      Copper has important characteristics such as corrosion resistance,
and electric and thermal conductivity, and is widely used for electrical
equipment and supplies, construction and housing, transportation and
appliances. The pattern of consumption varies in different countries, as
illustrated by the following table.
1/   CIPEC - Conseil Intergouvernmental des Pays Exportateurs du Cuivre.



- 28 -
Copper Consumption by End Use in Selected Industralized Countries (percent)
Consumer
Electrical Engineering  Transport  Construction   Goods  Other
France              39.2       17.6          8.1         26.9          4.3   3.7
Germany             50.0       12.1         10.2         23.6          2.7   1.4
Italy               40.0      16.5          12.0         18.0         10.0   3.5
Japan               51.0      11.0           5.1         19.2          9.6   4.0
UK                  38.3       12.5         11.9         32.0          3.8   1.5
USA                 31.1       14.2         12.6         19.0         16.1   7.0
Sources:  Copper Development Association, CIDEC, JETRO (1973 data)
4.07      Consumption of copper is concentrated in the industrialized coun-
tries, with the USA, Canada, Western Europe and Japan accounting for nearly
92% of world consumption. During the 1960-74 period, refined copper consump-
tion increased at 4.2% per annum. In general, growth of copper consumption
and industrial production are closely correlated. However, during the sixties,
fast growing economies, such as Japan and Brazil, experienced disproportionally
high increases in copper consumption of the order of 10-20% per annum.
4.08      During the past couple of decades .supply and demand have tended
to be in balance. However, business cycles, production interruptions, and
speculation have led to periodic short term imbalances. While some uncer-
tainty about the future copper market exists, it is expected that demand
will recover over the next three years and return to an average growth rate
of some 4% thereafter. This growth rate is slightly less than the historical
growth rate of 4.2%. The recently depressed market has caused production
cut-backs and mine closures. Recovery in supply will, therefore, lag behind
demand. The projected supply and demand are summarized in the following table:
World Refined Copper Supply/Demand Projections
(Million Metric Tons of Copper Content)
Actual              Projected
1973   1974    1975 1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
Supply
Mine Production       6.0   6.2      5.7   5.2   5.8   6.7   7.0   7.3
Refined Production   6.6   6.8       6.2   5.9   6.6   7.9   8.2   8.6
Demand
Refined Consumption  6.8   6.2       5.4   6.2   7.0   7.9   8.2   8.5
Surplus (Deficit)          (0.2)  0.2     0.8  (0.3) (0.4)  0.0   0.0   0.1
Sources:  Metallgesellschaft, World Bureau of Metal Statistics, IBRD
Commodities and Export Projections Division.



- 29 -
4.09      The projections assume (i) realistic completion schedules for
currently planned mine expansion programs; (ii) 93% utilization of mine
capacity in the later years: (iii) secondary refined production continuing
to average 15% of total refined production; and (iv) recovery in refined
copper consumption by 1977 and a 4% per annum increase thereafter. Based on
these assumptions, and discounting variations in scrap supply, copper will
again be in a statistical oversupply position by the early eighties. On the
other hand, were copper consumption to recover more rapidly and grow at the
historical 4.2%, no oversupply would result.
2.   Price Structure and Projections
4.10      The foregoing discussion of copper supply and demand is of signi-
ficance only as an assessment of the price trend. The situation can never
arise where a copper producer has no market outlet, since copper, like
most of CENTROMIN's metal products, can always be sold on commodities ex-
changes, such as the London Metal Exchange (IME). The LME is always a buyer.
4.11      Virtually all the world's copper outside North America is traded
on the basis of the LME price. Exceptions are the major producers in the
USA and Canada who set their own price. However, less than 10% of copper
sales are actually traded on the LME.
4.12      Copper is characterized by its low short-term elasticities of demand
and supply which create huge and volatile changes in price. Since 1965, LME
copper prices have not fallen below the US$0.45/lb level, and reached a peak
of US$1.52/lb (in current terms) in April 1974, due, in part, to non-industry
speculation in all commodities. This was followed by a drop to US$0.51/lb
in 1975 as industrial production slowed down. The average price for 1975
was US$0.56/lb.
4.13      With the depressed level of copper prices since late 1974, most major
copper producers have cut back production. In many cases, this has been re-
alized by the closure of high cost mines or inefficient facilities. The CIPEC
countries in their first real move to common action, agreed to reduce ex-
ports by 10% in November 1974, then 15% in April 1975. Such production
and export cut-backs are intended to bring supply closer to demand. However,
they have not influenced the current market because of the substantial decline
in demand. The actions should, however, decrease the length of time the
imbalance will last.
4.14      The violent price fluctuations of the past couple of decades may be
dampened somewhat in the longer term. The trend to increased state ownership
may result in expansion plans more attuned to national planning rather than
cyclical development in the markets. The large integrated producers who
dominated the market in the past traditionally financed expansion from cash
generation. The drops in market prices reduced cash flow and forced post-
poeaent of investment decisions which tended to compound the cycles. The
huge increases in capital costs over the past decade have led to increased



- 30 -
use of debt financing for new projects. This also should lead to investment
decisions based more on the merits of the project and longer term price
expectations rather than short-term market price developments. In addition,
the substantial increases in energy costs should improve copper's competitive
position over aluminum and plastics, the main substitutes. Therefore, no
accelerated substitution against copper would seem likely in the foreseeable future.
4.15      While the short-term price fluctuations reflect the demand sen-
sitivity of copper, longer term prices must reflect the total cost of pro-
duction (operating and capital). Reliable cost data are difficult to obtain.
Various studies have been undertaken, which serve as a guide. Price/cost
relationships have also been studied. The general conclusion which can be
derived from these is that a long term price in the vicinity of US$0.80/lb
in 1975 prices seems necessary to ensure an adequate supply.
4.16      Price projections for copper cannot be, at best, more than an edu-
cated guess. With present uncertainties in the world economy, projections are
etven more hazardous than usual. In the short term, it is expected that copper
prices will rise given declining supply and rising demand with recovery
in industrial production.  Uncertainty over supply from Zaire and Zambia is
also tending to push up prices, which recently have moved to about US$0.70/
lb. The impetus to the price may be tempered somewhat by drawdown of the
present large producer and other stocks (over 1.0 million tons). There-
fore, average prices are forecast to rise in 1976 and 1977 to US$0.67/lb
and US$0.80/lb in current terms respectively. After 1978, it is expected
that Prices will fluctuate around a long term trend line of US$0.82/lb in
real 1975 terms.
B.   The Zinc Market
1.   International Supply and Demand
4.17      The outlook for zinc consumption is directly related to the world
economy, in general, and the automotive and construction industries in par-
ticular. On the other hand, production is highly concentrated and short
term production plans are closely geared to consumption, especially on the
down side.
4.18      Proven published reserves of zinc in the world are conservatively
estimated at 125 metric million tons of contained metal. North America and
Western Europe have about 75% of these reserves.
4.19      Canada, U.S.A. and Western Europe accounted for 56% of the 1974
mine production of 4.4 metric million tons, while Peru accounted for 8%
or 351,000 tons. The world zinc supply is, in large measure, concentrated
in those countries which are the major consumers. The major exporters are
Canada, Australia, and Peru, while the U.S., Western Europe and Japan are the
major importers. The smelting and refining of zinc is heavily concentrated
in the industrialized countries, therefore much of the trade is in the form
of concentrates. Scrap accounts for some 20% of supply. However, only 5%



- 31 -
is old scrap recycled from end-uses. Therefore, scrap has played a relatively
minor role in the supply of zinc. Growth in production averaged 4.2% in the
period 1950 to 1974. The increase in net exports in the form of concentrates
and slabs, as with copper, has been much higher.
World Mine Production of Zinc
(Million Metric Tons)
1960      1965       1970       1974
Canada                    0.41       0.82      1.25       1.21
U.S.A.                    0.44       0.60       0.53      0.49
Australia                 0.29       0.33      0.49       0.44
Peru                      0.20       0.29       0.33      0.35
Mexico                    0.26       0.25       0.26      0.26
Japan                     0.17       0.21       0.28      0.24
Western Europe            0.55       0.56       0.76      0.80
Other                     0.28       0.28       0.48      0.62
Total                2.60       3.34      4.38       4.41
Sources: International Lead and Zinc Study Group, Metallgesellschaft,
World Bureau of Metal Statistics (WBMS)
4.20      The principal uses for zinc are:  (i) in galvanizing as a protective
coating for steel; (ii) in zinc alloys for die casting; and (iii) in brass and
bronze products. The construction industry represents the largest end-use for
zinc, mainly in galvanized steel. The transportation industry, mainly auto-
motive, is the second largest end-use, primarily in the form of zinc alloy for
die castings. These two end-uses account for some 64% of zinc consumption in
the world. Consumption has grown by 4.2% per annum over the last twenty-five
years to 4.8 million metric tons in 1973, while the early seventies had growth
rates of 8-1OZ per annum. The world economic recession resulted in a 6.3%
decrease in consumption in 1974 and a further decrease of 23.0% in 1975.
Zinc Consumption by End Use in Selected Industrialized Countries (Percent)
Galvanized   Die Casting    Brass    Chemicals    Other
France               28.2         11.7        21.4        13.5        25.3
Germany              33.4         19.2         28.2        4.1        15.0
Italy                33.7         19.0        30.0         8.4         8.9
Japan                44.3         18.9         12.8       N.A.        24.0
U.K.                 26.1         20.3         27.9       10.8        21.2
U.S.A.               37.5         40.1         13.1        4.1         4.7
Source: WBMS, USBM, (1973 Data)
4.21      The intermediate term prospects for zinc are favorable.  For example,
the threat of substitution from plastics in die castings for the automotive



- 32 -
industry seems to have been contained for now. On the other hand, consider-
able smelter capacity was lost during recent years because of the high cost of
modifications required by environmental legislation and outmoded facilities.
The environmental protection requirements and increased energy costs have
raised production costs substantially. At the same time, the generally high
demand and slow growth in supply have caused considerable upward pressure in
prices. Supply/demand projections are summarized in the following table:
World Zinc Supply/Demand Projections
(Million Metric Tons)
Actual                Projected
Supply                   1973  1974  1975   1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
Mine Production    4.5   4.4   4.5    4.7   5.1   5.4   5.7   6.0
Metal Production   4.3   4.4   3.8    4.4   4.7   5.0   5.3   5.6
Demand
Metal Consumption  4.9   4.6   3.5    4.1   4.9   5.1   5.4   5.7
Surplus (Deficit)        (0.6) (0.2)  0.3    0.3  (0.2) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
Sources:  International Lead and Zinc Study Group; IBRD Commodities and
Export Proj ections Division
4.22      The projections assume (i) realistic completion schedules for
currently planned expansion programs; (ii) 88% utilization of capacity in
the later years; (iii) recovery in zinc consumption by 1977 and a 5.0% growth
rate thereafter. Based on these assumptions, the supply position remains
relatively tight. The shortfall would continue to be met by imports from the
CPE countries which, attracted by high prices, have been delivering some
100,000 tons per annum in recent years.
4.23      In the longer term, the outlook for prices is favorable with demand
likely to remain strong. However, pressures can be expected which will temper
the price increase. Higher prices will attract increasing quantities from
secondary recovery of zinc, particularly from die casting. In addition,
substitution may again become an important factor, as it was in the sixties.
The real costs of production (operating and capital) have shown substantial
increases in recent years. As noted in the section on copper (para 4.15),
long term prices must bear a relationship to costs.
2.   Price Structure and Projections
4.24      Most zinc is traded at producer prices in North America and Europe.
Most of CENTROMIN's sales are at the European price. The highly concentrated
nature of the industry is reflected in the price history. The major producers
often intervene in the IME to stabilize prices. However, the IME price is
important because it is a sensitive indicator of changes in demand and supply.
As with copper, supply and demand are inelastic to short term prices. IME
prices in current terms averaged US$0.13/lb during 1965-72, rising to US$0.37/lb
in 1973.  During 1974, prices were pushed to a high of US$0.96/lb in May by



- 33 -
tight supply and commodity speculation. However, the declining world economy
brought supply and demand into closer balance, and prices declined to US$0.29/lb
in 1975. The average price for 1975 was US$0.34/lb.
4.25      With improvements in economic conditions, the price should rise
slowly as consumption increases, and new facilities come on stream to meet
this demand. The longer term outlook is favorable and the long term price
is expected to fluctuate around a long term trend line of US$0.40 per lb in
1975 prices.
C.   The Lead Market
1.   International Supply and Demand
4.26      Published proven reserves of lead in the world are estimated at
85 million metric tons. Some 60% of these are located in North America,
while Australia and Western Europe account for another 20%.
4.27      Supply of lead comes from two main sources - mine production, and
scrap or secondary recovery. Five countries - U.S.A., Australia, Canada,
Mexico, and Peru supplied 65% of the 1974 mine production of 2.6 million
metric tons, while Peru accounted for 8% or 204,000 tons. Mine production is
largely in the form of a co-product of zinc and to a lesser extent, copper
and silver. Some 70% of primary lead production results from co-product/
by-product production. It is therefore to a substantial degree affected by
the industrial and economic prospects for these metals. During the sixties,
mine output grew at some 3% per annum but during the seventies production has
stagnated. Scrap recovery provides some 35% of the supply, with some 15-20%
as old scrap from end-uses. Scrap recovery is expected to grow as an increas-
ing amount of lead is utilized in storage batteries where collection is well
organized.
World Mine Production of Lead
(Million Metric Tons)
1960      1965       1970      1974
U.S.A.                    0.23       0.29      0.54       0.63
Canada                    0.19       0.28      0.36       0.30
Mexico                    0.19       0.17      0.17       0.18
Peru                      0.13       0.15      0.16       0.20
Western Europe            0.38       0.36      0.48       0.47
Australia                 0.31       0.36      0.44       0.37
Other                     0.38       0.43      0.45       0.42
Total                1.81      2.04       2.60       2.57
Sources: International Lead and Zinc Study Group, Metalgesellschaft,
WEMS



- 34 -
4.28      The principal uses for lead are storage batteries which account
for 40% of lead consumption. Tetraethyl lead for gasoline represents the
second largest end-use. Hence lead consumption is heavily concentrated in
the transportation, mainly automotive, industry. Consumption has grown at
3.7% over the past fifteen years to reach 3.6 million metric tons in 1974.
Consumption levelled off during 1974 as demand for automobiles and gasoline
decreased due to the world recession and the energy crisis, and declined 15%
in 1975 with the world recession.
Lead Consumption by End Use for
Selected Industrialized Countries (Percent)
Storage    Tetraethyl      Cable
Batteries      Lead       Sheathing   Chemicals    Other
France           37.5          5.6          17.0          14.5       25.4
Germany          38.0          9.0          15.6          13.6       23.8
Italy            27.4          4.8          13.6          18.2       36.0
Japan            45.5          6.2           6.2          17.7       24.4
U.K.              29.2        14.9          12.6          10.7       32.6
U.S.A.            49.9        17.8           2.7           8.4       21.1
Source:  WMBS, USBM (1973 data)
4.29      The future market outlook for lead is mixed, primarily for two
reasons. The principal factor is growing public and government concern over
possible toxic effects of lead which may effect its use in gasoline, and has
affected its use in paint. The second factor is the search for alternate
sources of energy. While the long term result could favor lead through the
increased use of battery-powered vehicles and even the continued use of lead
in gasoline, alternative outcomes could cause lead consumption to suffer in
its major markets. In addition, the other end-uses of lead are, in many cases,
vulnerable to substitution. In summary, consumption is expected to grow at a
somewhat more sluggish pace (2.0%) in the next decade, compared to the his-
torical rate of 3.7%.
4.30      On the other hand, concern over the future of lead prices has
resulted in static mine production. Investment decisions in lead mining
and processing facilities have been characterized by a "wait and see"
attitude. However, higher zinc and silver prices and their close association
with lead in ores seem likely to result in higher lead production towards
the end of this decade. Therefore, supply and demand will probably remain,
more or less, in balance. The projected supply and demand are shown in
the following table.



- 35 -
World Refined Lead Supply/Demand Projections
(Million Metric Tons of Lead Content)
Actual                Projected
Supply                    1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
Mine Production       2.6   2.6   2.5   2.6   2.6   2.7   2.9   3.2
Refined Production   3.5   3.6   3.3   3.6   3.5   3.7   3.9   4.1
Demand
Refined Consumption  3.7   3.7   3.1   3.4   3.6   3.8   3.9   4.0
Surplus (Deficit)         (0.2) (0.1)  0.2   0.2  (0.1) (0.1)  0.0   0.1
Sources:  International Lead and Zinc Study Group; IBRD Commodities and
Export Projections Division
4.31      The projections assume (i) recovery in consumption over the next
three years and a 2% increase thereafter; (ii) secondary refined production
averaging 15-20% of total refined production; and (iii) conservative estimates
of planned expansion programs. Shortfalls in supply over the past few years
have been met by releases from the U.S. stockpile which presently contains
540,000 tons. It is expected that further releases will be geared to market
needs.
2.   Price Structure and Projections
4.32      Lead, like zinc, is traded primarily at producer prices in North
America and Western Europe. Much of the export trade, including CENTROMIN's
sales, is based on the LME price. Lead and zinc prices have traditionally
kept close pace with each other. However, this pattern changed abruptly
in 1973-74 when zinc prices rose substantially higher than lead prices and
fell less in 1974-75. This new pattern is expected to last; in part, due
to the more favorable outlook for zinc, and in part due to lower production
cost increases for lead.
4.33      Prices in current terms averaged US$0.12 per lb. during the period
1965-72, rising to US$0.19/lb in 1973, when the all-time high of US$0.35/lb
was reached. Through 1974 and into 1975, prices have gradually declined to
as low as US$0.15/lb in 1975. The LME price averaged US$0.19/lb for 1975.
4.34      As indicated above, the outlook for lead is particularly cloudy.
In the short term, the prospect for static supply should force small increases
in 1976 and 1977 to US$0.19 and US$0.26 respectively. Even slow growth in
lead consumption is not likely to be met by increased supply so that the
longer term prospects indicate a long term price of about US$0.24/lb in 1975
prices.



- 36 -
D.   The Silver Market
1.   International Supply and Demand
4.35      Economic considerations in assessing the silver market cannot be
separated from political or speculative aspects. Data on silver are, also,
subject to a larger margin of error than for other metals. Nonetheless, the
market fundamentals are more favorable for silver than most other metals.
4.36      Available data indicate that proven reserves are particularly
tight. Approximately 60% of these reserves are in four countries - USA,
Canada, Mexico, and Peru. Most of the silver is in association in ores
with other metals, primarily copper, lead, zinc and gold. The availabil-
ity of silver has, therefore, been highly dependent on the industrial demand
for other metals.
4.37      Two-thirds of primary silver supply results from by-product pro-
duction of other metals, and only one-third from mines where silver is the
principal metal. Furthermore, mine production accounts for one-half of the
supply. The balance comes from Government and privately held stocks, demone-
tized coinage and scrap. Mine production has shown little growth over the
past fifteen years, increasing from 205 million ounces in 1960 to 240 million
ounces in 1974, with some fall-back to an estimated 235 million ounces in
1975. Supply from scrap and stocks increased substantially during the sev-
enties to meet demand. The magnitude of stocks in the world is believed to
be substantial, but no prediction of the price at which this will come on
the market is possible.
4.38      While the use of silver in coinage has declined since the mid-
sixties, industrial consumption has continued to grow. As a result, the
decline in total consumption experienced in the late sixties has been
reversed. Since 1960, industrial use has increased at 5.1% per annum to
reach 471 million oz. in 1973. Only 21 million oz went into coinage in
1973. The decline in industrial activity in 1974 caused a decrease in in-
dustrial consumption to 26 million. The preliminary figure for 1975 was
even lower at 355 million. Since silver represents a minute percentage
of total cost in many uses, only limited substitution is likely even at
high prices. The principal end-uses are photographic processing, electronics
and jewelry. The prospects for these markets are favorable. Only in photo-
graphy is substitution a possibility and even there, silver seems likely to
maintain some share of the market.
4.39      Mine silver production and industrial consumption have tradition-
ally shown a close correlation. But, since 1960 the production short-fall
has widened, reaching about 230 million ounces annually in 1974. Use in
coinage is expected to continue at 20-30 million oz per year. Hence the
gap is likely to widen in the future, as secondary sources grow less rapidly
than consumption.



- 37 -
2.   Price Structure and Projections
4.40      Silver is traded on a number of commodity exchanges, the principal
ones being the New York Commodity Exchange and the London Bullion Market.
In addition, Handy & Harman (H & H) a major New York dealer, publishes the
lowest daily price at which offers can be obtained for refined silver. The
H & H price often forms the basis for settlement by custom smelters.
4.41      Silver prices averaged US$1.25/oz in current prices during 1962-66
and US$1.75/oz during 1967-72. A steep climb commenced in 1973 when the average
was US$2.56/oz reaching an all-time peak of US$6.70/oz in early 1974 following
the flight of funds into commodities. The price since declined to US$4.08/oz
in early 1975, with the decrease in industrial demand, and lessened specula-
tion.  The average for 1975 has been US$4.42/oz.
4.42      Given the tight ore reserves, growing industrial consumption and
static mine production, silver has a more favorable outlook than most other
metals. Furthermore, silver, as with gold, can be expected to retain its
historic appeal as a measure of wealth. As a result, prices are expected to
recover somewhat in the next few years. Upward pressure on the real price
seems likely towards the end of the decade.
E.   Marketing Arrangements
4.43      The bulk (over 95%) of CENTROMIN's sales are destined for the export
market. They are generally sold on the basis of yearly contracts at prices
prevailing at the time of delivery. Settlement prices for copper, lead, and
some zinc contracts are based on LME quotations. The European Producer price
quotation is the base for bismuth sales, and most zinc sales. Silver is sold
at the New York market and London Bullion prices. The other metals such as
antimony, arsenic, cadmium, selenium, tellurium, indium and tungsten are sold
at various market prices.
4.44      All mineral products, except gold, exported from Peru are marketed
by MINEROPERU - COMMERCIAL (MINPECO). Gold sales are handled through the
Banco Minero del Peru. MINPECO is an autonomous state-owned entity, estab-
lished by decree law in November 1974. It absorbed most of the functions
previously performed by MINEROPERU's sales department and the Banco Minero.
MINPECO has a staff of some 250, based mostly in Lima. It also maintains
overseas sales offices in New York and Paris. CENTROMIN pays a 2% sales
commission to MINPECO for marketing services.
4.45      MINPECO is also charged with domestic sales.  However, CENTROMIN
continues to deal directly with small producers in purchasing concentrates for
custom smelting. Standard contracts for lead and copper concentrates have
been prepared. These cover settlement price, deductions for metal losses,
smelter charges and other matters.
4.46      Custom smelting has proven an attractive source of revenues.  Many
of the custom concentrates contain impurities in the form of minor metals



- 38 -
which would make their sale abroad difficult. However, CENTROMIN's metallur-
gical complex has been developed over the years to extract these minor metals.
As a result, the small producer is able to sell concentrates while CENTROMIN
has gained an added source of revenue through the smelter charges which it
deducts from the custom concentrate prices based on recoverable contained
metals.
V. THE PROJECT
5.01      CENTROMIN's proposed Stage I modernization and expansion program
consists of six projects which are broadly outlined in paras 3.19-3.21 and
which include the two projects considered for Bank financing i.e. the Cobriza
mine expansion and the Cerro de Pasco mine water treatment plant. These
two projects, which were selected because of their high priority to the
country, their advanced state of preparation and their self-contained nature,
are described in more detail below.
A.   The Cobriza Mine Expansion
1.   Technical Description
5.02      The Cobriza mine, the newest of CENTROMIN's properties, commenced
production in 1967 at an annual rate of 350,000 short tons of ore. Current
production of the mine is 700,000 STPY grading 2.2% copper and approximately
0.5 oz. silver per ton of ore. This ore is treated in a concentrator to
produce 50,000 tons of concentrate per year, containing 25.5% copper and
5.5 oz. silver per ton. Following expansion, the mine will produce 3.5 mil-
lion tons of ore per year grading 1.8% copper, and the new concentrator will
produce about 223,000 tons of concentrate per year of similar grade as at
present.
5.03      The ore deposit occurs within the Cobriza limestone, which is part
of a series of metamorphosed sedimentary rocks of Permian age. The deposit
is reasonably consistent over a length of 5 km and depth of 1 km, with the
thickness ranging from 4 to 20 m. Dip of the limestone varies from 300 to
650, and averages 450. The Cobriza limestone is very competent, resulting in
good mining conditions.
5.04      Ore reserves in the Coris area presently being mined total about
50 million tons of ore-sufficient for 14 years at the proposed rate of mining.
At a cut-off grade of 0.9% to 1.0% copper, the average grade is about 1.8% and 5
oz. silver per ton of ore. The deposit in the Coris area is open at depth and
to the west, therefore offering some scope to increase reserves. In addition,
the deposit also extends across to the Pumagayac ridge where diamond drilling
has indicated ore similar in grade. At the Bank's request, the Company has
executed a drilling program to further assess the reserves in this area.
The results of this assessment indicate possible reserves of another 60 mil-
lion tons of comparable ore. Overall reserves are, therefore, adequate for
the proposed expansion with more than 20 years operation reasonably assured.



- 39 -
5.05      Because of the nature of the deposit, lowering the cut-off grade
from the present 1.5% copper to 1.0% will have the effect of considerably
increasing the amount of recoverable copper. Therefore an important benefit
of the project is the improved utilization of non-renewable resources.
5.06      Underground mechanized cut and fill stoping, the mining method
presently utilized, will also be used after expansion. The method is well
suited to the deposit, permitting selective mining and reasonable operating
costs. Equipment will be somewhat larger than presently used, to obtain
higher productivity. Eight-cu. yd. load-haul-dump units, 20-ton trucks,
3-boom drill jumbos, and raise borers will be the major mining equipment
items.
5.07      The existing surface concentrator operates satisfactorily, with
availability averaging 95% and copper recovery 90% over the past three years.
It is, however, located on the side of the mountain and subject to potential
hazards of unstable slopes and local talus slides. The Company therefore
decided to locate the new concentrator on a larger, more stable site nearby.
This decision was confirmed by studies undertaken by two independent soils
engineering firms. The existing concentrator will be dismantled and some of
the equipment used in the new plant.
5.08      The flowsheet for the new concentrator is conventional, incorporat-
ing crushing, grinding and flotation and is similar to the flowsheet of the
existing concentrator. Furthermore, all operating parameters have been
thoroughly studied over a two-month period by CENTROMIN's metallurgical
research department to form the basis for the flowsheet of the new concentra-
tor. In view of the similarity to the existing concentrator, and the com-
prehensive study, no technical difficulties should be encountered in the
operation of the concentrator.
5.09      The concentrates are transported 220 km to Huancayo by road by two
private trucking contractors and then by government railway 160 km to the
Company smelter at La Oroya. The combined road and rail transport charges
were about US$23 per ton of concentrate during 1974. The surface and align-
ment of a portion of the road has recently been improved, reducing the dis-
tance. Further improvements are planned. The Company is currently investi-
gating various transportation alternatives. For example, consideration is
being given to assisting the private trucking contractors in the event that
they have difficulties in financing additional truck purchases. The Company
and the Government have agreed that arrangements satisfactory to the Bank will
be made for the transportation of concentrates from Cobriza to La Oroya.
5.10      Power is currently supplied by six diesel generators totalling 5.8
MW capacity. Although not part of the project, a transmission line is to be
constructed from ELECTROPERU's generating system on the Mantaro River, up-
stream from the mine and some 50 km. away, to handle the increased demand



TUNNE
AD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
hdu~aIProec, Oeomrn PRIMABak-RY6
Septen,be( 19U7H



- 41 -
(25 MW) from the expanded operation, releasing the diesel plant for standby
and re-use elsewhere. The Government has agreed to take all necessary actions
on its part to ensure a sufficient supply of electric power for the project
and for CENTROMIN's operations. With the planned recirculation of process
water, adequate supplies for the expanded facilities are available from near-
by groundwater sources and streams. Augmentation of the water supply and
distribution system will form part of the project and is included in the
capital costs.
5.11      Cobriza's relatively remote location requires fairly complete
infrastructural facilities. The existing shops are capable of performing
most of the maintenance functions required. Social infrastructure includes
housing, schools, hospital and recreation facilities. Industrial, administra-
tive and social infrastructure requirements for the expansion have been
included in the capital costs. The expanded plant and infrastructural
operations will employ about 860 people, in comparison to the present level
of 350.
2.   Environmental Aspects
5.12      Accident prevention forms an important part of Cobriza's operating
practices. Accident frequency for Cobriza was 15 per million man-hours in
1973 and 9 in 1974, a reasonably good record. Mine ventilation is satisfac-
tory, with overall engineering supplied by CENTROMIN's central service in
La Oroya. Exhaust gas readings are taken regularly on underground diesel
equipment, and show acceptable levels. As a result, atmospheric gas readings
in the mine are below recognized standards.
5.13      The tailings from the concentrator are presently discharged into
the Mantaro river. The Company proposes to continue this after expansion.
Available data indicates that river flows vary from a high of 400,000 liters/
sec. during the first quarter of the year to a low of 80,000 liters/sec. during
the latter part of the year. Sediment load varies proportionally to the flow
from over 1.0 to 0.05 grams per litre. The impact of the tailings, at the ex-
panded rate of production, will result in sediment loads in the vicinity of
1.0 grams/liter all year round. There are no downstream users because of the
stream's mountainous, isolated location. The river ultimately flows into the
jungle east of the Andes.
5.14      Alternatives to river disposal of tailings are limited and offer
their own hazards. Suitable sites for impounding the tailings are virtually
non-existent. Some of the valleys in the area might be used but only limited
life could be expected because of the volume of tailings. In addition, the
high retaining dams required would be a potential hazard since Cobriza is
located in an earthquake zone. The continued discharge of tailings into the
river is therefore justified. CENTROMIN has agreed to take all necessary
measures, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that the project is carried out
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors.



- 42 -
B.   The Cerro de Pasco Mine Water Treatment Plant
1.   Technical Description
5.15      Mine waters from the Cerro de Pasco mine are highly acidic, and
contain recoverable copper. This copper, in addition to copper leached from
the waste dumps of the McCune open pit, is presently extracted in the form
of a precipitate or "cement" copper in a copper cementation plant. In 1974,
"cement" copper containing some 14 million lb of copper was produced. The
discharge from the cementation plant, other mine waters, and concentrator
tailings result in a flow into the San Juan River and thence into the Mantaro
River which is acidic, turbid, and contains iron and other impurities, pollut-
ing these streams in contravention of present Peruvian ecological legislation.
The proposed project would, by replacing the existing cementation plant with a
solvent extraction and electrowinning plant, recover the copper in refined
form, neutralize the discharge, and effectively eliminate the other impurities.
Thus the project replaces one process by another and eliminates a source of
pollution. Production of copper would remain the same, but at a lower cost
and in a form that does not require further refining, as the cement copper
does at present.
5.16      In copper cementation, copper is recovered from acid solution by
precipitation with scrap iron. The scrap iron, being chemically more active,
dissolves and causes precipitation of the copper. This "cement" copper,
containing approximately 70% copper, is subsequently sent to La Oroya for
smelting and refining.
5.17      In solvent extraction, the copper-bearing waters are combined with
a non-water soluble organic solvent which preferentially combines with the
copper, to the exclusion of other metals. The enriched organic liquor is
then separated, and piped to another mixer-settler section where it is com-
bined with the acid-depleted electrolyte from the electrowinning circuit.
The organic solvent there gives up the copper. All of these solutions flow
in closed circuits except the depleted copper-bearing water.
5.18      The electrowinning circuit will consist of four starter cells
and thirty-six commercial cells, each cell containing thirty-one anodes and
thirty cathodes. The pregnant liquor from solvent extraction will be sent
first to the starter cells to form the starter sheets. It then will flow
to the commercial cells for disposition on the cathodes. The product will
be a high quality electro-copper grading 99.9% copper. The mine waters will
be treated in the waste neutralization plant. There the mine waters will be
brought to a pH of 7 by agitation with a limestone slurry, prior to discharge.



PERU
CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
CERRO DE PASCO WATER TREATMENT PLANT
GENERAL PLANT LAYOUT
FOR NEUTRALIZATION - SOLVENT EXTRACTION
ELECTROWINNING
PREGNANT MINE WATER
HEAP LEACH SOLUTION
LIME
SLURRY
WASTE
NEUTRALIZATION
TANKS                     1                 RAFFINITE TANK
TO TAILINGS DAM- T -
PREGNANT LEACH
SOLUTION TANK        ,, 
^_ _i j_ ~~~~~~~~~~ELECTROLYTE ,
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIRCULATION -
-   ~~~~~~~TA~~~NK 
ORGANIC r                                                                  TAN z
SURGE TANKS                                                                              z
ORGNI                 --_             -_- -lCRCLTINU
C-)
LIX TANK * .
KEROSENE                                                                        ACI
TANK                                                                          'TN
SOLVENT EXTRACTION PLANT      EETOYE              ODN   N
SURGt TANK        DECANTING
TAN KS
LEGEND
F-1 PREGNANT LEACH SOLUTION
F-2 NEUTRALIZED WASTE
F-3 PREGNANT ELECTROLYTE
F-5 LOADED ORGANIC
F-8 RAFFINITE FROM SX-PLANT
F-9 CATHODE WASH WATER
F-1l LOADED ORGANIC
F-12 SPENT ELECTROLYTE
- SOLVENT EXTRACTION, + ELECTROWINNING
PLANT FOR PREGNANT MINE WATER + HEAP
Industrial Projects Department          LEACH SOLUTION
September 1975



- 44 -
5.19      The solvent extraction and electrowinning portions of the project
has been adequately tested - both by CENTROMIN and Holmes and Narver, a U.S.
engineering firm. In addition, the solvent extraction portion has been tested
by General Mills Ltd. of the U.S., which is a major supplier of the organic
solvent. CENTROMIN's metallurgical research department has been responsible
for overall coordination of the studies. Recent work by the department has
refined the process flowsheet and resulted in important savings in inputs,
particularly limestone.
5.20      The limestone, one of the major process inputs, will come from the
Calera deposit 10 km from Cerro de Pasco. The limestone is of suitable
quality for neutralization and has been thoroughly tested by CENTROMIN with
good results. Mining of this deposit will be by conventional open pit
methods. Adequate reserves exist for the economic life of the plant.
5.21      Since the plant is located at an established mine, all the neces-
sary administrative, industrial, and social infrastructure are in place.
CENTROMIN has a construction program for additional housing at Cerro de Pasco
to improve living conditions for its employees. The new plant will employ
about 125 people, compared to 270 for the cementation plant.
2.   Environmental Aspects
5.22      One of the primary objectives of the project is to solve the exist-
ing pollution problem. The neutralization plant will reduce acid discharge
by 99.9%, and the iron content to less than 0.1 grams per liter. The pH of
the discharge waters will be neutral, i.e. pH 7. Very stringent specifica-
tions, even by international standards, have been applied to the plant. As
a result, substantial improvements will result in the flow into the San Juan
River.
C.   Capital Costs and Financing Plan
1.   Capital Costs
5.23      The total financing required for the two projects is estimated to
be US$176.2 million equivalent (US$160.9 million for the Cabriza Mine Expansion
and US$15.3 million for the Cerro de Pasco Mine Water Treatment Plant) as
summarized in the two tables below.



- 45 -
Cobriza Mine Expansion
Summary of Capital Costs
S/. Million            US$ Million-
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign /2 Total        X
Mine Development & Site
Preparation              337.5      85.5  423.0   7.5        1.9       9.4    7.0
Plant and Equipment
(including spare
parts)                  310.5   1192.5 1503.0   6.9 /3  26.5         33.4   24.9
Civil Construction &
Erection                 468.0    256.5  724.5  10.4 /3   5.7         16.1   12.0
Freight & Transport         45.0    157.5  202.5   1.0         3.5       4.5    3.4
Engineering, Project
Management & Super-
vision                    90.0    292.5  382.5   2.0         6.5       8.5    6.3
Total Base Cost
Estimate               1251.0   1984.5 3235.5  27.8       44.1       71.9   53.6
Physical Contingencies    189.0    265.5  454.5   4.2          5.9      10.1    7.5
Price Escalation           949.5    846.0 1795.5  21.1        18.8      39.9   29.8
Total Fixed Assets        2389.5   3096.0 5485.5  53.1        68.8     121.9   90.9
Working Capital            549.0    -       549.0  12.2        -        12.2    9.1
Project Cost              2938.5   3096.0 6034.5  65.3        68.8     134.1  100.0
Interest during
Construction             711.0    495.0 1206.0  15.8        11.0      26.8
Total Financing
Required                3649.5   3591.0 7240.5  81.1        79.8     160.9
/1   Exchange Rate:  SI. 45.00 = US$1.00
/2   Includes US$13.1 million indirect foreign exchange cost, assuming
20% of local cost of mine development & site preparation, civil
construction & erection, and 50% of pre-tax local equipment costs.
/3   Includes local duties and taxes.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



- 46 -
Cerro de Pasco Mine Water Treatment Plant
Summary of Capital Costs
S/. Million              US$ Million-/
Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign.t  Total    %
Plant and Equipment
(incl. spare parts)          94.5  175.5  270.0    2.131/    3.9        6.0    48.4
Civil Construction
and Erection                 13.5    27.0   140.5    .32/    0.6       0.9    7.3
Freight & Transport            4.5   13.5   18.0   0.1          0.3     0.4     3.2
Engineering, Project
Management & Supervision      22.5   31.5   54.0   0.5          0.7     1.2     9.7
Tota:l Base Cost Estimate    135.0  247.5  382.5   3.0          5.5     8.5   68.6
Physical Contingencies        13.5   22.5   36.0   0.3          0.5    0.8      6.5
Price Escalation              63.0   67.5  130.5   1.4          1.5     2.9     2.3
Tota:l Fixed Assets          211.5  337.5  549.0   4.7          7.5   12.2   98.4
Working Capital                9.0     -       9.0   0.2         -      0.2     1.6
Project Cost                 220.5  337.5  558.0    4.9         7.5   12.4  100.0
Interest During
Construction                 81.0    49.5  130.5   1.8         1.1    2.9
Tota:L Financing
Required                    301.5  387.0  688.5    6.7         8.6   15.3
1/   Exchange Rate:  S/. 45.00 = US$1.00
2/  Includes US$1.9 million indirect foreign exchange cost.
3/  Includes local duties and taxes
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



- 47 -
5.24      Scope and design of the projects were laid out in feasibility reports
prepared in late 1974 and early 1975 by two U.S. engineering firms: Ralph M.
Parsons (Parsons-Jurden) for Cobriza and Holmes & Narver for Cerro de Pasco.
Cost estimates for plant and equipment and material are based on late 1974 or
early 1975 quotations from suppliers. Estimates for civil construction and
infrastructure reflect CENTROMIN's recent experience and quotations obtained
by the engineering firms. Taxes cover ad valorem taxes of 16% payable on
foreign imports and 3% stamp tax on items other than imports. Physical
contingencies reflect the varying degrees of firmness in design and engineering,
and the difficult, isolated site of the Cobriza mine. They have been estimated
at between 5% and 20% of the various base estimate categories and average about
14%.  Price escalation to cover foreign and local inflation has been applied
to all project cost components. Rates used for foreign equipment are 12%
in 1975, 10% in 1976, and 8% thereafter; for foreign construction costs 16%
in 1975, 14% in 1976, and 12% thereafter. All local costs were inflated
in US$ terms at 20% per annum to the end of 1976, 15% in 1977, and 12%
thereafter. Overall estimating methods have been adequate, and the above
capital costs are realistic.
5.25      Incremental working capital requirements of US$12.2 million for
Cobriza consist of concentrate and supplies inventories valued at cost and
accounts receivable based on a two-month payment period, to be built up
during 1979 and 1980. The US$0.2 million for the water treatment plant con-
sists mainly of supplies and metal inventories, to be built up during 1978.
2.   Financing Plan
5.26      The proposed financing of the projected requirements of US$176.2
million equivalent for the two projects is shown below. Projected Company
financing during the execution of Stage I is shown in para. 7.08.
Financing Plan
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Source                    Amount          %
Foreign Exchange
IBRD Loan                40.0         22.7
IDB Loan                 33.4         19.0
Sub-total             73.4        41.7
Local Currency
COFIDE Loan              99.8         56.6
Cash Generation           3.0          1.7
Total Financing       176.2        100.0



- 48 -
5.27      The IBRD and IDB loans will be used to finance the direct foreign ex-
change requirements on a joint 55:45 basis. The banks' loans would be to
CENTROMIN for 15 years including 4-1/2 years of grace. Interest on the IBRD
loan will be at the prevailing rate of 8.50% p.a., plus a guarantee fee of
1.50% p.a. payable to the Government of Peru, bringing the total cost to
the Company to 10% p.a. The interest rate for the IDB loan has been assumed
to be 8%. In addition, IDB charges a flat inspection and supervision fee
equal to 1% of the loan amount, which is included in the capital cost estimates.
Effectiveness of the IDB loan would be a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank loan. The COFIDE loan will be for 10 years including 4 years of grace
at an interest rate of 8% p.a. The loan will be in local currency with no
provision for monetary correction to the outstanding principal.
5.28       While these two projects will be financed nearly exclusively by debt and
substantial debt financing is assumed for some of the other projects in Stage I,
CENTROMIN's debt/equity position is projected to remain quite favorable and
not to exceed 50:50. Depending on the actual generation of internal funds,
equity from the Government may be required for other projects in the Stage I
expamsion program, but in any case will be required for the Company housing
(para 7.10) program. These other projects and general improvement and
replacement needs will largely absorb CENTROMIN's available internal cash
generation (para 7.08). Appropriate financial covenants (paras 7.11 - 7.15)
have! been agreed.
5.29      The IBRD and IDB loans will be guaranteed by the Government of Peru
and the foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Company. In addition, in
the event that the funds provided for in the financing plan are inadequate to
ensure the timely completion of the project, the Government has agreed to
ensure the provision of any extra funds (in either foreign or local currency
and independent of whether the need for such additional funds is caused by an
increase in project cost or a shortfall of internally generated funds), on
terms acceptable to the Bank.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Project Organization and Management
6.01      Although CENTROMIN has not been engaged in significant expansion
efforts for some years, it has a number of well-trained and experienced
engineering and other staff equipped to help carry out the projects. The
CompaLny recognizes, however, that it lacks a sufficient number of such staff
to metet the engineering and project management load which will result from
the Stage I program, and is seeking suitably qualified firms to assist in
these areas. Holmes and Narver, a U.S. engineering firm, has already been
selected for the Cerro de Pasco mine water treatment plant and proposals have
been invited from a short-list of eight firms for the Cobriza project. The
firms retained for these projects will be responsible for detailed engineering,
preparation of tender documents, bid evaluation and procurement services, and



- 49 -
overall project management until completion, including start-up of the plants
and responsibility for their performance. They are experienced in the
specialized metallurgical and mining engineering technology to be used, and
in the execution of mining/metallurgical projects. Their assistance will not
only help to carry the heavy project management load expected, but serve as
valuable guidance while more Company staff gain direct experience in the
execution of projects. The foreign currency costs of the services of these
firms will be financed by the Bank and IDB loans.
6.02      The Company will also assign its own project co-ordinators to each
project. They will report to a Company Expansion Manager responsible to the
General Manager of Planning and Development for the execution of all the
Stage I expansion program. Each project co-ordinator will have costing,
technical and other staff to assist him in the coordination of the particular
project under his responsibility and he will act as the liaison between the
Expansion Manager and the outside engineering firm retained as project manager.
Such co-ordinators have already been appointed for the Bank-financed projects.
Both are qualified engineers and the Cobriza co-ordinator is an excellent
manager who for some years has been the Mine Superintendent at Cobriza.
6.03      In order to further augment its limited experience in project
management, the Company is also planning to retain on a contract basis for a
limited time during project execution a number of senior project staff ex-
perienced in the execution of mining projects who will work with the Expan-
sion Manager and have advisory and line responsibilities in the execution of
the Stage I projects, including the training of Company staff on the job in
the techniques needed for project execution. Part of the Bank's loan would
be used to finance the foreign currency costs of employing these contract
staff as technical assistance for the Stage I program. The manpower require-
ments will be approximately 23 man-years and the foreign exchange costs are
not expected to exceed US$0.8 million and have been included in the capital
cost estimates for the projects. The Company has agreed to fill these and
other key positions in the expansion management structure by not later than
July 31, 1976 (para. 3.06) before the level of project activity becomes
substantial. The Government has agreed to authorize and facilitate the timely
employment of these personnel. In order to ensure sufficient advance planning
by the Company of the management of the completed project facilities, CENTROMIN has
agreed to provide an organization chart, staffing and training plan for the
operation of the new installations by December 31, 1976.
B.   Implementation
6.04      CENTROMIN intends to sign the project engineering and management
contract with Holmes and Narver (para. 6.01) for the Cerro de Pasco mine water
treatment in the second quarter of 1976, and to engage another foreign firm
for the project engineering and management for Cobriza in the third quarter
of 1976. Tenders for the internationally bid mining equipment are expected
to be issued by the third quarter of 1976 and orders placed during the
fourth quarter. The Company is expected to be ready to place orders
for internationally bid equipment for the water treatment plant by the
fourth quarter of 1976 and for the Cobriza concentrator by the last



- 50 -
quarter of 1976. The mine water treatment plant should be ready for start-
up by the end of the first quarter of 1978, with full capacity reached by
the last quarter of 1978 (Table 6-1). The Cobriza expansion should be phy-
sically complete by the fourth quarter of 1979, with full production reached
by mid-1980 (Table 6-2). It is planned that, subject to the timely avail-
ability of additional financing, the other four projects in the Stage I
program will be complete by 1981, with full production achieved on these by
1982.
C.   Procurement and Disbursement and Allocation of Bank Loan
1.   Procurement
6.05      The estimated foreign exchange costs of engineering and project man-
agement, equipment supply, freight and installation, buildings, and erection,
are to be financed by the IBRD and IDB loans on a 55:45 sharing. All IBRD/IDB
loan financed equipment items will be procured under international competitive
bidding following Bank and IDB guidelines. Packages will be prepared by the
consulting firms retained as project managers. Equipment which is manufac-
tured locally, and which meets technical, quality and delivery requirements,
must be procured locally under Peruvian law. It is therefore precluded from
IBRD/IDB financing and will be financed by COFIDE. Respective procurement
lists will take this into account and will be firmed up during the prepara-
tioni of packages. With a few minor exceptions, the bulk of the equipment
includee in the project is not produced in Peru, and locally produced equipment
items will amount to less than US$5 million. No preference would be given to
local suppliers, who will not compete for items on the banks' list. Construction
and civil works contracts will be awarded on the basis of local competitive
tendering as these will be of a size and nature that would not make them
attractive to foreign contractors. Some retroactive financing of engineering
services will be required, with the amount unlikely to exceed US$700,000
equivalent. Some minor items, such as technical assistance involving individuals
rather than firms, may cause administrative difficulties for the IDB, and
should these instances arise, financing would be 100% by IBRD (para. 6.06).
Procedural arrangements between the two banks would ensure that the overall
55:45 sharing is preserved.
2.   Allocation of Bank Loan and Disbursement
6.06      The allocation of the Bank loan is shown below.



PERU
CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
Table 6-1: CERRO DE PASCO MINE WATER TREATMENT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1975                                  1976                                              1977                                               1978
J A  S          O N   D   J   F  MA   M   J   J  A   S O   N  D   J   F  M   A   M   J   J   A   S  O    ND    J D                 F   M|A   M   J |    AS °N   D
ENGINEERING
Process Design
Detailed Design
PROCUREMENT
Advertising                                                                                                                                                                             I
Bid Specifications
Invitation to Bid                                                                                                                                               {
Receipt of Bids                                                                                                                                               i
Placement of Orders                                                                    -.
Equipment Delivery                                                                                _                                                       _
CONSTRUCTION
Limestone Mining                                                                _Development                                            _  _       _  _               Production
Solvent Extraction                                                                                                                                   _          I                       I
Electro-Winning                                                                                                                                        -     I
Waste Neutralization                                                                                                                                 _          I
.  .                                                                                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ _     I  I
INFRASTRUCTURE
Electrical Oistribution
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                                                                                         World Bank - 15261
September 1975



PERU
CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
Table 6-2: COBRIZA EXPANSION
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1975                                 1976                                    1977                                     1978                                     1979                                      1980
ENGINFBRINAG                 J      IAS LLMjEAI MIJ  J    ] T      J         I ]IAIS    INJ~ I.   II I   AIMI I  I IA IS  0                        I    MI .1 ]-s                        A IMIJJF     J  JJA AJONS m0N0
ENGtrNEfsRINsGg   EEE .:E f EEE  E 3:  i
Ptooen Design
Detailed Design       _
PROCUREMENT                                                     -
Bid Speoificetion
I-itation to Bid                                                         _
Reeipt of Bids 
Plo-t of Od                                                                      -                                                                                                                                                   | -
Equipe-te I7eli-evm                                                                                                                          m         -         m
CONSTRUCTION
Mi-e
Devel.p,oeot-
Prodwoioo-                                                                                                                                                                               
Croshing--
G,indieg
INFR ASTR UCT U RE
Electrical Distribution                                                 _
R..ds 
ltdostrisl                                                                                                                          -         -                                 -       LIII
dedostrial Ptojects Department
Septeeber 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      World BDnk - 15262



- 53 -
Category Allocation of the Bank Loan
Amount of the            % of Foreign
Loan         Exchange Expenditure
Category                              Allocated          to be Financed
(US$ Million)
1.  Solvent Extraction/                        3.0                     55%
Electro-Winning Plant-Cerro de Pasco
(including spare parts and foreign
freight)
2.   Mining Equipment-Cobriza and Cerro        6.0                     55%
de Pasco (load - haul - dump units,
raise borers, drilling equipment,
including spare parts and foreign
freight)
3.   Concentrator Plant                       15.0                     55%
(Crushing and grinding equipment,
flotation and settling tanks,
associated utilities and buildings,
including spare parts and foreign
freight)
4.   Engineering, Project Management,          4.0                     55%
Technical Assistance
5.   Miscellaneous Equipment and Services      2.0                    100%
6.   Interest and other Charges Accrued        7.0                Amounts Due
on IBRD Loan
7.   Unallocated
Total                               40.0
6.07      The financing of interest during construction is justifiable on the
basis that estimated total foreign exchange costs (direct and indirect) ex-
ceed foreign financing by US$15.0 million and the Company, in view of its
other necessary investments, would in any case have to find debt financing
for financial charges during project execution. The financing of indirect
foreign exchange costs is not proposed, as these involve mainly items within
the construction contracts not subject to international competitive bidding
(para. 6.05) and could pose administrative difficulties in disbursement for
the 1DB, which does not normally finance such items. The financing of inte-
rest during construction is administratively simple, and helps to compensate
for this situation.



- 54 -
6.08      The disbursement schedule of the proceeds of the Bank loan, shown
below, is based on estimates of order placements, payment schedules, and
expected construction and equipment delivery times in line with the construc-
tion schedules shown in Tables 6-1 and 6-2. The Bank loan is expected to be
fully disbursed by the third quarter of 1980. Any loan funds remaining
uncommitted for items on the Bank list would be used to finance other project
components, if fotmd justified, or otherwise would be cancelled.
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of the Bank Loan
Amount         Amount
Disbursement        Outstanding     Undisbursed
1976   III                 2.5                 2.5             37.5
IV                 2.5                 5.0             35.0
1977     I                 2.5                  7.5            32.5
II                 2.5                 10.0            30.0
III                 3.0                13.0             27.0
IV                 3.0                 16.0            24.0
1978     I                 3.0                 19.0            21.0
II                 4.0                23.0             17.0
III                 4.0                27.0             13.0
IV                 3.0                30.0             10.0
1979     I                 3.0                33.0              7.0
II                 3.0                36.0              4.0
III                 2.0                38.0              2.0
IV                 1.0                39.0              1.0
1980     I                 0.5                39.5              0.5
II                 0.3                39.8              0.2
III                 0.2                40.0
VII.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
7.01      Since the two Bank-financed projects (Cobriza and Cerro de Pasco)
form part of existing operations of CENTROMIN and can also not meaningfully
be isolated from other projects under the Stage I Program, it has not been
attempted to make separate financial projections (income statements, sources
and application of funds and balance sheets) for the Cobriza and the Cerro de
Pasco projects.



- 55 -
A.   Financial Rate of Return of the Project.
7.02      The incremental before-tax returns in real terms for the two projects
are 15.2% (Cobriza) and 18.1% (Cerro de Pasco) respectively. The cost and
benefit streams and the principal assumptions used for the rate of return
calculations are shown in Tables 7-1 and 7-2.
7.03      To determine the effect of various events on the financial rates of
return for the projects, sensitivity tests have been run which show the follow-
ing:
Sensitivity Tests on Financial Rate of Return of IBRD Financed Projects
Rates of Return (%)
Capital    Operating                             Cerro de
Case            Cost      Cost /1      Revenue      Cobriza      Pasco
1.   (Base cost)         100        100           100         15.2       18.1
2.                       110        100           100         13.7       16.2
3.                       100        110           100         13.3       20.4 /2
4.                       100        110            90          8.8       19.4 12
5.                       110        110            90          7.3       18.8 /2
6.                       100         90           100         17.2       15.0
7.                       100        100            90         11.0       17.4
8.   One-year delay in
project com-
pletion                                               13.2        15.4
9.   One-year delay
in project com-
pletion and 15%
cost overrun                                          10.6        13.5
/1   Operating cost saving, in the case of Cerro de Pasco.
/2   Increasing rate of return, due to increased savings in operating costs.
The above sensitivity tests indicate that even under adverse circumstances
the Cerro de Pasco project shows good rates of return, but that those of
the Cobriza project become somewhat marginal, particularly if copper prices
were to remain significantly lower than projected. That downside risk is
however not considered substantial over the life of the project, as the base
case metal price projections in real terms represent realistic trend lines
below which copper prices could fall during some periods, but above which price
levels are also likely_to rise at other times.  The Cerro de Pasco project is
sensitive mainly to the operating cost savings that it will bring about as
compared to similar cost increasing factors acting on Cerro de Pasco without
the project.



- 56 -
PERU
CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
Table 7-1: COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS FOR COBRIZA MINE EXPANSION
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(US$ Million; 1975 Real Terms) /
Without Expansion                     With Expansion                      Incremental
Capit l   Operating                Capital   Operating                  Capital   Operating
Year   Costr        Costs     Revenue3/    Costs        Costs     RevenueY      Costs       Costs     Revenue
1976    0.2         10.0        10.7        11.1        10.0        10.7        10.9          -
1977    0.7         10.6        12.8        29.3        10.6        12.8        28.6          -
1978    0.6         11.0        13.9        35.4        11.0        13.9        34.8          -           _
1979    0.6         11.2        13.9        28.0        22.1        19.3        27.4        10.9         5.4
1980    0.1         11.2        14.0         3.0        33.8         57.0        0.2        22.6        43.0
1981    0.2         11.7        14.0          -         35.2        62.6        (0.2)       23.5        48.6
1982    o.a         11.8        14.0          -         34.3        62.6        (0.8)       22.5        48.6
1983    1.0         11.9        14.0          _   ,    34.6         62.6        (1.o0       22.7        48.6
1984    1.75/       12.0        14.0        16.6 i      35.0        62.6        14.9_/      23.0        48.6
1985     -          12.1        1L.0          _         36.4        62.6          -         24.3        48.6
1986     -          12.2        14.o          _         36.8        62.6          -         24.6        48.6
1987     -          12.3        14.0          -         37.3        62.6          -         25.0        48.6
1988     -          12.3        1i4.0         _         37.6        62.6          -         25.3        48.6
1989    1.8w        12.         l4.0        24.3        38.6        62.6        22.5'       26.2        48.6
1990     -          12.4        14.0          -         38.6         62.6         -         26.2        48.6
1991     -         12.5         14.0 o                  38.7        62.6          -         26.2        48.6
1992     -          12.6        14.o          -         39.0        62.6          -         26.ia       48.6
1993     -          12.6        i4.0          -         39.3        62.6          -         26.7        48.6
1994     -  6/      12.6        14.o             6      39.3        62.6          -  6/    26.7         48.6
1995   (4.o)-       12.6        14.o       (12.0)6/    39.3         62.6        (8.0)-      26.7        48.6
Incremental Rate of Return   15.2%
1/  Projected streams in current terms deflated using International Price Index of Manufactures as follows:
1975 - 10.8H; 1976 - 8.8%; 1977 - 8.0%; 1978   7.5%; 1979 - 7.5%; 1980 on 7%.
2/  Investment needed to maintain production.
3/  Based on annual copper concentrate (25.5% copper, 5.5 oz/ton of silver) output of 50,000 short tons
and value per ton reflecting US$0.80/lb of refined copper and US$5.30 per ounce of refined silver in
real 1975 prices (from 1978 on, see para. 4.01 for details), less deductions for freight, insurance,
sales taxes (2%), MINPECO commission (2%) and smelting/refininf charges.
V/  Based on annual concentrate output of 223,000 tons and same assumptions as in 3/ above.
5/  Replacement of mining equipment.
6/  Return of working capital.
Industrial Projects Department
M-rch 1976



- 57 -
PERU
CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
Table 7-2: COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS FOR CERRD DE PASCO MINE WATER TREATMENT PIANT
FINANCIAL RATEC OF R1LUU
(US$ Million; 1975 Real Terms>1
With Old Plant                With New Plant from 1978                    Incremental
Capit     Operating                 Capital   Operating                 Capital   Operati'
Year   Cost         Costs      Revenue-      Costs      Costs      Revenue_      Costs       CostsJ    Revenue
1975      -          3.9          6.6          -         3.9          6.6          -           -           -
1976      -          4.2          7.3         2.7        4.2          7.3         2.7          -
1977      -          4.4          8.3         7.1        4.4          8.3         7.1          _           _
1978      -          4.5          8.2         1.1        1.6 '        5.4_/       1.1        (2.9)       (2.8)
1979      -          4.5          8.4          -         1.7          8.5          -         (2.8)        0.1
1980      -          4.5          8.2          -         1.7          8.3          -         (2.8)        0.1
1981      -          4.4          7.8          -         1.8          7.9          -         (2.6)        0.1
1982      -          4.3          7.6          -         1.8          7.7          -         (2.5)        0.1
1983      -          4.2          7.4          -         1.8          7.4          -         (2.4)         -
1984      -          4.2          7.2          -         1.8          7.2          -         (2.4)         -
1985      -          4.2          7.0          -         1.8          7.0          -         (2.4)         -
1986      -          4.1          6.8          -         1.8          6.8          -         (2.3)         -
1987      -          4.1          6.4          -         1.8          6.4          -         (2.3)         -
1988      -          4.1          6.4          -         1.9          6.5          -         (2.2)         -
1989      -          4.2          6.5          -         1.9          6.5          -         (2.3)         -
1990      -          4.2          6.6          -         1.9          6.6          -         (2.3)         -
1991      -          4.2          6.6          -         1.9          6.6          -         (2.3)         -
1992      -          4.2          6.6          -         1.9          6.6          -         (2.3)         -
1993      -          4.2          6.6          -         1.9          6.6          -         (2.3)         -
Incremental Rate of Return - 1B.1%
1/   See Footnote 1/, Table 7-1.
2/   Investment needed to maintain production included in operating costs
3/   Assuming output of 6,000 STPY of Copper contained in cement copper up to 1978 copper price as in
Footnote 3/, and Table 7-6, output declining at about 2% per year due to decreased copper in
waters.
4/   Assuming output of 6,000 STPY of refined copper from 1979 with decline as above.
5/   Assuming 2 months operating of old plant and six months equivalent of full production of new
plant.
6/   Cost saving due to new plant.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



PERU
CENTROMIN-PERU EXPANSION PROJECT
T.able 7-3: PROJECTED SALES 1976-84
(WrITH STAGE I EXPANSION PROGRAM - CURRENT PRICES)
(US$ MTLLION)
1974          1975         1976        1977         1978         1979         1980          1981        1982          1983         1984
(Actual)     (Actual;
SALES VOLuME                                           unaudited)
Refined Copper:  Million lbs              119.6-         105,2-/    122. 54        122.9        122.9        124.0        124.0        141.6        174.3        175.2        175.2
Refined Silver:  Million ozs               14.6           19.6        16.1          17.7         19.6         19.6         19.6         19.7         20.4         20.4         20.4
Silver in Blister: Million ozs               3.0           2.4         1.52           --                       -             -            -            -            -
Refined Zinc:    Million lbs              131.6          149.7        152.0        152.0        155.6        198.4        198.4        198.4        198.4        198.4        198.4
Pefined Lead:    Million lbs              162.5          155.1        176.5        176.5        205.0        205.0        205.0        205.0        205.0        205.0        205.0
Refined Bismuth: Million lbs                1.3            0.5          1.4          1.3          1.5          1.5          1.5          1.5          1.5          1.5           1.5
Zinc Concentrate: 000 Short Tons ~    165.7              206.9        184.4        201.3        201.3        155.4        155.4        155.4        155.4        155.4        155.4
Copper Concentrate: 000 Short Tons          -              -             -           -            -            -          125.1        136.3         75.1         75.1         75.1
NET UNIT PRICES
4/            A/            4/
Refined Copper     US$/lb                   0.86           0.53         0.62         0.80         0.92        0.98          1.06         1.13          1.21         1.29         1.38
Refined Silver      US$/oz                  4.43           4.22         4.83         5.31         5.99        6.47          7.49         8.02         8.60          9.18         9.76
Silver in Blister US$/oz                    3.54           3.73         3.81           -           -            -            -            -             -            -            -
Refined Zinc        US$/lb                  0.44           0.31         0.34         0.38         0.42        Q.49          0.50         0.54          0.58         0.63         0.66
Refined Lead        US$/lb                  0.21           0.16         0.18         0.21         0.23        0.24          0.29         0.30          0.33         0.35         0.38
Refined Bismuth    US$/lb                   8.20           6.80         8.31         8.98         9.69    , 1,0.41'        11.17        11.94         12.80        13.66        14.61
Zinc Concentrate   US$/Ton                129.13         177.46       138.00       164.00       176.00      192.00        227,00       245.00       264.00       285.00       299.00
Copper Concentrate US$/Ton                   -                                       -            -                       419.00       444.00       477.00       512.00        548.00
US$ Million
TOTAL SALES REVENUE
Refined Copper                            103.04/         55.4 /       76.1         97.7        113.2        122.0        130.9        159.9        210.9        226.2        242.0
Refined Silver                             64.9           82.0          78.0        93.9        117.2        126.7        146.5        157.8         175.6        187.7        199.5
Silver in Blister                          10.6            9.0          5.8          0.           0.           0.           0.           0.           0.           0.            0.
Refined Zinc                                57.5          46.1          51.4        58.1         64.9         87.9         99.8         106.7        115.3        124.0        131.0
Refined Lead                                34.7          25.4          31.6        37.4         46.7         50.0         58.4         61.7         66.8          71.8         76.9
Refined Bismuth                             10.3           3.1          11.3        12.1         15.3         16.4          17.7         18.9        20.2          21.6         23.1
Zinc Concentrate                           21.4           36.7         25.5         33.0         35.4         29.9         35.3         38.1         41.0         44.3         46.5
Copper Concentrate                            -             -            -            -            -            -          52.4         60.6          35.8         38.5        41.2
others n/                                  15.3           17.6         16.8         19.9         23.7         26.9         33.4         37.3         41.1         44.0         46.9
TOTAL                                317.6          275.3        296.5        352.1        416,4        459.8        574.4        641.0        706.7        758.1        807.1
1/   Assuming six Stage I projects are executed according to description in para 3.19
2/   International metal price projections (para. 4.01) adjusted to FOB Callao basis (freight and insurance, MINPECO 27 sales commission, 2% sales tax)
to give net average revenue per unit.
3/   Includes gold, cadmium, tellerium, selenium and miscellaneous chemicals
4/   Some blister copper included
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



rE1'R07flU-PrF, 7 EXPAN70vNO PRO.ECT
Table 7-L:  PRDJECTSD INTONE 5T4T!32T S 1976-8  (WITH EXPANSION; IN CUOHO3T TERM1)
(DUN HILLIO1
1974           1975            1976            1977            1978             1979             1980               81             182              12               124
(Actual)       (Actual;
1/                                                                                  unsudited)
Net SDles -                                                                      317.6           275.3           296.4          352.2            416.4            459.8            574.5            640.9            706.8            758.0            806.9
Other Income                                                                        1.0            1.5             1.3             1.5             1.7              1.8              2.0              2.1              2.3              2.5              2.7
Total Revenues                                                                318.6          276.8           297.7           353.7           418.1            461.6             576.5           643.0            709.1            760.5            809.6
Cost of Goods Sold
Initial Inventories   2/                                                       34.2           64.0            77.6            60.7             68.5             79.6             90.8             99.7           109.4            119.7            128.0
Plati Production Cost -                                                       209.8          239.5           219.9           273.9           310.2            363.2            390.0            437.4            474.0            512.0            111.0
Lees: Ending Inventories                                                       64.0           77.6            60.7            68.5 3           79.6             90.8             99.7            109.4           118.7            128.0            137.8
Net Cost of Goods sold                                                           180.0           225.9           236.8          266.1            307.2            352.0            389.9            427.8            465.5            502.7            541.2
Groos Profit                                                                  130.6            50.9           60.9            87.6            111.0            109.7            186.6            215.3            243.6            257.8            268.4
Administration sad Shipping                                                        14.9            -  fi/         12.5            14.1            16.8             18.2             21.3             23.0             24.9             26.8             29.2
Provision for Sevorence sod Peetaions                                             12.1            16.5            10.4           11.9             13.4             14.4             15.6             16.9             18.2             19.7             21.3
Amortiration and Deprecatiot- -                                                    15.6           10.9            11.7            15.4            21.6             34.4             51.7             54.2             69.2             7b.8             72.5
Total Indirect Cost                                                            42.6            27.4           34.6            41.3             51.8             67.0             B8.6             94.1            112.3            117.3            123.0
Operatise Profit                                                                  96.0            23.5            26.2           46.3             59.2             42.7             98.0            121.2            131.4            140.5            145.4
Financial Charges (Corrent)                                                     4.4             3.1             1.9            1.9              1.9              1.9              1.9              1.9              1.9              1.9              1.9
Interest on Long-Tern Debt
Foreign Loans
lBRD                                                                        0              0               0               0               0                O              1.1              4.0              3.6              3.2              2.7
IDB                                                                         0              0               0               0               0                0              0.6              2.1              1.9              1.7              1.4
Others                                                                      0              o               0               0             0.4               1.4             2.0               3.7             5.0               8.1             5.7
Local Loans
Mining Cosmunity                                                          0.4            0.9             0.8             0.9              1.1              1.4              1.6              2.0              2.5              3.0              3.8 6
Other (Including COFIDE)                                                  -                0               0               0             0.4               2.3             6.5             12.1             12.1             14.2             02.4        a
Total Interest Long Tens Debt                                                   0.4             0.9            0.8             0.9              2.0              5.2             11.8             23.8             25.1             30.2             25.8
Net OperatisR Profit Before Income Tao and  Minority
Interests  (Mining Comsenity, flCITEtf)                                        91.2            19.5            23.5           43.4             55.3             35.6             84.2             95.5            104.4            108.4            117.7
Mining Cosasnnity and Research -                                          9.7            2.2             2.6             4.8              6.1              3.9              9.3             10.5            11.5             11.9              12.9
Net Profit  Before Income Tax                                                     81.5            17.3            20.9            38.7            49.2             31.7             75.0             85.0             92.9             96.5            104.7
Less Income Tax-.                                                              37.7             4.8             9.4           17.4             22.1             14.2             33.7             38.2             41.8             43.4             47.1
Net Profit After InCome Too                                                       43.8            12.5            11.5            21.3             27.1             17.4            41.2             46.7              51.1            53.1             57.6
Percent of Total Revenue                                                          13.7             4.5             3.9             6.0             6.5              3.8               7.2              7.3              7.2              7.0              7.1
1/   Based an projected metal prices and sales vol1mes by product shown in Tablo   7-3
2/   Local costs inflated as follovs: to end 1976 @ 20%;  1977 and 1978 0 15%; 1979 @ 12%; 1980 onward at 8%.
3/   Dopreciartin r.es conge from 3% to 307. on fLood .so.t-;  easuned at averago of 10% for a11 Stage I investments.
4/   Equal to 11% of Net Operating Profit before Income Ton, of which 4% is distributed in cash to the workers, 6% in bonds to the Mining Comsaunicy, and 1% is to be used for scientific and te-hoological rosearch
(General Mining Law, No. 18880).
5/   Assom-d at 45% of taxable income, which is assumed as Met Income less 40% invoatnent alloonco up to mactaum of S/. 300 million (US$6.7 million) par year.
6/   Included in Yroduction Cost.
Industrial Projects Dept.
March 1976



CCC       IC-  O-O  ICC'   IC                                                    0-
CC         ...   C.  ...   C                                                     'C
'IC.                                     H   Cl-I          C,COCOC,C.COC,  C,  C.  H  CC'                        C.            CI
C CI'  CM COC,.MCC I'. - C* C ba C
C                                       I'O                           I
CC,  =  ,-C  C'                   ClOt  H   CC-        'CCIICC-  C  ----'C    H           r        'C  C       0CM      C
C-C,  C  CC           CCC      C.  10CM   C.  'MC    CC,    C.'-  C.  H  C.  C  0          C        C       C   CC,
C'"  C  CC   -        C.C':CC      MMCM   C   CCC-  C,CCC-MM                                       LF    H   M    C. CC
CO       CM       CC-  C       CCC           CCI         C  C   MCCC,  C         -           M       C        'I ID  CC  CM   C
C'CC     -   C    C           DCCC    0-  CCC   C,  CCI           C,CI'C.C  0-  0       CI  0  CCC   OIC'CC   C  C   CC   C
'C'   C-  CC.  C--      CC          CCC   -      CM   CCC,CC        C  CC  CI  C  -   CCC,  IICCIC          -   C C, C
C,      'C  C  CC   C        Ill-C    'C          CI           CC.I'  C  I'  CI  C             CC     C.C,           CI'-
C-C  C  'C   C        CC'      C.                -   C  CC'CC,  I                     CCC.  C                    CM
C      CM             -      C CCI    -   CCC   C       CC   ...CMOC                          MCC   M         C   0   C    C
I'     CC  'C    .  C        CC.C.    H   MM                   MC   CCCI  ,,       C       C  CCIC                     o    o
C    C  C       CCC       CI  CCC           CCC   CIC,'C  CC   C      CI  C  C.   000          C' C       CC
CC   C  C-C. C.       CC      0-  CCI   0-            CC'C'CC.                    C       C        C  C'  C     CI  -
C        C   CCC,  C       C    -II'CCIC   C  -              C,  CC
C      -    C  CCC           CCIIC    C,  CO      C,    C      CCICCCC   C                     C          C       C   C.M
C    CC  C-      COC      C   CC C.C       CM    CCC.CMCC   I'                                        C
C      CC,  M  C,  I'-         CM      CC  CC 0CC'    CI'CCMCC,                          C  C C                  C   C'-'
CC,       '--'C               'CM   CC                    M  C-C                   M   CC
-            CC        C-    CCC   MM                    C                        C  'CC
C      MCCC         -C-                 CCC,   CM  I"                    CC'                 C   1
CC         CCH                 MCMC  HO                    C  CC                    -
C      CM               C         C    '<MC   MC                    C                        C   CC
C, IC-      CCM          C,      CM   CC                    C-  CI                  C   -
CC   C      CC, C         CCMC          M     CCII'  CM                   CC  0                        OH
C          MC.           C     CCC   CC                        C,                       MC
C          CCC           C    'CCC   CC                                                CC
C,  C-     C            I'M C         C     C      CC                       C                        C
C.CC  C      <IC-         C  C'         C     CCI    CC,                      CC                       C
CCCI          C     CC    ICC  C-
ICC-C  C      2                      C           C     C,'C     C
C      C            00            CM    CC    'CO
'CC.  C    C' C       00            CC           C     CC
C    C       C            'CM                   C    CC
CC   C,     C'            CC                    C    CM
C                    C          C
C      C             -
I!
C      M   ,    C   'CC-IC  C.    C.                                 C    C    C             K              C''C
IC
C   C-ICC        C                                  C,  CCC                 C   I'.C        'C
-                       '     '
C  C      'C        C.  CC,CC         C C   COCCOC                      C  CM    CCC,           -   CC           C
0-
C    'C  C                                                                                                                        CO
O  C                          C          C   Cl-IC      CC    -           C'  C-  C'  C,    C             C   C,I'        CC         2
C  C                  C-C    C.  CCC   C.  'CC-C  'CMIC''CCC              C   C  C  CC,   CC-C           C   C'C          C          C
C. C-------. 'C
'C  C      C'C'C    C'  CCC,  C   CCC   'C,C'CCC,C               -  C  IC  CC    MMCC            C   'CC          C.         CC,
C- C                                                                                                                                 'CC
-  C                                                                                                                                 CC
C                                                                                                                         CHC,
C' C                         C           CC      C                        C,     -                                                 CC-CC
C  C                           'C   C'I-'CCC,CCC   IC'          C  C-  C  C-       C  CC        C     M          -          CC
H                 'CM     C   CCC   C.  CCC,  CCCCC'C                 C  C  'C  'CCC'   CCC           C.  CC.         'C
C                                                                                                     '                'C
C  C-                 CC     C,  'C'CMC    CCC   CC'C'C I'C               C  C  C'  CC.   C'MC           C.  C-C          'C
C.H0-
C                                                                                                                                  CCC
O        -  C-      CCCCCC    C.  C      C'  CC,'CMC.    C'C              C  IC' 'C  C'     MCCC.        C'  CC           C
C        C  1       'CCC'    CC'CCC'  C   CCC.  CCC.  CC                  CCC    CC'I   CC C'            'C  -'C          'C
C-- C C
C        C  C       CC'C    C-  C'CC   C,  'CCC.  CCI"C'CC.               C  C  'C  CC    CCC,           'C  C.CC         C,
C        C  C
0-
'C                                                                                                                                   C,
C        CC           C-C    C'  CC      C   CCC,  C-         C           C  C  'C  C       C             C   CCC         -
-.      CC  C       CCCC    C-  CCC   C   CCC   C             'C          C  C  C  CM        C-CC         -   C-C         'C          C
C                                                                                               '                C          IC
C        -  C       C.'C'C    CCCCCC,CIC'   MCC.CCC                       IC  CCCCC         CCC          C,  C-C'        'C         'C
C        C  C,
C        C,    C
C,  C        C-C    C       CC    MCCC                          CC 'C  C'  C       C,           C   CC'         CC
CC       3  C
CCC  C   CCC   C   CCC   C                      C  C  C  MC    CCCC             C   CCC
C. C-C  CCICC CCCMMCCCCO                        C C C CC  CCC                   C CM             C
g
CCI        'CCC-    C
C        CC
C  P         CC     C,CMC             CCCI  C                   C       C  C-                   C   CC-          C
C'    CCC   C                   C       M  CC    C-             C   C-C.        'C
0        C,  C        .                              .                             -   -                 -                C
C,                  C-CC      C'  (CC-CC  C,  CCC.  COCOOC                CC  C  C  CC    CCC             C   CC          C
C       'C  CM
C        F'
C            CCC'CCCC-CCC                                                                       C CC    C.
C          CCC      C.  CCC   C.    C.                          C.      C.   C.                 C   'CC          C
C C. . -                                                                  .                              . -- C
C                   C CCC  CC.CCCMCC C  CCCCCC                           CI C C CC   CCC                 C  MC            CC
C                              C   'CC          C.
C-       CCC      C.  CCC   C       C                          C      C.    C                 C   CC          'C
C        0          CCC      I'J  CCC'C  IC'  CCC,  CCCCCC,              C-  C  C-  CC    CCC            C   ICC          C
CCC      C   CCC   C.    C.                          'C      C    C                  C   MC
.                         .            -                  .   -    -       IC
C CC'CCMCC   C-CC  CCCCCC                            C C - CCC  CCC                  CC CC.           C-
-09-



PBRU
CENrRoMIN-PERU EXPANSION PROJECT
Table 7-6: PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS 1976-84 (WITH STAGE I EXPANSION: IN CURRENT TERMS)-/
(USS MILLION)
1974         1975         1976         1977        1978        1979         1980         1981         1982        1983          l"
ASSETS
Currant AssetaV
Cash                                                  9.5          3.8         11.6        13.8         16.3        18.0         17.3         19.3         21.3        22.8          24.3
Actounts Receivable                                  54.6         35.5         42.5         50.5        59.7        65.9         72.1         80.4         88.0        95.1         101.2
Inventories                                         64.0          77.          60.6        68.5         79.6        90.8         99.7        109.4       118.7        128.0         137.8
supplies                                            25.8          42A1         27.1        28.5         29 9        31.4         32.1        34.6         36.6         38.2          40.1
Total Current Assets                            153.9         159.0        141.8       161.3        185.5       206.1        221.2        243.7       264.6        284.1         303.4
Caah Surpous)1                                        -             -           4.7         2.7         17.6        49.1        110.4        165.1       215.6        269.3         329.8
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                                 253.0         280.5        387.1       563.7        712.4       839.8        914.7        942.5        958.7       974.9         991.1
Accumulated Depreciation                            184.7        195.6        206.9        222,2       243.9       278.2        330.0        384.2        453.4        524.2        596.8
Net Fixed Maseta                                     68.3         84.9        180.2        341.5       468.5       561.6        584.7        558.3        505.3       450.7         394.3
Other Assets (Including Investment)                   9.9           9.1         9.3          9.5         9.7         9.9         10.1         10.3         10.5         10.7         10.9
TOTAL ASSETS                                    232.0         253.0        336.0       515.0        681.3       826.7        926.4        977.4        996.0     1,014.8       1,038.4
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities21
Accounts Payable                                     45.5         64.4         38.2         42.1        47.6        53.1         57.7         62.6         67.5         72.3          77.3
Bank Overdraft (Including Letters of Credit)         28.8         16.2         26.0         29.5        33.8        37.6         40.9         44.9         48.7         52.2          55.8
Short Term Portion of Long Term Debt                  0.5          0.2          0.2          2.0         5.5        17.3         27.6         47.0         49.6         49.6         48.3
Total Current Liabilities                        74.8          80.8         64.2         73.6        86.9       108.0        126.2        154.5        165.8        174.1        151.4
Long Term Debt
mining Cossunity                                     10.7          11.9        13.3         15.9         19.2       21.3         26.4         32.2         38.4         44.9          52.0
IRD                                                                  -          5.0         16.0        30.0        39.0         38.3         34.7         31.1         27.5         23.9
IDB                                                                  -          4.2         13.4        25.1        32.6         32.0         29.0         26.0         23.0         *0.0
Other Loans                                           0.4           1.1        39.3        123.9        187.3      244.6        260.8        237.6        194.2        151.7         102.9
Total Long Term Debt                              11.1          13.0        61.8        169.3       261.6       337.5        357.5        333.5        289.7        247.1        205.8
Provision for Severance                             40.8          41.5         41.5         41.5        41.5        41.5         41.5         41.5         41.5         41.5          415
Total Liabilities                               126.7         135.3        167.5        284.4       390.0       487.0        525.2        529.5        497.0        462.7        428.7
Equity
Share Capital                                        64.8         64.8        103.9        144.7       178.4       209.2        229.7        229.7        229.7        229.7         229.7
Reserves and Retained Profits                        40.4          52.9        64.5         85.8        112.9      130.4        171.5        218.2        269.3        322.4         380.0
Total Equity                                     105.3        117.7        168.4        230.5       291.3       339.6        401.2        447.9        499.0        552.1         609.7
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                     232.0        253.0        336.0        515.0       681.3       826.7        926.4        977.4        996.0      1,014.8       1,038.4
Long Term Debt/Equity Ratio                            9:91          9:91        26:74       42:58        47:53       50:50        47:53       43:57         37:63       31:69         25:75
Current Ratio (Excluding Cash Surplus)                 2.1           1.97         2.20        2.19         2.13        1.91         1.76         1.58         1.60         1.63         1.67
jj   Exchange Rates:  At December 31, 1975 - S/.38.7 - US$1.00;  From September 26, 1975 - S/. 45.00 = US$1.00.
2/   Current Assets and current liabilities are based on percentages of sales or cost of production in  ccordance with past Company experience.
3/   See Footnote 4 to Table 7-5
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



- 62 -
B.   Future Sales and Profitability of CENTROMIN
7.04      CENTROMIN's historical financial performance is analyzed in paras.
3.13-3.18. Projected sales revenues, income statements, sources and
applications of funds, and balance sheets through 1984 are shown in Tables
7--3 to 7-6 in current terms. These projections incorporate the forecast
impact of the six projects comprising the Stage I Program (Table 3-9) which,
in view of its importance to the Company, both CENTROMIN and the Government
have agreed to take all necessary actions to carry out (para 3.20).
7.05      From 1974 to the full operation of Stage I in 1982, net sales are
projected to increase by US$389 million to a level of US$707 million equiva-
lent in current terms. Of the US$389 million increase, approximately US$81
million or 21% is due to the Cobriza and water treatment projects. About 56%
of the increase is due to expanded production from the entire Stage I program,
and the balance is due to metal price increases and inflation. Long-term
metal prices in real terms, with the exception of silver, are not projected
to reach the peak levels achieved during 1974. While profitability is pro-
jected to improve from the 1975 level of 4.5% to 7.2% of total revenue, re-
flecting improvements in the Company's efficiency and in metal prices, it is
still projected to be lower than its all-time high in 1974, when metal prices
hit unprecedented heights, and depreciation and interest were relatively minor
expense items. The reduction in sales, profitability and cash generation in
1975 is almost entirely due to the dramatic slump in world prices for many of
the Company's metal products, expecially copper (Part IV), which accounted
for 33% of total sales in 1974, but was only 20% in 1975. Profitability in
reLation to sales and capital invested is projected to improve slightly with
higher metal prices in the next few years, but then to be somewhat lower as
the expanded facilities build up production, reflecting the increased depre-
ciation and interest charges resulting from the greatly increased fixed assets
and the higher proportion of debt in the Company's financial structure. Net
cash generation in 1982 is projected to increase to about six times the 1975
level and about double the 1974 level.
C.   Break-Even Point of CENTROMIN after Stage I
7.06      After completion of Stage I, the profit break-even point for the
Company is projected to be about 79% of production capacity. Alternatively,
average metal prices at full capacity could fall by 22% before the Company
would show a loss. At 1983 debt service requirements, the cash break-even
point would be 75% of production capacity, since debt repayment of US$50
million is less than the US$71 million annual depreciation. In the same
year, assuming full production, average metal prices could fall about 25%
before the Company's net cash generation (after loan repayments) would be
zero. The cash break-even points for the expanded Cobriza and the Cerro
de Pasco plant are projected to be 69% and 43% respectively in the years of
maximum debt service.
D.   Financial Rate of Return of Stage I
7.07      Preliminary analysis of the incremental financial rate of return
for the full Stage I program indicates that this would be at least 20%.



- 63 -
Were the Company not to proceed with the modernization of its copper, lead
and zinc circuits in La Oroya, however, it would surely need to invest sub-
stantial and with time rapidly increasing sums just to maintain present
production levels. Operating much longer without the investments now planned
in the Stage I program might even lead to losses. This alternative scenario
for the Company implies an attractive incremental rate of return for the
overall Stage I program, although it is difficult to estimate the magnitude of
the extra maintenance costs and investment requirements that would result if the
modernization of the La Oroya plants was not carried out at the time now planned.
E.   Company Financing During Stage I and Financial Position
7.08      Projected CENTROMIN financing during the execution of the Stage I
program is outlined below:
Projected CENTROMIN Financing
During Execution of Stage I: 1976-1981
(US$ Million)
Sources                                   Applications
Cash Generation                354.2      Cobriza                        148.7
Long-Term Debt                            Cerro de Pasco                  15.1
Foreign Loans                       Other Stage I Projects         233.4
IBRD                    40.0       Sub-total Stage I (fixed
assets incl. interest          _ _
during construction)       397.2
IDB                     33.4
Other (Bilateral credits
and commercial
Banks)               132.3     Other Replacements/Improve-
ments                        99.9
Local Loans
Housing and Related Infra-
Mining Community        20.2        structure                   164.9
Other (Incl. COFIDE)  193.9         Sub-total, Fixed Assets    662.0
Sub-total Loans           419.8     Amortization of Long Term
Debt                         52.8
Share Capital                  164.9
Increase In Other Assets        1.2
TOTAL                     938.9
Increase in Working Capital   57.8
773.8
Cash Surplus                  165.1



- 64 -
7.09      Dividend payments and their reinvestment have been netted out in the
projections shown above (para. 7.13). The projected cash surplus over the
1976-81 period provides some cushion in the event of depressed metal prices
or overruns in the Stage I program, as well as a basis for initiating the
Stage II program. Most of the estimated US$165 million surplus would occur
during 1980 and 1981, when some of the Stage I facilities are scheduled to
be on stream, and by which time investment in Stage II should have commenced.
7.10      As described previously (para. 3.21) the basic financing strategy
is to use long-term foreign and local debt to finance most of the Stage I
projects, Company cash generation to finance working capital, loan repayments
and replacements and improvements necessary for existing operating facilities,
and increases in share capital to finance the substantial backlog (estimated
at US$164.9 million equivalent) in workers' housing and related infrastructure
to which the Government and the Company are committed. As mentioned previous-
ly, the Company is in the process of seeking the additional foreign loans
required for the Stage I projects.
7.11      Forecast balance sheets for 1976-1984 (Table 7-6) show that the
projected long-term debt/equity ratio remains favorable during the implemen-
tation of the Stage I program with a maximum debt position of 50% being reached
in 1979.  The debt/equity ratio declines from 1980 onward and by 1984 CENTROMIN
would have only 25% in debt. This conservative capitalization will place the
Company in a good position to finance further expansion. To further safeguard
its financial position and avoid overloading its management resources, the
Company has agreed that, except with the prior consent of the Bank, new capi-
tal investments, other than those for Stage I projects and the housing program
wiLl not exceed US$30 million equivalent in any year during the execution of
the projects.  A total amount of US$99.9 million has been included as part
of the Company financing plan during the execution of Stage I. This amount
will include new investments in subsidiaries and other enterprises, as well
as replacements, improvements and modifications to equipment not now foreseen
in the Stage I program. The Company has also agreed that no new debt will be
incurred by the Company or any of its subsidiaries if the consolidated debt/
equity ratio would thereby exceed 50:50 and the Government has agreed to pay
in new share capital to maintain that ratio and to at least cover by equity
contributions the amount of the Company's expenditure on the housing program
during the fiscal year in which such expenditure is made.
7.12      The current ratio is expected to increase after completion of Stage
I if surplus funds were included in current assets during that period. It can
be assumed that these funds would be used for further expansion (para 7.16
below) and that the current ratio would be maintained at a reasonable level
of about 2.0. In any case, the Company has agreed that its current ratio will
not fall below 1.5:1.
7.13      The Company is required by legislation to pay 50% of its net profits
to the Treasury, but the Government has agreed that, during project execution,
at least the amount of these payments will be reinvested in the Company during
the same fiscal year in which the payments are made.



- 65 -
F.   Debt Service Coverage
7.14      Projected sources and application of funds for 1976-84 (Table 7-5)
show that CENTROMIN should have little difficulty servicing its debt. Long-
term debt service coverage forecasts indicate the following:
Projected Long-term Debt Service Coverage of CENTROMIN: 1975-84
1975   1976   1977   1978   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1984
(Actual)
Times
covered   17.9   24.0   34.1   12.7    5.3    3.6    2.4    2.5    3.3    3.7
7.15      Sensitivity analysis shows that average long term metal prices (1980-
84) could drop by 25% below the base case projections before long-term debt
service coverage would drop to 1.0. The high figures up to 1978 reflect the
very small amount of long-term debt now owed by the Company, coupled with the
fact that only interest is paid on the bonds held by the Mining Community,
which have an indefinite term. The Company has agreed that no new loans,
other than those for the two Bank-financed projects, would be incurred if con-
solidated debt service coverage would fall or is projected to fall below two
times. Projections for this purpose would be based on assumptions acceptable
to the Bank.
G.   Further Expansion
7.16      CENTROMIN is reviewing possible longer-term expansion projects whose
capital requirements greatly exceed those projected for the Stage I program.
Depending on the progress of Stage I's execution and the overall financial
and corporate performance of the Company, execution of a Stage II program
will probably be under way before Stage I is completed. This could well
include major new developments being contemplated at Toromocho and Morochocha,
as well as a substantial hydropower project at Paucartambo. Capital require-
ments for Stage II, based on present estimates, would be at least double those
for Stage I, and the cash generation projected from the first program will
easily be needed, in addition to other sources, to finance the second stage
program.
H.   Major Risks
7.17      The major risks inherent in the two projects proposed for Bank
financing and for CENTROMIN and its Stage I program are: (i) a protracted
period of low metal prices (paras. 3.14, 4.01 and 4.12); (ii) the problems of
managing remote and widely separated projects given the relatively small
recent experience of the Company's management in this regard (paras. 3.06 and
3.19); (iii) the relative inexperience of the Company's management in overall



- 66 -
corporate and financial planning (para. 3.06); (iv) the possibility of
significant production losses due to protracted strike action (para. 3.12);
and (v) a continuing high rate of inflation in Peru, especially relative to
metal prices (para. 3.14).
7.18      The Company's projected financial situation and the financial
commitments agreed to indicate that CENTROMIN should be able to withstand a
period of low metal prices, a situation which could become a diminishing risk
in any case (para 4.14). The second and third risks related to management
would be diminished with the commitments agreed to (para 3.06 and 6.01-6.03)
and should become smaller as the first projects progress and experience grows.
Also, the Company is taking positive steps to improve in these areas (para
3.06). The fourth risk due to strikes should diminish in the long term in
view of Company progress in this regard since 1971, and considering the
improvements in worker benefits being realized and envisaged as a result of
thet expansion program. The fifth risk stemming from inflation has been sig-
nificantly accounted for by the reasonably conservative assumptions made re-
garding inflation for the base case projections (Table 7-4) and the sensitivity
analyses performed (para 7.03 and 7.15).
I.   Auditing Requirements
7.19      CENTROMIN's annual financial statements are currently audited by
Moreno, Patino and Associates of Peru, following generally accepted auditing
methods. The Company has agreed to continue employing an independent audit-
ing firm acceptable to the Bank.
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   General Economic Effects and Government Benefits
8.01      CENTROMIN plays a major role in the Peruvian economy:  it accounts
for about 8% of the Government's income tax revenues, and about 20% of its
foreign exchange receipts. The proposed projects and the Stage I program
will therefore help to accelerate the country's economic growth and maintain
the country's market position in a number of key mineral commodities. Fiscal
revenues resulting from the expansion of which the projects are a part will
accrue to the Peruvian Government in the form of increased income taxes,
dividends, export taxes, and import duties. In addition, indirect benefits
to the country will result from the Company's US$165 million investment in
housing (para. 3.11 and 7.10).
B.   Foreign Exchange Effects
8.02      The net foreign exchange surplus generated by the Cobriza and Cerro
de Pasco projects are projected to reach US$59 million equivalent in current
terms by 1982.



- 67 -
C.   Employment Effects
8.03      Although the projects will only directly generate an estimated 365
additional jobs, employment will be generated during construction, and impor-
tant training benefits will accrue from executive level on down. Also, the
improved profitability following completion of the projects and the rest of
the Stage I program will increase benefits to the workers through the profit
sharing arrangements in effect, giving them greater cash benefits as well as
an increased level of bonds held by the Mining Community.
D.   Economic Rate of Return
8.04      The economic importance of the Cobriza and Cerro de Pasco projects
exceeds their direct financial benefits to CENTROMIN as illustrated by the
estimated incremental economic rates of return of 16.0% and 20.0% respective-
ly. The economic returns exceed the pre-income tax financial returns by about
1% and 2% respectively due to the exclusion of CENTROMIN's payment of import
duties and sales taxes. These taxes affect the economic revenue, operating
costs and capital costs and suitable adjustments have been made to determine
the economic returns. Sensitivity tests follow the same pattern as those for
the financial rates of return and indicate an adequate return to the economy
from the projects even under adverse conditions. Economic return calculations
and the sensitivity analysis is contained in the Project File. No shadow
pricing of labor or other inputs (other than taxes) has been employed.
IX. AGREEMENTS
9.01      The following commitments have been agreed to by the Government and
CENTROMIN:
A.   Commitments from the Government:
(i) All necessary actions will be taken to enable CENTROMIN
to carry out the Stage I program on a schedule satisfactory
to the Bank (para 3.20);
(ii) Arrangements satisfactory to the Bank will be made for the
transportation of concentrates from Cobriza to La Oroya
(para. 5.09);
(iii) Necessary actions will be taken to ensure power supply
(para. 5.10);
(iv) Project completion and cost overrun guarantees are
provided (para 5.29);



- 68 -
(v)  The timely employment of project management personnel
will be facilitated (para. 6.03); and
(vi)  Sufficient equity funds will be provided to the Company
as required to maintain a sound debt-equity position,
and, in any event, to cover the cost of the housing
program and dividend payments (para 7.11 and 7.13).
B.   Commitments from CENTROMIN
(i) Project plans will be annually consolidated into five-
year corporate plans, including financial projections
(para 3.06);
(ii)  All Stage I projects will be carried out on a
schedule satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.20);
(iii) Arrangements satisfactory to the Bank will be made
for the transportation of concentrates from Cobriza
to La Oroya (para. 5.09);
(iv)  Satisfactory environmental measures will be taken
(para. 5.14);
(v)  Key positions in the expansion management structure will
be filled by July 31, 1976 (para. 6.03);
(vi)  An organization chart, staffing and training plan for
the new installations will be presented to the Bank by
December 31, 1976 (para. 6.03);
(vii) No new investments above US$30 million per annum will be
made other than for housing and Stage I without Bank
approval (para. 7.11);
(viii)  No new borrowings will be incurred if the debt/equity ratio
would exceed 50:50 or long-term debt service coverage would
fall below 2.0 times (paras. 7.11 and 7.15);
(ix)  The current ratio will not fall below 1.5 (para. 7.12);
and
(x)  An auditing firm satisfactory to the Bank will be
employed (para. 7.19).



- 69 -
9.02      It was also agreed that as a condition of effectiveness of the Bank
loan, all conditions for the effectiveness of the IDB loan would be met (para.
5.27).
9.03      Subject to the foregoing commitments and agreements, the projects
provide a sound basis for a Bank loan to CENTROMIN of US$40 million equivalent
for a period of 15 years, including 4-1/2 years' grace.
Industrial Projects Department
May 1976






Page 1
PERU
CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT
ADDITIONAL REPORTS AND DATA RFLATED TO THE PROJECT
AVAILABLE IN THE BANK
A.   Cerro de Pasco Mine Water Treatment Plant
1.   Technical-Economic Study for a Solvent Extraction-Electro-
winning Plant at Cerro de Pasco, Peru; prepared for
CENTROMIN-PERU ly Holmes and Narver, Inc., tnaheim, California,
USA: October 1974.
2.   Process of Solvent Extraction-Electrowinning and Neutralization
of Residual Waters, Cerro de Pasco; Department of Metallurgical
Investigations, CENTROMIN-PERU; March 1975 (Spanish).
3.   Treatment of Copper Minerals of Cerro de Pasco; Department of
Metallurgical Investigations, CENTROMIN-PERU; September 1975
(Spanish).
4.   Study of Lime Supply to the Neutralization Plant of the Mine
Water Treatment Plant Project, Cerro de Pasco; Central Planning
Division, CENTROMIN-PERU; September 1975 (Spanish).
B.   Cobriza Mine Expansion
1.   Feasibility Study - Cobriza Mine and Concentrator Expansion,
prepared for Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru by Ralph M.
Parsons Company (Parsons-Jurden Division); Pasadena, California,
USA; February 1975.
2.   Metallurgical Balance and Analysis of Performance of the Cobriza
Concentrator; Department of Metallurgical Investigations,
CENTROMIN-PERU; March 1975 (Spanish).
3.   Program of Security Activities - Cobriza; Cobriza Division,
CENTROMIN-PERU; April 1975 (Spanish).
4.   Study of Stability of the Slopes around the Cobriza Mine;
Romani Ingenieros Consultores, S.A., Lima, Peru; May 1975
(Spanish).
5.   Analysis of Projected Expansion of Cobriza Mine and Concentrator
to 10,000 TPD; Central Planning Division, CENTROMIN-PERU;
July 1975 (Spanish).



ANNEX
Page 2
6.   Special Program of Exploration and Development, Cobriza Mine;
Geology Department, CENTROMIN-PERU; Septenber 1975 (Spanish).
7.   Program of Diamond Drilling in the Puuagayoc area - Cobriza; Depart-
ment of Geology, CENTROMIN-PERU; September 1975 and April 1976 (Spanish).
8.   Direct Discharge of Tailings into the Mantaro River with the
Increase in Production at Cobriza; Central Planning Division,
CENTROMIN-PERU; September 1975 (Spanish).
9.   Beneficiation of the Cobriza Minerals; Analysis of the Perform-
ance of the Concentrator Plant; Department of Metallurgical
Investigations, CENTROMIN-PERU; October 1975 (Spanish).
C.   General
1.   Cerro de Pasco Expansion Project (Preappraisal Report);
Industrial Projects Department; IBRD; 1972.
2.   Geological Description of the Mines of the Cerro de Pasco
Corporation; Cerro de Pasco Corporation; (undated).
3.   Peru:  Development Prospects in the Mining and Non-Ferrous
Mietallurgy Sector; Freyman and Associates; Toronto Canada;
June 1972.
4.   Feasibility Study:  Modernization and Expansion of the
Electrolytic Zinc Plant at La Oroya, Peru; prepared for
Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru by Surveyer, Ninninger
and Chenevert, Inc., Montreal, Canada; February 1975.
5.   Program of Expansion, CENTROMIN; Central Planning Division,
CENTROMIN-PERU; August 1975 (Spanish).
6.   Program of Housing and Urban Equipment, CENTROMIN-PERU;
Housing Department, CENTROMIN-PERU; August 1975 (Spanish).
7.   General Mining Law, Decree Law No. 18880, 1971; Ministry of
Economy and Finance.
8.   Organic Law of the Empresa Minera del Centro del Peru
(CENTROMIN-PERU); Decree Law No. 21117; March 18, 1975
(Spanish and English).
9.   Statistics and IBRD Working Papers on CENTROMIN-PERU:
Production Volumes and Costs, Financial Statements, Company
History.
Industrtal Projects Department
May 1976



j:A~~~~~~~Q VJ lZs3m:;I)
"6,                                                                                   -                                                                    I
*~ ~~                    A5'HL  EOAD5                                           t4n            e                                  C L u n or1e^            d *1  8    f      om A     $o   iF
-Ir  AL-EAHR                                             OD              L'%'5t,2 -~  (   I_ rb L,_I ousn °o° |dQPcrj i
+ +A    IAW5    )     ,        \<                                             '  
ALTITUDE5IN                                                                                                  FN           /
5  00                                                                                            Ap  no e           t                  ) S,  y   A    -,
2000    J000                                                                                C    °   m    -  o   > '      g     L      z    I  /   i  t   -    > X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S '61'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;v T_:AiON BGOUNAIESMla</<v
UVP   MSSUAr  agL  f  19Z. 8hFi Cb Un TO 300 TCrS5 ' 1 gybf Si7du - n _.,                                  
L   I   1          _                   77                             75                              73'                             =                _        z         C         h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 






___________________                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  11756
A7N   C AS7H                                  H   U   A  NU    C   0 760                                                          7                    SEPTEMBER 1975
ToTrujillo                                   -A/\                                      Salcachup6n
Goyllarasquizga                        ___-P                  A    S    C     0
(DOUT H                           //Yanahuanca                                                                                             Oaap
CER     DE PASCO                       Villa Rica,,--,
AMI.R..CA
Supe      [  ~I  M   A           Mina Ragra
Huacho                                                                            Jnna   ao
Satipo
Pica          Pucar-6
bropl~~~~4o eadcaoaoa  ar~~~~~~~.-rpraora I,y (ha                                                                                       M~~~~Laariposa
Choncay
Anc6n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cnec6
c  too                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120-
S L~~re~~~~ I.         Cieneguilla                                               ananJoy
PERULIMA
-CENTROMIN EXPANSION PROJECT                                                                                                Yuioh
Detail Area                                                                                   Yuo                e         qi
Mines included in projectMaiclder
)~Existing mines                                           ,,d, 
-    Major paved roads 
Secondary roads 
;"  Railroads                                                                                                                             Hacvlc
Department boundaries 
~IV  0            20          40            60           s0
MILES                                              7          EHUA N CAV E LIC A
g   2p      4p      60      80      100      ?0
KILOMETERS
781  ~~~~~~~~~7To lca 760                                                                                                  750



