CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1281 PE.
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Centromln Expansion Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA MINERA DEL CENTRO DEL PERU
Dated December 6, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and EMPRESA MINERA DEL CENTRO DEL PERU (hereinafter called the
Borrower).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditionc Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gene-
ral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Eresa Minera del Centro del Peru" means Empresa Minera
del Centro del Peru or any successor thereto;
(b) "Ley Orgnica" means Ley Orggnica de lL Empresa Minera
del Centro del Per6, establishing and organizing the Borrower, set
forth in Decreto-Ley No. 21117 of the Guarantor, dated March 18,
1975, as amended from time to time;
(c) "Estatutos" means the estatutos of the Borrower set forth
in Decreto Supremo No. 025-76-EM/SD of the Guarantor, dated May 20,
1976, as amended from time to time;


﻿-3-
(d) "Stage I Expansion Program" means the Borrower's 1975-
1981 investment program, approved by Resoluci6n No. 141-76 of
January 23, 1976 of the Directorio of the Borrower, as this prog-
ram may be updated from time to time, and consisting of: (i) the
expansion of the Cobriza mine to increase the production of cop-
per concentrate from 50,000 to 223,000 short-tons per year;
(ii) construction of a mine water treatment plant at Cerro de
Pasco to produce 7,000 short-tons per year of copper and reduce
river pollution; (iii) modernization and expansion of the La Oroya
zinc refinery from 76,000 to 99,000 short-tons per year; (iv) con-
struction of a lead sinter plant at La Oroya to produce 104,000
short-tons of lead per year; (v) modernization and expansion of
the La Oroya copper smelter/refinery to increase refined copper
output from 60,000 to 80,000 short-tons per year; and (vi) expan-
sion of the Casapalca mine to increase ore output from 630,000
to 875,000 short-tons per year;
(e) "Housing Program" means the Borrower's housing program
described in letter from the Borrower to the Bank dated May 17,
1976, as such program may be amended from time to time, consist-
ing of: (i) construction of houses for personnel; (ii) extension
of social and community facilities such as hospitals, schools and
sport complexes; and (iii) installation of water and sanitary ser-
vices;
(f) "IDB" means Inter-American Development Bank; and
(g) "IDB Loen" means the loan of thirty-five million four
hundred thousand dollars ($35,400,000) equivalent made or to be
made by IDB to the Borrower for purposes of the Project, and "IDB
Loan Agreement" means the agreement providing for the IDB Loan.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million
dollars ($4o,oo,oo).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect
of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates specified
in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts
required to pay, on such date, interest and other charges on the
Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up to
the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
schedule may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.


﻿Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall pay to the Guarantor the
guarantee fee referred to in Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agree-
ment when due.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, business, financial and administrative practices and
shall take all action necessary or required by it to obtain, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the super-
vision and coordination of the carrying out of the Project and the
Stage I Expansion Program, the Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain an Expansion Management Unit;
(b) by July 31, 1976 or such later date as shall be estab-
lished by the Bank, employ in the Expansion Management Unit:
(i) a manager of the Expansion Management Unit;
(ii) a project manager for each of the subprojects in-
cluded in the Stage I Expansion Program;
(iii) such technicians experienced in the execution of
mining projects as shall be necessary to assist the
managers mentioned in (i) and (ii) above and to
carry out on-the-job training of the Borrower's
staff;


﻿(iv) the qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment of the managers and technicians
referred to in (i), (ii) and (iii) above shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) provide the Expansion Management Unit, promptly as needed,
with such supporting staff, facilities, funds and other resources
as shall be re.quired for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the prepara-
tion of engineering for the Project, the provision of procurement
services for the Project and the supervision of the carrying out
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract


﻿-8-
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Brrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the Stage I Expansion Program, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods, works and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures,
satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that the Project is carried out
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Sectioa 4.01. The Borrower shall, at all times, manage its
affairs, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
administrative, business, financial, engineering and mining prac-
tices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) annually consolidate project plans into a five-year cor-
porate plan, including projections of the Borrower's financial
statements;
(b) by December 31, 1976 or such later date as the Bank shall
establish, furnish to the Bank for its approval an organizational
chart for the new installations included in the Project and a de-
tailed staffing, recruiting and training plan for the operation
thereof; and
(c) with the assistance of the Guarantor, ensure that arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank are made for the transportation of
concentrates from the Cobriza mine to La Oroya.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all action necessary on
its part to enable it to carry out the Stage I Expansion Program
in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.04..The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers insurance against such risks and in such umounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to maintain its corporate existence and to acquire, maintain and
renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are neces-
sary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and property, and promptly make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof in accordance with appropriate engine-
ering and mining practices.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate ac-
counting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each of its fiscal years, copies of its financial state-
ments for each such year.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the
Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) The Borrower shall prepare quarterly financial statements
and shall furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
not later than sixty days after the end of each such quarter, copies
of such statements.


﻿- 12 -
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall maintain a debt-equity ratio of 50:50;
and
(b) the Borrower shall not incur any debt (i) if such debt
would raise the Borrower's debt-equity ratio above 50:50 and (ii)
unless its projected net revenues for any twelve-month period


﻿- 13 -
following such incurrence, as determined by the Borrower to the
satisfaction of the Bank, shall be not less than ? times the maximum
debt service requirement for the same twelve-month period, including
the debt to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means all debt of the Borrower, in-
cluding debt for the service of which the Borrower
is responsible, maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement
or other instrument providing for such debt or for
the modification of its terms of payment; provided,
however, that in the case of guarantee of debt, debt
shall be deemed to be incurred on the day the agree-
ment guaranteeing such debt has been entered into
but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding.
(iii) The term "equity" means the total paid-in capital,
reserves and retained earnings of the Borrower,
determined in accordance with sound accounting
practices.
(iv) The term "net revenues" means gross revenues less
operating and administrative expenses, but before
provision covering depreciation, interest and other
charges on debt.


﻿(v) The-term "debt service requirement" means the aggre-
gate amount of amortization (including sinking fund
payments, if any), interest and other charges on debt.
(vi) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by the
Borrower for the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabil-
ities of not less than 1.5 to 1.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "current assets" includes cash, accounts
receivable due within twelve months, inventories,
prepaid expenses properly chargeable to operating
expenses within the next twelve months and all other
assets which could, in the ordinary course of busi-
ness, be converted within twelve months into cash.
(ii) The term "current liabilities" includes accounts
payable within twelve months, customer advances,
income taxes, bonuses and all other liabilities
(including debt) which will become due and payable,
or could be called for payment, within twelve months.


﻿- 15 -
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not make any investment for any purpose until com-
pletion of the Project, other than for the carrying out of the
Project, the Stage I Expansion Program and the Housing Program, in
amounts exceeding in the aggregate in any fiscal year of the Borrower
the equivalent of thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Iey Org9nica or the Estatutos, or any provision there-
of, shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect
adversely the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under
this Agreement; and
(b) (i) Subject to-subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
ceeds of the IDB Loan shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part; or
(B) The IDB Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under the IDB Loan Agreement, and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and


﻿- 17 -
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that
the IDB has notified the Bank that all conditions precedent to the
initial disbursement under the IDB Loan Agreement have been fulfilled,
subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement if such be the
case.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank, namely, that the IDB Loan Agreement (i) has been duly
executed and authorized by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; (ii) constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the res-
pective parties thereto in accordance with its terms; and (iii) is,
subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement if such be the
case, in full force and effect.
Section 7.03. The date March 9, 1977 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Empresa Minera del Centro del Per1
Augusto Wiese 891
Lima 1,
Perd
Cable address:                     Telex:
CENTROMI                           20009 PU
Peru


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ E. Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA MINERA DEL CENTRO DEL PERU
By /s/ G. Florez
Authorized Representative
/s/ C. Correa
Authorized Representative


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Solvent Extraction/         3,000,000         55% of foreign
Electro-Winning                              expenditures
Plant (including
spare parts therefor)
(2) Mining Equipment            6.ooo,ooo         55% of foreign
(including spare                             expenditures
parts therefor)
(3) Concentrator Plant         15,000,000         55% of foreign
(including spare                             expenditures
parts therefor)
and Infrastructure
(4) Consultants and             4,000,000         55% of foreign
Technical Services                           expenditures
(5) Miscellaneous               2,000,000         100% of foreign
Equipment and Serv-                          expenditures
ices


﻿- 22 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Interest and other          7,000,000         Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
April 30, 1980
(7) Unallocated                 3,000,000
TOTAL      40,000,000


﻿- 23 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other than
the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithsanding the provisions of paragrapb 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect
of Categories (4) and (5) on account of expenditures incurred after
December 31, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equiva-
lent of $700,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the


﻿- 24~
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is p&r,t of the Borrower's Stage I Expansion Program.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Cobriza Mine Expansion
(i) Expansion of the Cobriza mine to increase production
of ore from 700,000 to 3,500,000 short-tons per year
on the br.sis of deposits estimated to contain, at
least, 56 million short-tons of mineralized material
grading 1.8% copper and 0.5 oz. of silver per ton;
(ii) Construction of a new concentrator capable of
treating the expanded mine production; and
(iii) Construction of related administrative, industrial
and social infrastructure.
Part B:   Cerro de Pasco Mine Water Treatment Plant
(i) Replacement of the existing copper cementation
plant with a solvent extraction and electro-winning
plant capable of treating mine waters and dump
leach solutions to produce 7000 short-tons per year
of cathode grade copper; and


﻿- 26 -
(ii). Construction of a waste neutralization plant to
treat the discharge from the solvent extraction
electro-winning plant and other discharges, reducing
pollution in the San Juan and Mantaro rivers.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 27-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
November 1, 1980                                   1,215,000
May 1, 1981                                       1,270,000
November 1, 1981                                   1,320,000
May 1, 1982                                        1,380,000
November 1, 1982                                  1,44o,000
May 1, 1983                                       1,495,000
November 1, 1983                                  1,565,000
May 1, 1984                                        1,630,000
November 1, 1984                                  1,695,000
May 1, 1985                                        1,770,000
November 1, 1985                                   1,845,000
may 1, 1986                                        1,925,000
November 1, 1986                                  2,005,000
May 1, 1987                                        2,090,000
November 1, 1987                                   2,180,000
May 1, 1988                                        2,275,000
November 1, 1988                                   2,370,000
may 1, 1989                                        2,1465,000
November 1, 1989                                   2,575,000
May 1, 1990                                        2,685,000
November 1, 1990                                   2,805,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 28 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable
on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/2%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          2-3/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                           5-3/4%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                              7%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D, the goods and works shall be
procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and camparison of Bids for Goods
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place
of their use or installation shall be included.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts included in Part A hereof esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and


﻿- 30 -
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section
3.03 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the
said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 31 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
D.   Negotiated Purchase of Standardized Equipment
For the purpose of maintaining a reasonable standardization
of its equipment, the Borrower may, pursuant to Part B of the
Guidelines, procure from its usual suppliers without inteinational
competitive bidding, such miscellaneous equipment in the Project
as shall be agreed to by the Bank.


