CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1281 PE
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Centromin Expansion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 6, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF PERU
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Empresa Minera del Centro del Peri (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to forty million dollars
($4o,ooo,ooo), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guar-
antee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loLn as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 19T4, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the pro-
visions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifi-
cally undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, and the Stage I Expansion Program, to make arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower
or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures.


﻿14
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans
to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal
circumstances, special security from the member concerned but to
ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over its
loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which will
or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of
such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and
ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or permitting the
creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal
reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien
created on assets of any of its political or administrative subdi-
visions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank
secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinar - course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operat-
ingafor the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such sub-
division, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or ex-
change stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall take all action, including
the granting of all necessary authorizations, foreign exchange per-
mits and other approvals required, to ensure the timely procurement
of the goods and services required for the Project and Stage I Ex-
pansion Program.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor covenants that it will take all
action necessary or advisable on its part:
(i) to ensure to the Borrower a supply of electric
power sufficient for the efficient carrying out
of the Project and of the Borrower's mining
operations;
(ii) to ensure the carrying out of the Stage I Ex-
pansion Program by the Borrower in accordance
with Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement;


﻿-6-
(iii) to enable the Borrower to fulfill its obliga-
tions under Section 4.02 (c) of the Loan
Agreement; and
(iv) to authorize and facilitate the Borrower's
timely employment of the personnel referred
to in Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall charge and collect from the
Borrower a guarantee fee of 1-1/2% per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan from time to time outstanding, such fee to ac-
crue from the respective dates on which amounts of the Loan shall
be withdrawn from the Loan Account.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. Either the Ministro de Economfa y Finanzas of
the Guarantor or the Director General de Cr4dito Pdblico of the
Ministerio de Economfa , Finanzas of the Guarantor is designated
as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Economfa
y Finanzas
Avenida Abancay 5a Cuadra
Lima, Perd
Cable address:
MINDEF
Lima, Perd
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 8 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ C. Garcia Bedoya
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ E. Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


