Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6824
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 713-MLI AND SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT 48-EEC)
June 4, 1987
Western Africa Region
Projects Department
Transportation Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (abbreviation)            Malian Franc (MF)
Appraisal Year Average               Exchange rate:  US$1.00 = 490 MF
tntervening Years Average                             US$1.00 - 538 MF
Completion Year Average                               US$1.00   830 MF
Weighted Average for the Project                            US$1.00 = 680 MF



FOR OMCIAL UR ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. DC 20431
USA
Offict CA 0(ftincqwWaI
June 4, 1987
MEMORANDJM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Mali Third Railway
Project (Credit 713-MLI and Special Action Credit 48-EEC)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion riport on Mali Third Railway Project (Credit 713-MLI and
Special Action Credit 48-EEC)" prepared by the Western Africa Regional
Office. Under the modified system for project performance auditing, further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not
been made.
Attachment
This document hus a rostricted distribution and may be used by topbats only in the perfonincwe
of their offlcial dutiesL Its contents may not otherwie be diclo4 without World Book authoiton.



REPUBLIC OF MALI
CREDIT 713-MLI AND SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT 48-EEC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pag
Preface        e                                                         ±
Basic Data Sheets oo..ee.e.eee.... ,..eeeeeeeee..ooooeeee.eoeoeeooee    i
Highlights                                                              iv*, .,eeeeooeeo,e.eeeee.oeee  iv
REPORT
I.   INTRODUCTION  I...eo,.oo,.,...,.,,...,..,,o.o.....                1
1I.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .......e...     1
III.   PROJECT IMPLfikENTATION AND COST oeeee..eoeeooeeooeeeeeeee.o.     4
IV.   TRAFFIC, OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT ..o ..................... oe  11
V.   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE *a,.........,......,...,.,........,....    16
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORUMCE, DEVELO!HENT COVENANTS AND
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE  *....eee....e.eeeeo***@*'*(    19
VII.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION .,,e,o.eeeeeeeeoe .e.eo...........e    23
VIII. ROLE OF IDA   .,.......................0*.....................    26
ANNEX 1
Technical Review of Project Implementation 0*.*.....*.*....e.    29
TABLES
3-1   Actual and Expected Physical Completion ...,,...,..........      33
3-2  Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs ....* e*eeeeee    34
4-1  Traffic Statistics, 1976-1984 ...............................    38
4-2   Appraisal Forecast and Actual Passenger and Freight
Traffic, 1976-1984 o...,o*e*,eeoee00000e000o000o00ee000e0    39
4-3   Selected Operating Statistics:  1975-1984 ..............o.    42
5-1  Appraisal Forecast and Actual Income Statements, 1977-1984 00   44
5-2   Appraisal Forecast and Actual Balance Sheets, 1977-1984 0....    45
5-3  Financial Rate of Return  o...,.oeo,      .OO .,.oOO......    46
7-1   Cost Benefit Flows for Economic Evaluation ...e...........       47
This document ha a stricted distribution an may be usd by ecipinots ody in th perfonncw
of their offc dutive Its contents may not othrwie be discd wthout Word Bank authoriztion.



Table of Contents (Cont'd.)
Page
GRAPHS
1.  Passenger Traffic - Numbers ....o*..e.o.oo....o.o....o*oeoo,.    53
2.  Passenger Traffic - Fass-Km oooo,oooooooooo..ooo..*,. o. oooooo   54
3.  Freight Traffic - Tons ............................e.e....ee    55
4.  Freight Traf.fic - Ton-Km   *..**o.eoeeeeeeoeee...........    56
MAPS
IBRD 12493R - Mali, Transport Network
IBRD 12494R - West Africa, Mali



- i -
REPUBLIC OF MALI
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 713-MLI AND SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT 48-EEC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) is prepared for the Third
Railway Project in Mali for which IDA Credit 713-MLI in the amount of
US$10.5 m and the EEC's Special Action Credit 48-EEC in the amount of
US$10.0 m equivalent in a basket of European currencies were approved by
the Board of IDA on May 17, 1977, and May 23, 1980, respectively. These
credits were respectively signed on November 22, 1977, and May 17, 1980.
The closing date for the IDA Credit was June 30, 1982, and it was
extended  to  June 30, 1984.   The  final  disbursement  was  made  in
March 1985. The closing date for the EEC Credit was May 31, 1983, and
it was extended to May 31, 1984. The final disbursement was made in
February 1985.
The PCR was prepared by WAPT1 and is based on Appraisal Report
No. 1355-MLI, dated May 2, 1977, the President's Report No. IDA/R80-9,
dated January 15, 1980 for the EEC Credit, supervision reports, legal
documents and detailed information gathered from the borrowers during
1985.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project perform-
ance audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OEV) but the project was not audited
by OED staff. The draft report was sent to the Borrower and the Co-
Financier for comments; however, none were received.



- It -
~~-
WXSC DATA Sa
axl fProect Dat
|S Credit/U  edilu                                           kwst
1 ht stillG)ls3.41/10,                                    10.613.
Shorui In                                                  "lo
,CguIui                                  I                   0
kts Ovlcal cowuts cu e                                       kw 191
Iruptis c.oltwin by itgeM ddeta(              113
kausla rate of raebrti)
Fisuclu perwsms                                              pIe
iutasel perfor.ue                                              we
Accumulated Disbursemnets
a  mm  m~~mm  mum mm  mm
_~~~d00              .000ma             *M.S-s*f,
r     -   -    -                -M LO                          m                 - -
~pruls1fsUato-SI.  -.3    *__ 1.3    _ _ 01           __L 133.                     13*
Sldw_u t Profi1  le* W.    °.09       1,.O  . -   L      -      *1.   - 946      -       10.    -  10,31       *
etul            -UP M.  0o- °La  -  L4I-   LS  l M                               O .*0 W  9              *.3U
ktul  a,percat d "tiet      *   *        3  -       2a           1 6   a    a        is    6a        "  s1 0      13. 
11 C redit CuWtud ofa bowof at   n wrrolls dsws ffuve eelso as ewlit toa  all "IV lb ad of as proet.
other Project Data
firt t eUto is film v U4se                               WmX
lover"VA's anticP's
Itlatlu                        10lb         "M         631m
d aper wal - 16 IedIt          lam                    wilm
- EC Crdt                                 W"
-U  Credit          *21 11/2S
Ciesla date* 35 Credit    .135                     61
NC* -C t         e1U111                   WmO
Seraur                       6111 ei kilo"
fild low d a brrw            *4s1y I * isSer 31



m}U         - t;BZa-iR
'.4 _ _ _ _"
8-4~F
z ~    ~    !S        tSEE@@ 8
t| § d            oe2Oi-0
Z        _o_qI_z
_5
.5   .~                     -       -



- iv -
1EPUBLIC OF MALI
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 713-NLI AND SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT 48-hEC
PROjECT COMPLETION REPORT
Hibhlights
1.        The objectives of the project were to prevent the breakdo *n of
railway services on the Dakar-Bamako international corridor by rehabili-
eating endangered bridges, and to improve operations by bringing about
better coordination between Mali and Senegal railways and by strengthen-
ing the motive power maintenance (paras 2.03-2.08).  Consequently, the
project would contribute to the economic development of Mali, particu-
larly the Bamako region and Western Mali.   The project covered a
three-year time slice of a larger investment program, but its implemen-
tation took three years longer than expected. During all but the last
two years of this extended implementation period, the inter-railway
cooperation deteriorated, and the operating performance worsened consid-
erably, aggravated by accidents on both railways, attended by serious
loss of equipment. However, after 1982, with the inflow of supplementa-
ry financing from the EEC Credit to make good the lost equipment and the
Improved cooperative operating discipline between Mali and Senegal
Railways, instituted by the Cooperative Management Group set up with the
Association's help, the Chemin de Per du Mali's (CFM's) train operating
performance started to improve. At the end of the project, in 1984 and
1985, the freight traffic exceeded the forecasts for 1981 and the
passenger traffic reached close to the 1981 forecast (paras 4.01-4.06).
However, the financial results did not show a recovery commensurate with
the improvement in operations.  The project results as a whole were
generally uneven: good for physical implementation (except track works)
and for operations management; fair for international cooperation and
training; poor for financial management.
The reestimated economic rate of return is about 12% as
compared to the appraisal estimate of 23%, and the actual
financial rate of return on the net fixed assets in use
was 8.9% in 1981 compared to the appraisal estimate of
2.5% for that year. However, in 1984, it was 1.7% and
there  ,as no appraisal forecast for this year (Chap-
ter VII).
During project implementation,  CFM's investments were
limited to the most essential ones which generally
fulfilled the requisite economic and technical criteria.
Nevertheless, there was a chronic inadequacy of funds for
maintenance in the recurrent budget, which prevented the
timely procurement of spare parts even after the systems



v -
for forecasting and classifying spare parts had been set
up  in  the  project.   Therefore,  the  availability  of
locomotives failed to reach target levels.  CFM dld not
complete the track improvements as envisaged because of
the shortage of motive power and the failure of the
ballast supply  (paras 3.07-3.08).   Had the track been
improved as expected, CFM could have taken full advantage
of the strengthened bridges and improv.cd operations still
further. Unless CFM is able to mobilize further finan-
cial aid for track repairs, and make better usa of the
currently improved availability of locomotive capacity,
track defects will shortly beccme the critical path in
CFM's financial recovery.
Management efficiency of CFM improved slightly during the
project.   Workshop  maintenance  methods,  spare  parts
forecasting systems, and staff discipline in workshops
were upgraded (paras 4.11-4.12). However, there is still
considerable scope for the track maintenance and civil
works organization of CFM to improve its functional speed
and quality (paras 4.13-4.14). Training capability, as a
whole, improved, but more especially in track mainte-
nance.  CFM's internal budgetary control and statistics
departments were strengthened. Its staff recruitment has
been controlled very strictly, and overstaffing is not a
problem. But the project's impact on the adequacy and
promptitude of tariff revisions was minimal (para 5.08);
although CFM regularly made proposals for raising tar-
iffs, the approval process had to contend with bureau-
cratic slowness within the Mali Government, and with
Senegalese resistance under the "Convention Ferroviaire"
between  Mali  and  Senegal  (para 3.27).   CFM's  staff
salaries, controlled by the Government, are low and
provide no incentive for good performance, and therefore,
staff productivity is still low. GOM's compensation for
unremunerative services imposed on CFM for political or
social reasons (e.g., passenger trains to the Western
Region, which lacks other means of communication, and to
Koulikoro) has been inadequate and sporadic. The apex
body in Mali which controls import traffic flows, Office
National du Transport (ONT), did not facilitate rail
dispatches from Dakar until 1984 (para 4.07).  Despite
good budgetary control, low staff costs, and relatively
well-controlled investments, CFM's working ratios deteri-
orated due mainly to inadequate and tardy tariff revi-
sions and low staff productivity (para 5.08).
While  vhe  project  did  not  fulfill  all  expectations
contained in the appraisal report, overall, the project
was very useful.  Without the project, CFM's operating
situation would have been much worse, and its traction
capacity would have been clearly insufficient. Moreover,



- vi -
the present upsurge in traffic would not have material-
ized, and the revenues would have been lower and so would
have been its financial reAults (para 5.08). CFM h4o an
economic  role  to  play,  first,  in  the  international
context of providing a low cost maritime access through
Dakar and secondly, in providing the only mean8 of
communication to its Western Region.   The accelerated
deterioration of the railway system which would have
occurred without the project would have produced a marked
increase in the cost of Mali's imports and exports as
well as an inhibiting effect on the development of the
Western  Region.   This  project  has  also  effectively
prevented uneconomic investments on the Bamako-Koulikoro
line  (para 6.03).   The  dialogue with  the Association
during this project has yi.elded several institutional
benefits and has kept up the interest and pace for
reforms in CFM and GOM, which may now be escalated to t
higher policy plane in subsequent projects in the trani-
port sector (paras 6.12 to 6.15 and 8.01). Thus, recent-
ly,  a  study  on  the  long-term  viability  of  the
Bamako-Dakar corridor has been suggested to both the
Senegalese and Malian Governments. The Senegalese part
of the study has progressed, and the Malian part is to
follow.  This study could lead to a coherent corridor
strategy, which, in turn, could result in a coordinated
rail policy for both Governments. Similarly, within the
framework of revamping the parastatal sector in Mali and
Senegal, there is scope for increased policy dialogue to
continue improving the operations and performance of both
railway systems.



- 1 -
REPIUBLIC OF MALI
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 713-XLI AND SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT 48-EEC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
Sectoral Context
1.01     Mali, a land-locked country, hbs a fairly extensive transport
system consisting of 139200 km of roads of which 3,300 km are
all-weather and a 640 km railway linking Bamako with the Senegral rail-
ways going up to the port of Dakar.  In addition, Mali has 1,650 km of
inland waterways, an International airport at Bamako and 12 small
airports. However, the main international transport axes are: (a) the
railway from Bamako to Dakar Port (1,280 km of which Mali Railways (CFM)
has 640 ki In Mali); and (b) a road/rail corridor from Bamako to the
Abidjan Port (19230 km).
1.02      In 1977. the two primary concerns of the Government of Mali
(GOM) in the transport sector were to (a) improve the international
transport system to upgrade Mali's transport access to the coast; and
(b) develop local transport facilities to support and augment agricul-
tural activity. CFM, together with the Senegal Railways, constitutes an
economical access route to the coast and is also the only land link
between Bamako and the. country's western regions. Hence, improvement of
its operational capacity and managenent efficiency was crucial to the
sector. Apart from improving CFN's own capacity and efficiency, it was
recognized that coordination with the Senegal Railways (CFS) was impera-
tive to the success of CFN's operations and objectives.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Origin of the Project
2.01      This project is the third in the line of Bank/IDA-financed
railway projects since the country's independence in 1960. The first
two credits addressed the rehabilitation and modernization of the track
and expansion of the passenger and freight-carrying capacity. But the
execution of the first two projects was not successful due to lack of
experienced managerial an-d supervisory staff. In the second project,
the cost overran by about 70% and resulted in the postponement of some
track works and the entire bridge renewal components. At the end of the
second project, the investments on four locomotives were considered
premature, and procurement of rail cars was deemed unjustified.



- 2 -
However, this conclusion was based on CFM's total fleet strength without
distinguishing between freight and passenger locomotives and without
taking into consideration the age, the condition, and the reliability of
the old locomotives.  In fact, freight traction capacity was actually
inadequate for CFMWs traffic potential.
2.02      The third project was identified during supervision of the
previous ones with a view to continue the overall rehabilitation of CFM
begun in  the first  two projects.   In November 1975,  a supervision
mission initially selected the rehabilitation of bridges, track renewal
and ballasting and the relocation of the Bamako marshalling yard as
eligible for inclusion in the next project. The first two elements were
considered of high priority as they had already been justified in the
second project but had to be dropped for want of funds.  The Bamako
marshalling yard was dropped, as it was deemed to be low in priority.
Therefore, the present project is a logical extension of the concepts
and objectives behind the earlier projects.
Project Objectives and Design
2.03      The project covered a three-year time slice (1977-79) of a
larger Railway  Investment  Plan covering  the  period  1977-81.   This
overall investment plan was formulated by CPM with help from bilateral
technical assi3tants and IDA and molded into shape by discussions
between IDA missions, GOM and CFM. The project was built around three
objectives: (a) prevention of breakdown of railway services due to the
collapse of CFM's bridges, all of which were deemed to be in a critical
state of distress; (b) improving operating efficiency by bringing about
better coordination between Mali and Senegal Railway managements and by
providing additional motive power designed to improve freight opera-
tions; and (c) better workshop maintenance as the basis for higher
motive power availability.   These project objectives were integrated
into the overall objective to provide a long-term management strategy of
cooperation with Senegal Railways and thereby make the Dakar-Bamako rail
corridor efficient and attractive enough to compete successfully with
the longer and costlier Bamako-Abidjan road.
2.04      The project appraisal team also sought to address the follow-
ing sectoral issues and obtained satisfactory responses before negotia-
tions:   (a)  size  of  road network;  (b) road maintenance  standards;
(c) optimum level of resource allocation for all modes; (d) trucking
industry; and (e) transport coordination. All of these were analyzed
through studies and through the policy dialogue during the preparation
and negotiation  stages.   Subsequently,  they were  addressed  in  the
ongoing highway projects.
2.05      The project blended well with these sub-sectoral and sectoral
concerns, and more importantly, it was timed to coincide with a railway
project on the Senegalese side. Although CFM is not overstaffed, it is
nevertheless the biggest public sector employer in Mali, and, therefore,
a railway project for upgrading its capacity and efficiency related well
to the priorities of the GOM in the transport sector.



-3-
Project Description
2.06      Physical components of the Project included:
(a)  Track:   (i) track renewal -- 21.5 km of track between
Kayes and the Senegalese border;, (ii) ballasting of about
100 km and welding of rails for about 130 km; procurement
of track maintenance equipment and spare parts; (iii) es-
tablishing and equipping a quarry to supply ballast;
(iv) procurement of about 68 rail switches; and (v) ex-
tension of loops in seven stations;
(b)  Bridges:   repair  and  reinforcement  of  some  bridges
between Bamako and the Senegalese border;
(c)  Telecommunications:   improvement  of  telecommunications
between Bamako and Senegal;
(d)  Locomotives, Rolling Stock and Maintenance:  (i) procure-
ment of three main line locomotives, two shunters, one
rail car, four trailers, four passenger coaches, fourteen
ballast wagons, eighteen tank cars, and spare parts for
rolling stock, subsequently enlarged to include two more
main line and one shunting locomotive, overhaul of two
locomotives and spare parts; and   (ii) procurement of
machine tools for workshop;
(e)  Training:  establishment of a training center for artisan
and supervisory categories of staff in Bamako with
classrooms, workshops, etc., furnishel with training
materials and equipment; establishment of a secondary
training center for technical staff at Kayes; instructors
and training staff; and
(f)  Consultancy  and  Studies:   The  studies  and  institu-
tion-building   components  under   consulting   services
included:  (i) upgrading the quality of maintenance in
the workshop, including standardization of spare parts,
and tools and establishment of a procedure for forecast-
ing;  (ii) improvement of operational coordination with
Senegal  railways;    (iii) economic  viability  of  the
Bamako-Koulikoro   section;    (iv) auditing   services;
(v) studies for setting up an electronic data processing
system using microcomputers; and (vi) technical studies
relating to the strength of bridges and the nature of
repairs needed.
Supplementary Project Components
2.07      Supplementary financing of US$10.0 m equivalent by the EEC
Special Action Credit was approved in 1980 (para 2.09) to cover the cost
overruns under the bridge repair component of the original project;



- 4 -
eventually, the funds also covered:  (a) track maintenance equipment,
consisting of five gang cars and spare parts; and (b) one shunting
locomotive and spare parts, and bogies for rolling stock.
2.08      Project  feasibility studies were carried out primarily by
CFM's own staff, assiste& by their in-house technical assistants from
the French Government's Technical Assistance organization, OFEROM/OFER-
MAT. These studies were generally adequate to define the scope, esti-
mate the cost and assess the impact on the railways of the proposed
project, but complementary work by Bank staff and consultants was needed
to define and apply the project selection criteria and evaluate the
cost-benefit streams.
Mid-project Changes
2.09      Although the project scope reamined unaltered, the bids for
the bridge repair work exceeded the funds needed for full implementation
(see para 3.03 for a detailed explanation).  As a result, supplementary
financing of US$10.0 a had to be obtained from an EEC Special Action
Credit (No. 48-EEC) (Annex I) to complete this critical component fully.
During implementation, aoffurther technical redesign resulted in cost
savings of some US$4.5 m in the escalated cost, which were appropriately
utilized for additional freight locomotives and freight locomotive over-
haul justified on the basis of actual traffic, equipment and spare parts
needed for track inspection. The justification for these supplementary
inputs was prepared by CFM's staff competently.
Co-financing
2.10      The project was designed on the basis of a co-financing
package consisting of: (a) French financing (CCCE and FAC) for quarry
equipment, emergency bridge repairs, main line locomotives and technical
assistance for studies and training estimated at MF 4565 m; 1/ (b) Can-
adian financing (CIDA) for equipment and rolling stock estimated at
MF 2591 m; 1/ and (c) CPM or local financing for local costs estimated
at MF 812 m. 1/
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
A. Effectiveness and Start-up
3.01      The chances of Petroleum Traffic forecasts being fulfilled
were being inhibited by two requirements:  (a) the V'M was providing
compensation to the petroleum companies for the higher cost of the
1/   After project completion, Mali joined the CFA Franc monetary system
with a fixed exchange rate of 1 FCFA - MF2.



petroleum products carried over the C8te d'Ivoire route; and (b) the
petroleum companies were paying a compensation to the GOM ror the lower
costs of petroleum products carried over the Senegal route. It was made
a condition of effectiveness that (a) GOM should reduce the compensation
levied on the petroleum companies on the Senegal route; and (b) all the
six petroleum companies should sign a contract with GOM assuring certain
minimum quantities of petroleum products to besbffered for transport by
rail from Dakar to Bamako. The GOM offered a bonus to the petroleum
companies as an incentive to increase the transport of their products by
rail.   The oil  companies declined this offer but signed long-term
transport contracts for their products. When the condition of effec-
tiveness was thus fulfilled, the Credit became effective on Novem-
ber 22, 1977. The delay was principally due to slow compliance with
this condition.
B. Review of Implementation
3.02      The project was implemented in accordance with the objectives
conceived in the appraisal report. The revisions consisted mainly of
(a) addition of EEC Funds to cover the cost of the full bridge repairs
as originally planned; and (b) procurement of additional locomotives and
spare parts to compensate for (i) the failure of the locomotives pro-
cured under the project (para 3.04); and (ii) the loss of two locomo-
tives in accidents. A brief review of project i'mplementation is provid-
ed in the ensuing paragraphs, while the supporting technical details are
in Annex I.
Bridge Repairs and Rebabilitation
3.03      This critical component of the project was completed satisfac-
torily.   The following figures show the cost movements at various
stages:
MF (millions)
(i)  IDA appraisal estimate for all three lots      G          5263
(ii)  Initial bids for lots 1 and 2 only             -          8100
(iii)  Negotiated contract price for lots 1 and 2                5268
(iv)  EEC estimate for lot 3                         *          4513
(v)  Actual cost of lots 1, 2, and 3                -          7501
The above price movements show that:  (a) even though there appeared to
be no collusion, the initial bids were unreasonably inflated because the
bidders had an exaggerated perception of risks; (b) this work, albeit
its large size, elicited only a lot level of competition from the
market; and (c) the difference between (ii) and (iii) above is a measure



- 6 -
of the bidders' cushion against intangible risks like lack of water,
fuel and even unskilled labor in remote areas. Besides, none of the
contractors visited the site before submitting their bids. The final
cost overrun on this category was 43% over appraisal estimates.  The
lessons learned from these bidding and negotiating processes are that
the consultant preparing bid documents should have provided a realistic
assessment of project risks with at least indicative cost implications,
and that it is better to increase the mobilization advance in order to
reduce price escalations (in this case, we agreed to 40% advance). In
such cases it seems expedient to build in a risk contingency in the
project estimates.  In the event, the EEC funds served as this risk
contingency and prevented the blocking of scarce IDA resources in the
initial credit itself.
Locomotives
3.04      The  three main  line  locomotives  supplied under bilateral
parallel financing failed to yield the operating benefits expected. The
technical aspects are addressed in Annex 1. Despite assurances that the
bugs in this design had been eliminated, the problems were insuperable
and had not been fully resolved even at the end of the project.
3.05      The justification for (a) the overhaul of two of the more
reliable type locomotives procured in 1973 by the Malians under a
supplier's credit and for (b) the two new locomotives of the same type
was prepared by CFM. This justification was fully vindicated because
CFM could not have handled the 215% increase in ton-kms between 1982 and
1984 without  this  additional  traction  capacity.   The  availability
targets under the Third Project, however, were unrealistically high for
African conditions -- chronic lack of spare parts occasioned by lack of
funds, long procurement lead-times, insufficient preventive maintenance
and low staff productivity. These high targets led to low estimates of
traction capacity needed for a given traffic level. There was a 120%
cost overrun in this category because of the new items financed.
However, this component proved to be vital in the subsequent recupera-
tion of traffic and there were significant institution building aspects
in the implementation of this category (paras 3.20, 3.21 and 6.12).
Rolling Stock and Equipment
3.06      This category was implemented satisfactorily.  The equipment
procured was adapted to local conditions and performed well.
Track Repairs including the Establishment of a Quarry
3.07      This project component met with mixed success as the track
repairs were handicapped by shortage of locomotives for service trains.
Besides, the track department of CFM was slow to handle these works with
its own staff resources, which resulted in inordinate delays in the
extension of crossing loops. Local contractors were tried with equally
disappointing results. The engineering wing of the army was deployed,
but its commitment to these works was not sustained. There was a small



- 7 -
cost saving in this category, primarily because the force account works
have not been completed.  The track repair and extension of loop lines
ran into implementation difficulties because (a) the internal management
of this department was weak; (b) the local contractors vere inexperi-
enced with railway work (para 3.18); and (c) CFM's force account manage-
ment lacked freight locomotives for the movement of men and materials.
The subsequent failure of the quarry, which was intended to back up the
track repair works with in-house ballast production (para 3.08), made it
virtually impossible to complete the ballasting of the track. CFM would
need additional funds (about US$300,000) to shift the quarry equipment
to the site where CFM's old quarry exists.  From the time the quarry
becomes operational, the ballasting and track repairs can be completed
in about 18 months, as CFM has the requisite traction capacity for
material trains. The main lesson learned from this failure was that
track repair works would not proceed satisfactorily unless the project
design ensures that adequate traction and rolling stock capacity and
track occupation time were made available by the Railway Management.
3.08      The quarry equipment, also supplied under parallel financed
bilateral aid, supposedly semi-mobile and in the event, too expensive to
shift, was too sophisticated and expensive in its spare parts require-
ment. Much simpler and easier to maintain equipment could have been
obtained, if it had not been tied aid. The equipment was badly located;
the consultant's choice turned out to be wrong as the rock reserves of
adequate quality were soon exhausted, a-ad the lower layers were too
fragile for railway use. This equipment can be reused at another site,
as soon as funds for shifting (about US$300,000) are available.
Telecommunications
3.09      Under this project, the overhead lines used for train control
and the long distance circuits between Bamako and Dakar were repaired
satisfactorily. In addition, single side-band radio communications were
established between the control centers in Bamako and Dakar to improve
the efficiency of operational cooperation between the two railways.
Training Schools and Development of Training Potential
3.10      Both the training  schools  in Kayes and Bamako were well
constructed and equipped. The building construction was carried out to
satisfactory standards by CFM's own staff -- a commendable effort. The
courses were planned and organized by technical assistants from OFERMAT;
CFM's staff were trained as instructors and are working satisfactorily.
The quality of instruction, although limited to the technician level, is
consistently good. There is also the added benefit that trainees from
Senegal Railways are also being trained here regularly.
Studies
3.11      The consultants engaged on the studies performed satisfactori-
ly, although the initial study on the condition of the biidges and the
repair techniques to be adopted suggested that the bridges were close to
_ ,'~ M-      A W'



- 8 -
collapse and needed strengthening. However, the strengthening methods
recommended were overcautious and involved substantial addition of
strengthening members. After the major bridges were completed with IDA
funds and when EEC funds became available for the minor bridges, a
second consultant was called upon to review the earlier design and, as a
result, it was possible to save substantial quantities of steel in the
repair of the minor bridges.
3.12      The study on the international traffic was well done and
several recommendalons have been implemented with advantage.
3.13      The studies indicated that the Bamako-Koulikoro line was not
viable at current traffic levels. Nevertheless, for political reasons,
GOM has not taken the decision to close down the line, and lives in the
hope of additional traffic materializing when new industries are estab-
lished at Koulikoro.   However, the potential for the growth of the
commercial importance of Koulikoro to Mali is strong. Roulikoro has a
strategic location on the river, and is therefore ideal as a location
for industries, when the macro-economic situation improves and finances
become available. Therefore, the Association did not force the issue of
dismantling the line but asked CFM to (a) reduce the train services; and
(b) avoid any new investments on this line. As a result, between 1979
and 1984, CFM reduced the number of passenger trains on this section
from six to two per day; the two freight trains which used to run in
1979 were cancelled, and now they are run only on demand. All new
investments on this section have been effectively avoided.
Reporting
3.14      CFM's  reporting has been prompt  and adequate.   When  the
Cooperative Control System with Senegal was established in 1981, a
fortnightly traffic update was called for.  CFM's reports have been
regular and complete.
Procurement
3.15      Generally, CFM complied satisfactorily with the Bank's guide-
lines on procurement. CFM's procurement division is efficient and well
organized.  Bid evaluation in complicated cases like main 14ne locomo-
tives tended to be over-simplified.   But CFM's staff were quick to
appreciate the Association's observations during the review process and
cooperated in revising their evaluation. The contracting process was
slow as the draft contracts prepared by CFM were held up at various
levels of Government for two to three months for approval. Towards the
end of the project, the reviewing authorities had become conscious of
the need to speed up the review process and some improvement was noted.
Implementation Schedule
3.16      Implementation took some 36 months longer than estimated at
appraisal (Table 3.1).  The main reasons for the delay are:  (a) pro-
tracted negotiations with the bridge contractor for price reduction;



- 9 -
(b) quest for additional funds for bridge repairs and waiting for EEC
Credit effectiveness; and (c) time needed for procurement of additional
equipment under EEC Credit.
3.17      The bridge works which constituted a substantial part of the
investment were completed with only four months' delay, an achievement
for the contractor's project management andCCFM's logistic support.
However, the poor performance in track works shnws CFM's managerial
weakness in this department and the inadequate planning for the mobility
of men and materials.
Development of Local Civil Works Contracting Industry
3.18      Although not envisaged in the project objectives, the Associa-
tion made serious efforts to associate a local contractor with the
bridge contractor, to effect a transfer of know-how.   Three of the
biggest contractors in Mal-. were contacted, but they refused as they
were unwilling to tie up their resources with long-range high-risk
works.   However, CFM's  support group worked  closely with  the main
contractor and has become a good task force for CFM's bridge mainte-
nance.
3.19      Four local contractors, including the army's corps of civil
engineers, were drafted to do the earthworks for the extension of loops.
All except the army failed, and the army also left the work unfinished
due to lack of commitment. The major problem with the local contracting
indulstry is the lack of a sound financial base to undertake big works
over a long duration; they remain content with simple building construc-
tion works. This is an area which the Association, in future, can help
alleviate by (a) twinning some of the major local contractors with a
foreign company; and (b) financing the acquisition of some construction
machinery.   These aspects are now being addressed through subsequent
highway projects.
Development of Workshop Potential
3.20      The overhaul of the two ten-year-old Ge M. locomotives pro-
cured by CFM through a supplier's credit, was entrusted to a United
States company specializing in the overhaul of G. M. locomotives. This
company sent a single expert to Mali to (a) initially survey the locomo-
tives jointly with the Malian staff to assess the spare parts require-
ments; and (b) return later with one or two technicians, tools and spare
parts to do the overhauling with a hand-picked team of Malian staff.
This experiment proved to be a success, and the Malians have for the
first time been fully trained in the practical details of estimating for
spare parts and overhauling/rebuilding a locomotive.
3.21      At the beginning of the project in 1900, some workshop manage-
ment tecnniques were set up by Consultants, SOFtERAIL, but they remained
un-implemented. The Association urged CFM management to implement them
and to institute productivity measures like surprise checks on atten-
dance, correctives for chronic absenteeism, measures of work units,
_S_S_9___~~ _1-                                                            &<.j>'-



- 10 -
fixation of responsibility for. poor workmanship, monitoring the produc-
tivity of major machines, etc. The managemer-t gradually became recep-
tive to these measures. These improvements have been implemented l.n the
later stages of the project and are being sustained.
Project Cost
3.22      Table 3.2 summarizes the actual cost vs. the appraisal cost of
the project components both in local currency and in US$ equivalent.
Overall, the actual project cost in MP was about 20% over the initial
IDA 713-MLI appraisal cost estimate. The single most significant cost
overrun is the 14X excesc over estimates in the bridge repair works, the
reasons for which are explained in Annex I. The overruns in the other
categories (ignoring the new items) are within the contingency margins.
3.23      In addition, the appraisal estimate was based on a relatively
low dollar value (US$1 1 MF490), whereas a substantial part of the
disbursements were made when the dollar exchange rate was much higher,
the weighted average for the whole project being US$1 - MF680. Besides,
the EEC Credit was denominated in specific amounts of certain European
currencies which were, in turn, subject to some exchange rate fluctua-
tions, although not as signi.icant as the dollar. The dollar cost table
(Table 3.2 -- Part 2) is therefore not very meaningful.
3.24      Actual costs expressed in local currency are understated, as
CM's own labor cost in the bridge works, the ballasting, and construc-
tion of training centers were not fully accounted for.
3.25      There is a cost overrun in consultants and studies as some
additional studies, not anticipated in the beginning, had to be conduct-
ed, notably for establishing the right bridge repair techniques and for
setting up a data processing system. However, no abnormal costs per
man-month were encountered.
3.26      Physical and price contingencies provided at appraisal were
generally adequate, but there was no risk contingency for the bridge
works component.
C. Targets and Goals
Policy Issues Handled through the Project
3.27      The project was used as a vehicle to address certain policy
reforms but with mixed success. GOM proposed traffic allocation as a
means of recapturing traffic to rail, but the project appraisal helped
to sensitize the GOM to the dangers of traffic allocatior and encouraged
it to eliminate regulations which militated against traffic movements.
CFM was expected to attract traffic only on the basis of quality of
service and costs, although there is some implicit allocation when the
importer makes a choice between Abidjan and Dakar as the port of entry.
However, petroleum is a special case. The oil companies have no incen-
tive to select the lowest-cost route, as the GOM reimburses the



difference in freight between the lowest and the more expensive
modes/routes. This anomaly still persists, and is ripe for being dealt
with through one of the projects in the future.
3.28      GOM was also asked to streamline the international transit
agreement so that slow and complex customs clearance procedures at the
border might be simplified. 2/   This was achieved.  But further im-
provement, particularly in the customs documentation, is still needed.
3.29      Tariff increases were implemented during the project cycle,
but they were generally inadequate and always delayed, partly due to the
inherent slowness of the bureaucratic processes and partly due to
delayed approval by the Senegalese authorities, whose approval was
necessary according to the "Convention ferroviaire" (CF) between the two
countries. The revision of the CF was raised several times by missions,
and recommendations for revision were obtained through a study. But no
progress was made in view of the difficult relationships between the two
railway managements which existed there. By the end of the project, the
cooperation between the two railways had improved, which played a big
role in facilitating an improvement in operations and the consequent
increase in traffic. This issue should continue to be addressed in the
future.
3.30      Cooperation  between  the operating  departments  of  the  two
railways improved considerably late in the project and is currently very
good as seen from the 39% increase in total freight tonnage between 1982
and 1983, and a further 67% increase between 1983 and 1984. Although
the irritant of a complex tariff structure still persists and is a
hindrance to the recapture of more traffic 'rom the road, the railway
tariffs retain their advantage over road rates.
IV.  TRAFFIC, OPERATIONS AND MANAGEMENT
A. Traffic
Evolution of Traffic
4.01      The evolution of traffic, actual (A) and forecast (F), is
presented in the following figures:
2/   The customs verification at the border used to require the opening
of every wagon and checking its contents. It was simplified to a
mere verification of the documents and a check that the seals on
the wagons were intact.
_~~~~~~ w



- 12 -
1978    1979    1980    1981   1982 /a 1983 La  1984 
A   F   A   F   A   F   A   F   A   F   A   F   A  F
Freight lb
Tons (000)        352 411 311 436 3U  451 309 465 230 477 320 489 535 501
Net ton - Km (mill)  151 187 144 200 132 205 138 212 109 219 142 224 234 230
Passeng&w /b
Passengers (000)    591 539 656 558 636 581 655 606 587 627 593 645 595 661
Pass - Km (mill)    133 122 152 128 157 133 156 139 147 144 157 148 149 155
/a Forecasts obtained by extrapolations of appraisal forecasts up to 1981.
/b For details, see Table 4.2.
Freight Traffic
4.02      The actual freight traffic was below forecast during 1978 to
1984. though an upward swing was visible in 1983 - a growth of 39% in
tons p.a. and 30% ton-kms p.a. This trend was further accentuated in
1984. This is attributable to the higher availability of the heavier
locomotives for freight haul, simultaneously in Senegal and Mali - a
synchronization which had not existed for nearly seven years. It is
evident that the demand was strong and rising between 1982 and 1984,
because in 1981, when the system was bauling a monthly average of 25,000
to Mali, the daily balance of goods in the Dakar port was between 25 and
28,000 t; in 1984, when the monthly average hauled was over 44,000 tons,
the daily balance in the port was 34,000 t, without counting the
short-term Mananthali imports. However, the bulk of this import was
cereals to Mali, generally food aid, which is not a remunerative traffic
due  to  the  low  rates  imposed  by  the  Go-ernment.   The  Mananthali
project-related traffic is also short-lived and was carried at very low
tariffs. GOM refused to raise this tariff, despite the Association's
plea, as it was considered to be Mali's special contribution to the
Mananthali project. Long term financi4l projections cannot therefore be
based on the current traffic up-swing, but it has been demonstrated that
operations could be improved, if the right type of locomotives are
available simultaneously in the two railways, and the management of the
two organizations decide to cooperate in their operations and proce-
dures.
4.03      Operations were not conducted by either railway in an effi-
cient and coordinated manner during 1978-82. A Bank mission demonstrat-
ed to both railways in 1979 that a train could be run from end to end



- 13 -
without change of locomotive, thus dispelling the notion that a change
of locomotive at the border was inevitable. Nevertheless, this practice
has not been implemented due to the unwillingness of both railways to
let each other's locomotives run much beyond the frontier and certainly
to avoid being serviced there.
4.04      The recent rise in freight  traffic is no proof that the
traffic lost to the Abidjan axis has been permanently or fully recap-
tured because the exceptional traffic of the Mananthali project and the
Food Aid Programme would decline from FY86 onwards. Generally, supervi-
sion identified certain factors which favored the road against the rail:
(a) the capricious allotment of wagons to the freight forwarding agents
by the Malian representative in Dakar Port, called the EMASE; (b) the
allocations of commodities to be moved on priority by the Office Nation-
al du Transport (ONT) of Mali on a weekly basis instead of on a longer
term; this prevented the railways' capability to plan, allocate and
place, within the week, the required type of empty wagons in the re-
quired number in the Dakar Port; (c) the same process as (b) above,
applied to diverse petroleum products from the Dakar refinery, which
provided an easy excuse to the petroleum companies for not following any
allocation; whereas the same ONT regularly allotted monthly quotas and
priorities to the Abidjan refinery; and (d) GOM's policy to reimburse
the petroleum companies the full cost of transport which killed the
incentive to transport by the cheaper rail route. The first problem is
directly related to the Malian representative at the Dakar Port and can
be controlled only to the extent the ONT can do so from iBamako. Despite
repeated insistence of IDA's supervision missions and changes of the
Malian representative, the problem of strict and proper coutrol of E.ASE
and its accountability remains unsolved and has to be dealt with in the
future. The second and third have been resolved during this project;
the ONT is now issuing monthly railing priorities. The GOM has not yet
withdrawn the reimbursement of petroleum transport charges, although it
is under consideration.
Passenger Traffic
4.05      Passenger traffic grew steadily and was consistently above
forecast between 1980 and 1984. While national traffic grew slowly,
international traffic grew faster. There is a considerable commercial
activity between Bamako and Kayes, a fact which accounts for the growth
of national passengers. No road exists between these two points, and as
the existing trains are overcrowded to the extent of 115%, GOM has been
understandably eager to increase passenger services to Kayes.   The
Association has consistently resisted undue expansion of these services,
because (a) this traffic is not paying; (b) passengers tend to travel
without tickets; and (c) CM has a tendency to divert freight locomo-
tives to passenger traffic.   However,  in the last two years,  this
traffic has dropped as CFM's carrying capacity has steadily dwindled due
to the deterioration of rail cars.
4.06      International passenger trains operate to 130% of capacity,
the growth being frustrated by lack of passenger coaches. The rakes are



- 14 -
old and worn-out and require replacement. The Association has consis-
tently advised against increasing the number of trains, in order to
prevent erosion of the locomotive capacity needed for freight. However,
as the international passenger service is a social necessity, it cannot
be phased out until alternative transport facilities are developed.
Until then, renewal of the passenger coaches to maintain a reasonable
quality of service would be inescapable.
b. Operations
Traffic Management
4.07      During the project, CFM's traffic management generally im-
proved in so far a.. wagon chasing and traffic control were concerned.
However, advanced planning of interchange traffic with Senegal did not
improve until 1981-82.  This coordination was hampered by inadequate
telecommunication facilities. More importantly, the poor management of
EMASE and the unpredictability of ONT's priority allocations effectively
prevented advance traffic planning.  The installation of the single
side-band radio in the telecommunications component of the project, and
the improvements brought about in the EMASE and ONT control of opera-
tions have improved traffic management. However, intensive and surprise
field inspections as a management tool for speeding up operations were
not adequately adopted in spite of the Association's repeated efforts.
The major turnaround in Senegal-Mali coordination came about when the
supervision missions set up the Groupe de Contr8le Cooperative (G.C.C.).
Then, several operating problems in the field surfaced. The G. C. C.
led to more frequent meaningful consultations between the two railways
at the management level. The G. C. C. was very effective for nearly
18 months. When the lessons had been well imbibed, they were incorpora-
ted in the operating procedures and the G.C.C., which was heavily
personality-based, was phased out. The benefits were sustained.
4.08      Terminal and yard management is still weak.   Bamako yard,
which was not included in the Third Railway Project, continues to be a
badly designed terminal, but placement and removal of wagons from
sidings are usually delayed. Customers delay discharging the incoming
wagons, as they use the wagons as temporary warehouses. CFM, at the
Association's insistence, raised the demurrage charges to some extent
but not enough to serve as a deterrent. In addition to Bamako yard,
Kayes yard, as a break-of-load point, is a problem spot.  It has a
tendency to get congested with left-over wagons. The problem is partly
due to the poor layout design, but more importantly there is lack {f
adequate management supervision due to the distance from Bamako to Kayes
and the lack of facilities for visiting officials. Several supervision
missions visited Kayes and highlighted the problems to the management.
Some improvement in the yard management resulted, but more would be
possible only if the layout is remodeled.
4.09      Several previous analyses of the motive power capacity of CFM
were based on the computation of the traction capacity of locomotives in
the fleet, without making a distinction between freight locomotives
(over 1,600 HP) and the medium- and low-powered locomotives which are



- 15 -
unsuitable   for  freight   op_rations.    The  standard  practice   of
double-heading a freight train to increase the throughput of the section
was not possible in CFM as its medium-powered locomotives were not
designed for double heading.  Besides, double heading as an operating
strategy is even now not implemented by the technical assistants, due to
the strain it would impose on other operating and safety practices l1\e
crossing of trains, likelihood of train partings and safety in a railway
with insufficient discipline.
4.10      CFM's traffic management still needs the following additional
facilities to make further improvements: (a) relocation and remodeling
oS Bamako yard with better facilities for shunting and placement of
wagons, mechanical freight handling, and adequate sheds; relocation to a
new site is essential as expansion at the existing site is impossible;
(b) remodeling Kayes yard to permit simultaneous shunting of the wagons
by train engines without interfering with the goods shed operations.
Additionally, it would be an innovative strategy to construct a bonded
container terminal in Bamako with road and rail access, so that delays
due to customs and the shortage of warehousing capacity in Bamako could
both be solved simultaneously.
Equipment Maintenance
4.11      In the past, several locomotives used to be out of service for
several months for minor faults for want of spare parts. Lack of spare
parts was due to inadequacies in fault diagnosis, spare parts listing
and forecasting. Lack of funds aggravated the oroblem. These factors
depressed the locomotive availability to 30% to 40% between 1980 and
1982. In 1980, a consultant team carried out a systematic diagnosis of
defective locomotives and prepared a master list of spare parts needed
for overhaul/repairs. It also set up a rudimentary system for forecast-
ing spare parts requirements. This forecasting system was subsequently
strengthened by the introduction of maintenance management techniques --
analysis of locomotive failures, checks on the quality, duration and
costing of workshop maintenance, records to personalize the responsibil-
ity for each repair job, etc. This institution building is a signifi-
cant outcome of this project.   It is still continuing through the
elaboration and application phases. Supervision missions made detailed
evaluation of the progress at several stages and recommended measures,
inter alia: failure analysis, monitoring of absenteeism, strengthening
of the technical assistance programs by giving expatriates a greater
role in the workshops, improvement in the stockage of spare parts,
streamlining the inventory by disposing of dead stock9 and definition of
responsibility in case of repetitive locomotive failures.  These mea-
sures received st-ong support from the management and have been imple-
mented.
4.12      The morale of the workshop staff improved substantially as a
result of the novel method adopted to overhaul the two GM locomotives.
A professional "lIoomotive rebuilder" was hired for this task.  The
firm's two technicians hand-picked four Malian counterparts and formed a
task force which was fully responsible for this task. The high-pressure



- 16 -
work techniques used in this exercise have been absorbed by the Malian
counterparts, who are now continuing the practices.   However,  shed
maintenance remained poor, and consequently, the workshop was overloaded
with small repairs and low-grade maintenance. This is primarily due to
a woeful lack of facilities in Bamako and Kayes loco sheds.
Track Maintenance
4.13      The Malian track was in a generally satisfactory condition at
the beginning of the project, except for the weak sections earmarked for
attention in the project.   Although the renewal of 21.5 km of the
weakest section was achieved, the overall condition deteriorated because
the production of 30 kg rails, an old French standard for Africa, was
discontinued and replacements needed for repair of derailment-damaged
sr-tions were not available   More importantly, locomotives for service
trains for ballasting and w,.ding were not available.  Further, after
1982, when the motive power situation improved, the quarry stopped
producing ballast of suitable quality. CFM did not have the finances to
shift the quarry equipment to a better site and procure spare parts.
Apart from the poor site chosen, part of the reason for the low effi-
ciency of the quarry also stemmed from CFM's refusal to hand over the
quarry management to private agencies, as suggested by the supervision
missions.
4.14      CFM's track will progressively worsen unless urgent measures
are taken to renew the ballast in weak sections. Belatedly, CFM has
started buying ballast from private quarries but at relatively high
prices. If ballasting is not carried out soon, speed restrictions would
become inevitable to the detriment of operations.
4.15      CFM's wagon fleet lost about 20% of its wagons in accidents.
Rail cars used for national passenger services have practically col-
lapsed as they are consistently overloaded and have to operate on poor
track.  CFM has now rightly decided to procure regular passenger coaches
and operate them with low-powered locos (800/900 HP).  Most of the
international passenger coaches are in a bad condition due to corrosion
and prolonged lack of overhaul.  "Rebuilding" of these coaches using
Malian technicians under the supervision of expatriate engineers from a
coach manufacturing company, on the lines of the overhaul of the G. M.
locomotives, would be a cost-effective solution for the future.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
General
5.01      CFM's financial performance has been disappointing.  After a
significant improvement in 1977-78, when CFM's results were better than
appraisal forecasts, the situation deteriorated sharply between 1979 and
1983 when it started to improve again. Between 1979 and 1983, CFM's
results have been significantly worse than forecast at the appraisal.



- 17 -
This poor performance was mainly due to a very slow growth of revenues
in current terms stemming from a slow but consistent decline in freight
traffic, combined with inadequate tarIff increames. The -iorking ratios
were consistently higher than the targets. The situation improved in
1983-84, as freight traffic came back to 1976 levels and later exceeded
them, due to the better availability of heavy locomotives and stronger
demand for imports of cereals for food aid in Mali and goods for the
Mananthali dam construction. Working ratios remained, however, below
appraisal expectations.
Financial Results
5.02      CEM's income statements which compare actual results with
appraisal forecasts for 1977 to 1981, and detail actual results for 1982
to 1984, are shown in Table 5.1.  A summary of key irdicators is given
in the following table.
1976     1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1984
Revenues (in MP MUMlion)
Forecast            --       4.8     5.1      6.5     6.8     8.0     --
Actual              3.6      4.5     4.7      4.8     5.3     5.2     9.1
Cash from ODerations (in MF Billions)
Forecast            --       1.6     1.5      2.5     2.4     3.2    --
Actual              --       1.3     1.3      1.1     0.1    (0.6)    1.5
Working Ratio
Forecast (M)        --       67      70       61      64      60      --
Actual  (%)         --       71      72       78      98      112     84
Between 1976 and 1981. CFM's revenues increased much less than forecast
(about 6.62 p.a. instead of 16.21 p.a.) because of: lower than expected
traffic and delayed tariff increases. After the initial increase of 20%
in 1977 agreed at appraisal, CPM was allowed to increase tariffs by
about 20% in late 1979 and again in late 1981, more than a year later
than when these increases were needed to keep abreast of inflation. The
steady increase of passenger traffic (about 5% p.a. between 1976 and
1981) was insufficient to compensate for the drop in freight traffic
during the same period. Furthermore, the composition of freight traffic
deteriorated as CFM transported larger quantities of subsidized cereals
carried at low tariff base and decreasing volumes of higher tariff goods
such as petroleum products.  The tariff structure was not adequate
anymore. Except in first class, passenger tariffs did not even cover
marginal costs. Freight rates imposed by the Government for the Manan-
thali traffic were also inadequate, as that was also subsidized.
|X-Xl,}sA '{B".'fiwN'i-_4lL^DF   TKrieRA  f._  _-_



- 18 -
5.03      Until 1978, CFM's management succeeded in keeping down working
expenses at the cost of adequate maintenance and rehabilitation.
Working ratios remained at acceptable levels, slightly higher than
forecast. By 1979, on the contrary, working expenses increased signifi-
cantly, mainly on account of higher fuel costs, higher maintenance
expenditures, overheads and other costs. Because of the lack of locomo-
tives, CFM had to lease Senegalese locomotives at high costs, especially
in 1981.  Working ratios deteriorated sharply from 1979 until 1981,
when, for the first time, expenses exceeded revenues. CFM's cumulative
losses (before extraordinary expenses) for 1977-1981 amounted to
MF 6.8 billion instead of 2.8 million forecast at appraisal. 3/   The
Government partly compensated for these losses by granting a subsidy of
FM 2,022 million in 1981, partly as a waiver of interest charges on IDA
credits.
Balance Sheets
5.04      CFM's  actual  balance  sheets  for  1977-1981  compared  with
forecasts and actual 1982-1984 balance sheets are showln in Table 5.2.
The debt/equity ratio deteriorated from 51/49 in 1979 (the years of
re-evaluation of assets) to 64;?36 in 1982 and 78/22 in 1984, as compared
with a target of 55/45 for 1981. In addition to the accumulated losses,
increased borrowing from CCCE, CIDA and FAC were causes of this deterio-
ration. The equity position would have deteriorated further if CFM had
not received about MF 5.5 billion in equipment subsidies from France and
Canada between 1977 and 1982.
5.05      Mainly because of the 1977 balance sheet restructuring whereby
FM 2.8 billion of CFM's long- and short-term liabilities were forgiven
by the Government, CFM maintained until 1979 better current ratios and
liquid ratios  than anticipated at appraisal.  After  1979, however,
current liabilities increased sharply, as CFM's cash situation worsened
steadily. By 1980, the current ratio fell below appraisal targets and
since 1981, working capital has been negative. Collection of receiv-
ables has worsened, as the level of receivables increased from 30% of
annual revenues in 1976 to 37% in 1982. Re-evaluation of fixed assets
was completed in only 1979. Depreciation charges in 1977 and 1978 had
therefore been understated.
Sources of Financing
5.06      In US dollar terms, actual project costs reached US$31.2 mil-
lion   against  the   appraisal   estimate  of  US$27.3  million.   The
3/   The difference between forecast and actual losses is, in fact,
greater as actual operating expenses include depreciation on
re-evaluated assets only since 1979 while forecast includes
depreciation on re-evaluated assets starting in 1977.



- 19 -
US$10.5 million and US$7.3 million disbursed, respectively, under the
IDA Credit and EEC Special Credit were complemented by CCCE, FAC, CIDA
and CFM financing. Total investments of CFM over the 1977-84 period
amounted to FM 22.3 billion, of which CFM contributed only MF 1.7 bil-
lion, slightly more than forecast at appraisal. Total cash generation
of CFM for the whole period amounted to FM 5.1 billion, substantially
less than expected at appraisal.
5.07      The performance of the Borrower on financial covenants is
discussed in Section VI hereafter. Audits were carried out from 1977 to
1983 and were satisfactory.
Recent Developments
5.08      Freight traffic increased by 67% in 1984 to a record high of
535,000 ton and 234 million ton km; the bulk of the increase, however,
came from the Mananthali dam construction traffic. Freight traffic for
1985 is estimated at about 520,000 tons of which 110,000 tons for the
Mananthali dam.   Container traffic developed to about 83 units and
1,060 ton per month on average. Tariffs, which had been increased last
by 20 to 30% by mid-1982, were once again too low. Total revenues
increased only by 19% from 1983 to 1984 and net operating loss was
reduced from MP 2,8 billion to 1,8 billion. Working ratio and operating
ratios improved respectively to 84% and 107%. As the Mananthali traffic
will dwindle in 1986 with the completion of the dam, traffic can be
expected to decrease, and it is likely that the CFM financial perfor-
mance will worsen again. CFM's cash position has remained very weak.
The need for reinforcing budget/cost controls and internal audit was
strongly evidenced by the audit in 1983.
Financial Rate of Return
5.09      The return on net fixed assets In use is given in Table 5.3.
At the original estimated end of the project in 1981, the appraisal
forecast a financial rate of return of 2.5%, but the actual was (8.9%).
However, by 1984, the actual end of the project, it had risen to (1.7%).
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE, DEVELOPMENT COVENANTS
AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Covenants and Borrower's Performance
6.01      The following are the major covenants in the Development
Credit Agreement and the Project Agreements in force during the Project
cycle:
(a) take action to facilitate Railway operations betw;ein its
territories and the territories of Senegal (DCA, Sec.
3.04);



- 20 -
(b) shall not undertake any road construction parallel to the
railway lines (DCA, Sec. 3.05);
(c) shall agree with the Association prior to any investment
in the Bamako-Koulikoro line (DCA, Sec. 3.07);
(d) CFM shall not incur any debt unless its net cash revenue
shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirements (DCA Sec. 3.07);
(e)  take such steps, including adjustments in its tariffs, to
maintain working ratios not exceeding 671 for 1977, 70X
for 1978, 61S for 1979, 641 for 1980, 60% in 1981 and
1982 (PA, Sec. 4.04); and
(f)  maintain its working capital sufficient to cover the
aggregate of 1/6 of annual personnel costs, 1/2 of annual
materials costs, excluding fuels and lubricants, 1/4 of
cost of utilities and 1/4 of debt-service (PA, Sec.
4.05).
6.02      Regarding (a) above, several methods were tried during project
implementation to increase operational coordination between the Mali and
Senegal railways. The cooperative manaoement group vhich was set up at
the Association's Instance proved to be successful and politically
acceptable.  The sustained freight traffic growth of the last three
years is a testimony to the improved operational coordination which
exists now. But it is still far from the efficiency levels possible
with a single operations management.
6.03      Both (b) and (c) above have been complied with.  But the Mali
Government still hopes to rehabilitate the Koulikoro line, as their
national planning has proposals for setting up industries along this
section. However, no new investments are currently going into this
line.
6.04      Regarding (d) and (e), tariffs were adjusted four times during
the project implementation.  However, each time the Government approved
the increases only after long delays following CFM's request. Working
and operating ratios were close to targets in 1977 and 1978; however,
from 1979 on, actual ratios grossly exceeded the agreed levels. Working
capital remained a&ove target levels only until 1979.  Debt service
coverage was adequate only until 1978; in 1979 and 1980, CFM complied
with the debt service covenant only after the Government had waived
interest on the IDA Credits; from 1981 on, net cash revenue did not even
cover other financial charges.
6.05      Although the Association made several efforts to maximize
rail-borne petroleum traffic, there was no consistent success because of
the Government's policy of reimbursing the petroleum companies for the
ex-refinery cost of transport at Bamako. This practice left no incen-
tive to transport the products by rail which is the least cost route.



- 21 -
However, other problem areas,g viz.,t (i) mnonitoring the uninhibited
growth of road tanker capacity, (ii) changing the weekly orders on the
Dakar refinery to monthly orders for better planning of empty wagons,
ands(iii) monitoring the transport cost differential between the Dakar
and Abidjan %xes, were adequately handled during the project Implementa-
tion.
6.06      The number of covenants in the legal,-documents was not exces-
sive. They were adequate to keep Government'o policies on "hold," but
major reforms were neither anticipated nor realized due to political
factors.  The operating targets were not fully realized, because they
were unrealistically ohigh, and because of low staff productivity stem-
ming from low staff incentives and insufficient funds for spare part
procurement.
Consultants' Pes.ormance
6.07      Consultants were engaged to (i) diagnose the condition of the
bridges, provide appropriate technical solutions, and prepare the bid
documents, (ii) train track maintenance staff, (iii) study the ways to
improve the international operations and analyze the economic future of
the Bamako-Koulikoro lines, and (iv) upgrade the maintenance practices
in the workshops.
6.08      The first bridge consultant over-desiged the repairs needed
to make the bridges safe, but underestimated the risks for the contrac-
tor and the cost of the project.  The second consultant engaged to
review the designs for lot 3, on the other hand, d1eveloped an innovative
and cost-effective method adapted to smaller bridges, which resulted in
substantial savings.
6.09      The track-training consultants carried out a two-stage course:
a short visit to Belgium to study practical track maintenance followed
by courses in Mali. The curriculum of courses and field visits was
balanced; the trainees enhanced their technical knowledge but found in
the field visits very little of practical relevance to the Malian
conditions. The Malian courses had a sustained impact, the result of
which is seen in the success of the Bamako training school. The lesson
learned was that "familiarization training" abroad produces no direct
benefit at the maintenance engineer's level when it is done under
conditions not applicable to the local environment, but results in
widening of perspectives at the management level. On balance, there-
fore, training of this sort should be carried out in another developing
country where the work ethos is more efficient even under similar
difficult conditions.
6.10      The studies of international operations were well conducted
and many of the recommendations (e.g), wagon-chasing system, train
control, etc.) were implemented.  However, this consultant overstated
traffic growth in his forecasts and, as a consequence, called for a
large increas)   in the locomotive fleet.  The Association successfully
downplayed these forecasts and resisted the railway's plans for a sharp



- 22 -
increase in investments.  The consultant's analysis of the Koulikoro
line was satisfactory, although slightly more optimistic than justified
by facts.
6.11      The bilateral sources of consultancy handled the workshop
maintenance aspects well. Systematic analysis of spare parts require-
ments was instituted, although on a simple basis. An organization and
methods cell was established, and it continues to do good work by
gradually introducing concepts of quality control, measurement of time
and cost of repair operations,  etc.  A significant result of this
operation is the reduction of the percentage of workshop time devoted to
f'reparation accidentelle," thus liberating workshop capacity for planned
preventive maintenance.
Institutional Improvement
6.12      Project benefits are reflected in significant improvement in
traffic statistics and some improvement in locomotive availability.
Institutionally, the project has produced some sustainable gains:
(a) improved cooperation between CFM and CFS in day-to-day traffic
management, (b) a general improvement in discipline, motivation (disci-
plinary rather than monetary) in the workshops personnel, and (c) a
gradual introduction of 0. & M. techniques and maintenance costing
methods,  albeit only in a rudimentary form.  However,  the improved
quality of maintenance has led only to the attainment targets for
availability, because of the budget constraints which prevent adequate
and timely procurement of spare parts.
6.13      The upgrading of traiiing facilities in Bamako and the train-
ing of the trainers in Track Maintenance is another lasting contribu-
tion. But management commitment to training is still weak, as fiscal
resources are not enough for spare parts and training aids. Usually,
training is given low priority in the budget.
6.14      The Association's recommendation that management should be
strengthened by the recruitment of an adviser to the Director General
has been implemented.
6.15      The Government has also implemented the Association's sugges-
tion that the accountability of bi-lateral technical assistants should
be formalized through individual TORes, periodic meetings with the DG to
review progress, and through establishment of a collective local ac-
countability by nominating one of the consultants as the leader of the
technical assistance team. This is working well and OFERMAT has now
replicated this practice elsewhere too.



- 23 -
VII. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
7.01      The economic rate of return for the project and individual
components has been evaluated using the same methodology as at apprais-
al.  The same critical assumption about the continuance of the Mali
Railway over the next 20 years used at appraisal has been retained for
this economic  reevaluation.   In some casess  complete data for the
economic analysis is not available making the estimate of benefits
extremely difficult and requiring assumptions to be made in the absence
of such data. All costs and benefits have been converted to 1982 prices
for the purpose of the economic reevaluation of the project.
Track Rehabilitation and Maintenance
7.02      As discussed in paras 3.07-08, much of the work originally
scheduled under this component has not been completed, including nearly
all of the ballasting and welding of rails. In particular, the cost of
opening a quarry and operating equipment has been incurred with very
little output because of the problems mentioned in para 3.08. For the
purpose of the economic reevaluation, it has been assumed that the
equipment would be moved from one quarry to another in 1987 and that
ballasting and track welding would begin in 1988. The other alternative
would be to assume that in the future all ballast would be procured from
private contractors, in which case the purchase of quarry equipment
would have been clearly uneconomic. As of 1986, the works that had been
completed and are included in the economic evaluation are 21.5 km of
track renewal, about 50 km of ballasting, improved track maintenance,
and 20 rail s.itches. The capital costs include the cost of 14 ballast
wagons, quarry equipment, rail switches, five service cars, welding and
track maintenance equipment.
7.03      The major benefits of this component are avoided derailments
in stations because of replacement of faulty switches. The number of
derailments in stations is shown below:
1978      1979      1980       1981      1982       1983      1984
25        21        37         52        21         25        30
The switches were installed in 1982 and 1983 when there was a drop in
the number of derailments.  However, the number is increasing again, the
main cause being human error. There has been a similar trend on the
main line, with a sharp increase in the number of derailments in 1984 -
17 compared to five in 1983 -- nearly all due to human error. Unfortu-
nately, because of the lack of disciplined and responsible switch-opera-
tors, the full potential benefits of new switches and improved track
maintenance will probably not be realized and there will still be a high
number of derailments. Unless the main line ballasting is completed,
the speed restrictions cannot be lifted; when speed restrictions have
-   E   -__-                                                         ½



- 24 -
been lifted, unless cases of violation of speed restrictions are curbed,
the number of main line derailments cannot be reduced. In either case,
-he remedy is not stopping investments on safety but to find an appro-
priate mix of (a) training; (b) incentives to staff displaying a note-
worthy sense of disciplines, alertness and safety consciousness;  and
(c) deterrent sanctions on delinquent personnel. In addition, railways
should set up a psychoanalytic cell for identifying, at an early stage,
phychological factors predisposing towards chronic accident proneness,
so that such persons may be reassigned to positions which do not involve
opersting safety.        f
7.04      As  a  conservative  assumption,  the  number  of  derailments
because of the poor condition of switches and the track was estimated to
be half of the total number of derailments up to 1981 and a very modest
number of avoided future derailments was taken. Other benefits include
track maintenance savings and the cost of track renewal that is assumed
to be necessary in 1990 in the without-project case. The rate of return
is estimated at 14% compared to the appraisal estimate of 23%.  The
lower rate of return is due to the procurement of equipment for work
that is not to be carried out until many years later (i.e., ballasting
and track welding) and a lower estimate of the number of avoided derail-
ments. A high portion of the benefits is due to the replacement of
switches.
Bridge Repairs
7.05      The bridge repair program was required because some bridges
were dangerously close to collapse. For the purposes of the economic
reevaluation it has been assumed that without the project, there would
have been a complete suspension of rail service because of the collapse
of at least one briAge in 1984 (given the sharp increase in traffic in
that year). The appraisal assumed a rail closure in 1981 although most
of the works were not in fact carried out until that year. The benefits
include savings from the diversion of rail traffic to the road route via
Abidjan for at least six months during bridge reconstruction. It is
also assumed that the remainder of the works would be carried out at
that time before further bridges collapse. The appraisal also included
as benefits the loss in value of groundnut production, but these have
not been included in the;reevaluation given the drastic cut in produc-
tion because of the drought. The benefits from the loss of value of
cement production were estimated as quite small at appraisal and they
have not been included in the reevaluation because of the lack of data
and their relative insignificance.
7.06      The economic rate of return is reestimated at 16.5% compared
to the appraisal estimate of 251. The lower rate of return is due to
cost increases of the bridge repair work (para 3.03).



- 25 -
Passenger Equipment
7.07      The first passenger equipment component of the project includ-
ed one railcar set (with four trailers) and four passenger cars.
Because there are no alternative means of transport, passenger revenues
are taken as a proxy measure of consumer's willingness to pay and no
attempt has been made to estimate the consumer surplus.  No data is
available on the specific railcar set and passenger cars purchased;
therefore, average utilization figures for the railcar and passenger car
fleet have been used. Consequently, the benefits will be understated
since the new cars should have higher utilization than the older ones in
the fleet. The railcars have had particularly poor availability - 38%
in 1984 -- and the trailers' availability has also been far lower than
that for the passenger cars -- 74% compared to 93% for passenger cars in
1984. Consequently, the number of railcar passenger-km has been lower
than estimated at appraisal.  The passenger cars are being used for
international traffic but growth has been lower than projected at
appraisal, although national passenger traffic has grown at a higher
rate than previously estimated. The reevaluated rate of return is 0.5%
compared to 14% estimated at appraisal. The major reasons for the lower
rate of return are (a) the lower than estimated passenger-km carried by
the railcar set because of the low availat"ity of railcars and extreme-
ly high estimate made at appraisal of . ilcar passenger-km;  (b) the
lower passenger-km of the passenger cars assigned to the international
route because of lower than estimated growth rate of traffic; and (c)
the failure to increase tariffs in line with inflation (particularly
national) from 1976 to 1982.
7.08      The second passenger equipment component included the purchase
of 16 bogies to modernize eight passenger cars which would otherwise
have had to be scrapped because of a design fault. Taking the benefits
as the avoided loss of passenger revenues, the reevaluated rate of
return was 37% compared to 37S estimated at appraisal. A reduction in
costs of over 50% helped to offset the lower international, traffic
carried and lower real tariff level.
Tank Wagons
7.09      The traffic forecast for petroleum products foresaw a substan-
tial diversion of traffic from the Abidjan-Bamako road route to the
railway. This diversion did not take place from 1978-1983 because of
Mali's preference for the Abidjan route despite its higher cost and
because of the distorted allocation system laid down by the Office
National du Transport (ONT) and implemented by the EMASE. It was only
in 1984 that the 1981 forecast level was achieved and even then mostly
because of the increased demand for petroleum products for the distribu-
tion of imported cereals throughout the country and for construction of
the Mananthali dam.  However, with the improved allocation of tank
wagons and improved operations on the Senegal-Mali railways, some
diversion has probably occurred but it is difficult to know how much
until demand for petroleum products returns to more normal levels in
1986 and 1987. The tank wagons were procured in 1981 although there was



- 26 -
already sufficient capacity for the level of petroleum product traffic
until 1984. The economic reevaluation assumes that the capacity of the
tank wagons will still be required even when the demand f or petroleum
products decreases in 1987 because other wagons in the fleet would have
to be scrapped due to their age and worn-out condition and because of
some diversion of traffic from the road route due to the economic
advantage of rail. The benefits of the tank wagons are the avoided cost
of transporting 16,000 tons of petroleum products by road; the differ-
ence between the two modes of transport amounts to MF31500/ton
(1982 prices).
7.10      The reevaluated rate of return is 43% compared to the apprais-
al estimate of 50%. The lower rate of return is due to the adequacy of
existing capacity until 1984 which meant that the tank wagons were
procured two years earlier than necessary.
Extension of Loops
7.11      Fourteen loops were constructed under the project instead of
the three originally included at appraisal. The justification for the
loops was to allow longer trains to operate on the line with the three
new  1800/2400 HP locomotives  to be purchased  in the project.   The
benefits were the cost savings between the three 1800/2400 HP and four
1400 HP locomotives that would be required to haul the same amount of
traffic.   However,  the  experience  with  the  larger  locomotives was
disappointing and their availability rates were under 50% in every year
(up to 1984). The availability of even the three 1600 HP locomotives
purchased in 1973 had fallen from 80% in 1974 to 58% in 1977. The older
locomotives did not have the necessary coupling devices to permit double
heading of trains. Basically, the poor performance of the new locomo-
tives, would, in hindsight, make it appear that the continued use of
1400 HP locomotives would have been more economical.  But such a hypoth-
esis would call for a much more detailed analysis before a definite
conclusion could be arrived at. Given the relatively minor significance
of the extension of loops in the overall evaluation of the project, and
the lack of specific data, no rate of return has been reevaluated for
this component.
Overall Evaluation
7.12      The reevaluated overall rate of return for the project is 12%
compared to 23% estimated at appraisal.
VIII. ROLE OF IDA
8.01      IDA's presence was principally responsible for the following
improvements:  (a) better managerial and operating coordination between
CFM and CPS; (b) improvement in the method and timing of the movement



- 27 -
priorities ordered by the Office National du Transport$ so that wagon
utilization and turn-round are improved;  4/  (c) shifting the power
center for wagon allotment from the Malian representative in Dakar Port
to RCFS so that wagon allocation is made only on operating considera-
tions; 4/ and (d) upgrading the accountability of bilateral technical
assistants by instituting a system of annual TORs, meetings with manage-
ment and a local team leader responsible for the overall performance.
All these four benefits have stood the test of "sustainability." These
improvements could have been achieved only by IDA.
4/   The achievements attained under (b) and (c) of para 8.01 are well
documented in the Supervision Reports of the Third Railway Project
in Senegal (Loan 1518-SE), although they had an impact on both the
railways.



-- 0i0 -
~~~~~~~I E
I



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
Technical Review of Project Implementation
A. Bridge Repairs and Rehabilitation
1.        The bridges to be repaired under the project were categorized
under three headings according to priority based on consultants' studies
and agreed with CmN's management:  Lot 1 -- 16 bridges in critical
condition; Lot 2 -- 3 major bridges needing extensive repairs; Lot 3 --
31 minor bridges. At appraisal, all 50 bridges were estimated to cost
MF 5,263 (US$10.74 a equivalent) and the financing was to be covered by
IDA - MF 4916 m, FAC - MF 250 m and CFM = 97 m. Between oppraisal in
1977 and January 1979, the dollar dropped in value by 10% from US$1
MF 490 to US$1  - MF 440.   The  lowest bid for lots  1 and  2 was
MF 8,100 million (including physical and price contingencies), and thus
exceeded the financing available. The generally high bid prices were
the result of (a) the exaggerated perception by foreign bidders of
difficulties in Mali, paucity of skilled labor, lack of water and
electricity at remote locations; (b) difficult mobilization as the work
was distributed all along the 650 km of the railway line; and
(c) over-design implicit in the technical studies which assessed the
risk liability of these bridges. The fact that some bidders withdrew
after pre-selection and only two valid bids were finally received ore
indicative of this heightened risk perception. The inability of the
consultant who had carried out the detailed engineering studies to
anticipate this contractors' perception of the risks further emphasizes
the difficulties in evaluating the risks inherent in a project of this
nature. Various negotiating strategies were adopted to reduce costs,
and finally it was realized that the available financing, even with
additional commitments from the Caisse Centrals and FAC, would just
cover lot 1 and a part of lot 2. The rest of lot 2 and lot 3 had to be
held in abeyance until additional financing could be secured.   In
May 1979, CPM negotiated Lots 1 and 2 for a total price of MF 5628 or
US$13.4 a (US$1 - MF 420).
2.        In January 1980, the initial allocation of US$8.0 m from the
EEC Special Action Credit to complete the bridge repairs, was raised to
US$10.0 m. A different consultant was engaged to arrange the 31 bridges
in Lot 3 in a priority sequence and to review the technical solutions.
In May 1980, the EEC Credit became effective. The new studies estab-
lished a repair procedure specially adapted to the small bridges vhich
helped bring down the cost of Lot 3 by about US$4.5 m.  The final
implemented cost of the bridge repairs components was MF 7501 m (see
Table 3.2).
B. Locomotives
3.        The original proposal was to obtain three main line locomo-
tives and two shunters. The main line locomotives were to be supplied
under bilateral aid and were of a type known in Africa. Although this
type had exhibited several defects in other countries in Africa, the
manufacturer had assured that this was a new version, and all known
defects  had  been  eliminated.   The  purpose  of  these  high-powered



_ 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
locomotives was to eliminate the current practice of breaking up a
freight train at Kayes before negotiating steep rising gradients so as
to reduce the gross tonnage from about 1,000 to 800. However, these new
locomotives failed to achieve this objective; from the beginning, they
developed major problems of overheating.  CFM, although reluctant to
raise these problems with the manufacturers, did so, in the end, at the
insistence of IDA's supervision missions. The manufacturer attributed
the overheating to local climatic conditions and tried several pallia-
tives between 1980 and 1983. By this time, other major problems like
inadequacies in the suspension, cavitation in the engine block, etc.,
had surfaced.  In the meantime, one of the locomotives was seriously
damaged in an accident.
4.        In FY83, it was apparent that Mali's traffic would not pick up
despite increasing demand, mainly because of lack of freight-hauling
capacity.  The ad-hoc measure of operating Senegalese locomotives in
Mali territory could not be sustained in the long run because of high
cost.  In the do-nothing situation,  there would have been a larger
diversion of Mali imports to the higher cost C8te d'Ivoire highway
route.  The IRR of the new locomotives was estimated at 32%.  Based on
this justification, it was decided to switch more bridge works to EEC
financirng in order to release IDA funds to procure two high-powered
locomotives using ICB procedures, which would not have been possible
with EEC funds. It was also decided to completely overhaul two locomo-
tives of the reliable type already with CFM using the services of a
contractor specializing in rebuilding/overhauling locomotives.  By these
means, it was proposed to make up a reliable fleet of four freight
locomotives. This objective was fully achieved and the ICB procurement
resulted in the purchase of a locomotive adapted to Malian conditions at
competitive prices.
5.        In 1983, the manufacturer of the defective locomotives (para 3
above) completed his "repairs" to the three original locomotives.  It
was evident that, given the limitations of the original locomotive
design, a complete solution of the problem was not possible.  In the
actual event, these locomotives never achieved the initial objective of
preventing the break of load at Kayes. This operating problem still
persists, thus limiting the railway capacity and rendering it difficult
to reduce the turn around time of wagons.
6.        Considering the declining performance of CFM's aging locomo-
tives fleet, it was also considered essential to augment shunting
capacity.  Therefore, the procurement of two shunting locomotives was
agreed to.  One shunting locomotive and spare parts were financed, from
EEC funds and the other was financed from CFM's own resources. These
locomotives are functioning well.
C. Track Repairs and Renewal, Including Establishing a Quarry
7.        The track repair work was the least satisfactory of all the
project components. The 21.5 km of track renewal was completed in five
years' time. The work was hampered by lack of locomotives for service



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
trains but, more especially, by the apathy of CFM's track maintenance
department. Technical assistants were helpless as they did not have the
authority to handle the work. Supervision missions raised the problem
time and again at the level of the Director General in open meetings
where the entire management team was present, but promises made were not
honored.  This underlines a key management problem -- top management is
unable to set the pace where certain senior officials are concerned.
8.        Ballasting of 100 km has been completed only to the extent of
about 50% as the quarry functioned sporadically. The quarry was loceted
at a site where the stone was of inadequate quality.  The consultants
who studied the quarry site presented two options for the site -- one
with an inconvenient access but good quality rock and another with easy
access but poorer, yet still acceptable, quality of stone.  The manage-
ment took the latter option.  In the event, when the quarry started
working, the quality of the stone actually turned out to be unsuitable.
As this was based on consultant's studies and supervised by the bilater-
al aid agencies, IDA had no influence on this decision.    The quarry
equipment supplied by the manufacturers as "semi-mobile" was practically
"fixed," and the cost of shifting, estimated at US$300 to 400 thousands,
could not be financed.  CFM was advised repeatedly to hand over the
operations of the quarry to a specialized contractor, but it kept the
quarry under its track department, and as a result, it was mismanaged;
spare  parts were ordered  after breakdowns  had taken place  and  the
equipment remained frequently out of function for several weeks at a
time. The problem of spare parts was further aggravated by CM's budget
constraints.
9.        Welding of rails (130 kin) could not be done, as it should be
done only after ballasting.
D. Rolling Stock
10.       Five  gang  cars,  four  passenger  coaches,  fourteen  ballast
wagons, eighteen tank cars, and bogies for passenger coaches were to be
procured with CIDA financing, at an estimated cost of Can$5.3 m. Due to
the limitation that at least two-thirds of this package should be of
Canadian origin, there was difficulty in matching CFM's technical needs
and Canadian specifications and, consequently, there was delay in
procurement. Besides, the Canadian costs were higher than estimated.
Therefore, the gang cars and bogies were dropped from the Canadian
package and procured from EEC funds.
11.    Canadian passenger coaches were expensive, and the manufactur-
er could not supply the bogies of the type specified by CFM4. The bogies
were therefore procured in France, shipped to Canada, fitted to the
underframe, and the finished coaches were shipped to Mali -- a procure-
ment process which was difficult, dilatory and costly.
E. Telecommunications
12.       This work was completed satisfactorily.  It has helped improve
day-to-day operations.
ME t   ~   ~ M~_  ~ ~*_% tv 11.4           31 -_



I        X'
X r~o 



- 33 -
TABU 3-i
REIE  C OF IrttL
THIRD  ILNAY F110PiECT
CREDIT 7131Ll MS SPECIAL ACTI  CllEDtI   EC
PROJECT CIWLETION SEPtET
Actul and Expted Physical Copletion
.......... .........................._._..__ ............. . ........ _.. . ... ... ._ . 
Units of Completion of                           Dates  o  Ceepletion of
NIjor lurks or Comonents                         Hajor l'ks or Coponents             Percent of Original Iajor
Iajor obrks or Coapontnts         -------------  -                                 ...........      -----                lercs or toponent Coplttd
Actual                 APpraisal              kctual           Appraisal          by the Expected Coepletion Date
Estiate                                 Estiute
......................._. ..._._. _........_._...... . ... __._.___ .... ... .........  ..  . ...             .. ............  .  _ ........ ................. . __ .... .. __
(aC  BR10DE REPAIRS AND REINFPUCElMI    Lots I and 2             Lets I and 2                0'012             05/01           For all th xwoks listed
Lot 3                                               00912                             belou  501 was coepletwd by
the original completion date.
(b) TRACi ueK9                          Maint.equipoent          Maint.equipoent              1979               1979
Quarryv                   arry                       1990              11/79
Switchn renwl           hitches ren l               03/6U               I
Loops extensiontl4      Loops estdensinll)           1902               1990
21.5 ia track renewel                               12/82               1979
50 be trr-  ballasting  100 km track bellnsting    12/12                1960
120 ke track molding                           I990
(c) TELECIIUliU;CATIONS EWIIPNEiN                                                          erly 198-
id) bRS*3P EQUIPIENT                                                                         1079               1977
(I) ROLLINS S6OCk  ND EQUIPT             5 wvice cars
ad l tie tep                                         £"2                1975
14 ballast wapns                                    05/11               1979
o tank  aon                                         05/61              1990
4 paeer  cars                                       04/82               1976
16 bogies                                            1992              1976
400 roller eaWings                                  05/EI               1979
(i MOTIVE PER                           3 maialine locoO.        3 mainline lcUO.           01/79              12/77
2 s ters                2 suntes                    03/79              12/79
Railcar st              Railcar set                  1979 (prtly)    06/79
2 eaioline IKOc                                    O113                1979
2 shting loK .                                      10/93               1978
igi CONSULTANTS' STUDIES                 Sefrarail               Selrerail                   12/79             O7179
econslt                                              1980               1990
Transsrb                                             1981              ,190
(hi TRAINING                             loprovma.treinirg       Iprovm.traninig
facilitios  t           failitin  at
lEako and Keyns           uao  en  Kaye"         09/79-erly B1        04/79
Cnstruction of          C"struction of
dreitorylaeedo          doreteryft     ko)           19"1              04/79
Training  qipmet        training ewipmnt             1979               1979
Training of CFO staff   Training of CFO staff              a4goang
hi OFFICE AND ACCliUTII  ESUIPIIIT
May 1984
r                                                                                                                           @'!_£4    . .  



REPUDLIC OF iUl1
THIRD RAILWAY PROECT
CREDtT 713-I!L PA SPEIAL AMI   CREDIT 4-EEC a/
FPOET COlB OLEtII REPORT
ktul and Appraisal Estiates of Project Costs b/
AUL   St              APPISAL ESTIIATE713-LI)    COSt OVERRIM                AICtAL COST            APPAISAL ESTIRATE 1713-ILl)
n m  OR COIoITS                                                ----- --                                          --   AS 2 IF TOTAL    -
L  FOREISN   TOTAL             LOAL FOE1IN   TOTAL          AM. EST.          LCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL          LMCAL FREII   MttAL
1. In IF dllions                                                           la. In FtFA aillins
(a) BRILCE REPAIRS AD REINF I- - - -
- Lots 1 and 2                                                   71    2394    2465             25     329      354                         35.50  1197.00  1232.50        12.50   164.50  I.00
- Lot 3                                                         1t93    443    503             552    4357    49                            %.50 2421.50  2513.00         26.00 2173.50 2454.50
Sbtotal                                                   264    7237    7501            577    468      526  cl           s.7        132.00 3613.50 3750.50        203.50 234.00 2631.50
Ib) TULX Hi
-Equipuot for trk oatatc,                                        -      152      152            16      43       so                             -   76.00   76.00           3.o    21.50    29.00
o -   ry quipowt                                               106     411      517           136     550      686                         53.00  205.50  231.50          68.00  m.00  343.00
-baal of witch"                                                   9     153      t62            31     615      64                           4.50   76.50   31.00          13.50  307.50  323o.
-Etuiuo of Ism   (14)                                            19     33       397           11o     133      m                            9.50   10.010  198.50         55.00   91.50   146.50
-bol of 21.5 koof track                                         122      -       122           102      -       102                         61.00        -   61.00         51.00        -   51.00
-8ailastig Df N0 o  of track                                      2      -         2           504      -       504                          1.00        -    1.0         252.00        -  252.00
-bldig of 120 kam f track                                        12      104     116           257      -       257                          6.00   52.00   2.00          123.50        -   123S5
- s  vice  cwrs(inspction) and
I tie taewr                                                  -      348      34a           -       212      212                             -  174.00  174.00              -  10.    106.00
Subtotal                                                  270    1546    1816           1156    1603    279               -5.3        135.00  m77.00  908.00        573O. 301.50  139.50
Ic) TELESCUUICATIOI ESUIPEiT                                        -        O5       O5           -        36       36             0.3             -   42.50   42.50              -   13.00    15.00
(dJ I) SIP E2I0IUIENTIt LATIE)                                      -        16       lb           12       -        12              .0             -    8.00    3.00           6.00       -    6.00
Is) RLLis mu  I  EDUIPERT
-   b adllt _ms                                                  -      377      3              -      476      476                             -   138.50   138.50            -  238.00  233.00
- 18 tank _ons                                                   -      479      479            -      1236    1236                             -  239.50  239.50              -  613.00   613.00
- 4 pns .r cars                                                 -      1402    1402            -       924      924                             -  701.00  701.00              -  462Lo   462.00
- 16 bogi.                                                      -       293      293            -      33      m3                               -  146.50   14650              -  194.00   194.00
- 400 rolter brings- -                                                                          -       46       46                             -        -                     -   23,00   23.00
Su=total                                                    0    2551    2551              0    3070    3070              -3.2         0.00  1275.50  1275.50         0.00  1535.00  1535.00
.1



EPMLIC IF MLI
THIRD RAILIAT POfT
CR1EIT 713-lLI AND SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT 40-EE  at
PRUECT CIWLETIO REPMRT
Actal and Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs bh
ACTU1L COST            APAISAL ESTIrIAE(713-liL)       COST OVEMI                ACTAL COST             APPAISAL ESTIIMTE (713$-Lt)
MJOR NMES OR cmows                                               ---------I----   ---- -----   AS  F TOTAL
LOCL  FOREIN    TOTAL           LOCAL  FOREIGN    TOTAL       APl". EST.         LOCAL  FORE IN    TOTAL         LOCAL  FOREIGN    TOTAL
(fl NOTIVE PMER
- Repair of 2 ON lcativs dl                                        -       610      610                -             -                               -   305.00   305.00                      -        -
- 3 oaiuline lcmotivs(Alsthu  CC2400)                              -      1417    1417             -      2958     2955                              -  708.50   708.50              -   47.00  1479.00
- 2 shunters (0O hp)                                               -       622      622            -       392      392                              -  311.00   311.00              -   196.00   196.00
- Railcar set 1 railcar, 4 trailers)                               -      1330     1330            -      1442     1442                              -   66.00   65.00               -   721.00   721.00
- 2  naaline locomotives(6M) and spae parts 41                     -      1971     1971            -                                                 -  95.50   99.50                -        -        -
- I stint  lmcomti,elUAls"to) ad spae pats d1                      -       669      669            -        -        -                               -   334.50   334.50             -        -        -
- Spare parts for Ineotives                                        -       113      113            -                                                 -   56.50    56.50              -        -        -
SW tal                                                        0     6732    6m                0     479      4m               11.9          0.00  3366.00  3366.00          0.00  2396.00  2396.00
(9) CSLTAUTS SWIES                                                     -       442      442            21      19       214              1.4             -   221.00   221.00         10.50    96.50   107.00
(b) TMAININS                                                           -        -        -             Ji      125      196                              -        -        -         35.50    62.50    99.00
- lapruve t of training tacilitles(Daako and Kayest                -        97        7            -        -        -                               -   43.50    43.50              -        -         -                *
- Costmrctin  of iruitaryttrain.center at Daao)                   123       -       123            -        -        -                           61.50        -    61.50                      -        -
- Training eqlpeamt                                                -        32       32            -        -        -                               -    16.00    16.00             -        -         -
- Training of CON staff                                            -        72       72            -                                                 -    36.003  6.00               -        -         -
Sebtotal                                                    123      191      314            71      125      196              0.7         61.50    95.50   157.00         35.50    62.50    99.00
(i) OFFICE AD  ACCOWIIT  EIUIPNEINT d                                  22      174      196             0        0        0              1.2         11.00   97.00    99.00           0.00     0.00     0.00
_~~~~
Caa  _XM  ___=             _     cm   _=   _a=                     _X                   ==   _==            _     2=       2=
RWm   TOTAL                                                 679    1974    19653           1337   14505    16342              20.3 el    339.50 947.00  9s9               91.50  725.so  9171.00
_ _                           _   = _    --- _= -=3                                                        ==
____                                                                                                    ____    ,    .   __   -_  __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tI
olt-



REILC  11 NIL
lNIID UAILI PIOIT
EMIT 713-L!      SMPECIAL KTI  CMITI a-f  of
mmc  IEPETIU WU
Ata and lpraul Estiatos of Project Cat b/
Am   ClUT             M1ML 1,1611E0713-1iU        Cw        ,11 am3 cm 4                        PUI.    TE I(7134.)
LOC   FOREIM   TOTAL         LCAL FNN   TTAL            Om  at.            A   FOfl   MgtT            LOCAL FOM    TOTL
II. In UStilli  ft
- LOU lIa  2                                               0.10    3.52    3.43         0.4e    0.67    0.72
- Lot 3                                                    0.2a    7.12    7.41         1.13 I    .S      10.02
otal                                                  0.39    064   11.03          1.      9.56   10.74            0."
- E%Nmt fOr trat SaltMac                                   0.00    0.22    0.22         0.03    o.0     0.12
- As&" oq w                                                01      0.0     0.76         0.23    1.12    L."0
-  au  of witd                                             0.01    0.23    0.24         0.06    1.26    1.32
- btdot      of laq114)                                   0.03    0.56    $4U          0.22    O.3    0.60
- Go    of 21.1 ko of traco                                0.13    0.00    0.            21    o        0.21
- la g dof le b of trac                                     .00    0.00     .60         1.03    0.00    1.03
- bldig of 1N ko of trak                                   0.02    0.15    0.17         0.52    0.00    0.52
-  s5wdco cwsl aatim) and
I tie tow                                              0.00    0.51    0.1          0.00    0.43    0.63
tta                                                  0.0      2.27    2.67         LSS      .27    5.3            -0.
(cl  tBeGI nATIS  EOiT                                        0.0      0.13    0.13         0.00    0.07    0.07           0.15
Id)  rNSW   11M  Ut ItE[ATM)                                  0.00    0.02    0.02         0.02    0.00    0.02             .00
-14 adlut Gapu                                             0.00    0.55    0.5          0.00    0.97    0.97
- 13 tat  _q                                               0.00    0.70    0.70         0.00    2.52    2.52
-4 pafqa  cas                                              0.00    2.06    2.06         0.00    1.89    1.39
-16 begin                                                  0.00    0.43    0.43         0.00    0.79    0.79
-400 roller  urinap                                        0.00    0.00    0.00         0.00    0.09    0.o9
- Freight cas                                              0.00    0.00    0.00         0.00    0.00    0.00
Sbtotal                                              0.00    3.75    3.75          0.00    6.27    6.27          -7.54
iiE



REPUllIC OF #ALI
TIllo   ILIT POWIICT
CE3!T 713-19.1lID SMECIAL ACTIUS CREDIT 48-EC  at
FRO conrwlo o
Artul ad Appraisal Estimato  of frojct Cots bt
CT    CLST            AIIItSA  ESTMATE1713-lI)   LCUST INE                   AMT1  cot                  IAL EST1TE 1713-LI)
On0  I=   OR LUVINET                                                                                                     AS- UI FTom
ULOA   FOUEIEI   TOTAL        LOCWL  FlIE       TOTM       AM95. EBT.        LOAll FUEU    TOTAL            LCL FIEISI   MOTML
1+ liTIVE PMI
-  pair of 2 0  locnts                                        0.00    0.90    o.9            0.00    0.00    0.0o
-3 maInlin  lomtisAlstio  WM80                                0.00    2.00    2.06           0.00    6.04    6.0
2 i hrn r        pi                                           0.00    o.9      0.91          0.0     0 .0     0.10
-  .11t saetUI ralcar, 4 trailtl                              0.00     1.96    1.96          0.0"    2."      2."
- 2 onsdln  lscoonts(    ad sa  pwts i                        0.00     2.9     2.90          0.0     0.00    0.00
-I   tigA     I  Ng  aue Al  ad ureparts di                  0.00    0.90    0.9n           0.00    0.00    0.0
- pn pts fo lcoim                                             0.00    0.17    0.1?           0.0    0.0       0.o
o.te                                                    0.0      90    9.9             0.0       .n     9.               0.3
i        73T1m5* I N1                                             0.0_    0.45    0.65          0.00    0.39    0.4
_i Tu1                                                                                          0.14    0.2L      0. 0
- I_oovmot of trahing faciltlolmu   aS %"s                    0.18     0.13    0.kg
- C mstrutim of Wotsy(tralra on at h uh)                      0.00    0.40    0.00
-Tran        pmt                                              0.00    0.05    0.05
-Trag      1 staff                                            0.00    0.11    0.11
kitota                                                  0.1      0.3      0.46         0o       C                        0.19
til OFF    _0           I r.0co                                           0.26    0.2C           0.00    0.0      000             0.77
_ox    ax==             _    om  _et    sump
_N nr.                                                  0.97   27."0   2.87            3.75   29.60   335              -IL40
at lb finally a      .
tt ftrojct cost  sho_  lIwoc ijcid  30 end EEC auits ad al coflomacing.
ct This apaisa cst roflcts  nly cb creit allocation (fTl. 4 of S). If EM aWraisa ct is added, the tot                    s7165 consisg of P7M  local
ad I1   fore"    . Tho  tie cot am is 5!L
d  Wi   aring  rctt  loplmuta"ioa.
of If EEC aWaisal cot is isdui, te cost ae.  is 6L
ft  cange rate for  praisal ostiostavila4p9.
For actul costs, IveW     canp ratuS#W680.
WTI
by tN6



- 38 -
TABLE 4-1
REPUBLIC OF hALI
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 713-MLI AND SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT 48-EEC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Traffic Statistics, 1976-1984
i         I                                                 I                                               I
1 YEAR   I                PASSENGER TRAFFIC                                 FREI6HT TRAFFIC
i         i Passengers! Variation i Pass.-km   Variation I  Tonnage I Variationl  Ton-km  i Variation I
i         I   ('0OOO    I   from      (million)!   from         I'009)  I   from  1 (million)1    from   I
I  Previous i          I Previous I             I Previousl            I Previous I
Year   I                Year   i           i    Year  I           I    Year   i
I        I            .            I - --------                        I           I                       i
i         i            i            I          I            1           I           3          £            i
1  1976   1      565.01                  120.91             1     324.4 3                147.7 1
1 1977   i       615.2 9'11  129.2 I                     711      332.2          2 121    147.9 1        011
1  1978   i      590.7 1         -4%t    133.0 1          3X1     351.7 1         6Xi    150.8 1         211
1  1979   1      655.8 I         IIXI    152.2 1         14X1     311.0 1      -12X1     143.7 1        -5Z1
i  1980   i      636.2 1         -311    157.0 i         311    306.9 1         -Ill    131.9 1         -811
1 1981   i       655.1 1          3Xi    156.1 1        -111    308.4 1          01    137.6 1          4X1
1  1982   3      587.0 i        -10,1   147.0 1          -611    229.5 1       -2611   108.6 1         -2111
1 1983   I       592.6 1          lXi    157.2 1         7X1      320.0 1       39%1    141.6 1         3011
I  1984   3      595.3 1          011   149.4 I         -511      534.8 i       67i1    234.3 1         6511
I   t            I            '          I            I           i           i          i            :
I                                                                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  tI
---------------------------------------------------------------------___________________________!
WAPTI
may 1986
PMMIT:Jin_M_t- . _ S__ ......._.. .. _|  .  .



REPUBLIC OF HALI
THIRD RAILIAY PROJECT
CREDIT 713-fLl AND SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT 48-EEC
PROJECT COUPLETION REPORT
Appraisal Forecast and Actual Passenger antd Freight Traffic, 1976-84
-    - - - _  __ _  __   _  __-_       _    _   _  _   _    _ _    _   _ _    _
1976              1977              1978               1979              1980               19B1           1982     1983     1984
Actual Forecast   Actual Forecast   Actual Forecast   Actual Forecast   Actual Forecast   Actual Forecast       Attual  Aktual   Atual
---- ------------------    --------- --------------- ------- --    -- -                                - --- ---------- -  ----------                       ------ 
i. Actual and Forecast Passenger Traffic, 1976-19B4
TOTAL TRAFFIC
Passengers (0001                       565.0    499.0    615.2    515.0    590.7    539.0    655.8   559.0    636.2    591.0    655.1    606.0         507.0    592.6    595.3
Pass-km (Billion)                       120.9    116.3    129.2    117.5    133.0    122.1    152.2    127.6    157.0    133.1    156.1    138.9        147.0    157.2    149.4
TYPE OF PASSEOGER TRAFfIC
National      - Passengers ('000)    505.2    436.0    555.2    450.0    533.8    470.0    594.4   485.0    579.2    504.0    599.0    525.0          529.4    527.2    534.0
- Pass-km (millions)    95.8     90.3    106.1      90.0    109.5     q3.0    125.5      97.0    130.1    100.8    130.4    105.0       122.0    130.1    122.6
International - Passengers ('0003     59.8      63.0     60.0     65.0     56.9     69.0      61.4     73.0     57.0     77.0     56.1      91.0       57.6     65.4     61.3
- Pass-km (millions)    25.1     26.0      23.1     27.5     23.5     29.1     26.7      30.6     26.9     32.3     25.7     33.9        25.0     27.1     26.8
0 1e
"4I



ZAe  4  3
UlE 9WLM! FAGIECT
a IC a f ilL 3
lmnl r t
C00t 71341L iU  WECIMIL ACIN CiEIT 4HEC
f110J? CIlWlttli RES
AWAids  Forecast WA  kt   Pa                rught Traffic, 1976.84
...........    .......  _ __.._...... ......... _....... ._ .... _ . __..... _.___ ................... __._ .... . ... .. . ..  -- -....... -  - -------. - --. -_      --        -------
3976             19"               1978              9199             1980              I981           1982     1983    1994
Actual Ftocast  Actul Foreat  ktul Forecast  Attul Forecast  Actul Forecast  ktual Forecast    ktul  ktual   Actual
li. Atual and forecast Frasit traffic, 1976-1984
Commodities                                                                                       ('000 ton")
hational Traffic
Cenat                                  37.0    45.0    38.7      4.0    30.4    52.0    28.8    52.0    16.7    55.0            9.9    55.0         5.1    21.0    27.9
Other Catioad                          36.5    40.0    39.2    38.0    3.i    40.0           7.2    42.0    11.1    47.0    10.7    49.0            7.8      7.0      7.6
asutl1aneoun                           11.9    12.0    10.1    12.0    10.7    13.0    34.4    13.0    37.1    14.0    45.2    14.0                24.0    36.9    53.7
Subtotal                          Sb.2    97.0    88.0    98.0    77.7   105.0    70.4   107.0    64.9    116.0    65.8   318.0               36.9    65.7    89.2
Exports
Cola Nuts                              11.5    14.0    11.1    I5.0    12.1    16.0    12.,    17.0            8.6    18.0      7.3    19.0         8.5      8.6      9.9
Cotton Seems                            3.7      5.0      3.6     6.0       -       7.0       -       7.0       -        -      0.1                  -        -        -
Cotton Fibers and Textile Materials     6.1      o.0      9.4      7.0    30.4    12.0   I.7    17.0    12.3    16.0           7.8    38.0         7.9     11.9    13.2
6rouodnut                              25.6    22.0    20.7    19.0        4.5    20.0       1.6    22.0        -      22.0      -      22.0         -
6roundaut Oil                           6.3      4.0      9.6     7.0    7J2        9.0      8.0      9.0      4.2      9.0     7.4      9.0        2.2
6Srindnut Cakes                         5.1    11.0    15.0    15.0    10.,    15.0          9.5    18.0    10.1    18.0        7.4    18.0          -
K rite Products                         4.1      1.0     5.8      2.0      3.3      2.0      1.6      2.0      2.5     2.0               2.0         -        -        -
Ce ris                                 12.5    18.0       -       5.0       -       7.0       -       9.0       -      10.0      -      12.0         -        -
ather Carload                          18.3    13.0    16.6    14.0    38.9        3.O    15.4    15.0    15.6    3t.0    12.6    17.0              6.0    23.2    43.2
Sbtotal                           93.2    9.0    91.8    90.0    65.1   102.0    40.3   116.0    53.3   113.0    42.6   117.0                 24.6    43.7    66.3
t ports
Cant                                   17.7    12.0    17.0    13.0        9.9    35.0    12.1    16.0    13.8    18.0    10.1    19.0             11.3    20.9      6.9
Machinery, VehiclN, latwials            9.6    12.0    I3.9    14.0    17.9    15.0    15.7    16.0    10.6    17.0             5.7    18.0        11.1    19.4    20.2
Fertilizes                             16.9    14.0    17.7    35.0    13.1        16.0    22.9    17.0    30.1    38.0    32.5    19.0            10.1      5.7   I.I
Foodstuffs                             16.0    35.0       7.0    50.0    19.5    50.0    13.9    50.0          9.2    50.0      8.9    50.0        18.2      9.2    21.0
Petroleso Products                     41.0    4.0        4.7    60.0    52.6    64.0    50.9    680          46.8      2.0    35.6    75.0        4.4    49.1    76.3
Salt                                   23.8    21.0    18.1    22.0    18.5    23.0    23.2    24.0    17.0    25.0    28.2    26.0                1i.8    31.7    34.6
Other Carload                           S.7    16.0    14.3    39.0    3lt8    20,0    12.4    21.0            6.3    21.0      4.7    22.0        10.2      9.6    1O.7
Miscellaneous                          10.4      1.0    14.8   ..0        20.6      1.0    16.9       1.0    25.1       1.0    31.1      1.0       13.1    33.0    27.4
Cereals                                 0.1       -      0.1       -      37.9       -      14.4       -      29.8      -      43.2       -        28.0    33.1   100.1
btotial                          145.0   159.0   152.4   194.0   208.9   204.0   1t0.3   213.0   IN1.?   222.0   200.0   230.0               168.0   210.6   379.3
Total                            324.4   350.0   332.2   382.0   351.7   411.0   311.0   436.0   306.9   451.0   308.4   465.0               229.5   320.0   534.8



41 -
TABU 4-2
19T 18381  1 MM   Win 31T310
mm 53IlU  BI =1T110 mm1 8
rWdis) Foeast  ad tual Pse1   ad  Freight trdfic, 1976-6
1976             5977             197              5m                19W              1981          1512    13    19
ctul Forcst  ktul Forecast  I a Forocast  Actual fort   Ataltorecast  ktua Forecast    Actual  ktal  Atul
ill.   tual td Forast Freight Traffic, 1976'498
Coedot.ese
---  --  ---- .. Ub~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wt taa4eailSSmI
............
National Traffic
Coent                                 16.2    18.9    14.1    20.3    12.2    21.8    55.1    21.8          5.7      3.1      3.6    23.1        1.5      7.3    10.0
Other Carload                         11.5    11.5    15.5    50.        10.4    11.5      2,6    12.1        7     13.5      3.3    14.1        2.9      3.2    350
Niscellansoas                          3.5      3.7     2.0      3.7      2.2     4.6    10.3       4.6    11.5      5.0    51.6      5.0        6.7    15.0    22.3
Subtotal                         31.2    34.1    30.4    34.9    24.8    37.9    24.0    38.5    20.9    41.6    10.5    42.2              13.1    25.5    35.3
Exports
Cola Nuts                              6.1      8.2     6.5      8.8      7.1     9.4      7.3    10.0      5.0    10.6       4.3    11.1        4.8      5.1     5.8
Cotton Seeds                           2.2      3.1     2.1      3.7       -      4.4               4.4                   -         -                 -            -
Cotton Fibers and Tentile iNatwrils    3.5      3.5     5.5      4.1      6.1     7.0      6.8      9.9     7.3    10.6       4.6    10.6        3.9      7.0     7.6
froundnut                              8.3      6.8     7.7      5.9      1.1     6.2      0.9      6.8      -       6.8              6.6
Groundaut Oil                          3.5      2.4     4.2      4.2      2.9     4.5      3.2      4.5     1.7      4.5      3.0     4.5        0.9
Groundaut Cakes                        2.6      6.8     6.8      9.3      4.7     7.5      3.8      9.0     4.0      9.0      2.9     9.0
5arite Products                        2.4      0.6     3.3      1.2      0.3     5.2      0.9      1.2     1.4      1.2       -      1.2         -        -       -
Cereals                                7.3      8.7      -       2.9       -      4.1       -       53               5.0       -      7.0         -
Other Carload                          8.0      5.7     6.3      6.1      8.5     6.1      6.8      6.5     5.3      7.0      6.0     7.4        2.0    11.2    21.3
Subtotal                         44.      45.0    42.4    46.2    30.7    50.4    29.7    57.6    24.?    55.5    20.5    57.6             12.4    23.3    34.7
Imports
Cognt                                  9.3      6.9    50.3      1.5     5.2      8.6      5.7      9.2     6.7    10.3      4.9    10.8         4.7      5.8    17 9
Nachinery, Vehicles. Natrials          4.3      6.1     6.8      7.1      7.0     7.6      8.6      8.1     5.6      8.6      2.7     9.1        5.4       .1     9.2
Fertilizers                            9.0      7.5     8.9      0.0      7.4     8.6    13.2       9.1    16.3      9.6    18.7    10.2         5.7      3.3    10.9
Foodstuff s                            6.9    54.8      2.8    21.1       7.6    21.1      5.1    25.1      3.3    21.1       3.6    21.1        8.8      4.2    11.4
Petroleus Products                    15.4    21.8    22.3    28.4    24.7    30.4    24.4    32.4    If.8    34.2    16.7    354               24.6    20.6    35.7
Salt                                  13.1      8.6     9.3      9.1      9.5    11.7    11.4    12.2       9.0    12.8    14.5    13.3          9.2    17.8    19.3
Other Carload                          4.1      8.3     6.8      9.9      9.7    10.4      6.3    10.9      3.4    10.9       2.6    11.4        5.5      6.3     4.1
Niscellantus                           9.7      0.5     7.9      0.5      8.5     0.5      9.4      0.5    11.9      0.5    14.5      0.5        7.1    11.7    12.5
Cereals                                 -        -       -               15.5      -       5.9             11.3              20.3      -        12.1    15.0    43.3
Subtotal                         71.8    74.5    75.1    91.6    95.1    98.9    90.0   103.5    86.3   1080    95    111.0                83.1    92.8   164.3
Total                           147.7   154.4   147.9   172.7   150.6   137.2   143.7   5".6   131.9   245.1    37.8   211.6              101.6   141.6   234.3
Sourcet  bulletin Annul Statistiquea Iactuals); Agaisai Deort Iffreasti.
iWTI
Kay 196



- 42 -
REPUOLIC OF MALI                     TABLE  4-3
THIRD RAILMAY PROJECT                  Page  1 of  2
CREDIT 713-NLI AND SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT 40-EEC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Selected Operating Statistics, 1975-1984
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1991  1992  1983  1984
. - - -----------------   - ---------
SYSTEM
Route (kn)                                                       642   642   642   642   642   642   642   642   642   642
TRAFFIC
Passenqer numbers ('000)                                         492   565   615   591   656   636   655   587   593   595
Passenger-km (eillion)                                           103   121   129   133   152   157   156   147   157   149
Average journey (ka)                                             209   214   210   225   232   247   238   250   265   250
Freight tons (000)                                               356   324   332   352   311   307   300   230   320   535
Freight ton-km (million)                                         156   148   149   151   144   132   130   109   142   234
Average haul (kl)                                                438   457   446   429   463   430   448   474   444   437
Traffic units (ton-ko + pass-ki)( illion)                        259   269   277   284   296   289   294   256   299   383
TRAFFIC DENSITY
Passenger-ku per route-ko (1000)                                 160   188   201   207   237   245   243   229   245   232
Freight net ton-km per route-ku ('000)                           243   231   231   235   224   206   215   170   221   364
OPERATIONS
Train-ku - passenger trains 1 000)                               191   122   120   112   121   122   119   492   524   604
- railtars ('000)                                       167   240   326   296   391   319   283   106   200   214
- nited trains ('000)                                  188   199   164   163   168   142   152   104   132   157
- ireight trains ('000)                                474   462   470   430   573   346   390   329   429   642
- total ('000)                                        1020  1023  1080   991  1253   929   944  1021  1285  1617
Notive power-ku - locomotive ('OOOi                             1035   980   943   962  1037  1046   819   909   861  1232
- railcar ('000)                                171   244   326   286   391   319   283   106   200   214
- total ('000)                                 1206  1224  1269  1248  1428  1365  1101  1015  1061  1446
Nuaber of locomotives in fleet:
aainline - small (7301850 HP)                                    2     2     3      3     5     5      4     3     3      5
- sediua (1150/1170 HP)                               15    15    13    13    13    13    12    12    12    12
- large (1600/2400 HP)                                              2     5      5     5     5     5      7     9
shunting                                                         8     8      7     7     7     6      4     4     4      4



- 43 -
REPUBLIC OF MALI                     TABLE  4-3
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT                   Page  2  of  2
CREDIT 713-NLI AND SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT 48-EEC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Selected Operating Statistics, 1975-1984
1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
Number of railcars                                                    2      4     4      4      5     4      4      4     4      4
Number of trailers                                                    8    16    16    16    20    20    20    20    20    20
Nuaber of passenger cars                                             20    20    81    81   156   166   149   154   110    99
Number of freight cars                                              334   410   443   443   370   370   379   369   325   311
Percentage availability:
Mainline locaotives - small                                        78    16    44    39    55    43    24    69    57    81
-oedium                                     73    62    51    36    37    35    38    29    20    27
-large                                                   64    65    tl    34    32    37    51    64
Railcars                                                           79    76    65    62    46    47    54    26    40    38
Trailers                                                           75    92    81    55    75    76    70    80    74    74
Passenger cars                                                     75    67    85    84    92    94    97    92    95    93
Freight cars                                                       88    84    91    89    86    89    86    97    90    90
Freight car-ku total in Mali and Srinegal1 '000)                   7336  7917  8202  7475 10348  7202  9050  8643 10008  8407
Freight cir-km in Mali - empty ('000)                              1473  1334  1711  2183  1383   980  1107   874  1015   758
- loaded ('000)                          3581  3949  5842  5575  5574  2958  4438  4398  5769  4430
- total ('000                            5054  5283  7553  7759  6957  3938  5545  5272  6794  5180
- percentage eapty to total                 29    25    23    28    20    25    20    17    15    15
Average journey per freight car available                            57    51    62    66    73    40    57    55    77    62
Average load per car (tons)                                          31    28    20    19    21    34    25    21    21    45
Averaqe net load per train, incl  mixed (tons)                      236   224   233   255   194   270   255   252   253   293
Gross ton-km - passenger (million)                                   74    83    68    54    63    70    62    59    64    47
- freight (million)                                   260   246   238   262   270   245   217    -    251   220
- total (million)                                     334   329   306   316   333   315   279    59   315   267
OPERATIN6 EFFICIENCY
Passenger-km per train/railtar-kn (in.l  1/2 mixed trains)    228   262   244   277   255   307   326   230   199   166
Freight net ton-km per train-km tincl. 1/2 mixed trains)            275   264   268   295   219   317   296   286   297   325
Freight net ton-km per freight car-km in Mali ('000)                 31    28    20    19    21    34    25    21    21    45
Freight net ton-km per freight car available per yeur ('000)  531   430   367   383   453   401   423   340   485   036
Loconotive-km per mainline locomotive available                     200   256   200   244   298   296   278   334   305   457
Railtar-ko per railcar available ('000)                             106    79   125   115   170   170   131   102   125   141
Gross ton-km to net ton-km (freight)                                  2      2     2      2      2     2      2    -       2      1
Source: Bulletin Annuel de Statistique, 1977-84; Progress Reports, 1984.
WAPTI
May 1986



-44-^P
UC~~~~~~~n w E1
moo0 KItE? mmic
colt 71i           8 90l1 ACTS.N Uolt 4EC
Nt  LtIN Mm
,agra11 Foreast and Atua  SAM   stata t, 597-5t6
SP ElIlies) Al
1977                 1979                 199                   1910                 5"9                    5982     1983    1984 al
........... _.__ .......... _ ....... __...... ___  ._  _....
Forecst ktual        Forecast ACtul        Foretast  Atual      Forct Actul          Forecast Actul               ktual   ktul   ktual
Revenues bl
Passngers                         1,206    1,167        1,214    5,92        1,517    1,464        1,643    1,730       1,92      1,740             2,015    2,413    1,17t
Freight                           3,416    2,816        3,701   2,926        4,740    2,910        4,909    3,040       5,704    2,869              4,100   4,410    3,226
Other                               217       523         180      534         21t      422          245      562         320      541                494      634      5i4
Total                   4,841    4,504        5,137    4,654       6,533    4,84        6,97    5,332         7,950    5,150              4,68     7,667    4,550
.S.*8                  w8sS8    8888          888,    8888        8.88    888           8883     88                      8 s88 s8                             *
Expenses
urhlng Expemes bi
* stafi                          1.331    1,313        1,500    1,412       1,674    1,422       15,48    1,500        2,025    1,662              1,812    1,913      944
-Fuel                              293       W           325      352         353      509    3E             66          419      723                944    1,137      815
Other eaterials                  tii:-    62           ee7      571         964      844        1,041   ,1207        1,124    1,355              1,579    1,760      77
Tles                             236      315          250      33          318      330          331      404         375      447                798      943      S41
Other charges                    594      59t          650      676         707      69           764    1,445         524    I,59S             1333    I1,t0       703
Total                   3.264    3,215        3,412    3,349       4,016    3,764       4,369    5,217        4,770    5,778              t.54    7,359    3.802
88*88                   *888    s888          88888    8888        88,88    8888         8888     88*8*       88888    88888              * *      88s8     88
epreciation  ci                   1,564        50       1,797      950        ,873    1,54         2,012    1,530       2,060    1,692              2,062    2,034    1,044
Total Operating Expeas           4,828    4,045        5,409    4,299       5,18295,32            6,391    t,747       630    7,470                8625    9,393    4,649
Operating Inttct (Iossi                 13      441        (272      355         44       (513)        416   I1,4151      1,120   (2,3201            11,9391  (1,726)    (2963
Interest Charges                   M64)    (5525         (913)    (6151 5    1 ,231    (453       (5,0751    (127)      1,127)    (843)              (995)  11,106)    (630)
htt Operating Renu  (loss)            5635)    (111)     (11951)   (260)         15379)  (15164       (6591  (2,142)          (71  (3,5I31           (2,934)  (2,834)    (926)
Ehceptsonal Profit (lo)              -          249        -         (46)       -         (50111      -       1,124        -          IN                240   (1,753)      (751
Othfr Tan  (loss)                    -          (43)                 (45)       -           46)       -         (52)       -          1521              (635     (76)     (45)
Net took Profit (loss)                (435)     115      (1 185)    1351)       a3)  5,7M)            5659)  (5,070)          57)  43,046)           (2,757   (4,6635  (1,044)
Ratios,  owkeig                 4n       711          701      722         b1t      782          642      962         602     1122                982      967      34
Qperati,g              OO,      901         1052      922         901      I5           942     2m          B62      545                5m       1232     1t0
a/ In 1984 fie  art in FCFA, eith fCFA 1 a UF 2.
b/ Include revenues     ep anseos of the Kayes Hotel ad J   rilhaeu   harry.
Cl  epreiation ta revaluated fixed assets expt in 1977 ad 1978 Aktuls, ie  they are still dtetaed  c  ea-raluted aet.  Itit 1991, deeiatIon charged to incom
stateet (as provision for rasal) diffes free dWKrection on filed asts I balance sheetsl difforee is  ccunted a  apWtt atim  or reaction of renal  4hnd.
a9TI
,kY 1"6



wsjc U                                     1*30.3~?ABU5-2
%1110 RAILS  p9911
cuIl 713112 a UwiCI ACTIO (0011 4HIC
FUJIC  c99.1720  wet9
AW&rIsal Forecast and kstval hlmse Rots, 197-1984
1971                 1970l                 1979                 1960                 192                    190      196      19194
Forecast kctual      ForKcat Actua         Fwreast Actual       Forecast  Actual      Forecat   ctual             Atual   Actual   Actual
ASSET
Corrent Asuets
- Cabh and Banks                       12      415          710      sit         651    1,020          279      93          677      313                490      316      221
- Other                                         501        -         541                  517                   608                   139               132      221       26
- PReQi,abt*i                       1,210      99,        1,29     1,027       1,633    1,426        1,699    1,200       2,000    1,126              2,479    2,907    1,526
- in,eotoraes             ~~~~1,215    1,110     1,330    1,593       1.446    1,649        1,561    1,294       1,666    1,451              1,294    1,446      160
2,437    3,012       3,304    3,106        3,73     4,6010      3,51     3,937        4,363    3,629             4,99     4,950    2,559
LEs Carroct Labiliesn
- Suppliers                 ~~~~~412  129         724      209          701      409         670      344         637    1,059              1,448    1,291      455
* Oiunomt                          1,11        584       41,4    1,06         1,274    1,564        t,29     2,115       1,346      639              2,059    4,667    3,005
-Otbar                               351      302          304      220         417      1AO          451      312         472       124             1,223    1,005      381
*Cotrect lkatritius  bi               165      694         303      069         532      ,132         574      738         616    1,036              1,944    1,763      899
2,046    1,709       2,645    2,378        2,924    3,29        2,994    3.509       3,011    3,657              6,674    6,926    4,920
let Croret Assets                 391    1,373          l29    1,512         606    1,307          544      426       1,292       (2a)           (1,679)  (3,9176   (2,261)
fieod Assits
Brms Value                         36,934   22,772       43,256   23,445      46,179   40,552       49,329    4005       51,600   40,547             49,764   51,170   26,920
lests Depectltm                  (10,577)  46,104)    412,374)  U7,194)    (14,247) (12,395)    (16,259) 412,93)    (11,319) (14,366)              (16,051) 117,403)  29,294)
let filed Assts is Use             26,357   15,660       30,004   16,251      31,932   20,157       33,059   27,112      33,291   26,191             33,73    33,767   17,626
Bork in Progress                    1,500       993       2,00     1,509       1,500    1,244        1,000    2,370       1,000    6,970                746    2,729      499
Others  ci                              20    7,046          10    6,648          10    6,251           10       12          10         4             5,999        4        2
Total let Fised Ansets           27,0161   23,107      32,194   24,446      33,442   35,652       54,069   29,494      34,191   33,155             40,480   36,499   18,121
TOTAL NET ASKT1                       291,2501  25,00       33,613   25,92       34,240   31,039       34,613   29,92       35,503   334,127            3,8,01   32,523   25,866
LIABILITIES
let Long Tewm Dbt ci                 12,172   16,354      16,130   17,674      16,900   19,074       17,904   14,257      16,00)   17,660             24,919   23,401   12,454
Equity Equralest
- Capitol                           5,690    5,690        5,890     ,8   5,39   ,90    5,690         5,390    5,990        ,6 5,090          5,990    5,69     589      2,945
* Subsidies for Intetemts           1,395    2,907        4,1W0    2,05        4,462    3,166        4,462    1,450       4,462    2,529              3,619    3,604    1,700
- beevosmtien lgeare               10,677    2,095       20,677    2,095      10,677   13,315       10,977   13.315      10,677   23,315             13,315   13,315    6,656
- let Ramma Fuad                    1,021       464)        154     (1712        154      (234)        154      44          154                        (116)     
- CUndated Resuts (lo"se)           12,4512  (2,217)     (2,451)  (2,102)     (3,636)  (2,4522      (4,015)  (4,1714     (4,674)  (3,221)            46,267)  (9,024)  46,643
- Current Vea  Icme (Ins)             (6352     215      (1,165)   (.352)        (379  21,722)        i659)  (1,070)          (7)  (3,046)           (2,757)  (4,6632  41,046)
lubtetal                  16,067    6,726       17,415    6,246      17,368   17,965       16,709   15,665      16,702   15,467             13,992    9,222    3,412
0TOh. LIABILITUB                      26,256   25,000       33,623   25,92       34,246   37,039       34,613   29,922      35,563   33,127             30,901   32,523   15,866
3333=3   3333Soong333                                    ~        &3 333             333        33                333 2332 333
Ratios.
Currat          1292     1602         1223     264         1252     1423        1192      1123        1422      99                 752      552      532
IUoid           601     1122          m       2002         79       922         662       75          672      602                55u      392      31
432      652         462      du2         492       52          52       41          53        532               642      722      16
572      351         522      32          512       492         482      522         472       an                361      20       222
aI la 1904 fi4 wpoe in FCFA,  Ith. VFOA 1 a IF 2.
Si Correct metorities (atual) w Inc udeebaqm t vow  Interval iuetllesat  logo-torm  debt.
cl In 1977, 1973, 1939 SWd 19, Othr AMUt aod 1t La"  twor  kbt (actual) include  all future Interet lootalleect an 1mg-term debt.
WTI1
199



- 46-
TABLE 5-3
REPUBLIC OF MALI
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 713-MLI AND SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT 48-EEC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Financial Rate of Return
(Return on Net fixed Assets in Use)
1977    1978      1979     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984
Forecast          0       0        1 X    1X   2.5%             -        --        --
Actual          2.8X    2.2%    (1.8X)   (5.2%)   (8.9X)   (5.8%)   (5.3%)   (1.7%)
WAPT1
June 1986



30-ar-8*                                                                                KPV           13.2  12% cist rate
TM    REHUIUITATtON            BASE CASE
---  Adsititocal lnvestatt Required                        Total Cost           vozded Deraileents
Vear        Capttal           ----- -------------------     --  ------                       ----         -        -----------------  Track Renewal            Track
Cost     ballasting                            lielding                                       Cost                       Required        Mlaintenance          Totai              oet
-------     ----------                            -------                                        Savings         IWuaber Wathout Project        6avinu;        6efiits         Benefits
19?S            24?                                                                               247                                                                              0           -247
1980            621                                                                               621                                                                              0           -621
1981            8386                                                                              838                                                                                          -838
1982            510                                                                               5lii            14              k17                             17             ISI           -359
1S3            302 a,                                                                            302             li8             '25,                            2;             220             -82
1984                                                                                                o             237             t;0}                            22             259            259          c.
1985                                                                                                0             253             1;2)                            22             275            275          t0
1996                                                                                                0             2*9             s34)                            22             29l            29 2
19B7                            129 bi                                                            129             277             (35f                            22             2S9             170                  a-
l9a                             170 c                               90 di                         260             300            (38i                             56             35               96          a        -,
199                            170 C!                              9.)                           260             324             (41t                            90             414             154                  F
1990                             57 c,                               0                            147             348             t44           1200              99            1*47           1500           t
1991                                                                90                             90             363             t4bt                           101             464             374                      i
1992                                                                90                             90             379             (481                           103             482            m2
1993                                                               ti                             1Q             395            (501                            104             499            489                          P
1994                                                                                                *             411             652)                           104             515            515
1995                                                                                                0             427             (54t                           104             531             531         ii                   a
199.                                                                                                0             442             tSbf                           104             U46             544          N
1997                                                                                                0             458             (S58                           104             562            512
19"                                                                                                 0             474             t6lo                           104             578             we9
19?9                                                                                                0             490             i6z..                          104             594            sn       
2000                                                                                                0             506            '64k                            104             610             610
2001                                                                                                0             521             (b66          -800             104            -175t          -175 521  17
/Includes one shunting loccaotiiye.
-1 Cot of bahlasting prgQras (110 k'n.
di Cost of track welding (400 ka).
IIE



48 -                                            TALE 7-1
Page 2 of 6
REPUBLIC OF MALI
THIltD RAILWAY PROJCT
CREDIT 713-H-I A-ND-S-PECIrAL CfTIOCREIT 48-EEC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cost Benefit Flows for Economic Evaluation
30-Hav-Sb           "ALI                                                                NPV          696.7  122 disc rate
:nzas zagz:uu:                                                              IERR            16.51
BRIDE REPAIR                                      Delayed Bridge         Avoided
----------------       Capital   Repair + Cost of      Diversion            Total              et
Year                           Cost    Reconstruction      of Traffic          ene fits      Benefits
----  --- -- .... - - - -          --
1980                            296                                                              -296
1981                           2735                                                             -2735
1982                           4769                                                             -4740
1983                                                                                                0
1984                                              3495            3539           7024            7024
1985                                              4768                           4749            4748
1986                                               294                            296             296
1997
1989
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999



~ 49  -                                          11TABLE  7-1
Page 3 of 6
REUBLIC OF MALI
THIRD RAWY PROJECT
CREDIT 713-PLI AN`D 8PECIAL A-CTION CREDIT 48-EEC
PROMJET COMPLTITONla REPO
Cost Benefit Flows for Economic Evaluation
30-Nav-86                                                                                  NPV           580.0  121 disc rate
IERR            37.0?
BOGIES
-              -----                   Capital                                  Net
Year                            Cost                      Pass-Rvenues         Nuaber of
Cost     Pass. Cars              Net
lithout Bogies        Scrapped         Benefits
1981                              33                                                                 -33
1982                             264                                                                -264
1983                                                                  24               (1)             24
1984                                                                  72               (3)             72
1985                                                                 145               (6)            145
1986                                                                 192               16)            192
1987                                                                 192                              192
1988                                                                 192                              192
1989                                                                 192                              192
1990                                                                 192                              192
1991                                                                 192                              192
1992                                                                 192                              192
1993                                                                 192                              192
1994                                                                 192                              192
1995                                                                 192                              192
1996                                                                 192                              192
1997                                                                 192                              192
B _ 6 _ _ 5Bi>AtzB= BE                                           t L.-i,,, ,V,_



- 50 -                                             TABLE 7-1
Page 4 of 6
REPUBLIC OF MALI
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 713-MLI AND SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT 48-EEC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cost Benefit Flows for Economic Evaluation
30-llay-86i                                                                                    NPV          -1348.1  12Z disc rate
IERR              0.52
PASSEN6ER EQUIPNENT
Operating         Capital                 Total          Loss of Pass. Revenues              Total               Net
Year             Cost             Cost                Cost             Iithout Project               Benefits         Benefits
---------         ------------------------------                                          -------
Railtar      Pass. Cars
1979                               98O                 B80                                                   0             -8a0
1980               63             1162                1225               135               58              193            -1032
1981              115             1122                1237              240               117              357             -880
1982               56              142                 198                90              117              207                9
1983               87                                   87               169              117              26               19"
1994               58                                   58               181              117              299              240
1985               92                                    92              l1e              117              298              206
1986               92                                   92               181              117              298              206
1987               92                                    92              181              117              299              206
1988               92                                   92               181              117              298              206
1989               92                                   92               181              117              298              206
1990               92                                   92               181              117              298              206
£991               92                                   92               181              117              298              206
1992               92                                   92               1I8              117              298              206
1993               92                                   92               181              117              298              206
994                92                                   92              181               117              298              206
1995               92                                   92               1I8              117              298              206
1996               92                                   92               181              117              298              206



- 51 -
TABLE 7-1
rage 5 of 6
REPUBLIC OF MALI
THIIRD RAILWY PROJECT
CREDIT 713-MJI -AND SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT 48-EEC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Cost. Benefit Flows for Economic Evaluation
30-tay-86                                                                                          NPv            32.0  122 disc rate
IERR             20.92
TAW. NAGONS
Capital                                           Net Benefits                  Net
Yeat                               Cost                                           Of Avoided             Benefits
----  -------                                     Diversion               -------
To Roads
1980                                 64                                                                       -64
1961                                439                                                                      -439
1982                                 48                                                                        -48
1983                                                                                                             0
1984                                                                                         504              504
1985                                                                                        504               504
1986                                                                                         504              504
1987                                                                                                             0
1988                                                                                                             0
1989                                                                                                             0
1990                                                                                                             0
1991                                                                                                             0
19?2                                                                                                             0
1993                                                                                                             0
1994                                                                                                             0
1995                                                                                                             g
1996                                                                                                             0



- 52 -                                                      TABLE 7-1
Page 6oif 6
REPUBLIC OF MALI
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 713-NLI AND SPECLAL ACTION CREDIT 48-EEC
PROJECT COMlPLETION REPORT
Cost Benefit Flows for Economic Evaluation
30-Mav-86                                                                                                 NPV             1156.9   12X disc rate
IERR               14.31
TOTAiL PROJECT
---------------           Capital                Other                                                        Total                 Net
Year              Cost              Costs                                                    Benefits           Benefits
19?9               1127                                                                                             -1127
198')             2143                  o'                                                          193             -2013
1981              5162                 115                                                          357             -4920
1982              5732                  5o                                                          358             -5430
1983                302                 87                                                          506                117
1984                                    5a                                                        8109               8051
1985                                    92                                                        5917               5825
1986                                    92                                                        1534               1442
1987                                   221                                                         1293               1072
1968                                   !52                                                        135(                 998
1989                                   352                                                        1408                1056
199v                                   239                                                        2681               2442
1991                                   182                                                        1458               1276
1992                                   182                                                        1476               1294
1993                                   102                                                        1493                1391
1994                                                                                              1509               1509
1995                                                                                               1525               1525
19%                                                                                               1540               1540
1997                                                                                                754               754
1998                                                                                               578                578
1999                                                                                               594                594
2000r                                                                                               610                610
2001                                                                                              -175               -175



- 3                                                              Graph 1
P    O;t.1;:;.,s. t l i          *.-:? e      |      c- :f  tl    c :
IA-.., ;   .'d:: .:e   ;                               :            t: ;   -   -  -  ^   -- -   .............  - _.___._
I.J
it}~~~~~~~~~~~      ~ , ,1,, i, l -
_    ,., _. .. ..  ,                                                                     .                           _.   . A  I r. A  I nLF



- 54 -
Graph 2
F  '  :, s  .- 1  rl g*i   l                  Fi. I**I r :- ffi c:
Po 1r       r-";r:. . r  - K.m
I     A f                                                                            .    . __ .....  .... ... .,.......   . .  . _. _-........ .     .  . ....... ...._.... . ___.
1 i         7-cl -     ,* -JR             IC9
,        t-lit.A             ,          -      N     f.1                              I MA                          L%.      I     F...._ I.-
2C ] -1~.,_ ..,,
0. -~ .                                  -       JzF'~                                    rL                                    rt



- 55 -
Graph 3
F re. ei ci    t  4f ra fff c::
lbn r, r:pn
*       2~~~~~~~~XW
_.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~1                                           Y e
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
1§976,  19-7   1978   1'979   19ED    1981    19Ee   19a3   198.
I`,K          N t    wIF F-A            *EF             IA            IF
._ I                                                    . .   =        *   



- 56-
Graph 4
I 4:141:1
It zl.'7t.l. *                   .          l                .
'I    Ii. 
-                                 .1 a1       - j    S       4        - l      g-
*.-.   X:Il                                              
l                                   IizE    az 9fs 1    9-;et 198  i   9a 1-
.9 filL! dlx, [1 FA t                               ;FE m3iti '.E § bt. IF
j~II           111.



- ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~     ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
iMAP SECTION
1
I



ho    !  6.   -  !   &'  - 1v-                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ibe
20 (Foti.r)  r  1 \                                                                                         M         A
SP. SARAA             >      ALGERIA          .   LIBYA                                                       M         A
,/                [   \.                                  0 4                     t
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
) 6  MAURI1ANIA  8              \.      .                                                   -J-              *     ^ _            -
..ilr  --)  \  J N IGER                                        JY2imone                                       Youri
GAM8'~~~     ,~ ,,~~.                      (CHAD
OUNEeA -T                   BURKINA                                                                              &
-ISSA4 V                     O                                                                     r en
tj \ GUINEA11                                                                                  orn
M4 A   L  I                               t " ' "          ioGER, K d
S  *.fOIVOIREZSgI 
TH~~~~~~~~G                                                               K RDt WYPOJE     osol ai    
TRANS~~~~~RT/ NECERT                                   9.  KAYE  pafrae $
SiERRA ~~~~                                ~          w9 LEN\-           1 COT  INI' tjrr,la 
L.IBERIA
340                                         )                                     Olden0       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sefeto
M  Mous         - ' AFOULABE
THIRD) RILWAY  PRO00%JBECT                                                                    Mahn 
TRANSPORT NE1TWORK                                                              \Diolafar
/I ulonk' onidi \a   IT
Existing railways                                    SENEGAL %                '         Bomfl6  Tombaga           -
o,oo0eo,oo  Laying of available track material                                           Keneba                          Ko,ofato
,t*,q5ikoto
-1s3 ~    Ballasting program                                                                                       So "--o KoSugabori
atao gu      Kouroulkot1   '0_
v v v w v v Welding program                                                                                             /
~:=~     Major bridges to be reinforced                                          i ,-
Paved roads more than 5m wide
Paved roads less than 5m wide
Engineered earth roads
Earth roads
Improved tracks
Unimproved tracks                                                                           G      U      I      N
'I y;    Ferries
Navigable river (July-December)
Flood area
*          International airport
+         National airfields
International boundaries                                          0         50          300        150        200
KILOMETERS
0                so                300
MILES
120                                              10



IBRD 12493E
U      R           I        T         A        N          I        A                                        wfSe   
+_      /                _             t5>~~~~+NARA                                                            I;'r
a                                                   ~~~~~~~~~      ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~Soko-lo°"o"s,\,   
,,O_#____ODiema ,_                # ~~~~~Mourdioh                                        Tenenkoup(      )M O
\   {    $    ,          /  g                                )>~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~Niono    
KotSu!'vninSoto                    Didi6ni le                           5                                 AINA  Diene/
p KouKrolJnmkoo   n taS E    JMadno l\/                                     \ l          
18~~ ~~ NaoaGioo0\Kikn<__8-~b                                              Jakl 
birXBat;Ma  Bongo    f°r                                                                                -     f       mno
<°0          §aakt;<                            t,                       >ldor la           
\    )      GwiyyJ-   Yanfo4b                                     SEG\X                      ;
lad          mon       gMnnoo             i                  eoat<     
Dr    KOLIO                     Gvend                                 Dir  no- - .    ,
Bodin                                                                                     'o,    imrn
--~~~              ~          ~ ~~~~~~~~ N2 COT                            l. Nor ,
ZOt_d BAM                                                                                                 _ u 
__b_)          g))                                               me
J_d~~~~~~~~~~uo                                                  v _   I 
°b 9 D' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I V                                                   AlRE
arena1.                                             B .                                             r
-.0ls                   ra 3_.ri
I              din_                                   Ko
Y       N KANG
Koubma                              Dogo6
be)~ ~ ~~~UE i8



~~~.                                  . -4-'  
w30o                                            G~~~~~~~~
EL AIUN_                              A       L       G       E      R
e  CD                                                   N
+t-_._._I~~~~~~~ \4
NOUAKCHOTT 
St. ~.'tS Lou!\
V,
S.Lis~ ''7
Thies'                  j                                   I                                           N
DAKA          rboalkDbl         ae                            
BANJUL#.,,                                               Mopti\.
iaoKayes                                           I
t~~~~~~~~~~~~Segou* _ -
-    St. LouisX   \                               i         t        _                      jo
uAMBIA    *-        eu-/AMAkO                     \;NIAMEY 
iNegaIa^_    * _-           BURKINA FASO'- -
G U IN E A -    -     c  &    K  ro s aO                                   AG  OU U
ob-Dioulas
-1S                >  nk~~~~~ankan                     s
-low                                                                       KA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INJI RESERI,
CONAKRY                         OuangoxdougoiN                                                   G
FREETOWN    OLE  N2*-%.         Ouango lodo0goz
I"EtowL E ONE? -j    'QCOTE i               3o
t        /   /Q       )   qll~~~~VOI AEa  L\sjAKF VOLTAp I 4         
MONROV,A0    e    L\      A            \
G u I f            O f    Guinec
EQUATORIAL GU
100
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



IBRD 124941
jA                                                         7 0     '-CRETE
(  %/9i<             MEDITERRANFAN  SEA
1/.9ENGHAZ -I                        -
) ---              WEST  AFRICA                              3
A                                                                      M  A L I
j                                       THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
I   I   B    YVA
I    I     &   Railways
4-     , Regie du Chemin de For du Mali
-  - - Major roads
----- Earth roads
*-  '*' t     \ *                                 69 National capitals
Boundary of Former Spanish Sahara
I                      ,             .-.-  International boundaries
F                              Z~~~~~S#,  __a_.j_GM
3iI                                           1a           300          SW
i                     i                K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOEERS
G    E      R         j,       C      H'    A       D          iM
LAKE CIUAD; ?
'N._*__'- -                     CX't
N' DJAMENA
G     E         I A                                                                                             100
2.-t-t.           00   j       C  E N T R A  l       A  F R  IC A N
R E P U B L  IC
YAOUNDE                                  zA 1 2 E j
GUINEX%_                                                                          E
I  A I                         -
-AG      B j)'0 POLE'S REP.1 // 
_ oo                    OTHE CONGO E"         2 \
JUNE 1986



