CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 713-MLI
Project Agreement
(Third Railway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER DU MALI
Dated June 10, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1977 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER DU MALI (hereinafter called the R6gie).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Mali (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to ten million five hundred thousand dollars ($10,500,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that the Regie agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the R6gie, the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be made available to the R6gie on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the R6gie, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The R6gie shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the R6gie in carrying
out the Project, the R6gie shall employ consultants and other
experts, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Regie undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Regie to replace or
repair such goods.


﻿-4-
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the R6gie
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The R6gie shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The R6gie: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-5-
(c) The R6gie shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the R6gie and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. The R6gie shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the R6gie shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The R6gie shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The R6gie shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by the R6gie of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 2.08. In carrying out Part I of the Project, the
R6gie shall (i) make available sufficient experienced Malian
personnel for training as instructors, (ii) make arrangements
satisfactory to the Association for the training of senior
instructors and supervisory staff and (iii) insure that sufficient
numbers of personnel are released from individual departments for
training.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the RSgie
Section 3.01. The R6gie shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and railway
practices and under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by qualified and experienced staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. The R4gie shall at all times operate and
maintain the Railways and promptly make all necessary renewals
and repairs, all in accordance with appropriate engineering and
railway practices.
Section 3.03. The R6gie shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for insurance against such risks and in such amount
as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 3.04. The Rggie shall take such action as shall
be reasonable in the circumstances to facilite railway operations
between the territories of the Borrower and the territories of the
Republic of Senegal, in accordance with the International Traffic
Agreement, the Customs Agreement and the Railway Convention.


﻿-8-
Section 3.05. By November 15 in each year until the
completion of the Project, the R6gie shall exchange views with
the Association on its estimated financial results for such year
and on its draft budget for the following year. Promptly
thereafter and prior to presentation of such budget to its Board
of Directors, the R6gie shall, in agreement with the Association,
take such steps as shall be necessary or advisable to remedy any
deficiency.
Section 3.06. The R6gie shall promptly implement a program
satisfactory to the Association to ensure the regular collection
of fares from all passengers subject thereto under applicable
tariffs.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The R6gie shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial conditions.
Section 4.02. The Regie shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the R6gie and the audit thereof as the Assocation shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the R&gie shall not incur any debt unless the amount of its net
cash revenue for its fiscal year next preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence, whichever amount is the greater, shall
be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements
for any succeeding fiscal year on all its debt including the debt
to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means all debt, except debt incurred in the
ordinary course of business and maturing by its terms on demand or
less than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date and to the extent it is drawn
down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement;
and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into;
(c) the term "net cash revenue" means gross operating revenue
from all sources, adjusted to take account of the Rggie's tariffs
in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they
were not in effect during the entire fiscal year or twelve-month


﻿- 11 -
period to which such revenue relates, less all operating expenses,
including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative
expenses, but before provision for depreciation and debt service
requirements;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt;
(e) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in the currency of the Borrower debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the rate of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable
by the R6gie, at the time such valuation is made, for the
purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is
not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Association; and
(f) the provisions of this Section supersede all prior
agreements with the Association in respect of the incurring
of debt by the R6gie.
Section 4.04. The R6gie shall take such steps, including
adjustments in its tariffs, as shall be necessary to maintain
working ratios not exceeding 67% for 1977, 70% for 1978, 61% for
1979, 64% for 1980 and 60% for 1981 and 1982. For the purposes of
this Section:


﻿- 12 -
(a) "working ratio" means the ratio of operating expenses to
operating revenue;
(b) "operating expenses" means the aggregate of operating
expenses and expenses of maintenance of fixed assets in operation
including taxes, if any, but excluding depreciation of such assets
and debt-service requirements; and
(c) "operating revenue" means gross revenue derived from the
services of the R6gie.
Section 4.05. The R6gie shall take such steps as are
necessary to maintain its working capital at all times at a level
sufficient to cover the aggregate of 1/6 of annual costs of
personnel, 1/2 of annual expenses for materials, excluding fuels
and lubricants, 1/4 of annual expenses for utilities and other
contracted services and 1/4 of the debt-service requirements
of the R6gie for the following twelve months.
Section 4.06. Pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement the
R6gie shall (i) revalue its fixed assets as of December 31, 1976
and incorporate the resulting values in its accounts for 1977, (ii)
thereafter make such subsequent revaluations thereof as shall be
considered appropriate following consultation with the Association
and (iii) not later than December 31, 1977, write off obsolete
items of inventory.


﻿- 13 -
Section 4.07. Not later than January 1, 1978 or such later date
as the Association shall agree, the Rggie shall implement a
cost-based tariff system based upon the existing recommendations
of consultants as modified in agreement with the Association.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of the Rdgie thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Rdgie of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INDEVAS                    440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the R6gie:
R6gie du Chemin de Fer du Mali
Bamako
Mali
Cable address:             Telex:
FERMALI                   586
Bamako
Mali


﻿- 16 -
Section 6.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of the Rggie or under Section
2.09 of the Development Credit Agreement by the Rdgie on behalf
of the Borrower, may be taken or executed by the Director of the
Rdgie or such other person or persons as the R6gie shall
designate in writing.
(b) The Rfgie shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will act under paragraph (a) of
this Section.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER DU MALI
By /s/ Ibrahima Sima
Authorized Representative


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the purchase
of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Bidders for the works comprising Part E of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Minor works related to the repair and strengthening of
bridges up to a total value equivalent to $940,000 may be carried
out by force account.
2.   Individual items of equipmment not exceeding $50,000 equivalent
required in carrying out Parts B and I of the Project may be
purchased locally.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification for Part E of the Project: The
Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall


﻿- 19 -
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's
decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions
from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
2.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the R6gie shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the R6gie
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award


﻿- 20 -
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the R6gie and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph
the Rdgie shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall


﻿- 21 -
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the R6gie and state the
reasons for such determination.


