Report No. 23989
Report No: I074762 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/10/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: GUYANA Project ID: P074762
Project: Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC)        Task Team
Leader: Chris Parel
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 15, 2002       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 28, 2002      IDA Amount ($m): 5.00
Managing Unit: LCSPS     Sector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)       Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC) is
to assist the Government in building its capacity to meet the governance
and poverty reduction objectives set out in the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP). The Bank will support the implementation of the PRSP through
a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) covering a broad
range of policies. The PSTAC supports the first PRSC and focuses on two
of the seven pillars that comprise the Government's poverty reduction
strategy, namely to: (i) build stronger institutions and better
governance, and (ii) improve safety nets. Specifically, the PSTAC's
development objectives are to:
Strengthen fiscal, financial and fiduciary management,
Support decentralization of central government functions and strengthen
local government,
Improve the coverage and efficiency of social safety nets, and
Develop institutional capacity to manage, monitor, evaluate and improve
PRSP implementation.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project has been designed to focus on critical institutional issues,
that are identified in the PRSP/PRSC. The approach calls for developing
and implementing first tier solutions, leaving upscaling and solution of
other, related issues to future operations, some of which will need to be
defined at a later date. The table below sets out the approach taken for
each component.    Component activities are then described below.
Component/Sub -
Components       Implementing Agency     Probable Follow-on Activities Including Related
Activities supported by Other Donors     Component 1:   Strengthen fiscal, financial
and fiduciary management
1.1  Strengthen Revenue Authority        Revenue Authority
A tax study is to be undertaken by the IMF
and the Caribbean Regional Technical Assistance Centre (CARTAC). The
component will be developed in light of this study and future operations
will need to address any major tax policy changes such as the
implementation of a value-added or sales tax.
1.2 Strengthen Procurement Administration



Ministry of Finance/Central Tender Board (CTB) The
project adresses reform of central public procurement procedures.
Decentralized procurement strengthening will need to be taken up by
subsequent operations. IDB will provide complementary support to the
private sector, in response to the changes in procurement rules.
1.3  Strengthen Auditing and Loan Accounting     Auditor General's Department
This project component
will be determinsed following the conclusion of an IDB-funded diagnostic,
and will potentially include strengthening government audit and
accountingin. A CIDA-funded project providing assistance on economic
management issues is currently addressing loan accounting issues, and will
cover implementation of an integrated financial management system in the
future.
1.4  Integrate Human Resources and Payroll Data Bases    Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Public Service       The component will address the integration of the
databases held in the Ministry of Finance and Public Services Ministry.
Future operations will be needed to roll-out the system to all user
Ministries and agencies.
1.5  Support Privatization Activity      Office of the President/PCPMU
The project will continue to
support the Privatization Unit in the short-term. However, the IDB is
taking the lead in improving the environment for the private sector and
has several operations in the pipeline. Component 2: Support decentralization of
central government functions & strengthening local government
Ministry of Local Government      The Local Government Task Force Report will
need to be debated and a work program developed. PSTAC will be limited to piloting
some local government strengthening activities. Upscaling and broadening
the approach will need to be addressed by subsequent operations.          Component
3: Improve social safety nets
3.1 Strengthen Existing Social Safety Net Programs        Ministry of Human Services,
Labor and Social Security        Unless the Government decides t expand or create new
safety net programs, it is unlikely that this component will require
future support.
3.2 Prepare Safety Net Solutions for Vulnerable Groups Office of the
President/PCPMU It is very likely that the implementation of these programs will require
additional work and funding, in subsequent operations.            Component 4:
Develop institutional capacity to manage, monitor, evaluate and improve
PRSP and PSTAC implementation
4.1  Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics Capacity         Bureau of Statistics
The IDB has a pipeline loan to further strengthen the BOS.
4.2  Establish a Policy Coordination and Program Management Unit (PCPMU)          Office of
the President/PCPMU      Further support for this component will depend on the
performance of the Unit in undertaking PRSP monitoring and evaluation and providing
policy advice.
Component 1: Strengthen fiscal, financial and fiduciary management
The objective of this component is to improve the accountability,
transparency and efficiency of Guyana's public sector as regards financial
management, fiscal discipline and fiduciary arrangements. Specifically, it
aims to do the following:
Sub-Component 1.1: Strengthen the Revenue Authority
(i) Undertake and debate a tax policy reform study. This component will
support the dissemination and debate of the tax reform study to be carried
-2 -



out by the Fiscal Affairs Department of the IMF and the Caribbean Regional
Technical Assistance Centre (CARTAC). The study will consider revisions to
tax policy to broaden the tax base and assess the feasibility of
introducing a value-added tax or other broad-based domestic goods and
services tax, and the feasibility of implementing such a tax in Guyana.
(ii) Increase tax and customs administrative efficiency through improved
systems, procedures and training. The component will be fully defined
following the results of a joint IMF/CARTAC diagnostic. It is likely to
provide assistance to improve systems and procedures in the Guyana Revenue
Authority, train employees and prepare for the introduction of a new tax
if necessary.
Sub-Component 1.2: Strengthen Procurement Administration
(i) Draft rules and regulations for procurement law. Once the Procurement
Law receives Parliamentary approval, specialist advice will be provided on
the drafting of rules and regulations to implement the Law. Training will
be conducted on the implications for public procurement procedures and
practices, and support will also be provided for dissemination and
printing of the new Law.
(ii) Implement, the new procurement law once approved. The National
Procurement Administrative Board (NPAB) is to be established following the
implementation of the Procurement Law, and will replace the former Central
Tenders Board. The component will help to strengthen the NPAB through
improved systems and procedures, including the drafting of Standard
Bidding Documents and procurement manuals, and establishing a Management
Information System in the NPAB's secretariat. Public employees will
benefit from a series of workshops, seminars and training on public
procurement.
Sub-Component 1.3: Strengthen Auditing and Control
(i) Improve the timeliness, coverage and quality of audits. This component
will be developed based upon the forthcoming CFAA and an IDB diagnostic.
Funding will be from a $200,000 PSTAC component and a $300,000 IDB grant.
The sub-component will probably be limited to providing support for the
Auditor-General (AG) and Accountant-General--the latter is receiving
considerable support from CIDA. IDB will provide support for legal
drafting assistance in consolidating the various laws governing the
Auditor General's activities and help to prepare procedures and manuals.
This sub-component could include a training agenda left over from the
Bank's Financial and Private Sector Institutional Development Loan that
includes training in fraud, IT, internal audit and financial management.
In addition, the latter Bank assistance could ostensibly go to assist the
AG in incorporating 75 new staff which are expected to come on board as
soon as the proposed job descriptions and salary scales are approved.
Another potential area for assistance identified by the CFAA is
parliamentary reform regarding procedures for handling budgets, audits,
and disclosure.
Sub-Component 1.4: Integrate Human Resources and Payroll Databases
(i) Implement a consolidated payroll and human resource management
database. This sub-component will: (i) upgrade the payroll database used
by the Ministry of Finance to include human resources data; (ii) migrate
existing data contained in the stand-alone database currently being
-3 -



developed by the Public Services Ministry; and (iii) clean the
consolidated data. This component aims to improve the accuracy of payroll
data and to provide improved records for human resource management.
Personnel in the Ministry of Finance and Public Services Ministry will be
trained in the use of the new systems, and provided the necessary
additional hardware to use the systems in both Ministries. Future
operations will need to expand use to line ministries and agencies.
Sub-Component 1.5: Support Privatization Activity
(i) Manage the privatization process of the state-owned bank (GNCB).
Continuing previous World Bank support to the Privatization Unit, financed
under the Financial and Private Sector Institutional Development Credit
(FPID), this component will support management of the Guyana National
Cooperative Bank (GNCB) and preparation for its privatization. The
component will also finance activities of the international management
team, such as the auditing of accounts and overall management of the bank,
necessary to ensure that the value of assets and equity are maintained
during the transaction phase between sale and ultimate transfer of the
bank to private owners.
(ii) Support the strengthening of the Privatization Unit engaged in the
Government's divestiture program. Following previous Bank support
financed under the FPID Project, this sub-component will support the
Privatization Unit with international experts and staff to complete the
program of privatization of state-owned enterprises. This will include
specialist advice on capital markets effects, and legal consultants to
assist in the production of prospectuses and bidding documents.
Component 2: Support decentralization of central government functions and
strengthening of local government
The objective of this component is to assist decentralization of
resources, functions and financial management to more autonomous and
accountable local governments. These issues are prominent in the strategy
for poverty reduction and are high on the policy agenda. A Local
Government Task Force drawing on representatives from both major parties
is due to submit its recommendations for decentralization and reform of
local government in June, 2002 and this component will be fully specified,
once the recommendations are presented and debated. Initial discussions
with the Task Force indicate that the component is likely to:
(i) Develop and implement a revenue sharing formula. Technical
consultants would help the Government refine criteria for revenue
allocation among local governments and help to implement the formula
including training and dissemination targeting the central government and
the Regional Democratic Councils (RDCs), Neighbourhood Democratic Councils
(NDCs) and Village Councils.
(ii) Strengthen central and local government capacity to increase tax
revenue including asset valuation. The rate of local taxation is based on
property value, and many older properties have not been revalued since
1974. In order to improve local government's ability to assess taxes, the
component would help build capacity in the Valuation Office of the
Ministry of Finance, and on a pilot basis, at local government levels, to
undertake asset valuations.
-4-



(iii) Improve management capacity in pilot local government entities. The
component would aim to build capacity in pilot RDCs, NDCs and Village
Councils to do financial management and control with the support of simple
systems that would need to be developed and training.
Component 3: Improve the coverage and efficiency of social safety nets
The Ministry of Human Services, Labour and Social Security (MHLSS) is
responsible for the management of assistance to the poorest. The largest
of these programs are the Old Age Pensions, Public Assistance, and
Difficult Circumstances programs. Combined, these programs reach an
estimated 55,000 beneficiaries. Benefit levels are low and service
delivery systems are outdated and inefficient. This component aims to
improve safety net coverage, through improving the efficiency and efficacy
of the existing safety net programs and consider alternatives for
unemployed workers in restructured industries.
Sub-Component 3.1: Strengthen Existing Social Safety Net Programs
(i) Strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Human, Services, Labour and
Social Security to manage safety net programs through improved systems,
processes and training. The component will strengthen the limited human
resources in the MHLSS to manage the three social safety net programs.
Including computerization, the project aims to improve the efficiency of
safety net provision, thereby increasing coverage and reducing the lengthy
waiting times.
(ii) Restructure the School Feeding Program. Through the provision of
technical assistance, the School Feeding program would be restructured to
improve the reliability and consistency of coverage, and to utilize local
catering and delivery to improve local economy development.
Sub-Component 3.2: Prepare Safety Net Options for Vulnerable Groups
(i) Undertake an analysis of the profile and needs of target populations
affected by sector restructuring and develop and debate safety net
recommendations. In consultation with the Government, private sector and
civil society groups, a consultant team will undertake background studies,
including survey work, to provide an analysis of the profile and needs of
target populations likely to be affected by sector restructuring. The team
would focus principally on the issues facing the sugar and water sectors
over the next two years, taking advantage of the Bank's on-going
assistance to restructuring in these sectors. This analysis will serve as
the basis for developing safety net options for mitigating the potentially
adverse impact on vulnerable groups. Specifically, the team would design
retrenchment packages and labor market and training programs for
retrenched workers.
Component 4: Develop institutional capacity to manage, monitor, evaluate
and improve HIPC, PRSP, PRSC and PSTAC implementation
The objective of this component is to support the Government's efforts to
implement the strategy embodied in the PRSP and monitor and evaluate
progress. It aims to improve capacity to generate and disseminate reliable
data, involve communities in monitoring PRSP activities and impact, and
build an institutional capacity to undertake Government monitoring and
implementation of the PRSP and PSTAC.
-5-



Sub-Component 4.1: Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics
(i) Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics (BOS) through improved processes,
systems, training and IT capacity. The capacity of the Bureau of
Statistics to generate timely and appropriate data for policy is
constrained by in-house research and analytical capabilities. This
component will strengthen managerial and supervisory capacity by providing
experts in IT, data generation and analysis, and training for senior
management including participation in appropriate seminars and workshops.
Recognizing the shortage of skilled statisticians coming through the
education system, junior staff would benefit from a formal training
program, and the statistics curriculum will be improved in collaboration
with the University of Guyana. In addition to enhancing the technical
expertise of the BOS, the component will address institutional weaknesses
by significantly upgrading IT equipment for data management, data
dissemination, and provide for the establishment of a BOS website.
(ii) Improve the coverage, timeliness, quality, quantity and use of
relevant survey data and statistical output.
Support will be provided to train the enumeration and survey personnel in
the Bureau of Statistics through on-the-job training. The component will
improve survey data by improving questionnaire design and field-testing,
as well as processes for data entry. The component will also assist in the
field operation to collect baseline data of the household survey of living
conditions and train 2,500 census enumerators to ensure the census
operation is carried out with due regard to operational details.
Sub-Component 4.2: Establish a Policy Coordination and Program Management
Unit (PCPMU)
(i) Monitor and evaluate PRSP, HIPC, PRSC implementation. Once
established, the PCPMU will be responsible for monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) of PRSP activities. Specifically, the M&E functions would be to: i)
coordinate a network of focal points within each government ministry, ii)
provide technical support and manage capacity building programs on M&E for
key ministries, iii) pilot an innovative community-based M&E program on
local PRSP impacts and activities; iv) track key policy reforms within the
PRSP, HIPC and PRSC; and v) develop and execute a public outreach program
on PRSP activities and progress. The component will provide local and
international, technical experts including community development
facilitators, a policy analyst, a communications officer and IT
consultants. It will also provide for a program of training for personnel,
and IT hardware and software.
(ii) Develop analytic and policy-making capacity in the PCPMU. The PCPMU
will include a Policy Unit staffed by analysts that will be responsible
for providing strategic policy advice to the Government, with particular
reference to the implementation of reforms articulated in the PRSP.
(iiii) Manage PSTAC implementation. The PCPMU would be the agency
responsible for managing and coordinating the overall implementation of
the PSTAC. This component will finance key personnel, including staff with
disbursement and procurement experience and secretarial support.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
- 6 -



The project will operate mainly in the capital, Georgetown, where
counterpart Ministries and Government agencies are located. In the case of
three components: component 2 - support decentralization of central
government functions and strengthen local government; component 3 -
improve the coverage and efficiency of social safety nets; and component 4
- develop institutional capacity to manage, monitor, evaluate and improve
HIPC, PRSP, PRSC and PSTAC implementation--the project will work with
local government representatives, regional staff of central ministries,
and local communities respectively. These components will work with
regional groups on a pilot basis and will not cover the entire country.
While it is expected that these pilots will include working with
Amerindian communities in the hinterland, the main channel of Bank support
to indigenous peoples will be a separate IDF grant to build capacity in
the Ministry of Amerindian Affairs to improve service delivery and tackle
poverty in Amerindian groups.
There are approximately 55,000 people or 7t of the population, from around
nine Amerindian ethnic groups. Most of the communities are located in very
remote and inaccessible areas and as such many of their traditions survive
today. The country is largely covered by rainforest and there has been a
low rate of deforestation. The main environmental issues facing the
Government of Guyana are the protection of coastal areas from the sea, and
the expansion of forestry and mining in the hinterland, and changes in
land-use as a result of restructuring the sugar industry.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: This project s a technical assistance credit with no investment
component.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Not applicable
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
-7 -



Not applicable
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Not applicable
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Not applicable
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Not applicable
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The PRSP was formulated with the broad participation of private and civil
society organizations--some 8,000 Guyanese were interviewed in developing
the document, and consultations were held in all regions of Guyana. The
key stakeholders for the PSTAC are Government institutions and all
components were developed with the collaboration of the targeted
agencies. One of the components assists in the establishment of a Policy
Coordination and Project Management Unit within the President's Office.
The PCPMU will have a fully staffed Monitoring and Evaluation Unit with
the capacity to undertake participatory monitoring, and with the
responsibility to track and report on PRSP, PRSC and PSTAC implementation
progress. The Unit will also have a policy capability, staffed with high
level analysts, who will evaluate the M&E reports and develop policy
recommendations. Furthermore, the PCPMU will include a communications
officer to ensure that the progress reports and findings are communicated
adequately throughout the country.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
- 8 -



Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Chris Parel     4/9/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Daniel R. Gross 4/9/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         4/9/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Ernesto May     4/9/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
-9-



