Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25042-GUA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 MILLION
(US$4.76 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
CO-OPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT (PSTAC)
November 19, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 3, 2002)
Currency Unit = Guyana Dollar (GY$)
GY$1 = US$0.56
US$1 = GY$178
FISCAL YEAR
2003 - 2005
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AG                                Auditor General
BOS                               Bureau of Statistics
CARTAC                            Caribbean Regional Technical Assistance Centre
CDB                               Caribbean Development Bank
CFAA                              Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIDA                              Canadian International Development Agency
CPAR                              Country Procurement Assessment Review
CTB                               Central Tender Board
DFID                             Department for Intemational Development
EU                                European Union
FPID                              Financial and Private Sector Institutional Development Credit
GNCB                              Guyana National Cooperative Bank
GOG                               Government of Guyana
GRA                               Guyanese Revenue Authority
GY$                               Guyanese Dollar
HIPC                              Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HR                               Human Resources
IT                               Information Technology
M&E                               Monitoring and Evaluation
MHSLSS                            Ministry of Human Services, Labour and Social Security
MoF                               Ministry of Finance
NICIL                             National Investments Commercial and Industrial Limited
NPTA                              National Procurement Tender Administration
NPTAS                             Secretariat of the NPTA
NPTB                             National Procurement Tender Board
PCPMU                             Policy Coordination and Programme Management Unit
PCU                               Project Coordination Unit
PRGF                              Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC                              Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PRSP                              Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSCES                            Parliamentary Sectoral Committee on Economic Services
PSM                               Public Service Ministry
PSTAC                             Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit
QER                               Quality at Entry Review
SDP                               Standard Disbursement Percentages
UNDP                              United Nations Development Program
USAID                             United States Agency for International Development
VAT                               Value Added Tax
Vice President:     David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:      Ronald E. Myers
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Chris Parel



GUYANA
PUBLIC SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT (PSTAC)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     15
3. Benefits and target population                                                    16
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     17
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          21
2. Financial                                                                         21
3. Technical                                                                         21
4. Institutional                                                                     21
5. Environmental                                                                     23
6. Social                                                                            24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                25



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  25
2. Critical risks                                                                  26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  27
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         28
2. Other                                                                           28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      53
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summnary       54
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  57
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                 58
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       65
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                73
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               74
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         75
MAP(S)



GUYANA
Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSPS
Date: November 19, 2002                           Team Leader: Chris Parel
Sector Manager/Director: Ronald E. Myers          Sector(s): Central government administration (100%)
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos  Theme(s): Administrative and civil service reform (P),
Project ID: P074762                               Tax policy and administration (S), Social risk coping (S),
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (S)
Projec tFinar,cih,g;Dtayi> B? ,'.: tqiKhll  SsU     >4ff>t-,.eT'r.&,-E,--'>,-k'4I U iéf'',, *Pfu,;  -.
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $4.76
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                             Service charge: 0.75%
iflnancngilnU     n'<\ Sc iuc .-;,i;gl,,XO¢' I#S. Kr-'3s         l>2     'Fforelgh X-g=*       W
BORROWER                                                       0.53           0.00          0.53
IDA                                                            1.65           3.11          4.76
Total:                                                         2.18           3.11           5.29
Borrower:
Responsible agency:
The Government of the Co-operative Republic of Guyana
The Office of the President
Address: New Garden Street,
Georgetown, Guyana
Contact Person: Dr. Roger Luncheon
Tel: 1010-220-011-592-225-7051          Fax: 226-3395            Email: skele@guyana.net.gy
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY-. ,            . E I3-20'A:_
Annual      0.69      2.14       1.37       0.56
Cumulative     0.69       2.83      4.20       4.76
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 01/12/2003  Expected closing date: 07/12/2006
OCS PAD F0T P- aS.SmM



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC) is to assist the Government in
building its capacity to meet the governance and poverty reduction objectives set out in the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The International Development Association (Association) will support
the implementation of the PRSP through a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) covering
a broad range of policies. The PSTAC supports the PRSCs and focuses on two of the seven pillars that
comprise the poverty reduction strategy, namely (i) build stronger institutions and improve governance,
and (ii) improve safety nets. Specifically, the PSTAC's development objectives are to:
* Strengthen fiscal, financial and fiduciary management
* Improve the coverage and efficiency of social safety nets
* Develop institutional capacity to manage, monitor, evaluate and improve PRSP implementation
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
Component 1: Strengthen fiscal, financial and fiduciary management
Sub-Component 1.1: Strengthen the Revenue Authority
This component will support the strengthening of the Revenue Authority (GRA) and possibly contribute
to the reform of tax policy. The IMF has recently concluded a diagnostic of GRA operations, which
include tax and customs, and tax policy. The Fund and Govemnment of Guyana (GOG) must still agree
on and prioritize a reform program. Hence, it is likely that this component will be definitively specified
in September 2003. However, based upon the diagnostic it is almost certain that component funding will
support several activities considered to be priority including:
*   Employment of expert consultants to help manage the GRA and put in place the agreed reform
program
*   Definition and implementation of an anti-corruption program
*   Improved tax and customs systems, procedures and training
*   Preparation of agreed tax reforms including possible preparatory work for a new value added tax
(VAT)
Sub-Component 1.2: Strengthen Procurement Administration
These indicators are based on the recently updated Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR)
and actions planned include:
*   Regulations for the new Procurement Law drafted and disseminated
*   Internal administrative procurement rules and procedures and standard bidding documents for the
new National Procurement Tender Board (NPTB) drafted and disseminated
*   Management information systems and institutional strengthening for the NPTB and its Secretariat
(NPTAS), and public electronic procurement systems developed and implemented
*   Procurement administrators and other public officials trained
Sub-Component 1.3: Strengthen Fiduciary Oversight
This component responds to the recommendations of the Country Financial and Accounting Assessment
(CFAA). Indicators comprise finalization of three critical studies enumerated below and public debate of
their recommendations
* Strengthening of parliament's fiduciary oversight
*   Developing of proposals to limit discretionary powers in key ministries and agencies
*   Strengthening asset disclosure requirements for public sector officials
- 2-



Sub-Component 1.4: Integrate Human Resources and Payroll Databases
*   Implementation of an integrated payroll and human resource management database
*   Upgraded quality and usefulness of personnel records
Sub-Component 1.5: Support Privatization Activity .
*   Management of the privatization process of GNCB and its properties
*   Management and monitoring of state owned corporations and entities
Component 2: Improve social safety nets
Sub-Component 2.1: Strengthen Existing Social Safety Net Programs
*   Strengthened capacity of the Ministry of Human Services, Labor & Social Security to manage key
safety net programs through improved systems, processes and training
*   Diagnostic and development of recommendations for the school feeding and vocational institution
programs and labor market regulation
Sub-Component 2.2: Prepare Safety Net Solutions for Vulnerable Groups
*   Safety net recommendations based upon profile analysis and needs of target populations affected by
sector restructuring, especially in the sugar industry
Component 3: Develop an institutional capacity to manage, monitor, evaluate and improve
PRSP/PRSC/HIPC and PSTAC implementation
Sub-Component 3.1: Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics Capacity
*   Strengthened Bureau of Statistics (BOS) through improved processes, systems, training and IT
capacity
*   Improved the coverage, timeliness, quality, quantity and application of relevant survey data and
statistical output.
*   Trained staff to undertake the impending National Census
Sub-Component 3.2: Establish a Policy Coordination and Programme Management Unit (PCPMU)
*   Establishment of a PCPMU in the Office of the President that is adequately staffed and equipped to
(i) monitor and evaluate PRSP, HlPC, PRSC, and PSTAC and assist with implementation
(ii) manage PSTAC implementation
(iii) Undertake studies to inform and improve policies and implementation
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 24073-GUA Date of latest CAS discussion: 9/19/02
The PRSP, CAS and PRSC provide the basis for realigning and coordinating assistance from all
development partners over the next four years. The new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS no.
24073-GUA) was dedicated to optimizing Bank support for the implementation of the PRSP (PRSP/JSA
no. 24172-GUA). Both documents were presented and approved on September 19, 2002. The
Association's strategy is to support the PRSP through a series of closely spaced Poverty Reduction
Support Credits (PRSCs) while providing targeted technical assistance to build public sector capacity
and meet benchmarks through this Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC) and others that
might follow.
-3-



The PRSC will provide programmatic lending, incorporating policy benchmarks consistent with the
strategy articulated in the Government's PRSP. Subsequent PRSCs will update these benchmarks in
accordance with Government progress and ongoing needs assessments. The PSTAC is targeted to
support two PRSP priority areas: (i) building stronger institutions and better governance, and (ii)
improving safety nets. It will also establish in the President's Office a well staffed secretariat to monitor
and evaluate PRSP, HIPC, PRSC and PSTAC implementation, undertake policy studies to refine and
improve PRSP outcomes, and manage the PSTAC through a Project Coordination Unit.
The table below summarizes the seven pillars of the Government's poverty reduction strategy and the
policy benchmarks to be incorporated into the PRSC. It also shows how the Association, through the
PSTAC and other projects, and other development organizations are assisting the Government in
implementing the PRSP.
PRSP, PRSC, PSTAC AND DONOR ACTMTIES
PRSP Pillars                          PRSC Policy Reforms                       Prospective Donor
Assistance
1. Broad-based,        * Agreement on a macro-economic program with performance     IMF
jobs-generating economic  targets for fiscal and BoP deficits, monetary growth (in the
growth                   context of IMF PRGF).
* Agree on overall review of tax system and administration. and  PSTAC, IMF,
implement recommendations.                                 CARTAC
* Introduce new legislation governing forestry and mining  sectors.  DFID
* Reform of sugar sector and construction of Skeldon sugar mill.  DFID,
World Bank
2. Environmental       * Undertaken mining and forestry sector environmental assessments
protection
3. Stronger public     * Establish a new Policy Coordination and Programme Management  PSTAC, DFID
institutions and better   Unit (PCPMU).
govemance              * Approve overall monitoring and evaluation plan and strengthen the  PSTAC, UNDP
Statistical Bureau.                                        IDB
* Agree with IMF on share of wages in the budget and mechanism for  IMF
future public sector wage adjustments.
* Pass and make effective new Procurement legislation and    PSTAC, IDB
implementing procedures.
* Draft and enact new Audit Act and implement program to strengthen PSTAC, IDB
audit and oversight mechanisms based on the CFAA findings.
* Take steps to integrate capital and recurrent expenditures and  CIDA
introduce program budgeting.
* Strengthen local governments to improve local level service delivery.  UB, NDP
* Allocate subventions to local govemment based on agreed formula.  IDB
4. Investment in human  * Formulate and prove National strategic plan for HIV/AIDS, establish  World Bank, IDB
capital, with emphasis on  management arrangements for the implementation and develop
basic education and health  institutional arrangements for program monitoring and evaluation.
* Develop an action plan for reduced school repetition rates, increased  orld Bank, DFID
enrolment in secondary schools and reduced absenteeism of students
and teachers.
* Establish a formula based system for allocation of financial resources
to schools and undertake pilots.
Investment in physical  * Implement new legal and regulatory framework and tender   orld Bank, DFID
- 4 -



capital , with emphasis on  management contract for private operator of Guyana Water.  IDB
better and broader    * Maintain pricing and subsidy agreements to achieve 100% cost
provision of safe water and  recovery for Operation and Maintenance expenditures.  EU
sanitation services,  * Implement squatter settlement supply program.
farm-to-market roads,
drainage and irrigation
systems, and housing
6. Improved safety nets  * Implement Pilot Reforns                             PSTAC, IDB
* Evaluate Program Reforms
* Review the Social Safety Nets Legislation
* Conduct Labor Market Assessment
7. Special intervention
programs to address                                                             U (LEAP Program)
regional pockets of
poverty.              _
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
Guyana is a highly indebted, low middle-income economy, with a population of about 750,000 people
and per capita income estimated at US$750. Most of Guyana's population and economic activities are
concentrated within a narrow coastal strip. The interior is largely forested and inhabited by scattered
Amerindian communities. It is well endowed with natural resources, good agricultural land, diversified
mineral deposits and tropical forests, which are largely undeveloped and have considerable growth
potential. The economy is natural resource based with agriculture (mainly sugar and rice), bauxite, gold
and timber accounting for most of the output in the productive sectors.
The country has relied heavily upon development assistance since independence in 1966. Following
independence, Guyana pursued a state interventionist policy of "cooperative socialism". After two
decades of declining investment and negative growth resulting in an unsustainable debt situation, the
Government adopted an economic recovery program in 1988. During the period of declining prosperity
there was a significant emigration of skilled workers. The country still suffers from considerable
emigration of qualified persons to neighboring Caribbean countries, the UK, Canada, and the United
States. In contrast to the abundant natural resources, human resources are extremely limited.
Governance and economic management problems are exacerbated by the ethnic rivalries that translate
into occasional strikes and violence and parliamentary stalemate. The CAS describes Guyana as a fragile
democracy where political parties remain divided largely along ethnic lines. The People's Progressive
Party (PPP), currently in power, is closely identified with the Indo-Guyanese community which make up
most of the agricultural workers in the key sugar and rice sectors. The People's National Congress (PNC)
historically represents the interests of the largely urban Afro-Guyanese population, mainly employed in
the civil service and the bauxite sector. In the 12 months following the March, 2001 PPP electoral
victory the National Assembly sat on only 20 occasions. At present, the political opposition is refusing
to participate in parliamentary debate. This is holding up implementation of procurement reforms in
parliament and it is very possible that other essential fiduciary and civil service reforms and sectoral
restructuring initiatives identified by the PRSP and included in HIPC, IMIF and IDB programs and the
PRSC will also be prejudiced by political dissension.
A second governance issue that has recently come to the fore is crime and violence. There have been a
number of homicides in the last several months. Thus far the police force has been the primary target. It
- 5 -



is rumored that drug and arms trafficking may be behind the violence which also seems to have spurred
an increase in other forms of criminal activity. Concern has reached the point that stronger national
security laws are being debated in parliament. There is also a risk that security problems will squeeze out
the reform agenda, undercut policy reform and institutional strengthening initiatives, reduce private
sector investment, and give new impetus to emigration. And once again, the difficulties of addressing
security issues are exacerbated by ethnic rivalries and distrust. The Government has asked for assistance
in dealing with the problem and donors are considering how best to respond. IDB is discussing a loan
operation presumably for next year.
The key tenets of the economic reform program initiated in the late 1980's included: (i) trade and capital
liberalization; (ii) removal of price controls and subsidies; (iii) privatization and a reduction in the size of
the public sector; and (iv) expanded spending for social services. Adoption of the economic recovery
plan led to macroeconomic improvements including low inflation, real GDP growth averaging over 6%
between 1992 and 1997, and a decline in the rate of poverty, which decreased by 8% between 1992 and
1999. In 1998, however, economic performance deteriorated and negative GDP growth, down to -1.7%
in 2000, was recorded due to political disturbances, drought conditions brought about by El Nifno, and
lower commodity export prices. Recovery has been slow and real GDP growth rates rose to 1.4 % in
2001 and are expected to increase to 4.2% by 2006. A currency depreciation increased utility prices and
this coupled with a large June 1999 wage increase for civil servants resulted in an increase in inflation
from 4.7% in 1998 to 8.7% in 1999. With economic recovery inflation fell to 5.8% and is expected to
drop to 2.5% in the years following 2005.
Public sector reform efforts have been concentrated on institutional strengthening and streamlining the
public sector. The Government has privatized state-owned financial institutions, the national airline, and
electricity companies, and is also taking steps to privatize the mining companies and introduce private
management to the bauxite, water and sugar industries. There has been less progress with public sector
modernization and civil service reform. As a result, the public sector faces weak financial management,
overlapping and contradictory functional responsibilities, and over-centralization of decision making.
Following a two-month strike by civil servants between May and June 1999, a binding arbitration
tribunal granted substantial civil service wage increases amounting to an additional 1.3% of GDP
between 1998 and 1999 and a further 0.9% of GDP between 1999 and 2000 (or an increase in the public
sector wage bill of GY$2.6 bn and GY$2.1 bn respectively, not accounting for the expenditures for
severance payments). This development continued in the following years and is expected to increase the
civil service wages by another 0.7% of GDP to 11.4% of GDP. Civil service wages will account for 32%
of the total non-capital expenditures of the government. Under the IMF-agreed macroeconomic
framework, the Government has agreed to limit the nonfinancial public sector wage bill in 2002 to G$33
billion.
Government Strategy
The Government's overall development strategy is set out in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP), prepared under the Enhanced-HlPC initiative. The PRSP built upon an earlier,
Government-authored 10-year National Development Strategy and was formulated with broad
participation of private and civil society organizations. The objective of the PRSP is to identify an
actionable agenda to reduce poverty by restoring growth to pre-1997 levels, improving social services,
and expanding and strengthening social safety nets. The underlying approach adopted by the
Government and donors to develop and implement this comprehensive poverty reduction strategy is built
upon three basic tenets
-6 -



*   Participatory Approach and Ownership. The strategy contained in the PRSP has been
developed through a highly participatory approach in order to legitimize its priorities and build
ownership. Hence some 8,000 Guyanese were involved in PRSP consultations, including
representatives-of community groups, the private sector and civil society groups
*   Clear Benchmarks and Targets. The Government has committed to achieving measurable
benchmarks defined in the PRSP and is consequently developing programs to achieve those
benchmarks
*   Monitor and Evaluate Results. Donor programs are triggered by performance against clear
benchmarks. Hence the Government has endorsed a rigorous approach to monitoring and
evaluation of results which will build upon the existing HIPIC tracking system. A special M&E
Unit will be established by PSTAC in the Planning and Project Coordination and Management
Unit (PCPMU) to determiine performance and the loan is also supporting strengthening of the
Bureau of Statistics
Analysis based on the 1992 Living Standards Measurement Survey and the 1999 Living Conditions
Survey demonstrates that the overall incidence of Guyanese living below the poverty line has decreased,
particularly in urban and coastal areas. However, poverty is still endemic in rural areas and predominates
among Amerindian groups. The 1999 data indicate that 88% of the Amerindian population fall below the
poverty line, and that poor households are generally larger, agrarian, live in the interior and have very
low levels of education.
The PRSP contains a comprehensive agenda for achieving poverty reduction built around three general
themes and comprising initiatives in seven areas. The themes are (i) stimulating economic growth, (ii)
strengthen governance and public sector capacity and accountability, and (iii) strengthen the delivery of
basic services. The seven-prong agenda includes
(i) Broad-based, job generating economic growth
(ii) Stronger institutions and better governance
(iii) Investment in human capital, with emphasis on basic education and health
(iv) Investment in infrastructure to support better services in water, sanitation and housing
(v) Improved safety nets
(vi) Investment in infrastructure to support growth, and
(vii) Special intervention programs to address regional pockets of poverty.
The Association's CAS builds upon the three broad Guyanese/PRSP themes. And the PRSC and PSTAC
are its main operational vehicles addressing especially (ii) the strengthening of gqvemance, public sector
capacity and accountability, and (iii) the delivery of basic services including social safety nets. The
PSTAC's largest component, Strengthen Fiscal, Financial and Fiduciary Areas, addresses key PRSP
agenda initiatives in close coordination with the donor community including:
(i) Support for the IMiF/Government negotiated tax policy and Revenue Authority administrative
reform program;
(ii) Strengthening of procurement capacity and regulations;
(iii) Identifying fundamental fiduciary reforms in the areas of parliamentary oversight,
discretionary authority
limits, and asset declaration;
(iv) Strengthening of civil service management by integrating and upgrading payroll and human
resources databases; and
(v) Supporting privatization of a major bank (GNCB) and management of Government owned
corporations and properties.
The Association will also use the PSTAC to strengthen the basic social safety net services provided by
-7 -



the Government through its Ministry of Human Services, Labor, and Social Security (MHSLSS) and
prepare for any eventual reform induced retrenchments by funding a severance and training study.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Component 1: Strengthen fiscal, financial and fiduciary management
Sub-Component 1.1: Strengthen the Revenue Authoritv
Guyana's capacity to increase revenue generation through improved tax and customs administration is a
major fiscal concern. The IMF is particularly concerned with tax policy and the management of the
Revenue Authority (GRA). The 1MF and the Caribbean Regional Technical Assistance Centre
(CARTAC) have just finished a comprehensive diagnostic that will lead to negotiations with the
Government of a tax and customs program. Funding and support for the program will come from PSTAC,
the Fund and IDB operations.
* Strategic Choices. The definition of this component will depend in part upon agreement between
RMF and the GOG. Hence, flexibility will need to be maintained although support for expert
consultants to implement a program including anti-corruption activities will almost certainly be
included.
Sub-Component 1.2: Streng-then Procurement Administration
The need to reform antiquated procurement legislation and strengthen the responsible authorities was
requisite for expanding aid to Guyana. The new Procurement Law enacted in 2002 still has shortcomings
and central and regional tender boards need institutional strengthening. The 1999 CPAR findings have
recently been updated and the action plan determines the reform program that will be supported by
PSTAC
* Strategic Choices. It was decided to focus on central government procurement institutions, owing to
the limited human and financial resources available to undertake a larger program.
* Sub-Component 1.3: Strengthen Fiduciary Oversight
Similar to procurement, the need to strengthen Guyana's fiduciary capacity was considered a priority
strategic issue. The recently completed Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) revealed
important deficiencies in the financial management systems in Guyana and detailed a comprehensive
action program exceeding the scope and funding envisioned for this component. Essential governance
reforms in three areas were identified.
* Strategic Choices. The decision was taken to focus on underlying governance issues and leave
reform of auditing, accounting and budgeting to other donors including IDB which has a large public
sector modernization pipeline. Hence, PSTAC will support studies in the three core areas assumed
critical to fiduciary reform: (i) establishment of a public financial oversight mechanism within the
parliamentary structure, (ii) development of proposals to reduce discretionary powers of the
executive and key agencies, and (iii) reform and disclosure of asset disclosure rules.
Sub-Component 1.4: Integrate Human Resources and Payroll Databases
An integrated, comprehensive and validated payroll and human resource management information
system is basic for human resource management. Work on upgrading PSM's HR database has been
initiated with PHRD assistance. It must be integrated with the recently implemented payroll system.
*   Strategic Choices. Inclusion of this small ($200,000) component was questioned owing primarily to
- 8 -



the competing claims on PSTAC funds. However, the Association decided to include the component
in light of its importance for HR management, development of integrated financial management,
budget and other systems, and the lack of alternative funding.
Sub-Component 1.5: Support Privatization Activity
Privatization and private sector strengthening are considered key to rationalizing govemment and
increasing private investment and economic growth. The Government's Privatization Unit is engaged in
important activities, including a national bank privatization highlighted in the H[PC, PRSP and PRSC.
Program implementation depends upon expert consultant support.
*   Strategic Choices. Initially the PSTAC contemplated strengthening the general framework for
private sector investment building upon work done by the World Bank, USAID and others.
However, following a FIAS mission report and discussions with IDB which has several programs in
the area, it was decided that PSTAC should focus on critical Privatization Unit initiatives being
undertaken by the Goverment. Hence this component will undertake new activities associated with
the privatization of the Guyana National Cooperative Bank (GNCB), also addressed under the
Association's Financial and Private Sector Institutional Development closing in December 2002, and
strengthen the management of the Government's state owned corporations and entities. The
importance of these initiatives in strengthening the Government's fiscal position, divesting publicly
owned businesses, and supporting private sector growth justifies the component's inclusion.
Component 2: Improve social safety nets
Sub-Component 2.1: Strenuethen Existing Social Safety Net Programs
Addressing social safety nets was deemed essential given current poverty indices and the likelihood of
more unemployment and social dislocation resulting from the restructuring of sugar and water industries.
The Government's principal social safety net programs are managed by the Ministry of Human Services,
Labor and Social Security (MHSLSS).
*   Strategic Choices. A diagnostic of the MHSLSS operations verified the need for basic institutional
strengthening of existing programs-it was decided that no new programs would be created at this
time.
Sub-Component 2.2: Prepare Safety Net Solutions for Vulnerable Groups
* Strategic Choices. Given Bank concern for the consequences of necessary sectoral restructuring it
was decided to set aside PSTAC resources to complement current trust fund work to profile
vulnerable groups in order that severance and support programs can be developed.
Component 3: Develop the institutional capacity to manage, monitor, evaluate and improve PRSP,
PRSC and PSTAC implementation
Sub-Component 3.1: Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics Capacity
Public sector management and PRSP implementation require timely and reliable economic, demographic
and sectoral data.
*   Strategic Choices. Given BOS limitations, it was decided that the agency should not be charged with
PRSP monitoring at this time. The program scope was limited to ensure its feasibility. It was
decided to support training of census operatives but not to fund the implementation of the census
-9-



itself.
Sub-Component 3.2: Establish a Policy Coordination and Programme Management Unit (PCPMU)
Management of an IDA program including H{PC, PRSP, PRSC, and PSTAC requires a well articulated
central unit.
*   Strategic Choices. Alternative PCPMU design and staffing configurations have been debated and a
single unit comprising responsibilities for monitoring and evaluation (M&E), policy development
and PSTAC project management and coordination was chosen. The decentralization of some M&E
functions to Ministries and local government and stakeholders was also decided and will be piloted
in the loan.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The PRSP and CAS call for a wide range of Public Sector Reform projects which aim at
improving public revenues as well as increasing efficiency in the delivery of public services and
goods. The outlined reforms are implemented with the help of various donors.
As the first of a series of Public Sector Technical Assistance Credits, this project focuses on the
most critical issues implementing initial solutions, and determining concepts for future donor
operations. The following table presents an overview of the activities and subsequent operations
of each component implemented.
Component/Sub-      fmplementing       Probable Follow-on Activities Including
Components           Agency iOther Donor Activities
Component 1: Strengthenfiscal,financial andfiduciary management
1.1 Strengthen Revenue Revenue Authority  The IMF and CARTAC will provide technical assistance once the
Authority                              program is negotiated. A large IDB financial administration
operation is expected to support the implementation of the bulk of
the program.
1.2 Strengthen      Ministry of        PSTAC addresses central procurement-the CTB and successor
Procurement          Finance/Central   institutions. Decentralized procurement strengthening will need to
Administration       Tender Board (CTB) be taken up by subsequent operations and it is possible that IDB
support will be forthcoming.
1.3 Strengthen Fiduciary Attorney      PSTAC will look at basic governance issues. IDB support of
Oversight            General/Ministry of  implementation is possible. IDB expected finance of the Revenue
Legal Affairs     Authority and Auditor General's Office will support this exercise.
DFID is strengthening the Accountant General's Office, budgeting
reform and future implementation of an integrated financial
_ management system.
1.4 Integrate Human  Ministry of Finance, DFID is working on an integrated financial management system.
Resources and Payroll  Ministry of Public  The IDB may support the implementation of the new HR and
Data Bases          Service            Payroll Databases through their new IT Program.
1.5 Support         Office of the      IDB is taking the lead in reform of the private sector investment
Privatization Activity  President/PCPMU  framework and judicial strengthening and has several operations
I_________________ _  Iplanned.
Component 2: Improve social safety nets
-10-



2.1 Strengthen Existing  Ministry of Human  Unless a need arises to create new programs this component may
Social Safety Net   Services, Labor and  not need more work.
Programs            Social Security
2.2 Prepare Safety Net Office of the  A Norwegian Trust Fund grant is currently supporting the
Solutions for Vulnerable President/PCPMU  profiling of target communities. In the event of retrenchments, it is
Groups                               very likely that the implementation of these programs will require
additional work and funding, for instance for training and
identification of alternative employment opportunities. Financing
severance could come from IMWs PRGF program.
Component 3: Develop institutional capacity to manage, monitor, evaluate and improve PRSP, PRSC and
PSTAC implementation
3.1 Strengthen the  Bureau of Statistics  The IDB has a pipeline loan to stiengthen the BOS.
Bureau of Statistics
Capacity
3.2 Establish a Policy  Office of the  Funding for continuation of the PCPMU will need to be found
Coordination and    President/PCPMU  when PSTAC concludes in three years.
Programme Management
Unit (PCPMU)
Component 1: Strengthen fiscal, financial and fiduciary management
The objective of this component is to improve the accountability, transparency and efficiency of
Guyana's public sector as regards financial management, fiscal discipline and fiduciary arrangements.
Specifically, it aims to do the following:
Sub-Component 1.1: Strengthen the Revenue Authority. Definition of this component requires
agreement between the IMF and Government. Activities could include the following:
(i) Employ expert consultants to help manage the GRA and put in place the agreed reform program.
This could include the funding of high level consultants for period of a year or more;
(ii) Define and implement an anti-corruption program. The reform that consolidated taxation and
customs agencies, creating the GRA, was undertaken in part to address corruption. This work needs to
be continued. A diagnostic, code of conduct, new regulations allowing for dismissal of corrupt officials,
systems and training programs are contemplated;
(iii) Improve tax and customs systems, procedures and training. There is a need for basic institutional
strengthening of GRA business systems and revision, documentation and dissemination of procedures
and guidelines. Training of officials must accompany these reforms; and
(iv) Prepare for implementation of agreed tax reforms including possible preparatory work for a new
value added tax (VAT). The GRA diagnostic makes concrete recommendations for changes in existing
taxes as part of a transition to a reformed system that could include a value added tax (VAT). The
development, regulation and documentation of these reforms may be launched by PSTAC.
Sub-Component 1.2: Strengthen Procurement Administration
(i) Draft rules and regulations for procurement law. With Parliament's approval of the Procurement Law
specialist advice will be provided on the drafting of rules and regulations to implement the Law. Training
will be conducted on the implications for public procurement procedures and practices, and support will
also be provided for dissemination and printing of the new Law; and



(ii) Implement the new procurement law. Once the two main political parties overcome their differences
and can agree on implementing the new law the National Procurement Tender Board (NPTB) and its
secretariat are to be established and will replace the former Central Tenders Board. The component will
help to strengthen the NPAB through improved systems and procedures, including the drafting of
Standard Bidding Documents and procurement manuals, and establishing a Management Information
System in the NPTB's Secretariat. Public employees will benefit from a series of workshops, seminars
and training on public procurement.
Sub-Component 1.3: Fiduciar Oversight
The recently concluded CFAA is highly critical of the lack of fiduciary oversight in Guyana. To begin to
address the fundamental governance problems an finding will be provided for contracting an independent
consultant organization to produce three critical studies. Results and recommendations should be
publicly debated and form the basis for draft legislation and regulations. The CFAA found that
improvements in these areas was absolutely essential to fiduciary reform efforts.
(i) Strengthening Parliament'sfiduciary oversight. This study will focus on the Parliamentary Sectoral
Committee on Economic Services (PSCES) and its supporting secretariat. Both are authorized by the
constitution but have not yet been constituted. The Government and the Association believe the ESC and
its secretariat are the appropriate vehicles for conducting oversight of public sector institutions. The
study will comprise four tasks: (a) develop an operational framework for the ESC and its secretariat; (b)
develop systems and procedures for conducting analysis and presenting findings; (c) develop rules and
procedures for committee deliberations; and (d) identifying skills and training requirements for
secretariat staff and Committee members;
(ii) Development of proposals to limit discretionary powers in key line agencies and ministries. The
CFAA's findings regarding the strong need to limit the discretionary authority of the executive,
ministries and key agencies, has been reaffirmed by the IMF's recent diagnostic of the Revenue
Authority. The cost to Guyana in terms of foregone revenues, distorted incentives and demoralization is
significant. Hence this study will review and evaluate existing instruments of governance--statutes,
charters, bylaws, operating policies and procedures, rules and regulations, relationships with affiliates,
etc-and how they are implemented in key institutions, document good practice elsewhere, and make
recommendations as to how the discretionary framework must be reformed; and
(iii) Strengthen the disclosure requirements for public sector officials. This study will review the Law
on Public Disclosure and the strengthening and reorganization of the Integrity Commission. Under the
current law, senior public officials are required to file disclosure forms of their personal assets but
coverage is incomplete and there is no follow-up once the records are filed with the three person
Commission. The Commission is under-resourced, not considered sufficiently independent, filings are
not made available to the public, and investigations and enforcement is also lacking. Hence the study will
look at good practice elsewhere and determine (i) what is required to make the process credible
-including making submissions public, (ii) appropriate Commission resourcing and Government support,
and (iii) support required from the Auditor General and other agencies to identify and follow-up on
misdeeds.
Sub-Component 1.4: Integrate Human Resources and Payroll Databases
(i) Implement an integrated payroll and human resource management database. This sub-component
will implement a fully functioning integrated Human Resources and Payroll system to support the
Government's goals in managing payroll, jobs and positions. It will (a) install hardware and software for
integrating the Ministry of Finance's payroll and Public Sector Ministry's human resources data bases; (b)
train core staff in the operation of the systems and training of other agency staff, (c) cull and clean data,
- 12 -



and (d) define agency roles and procedures for system maintenance and operations.
Sub-Component 1.5: Support Privatization Activity
(i) Support during for the privatization process of the state-owned bank. Building upon previous World
Bank work financed under the Financial and Private Sector Institutional Development Credit (FPID), this
activity will fund negotiation and finalization of Guyana National Cooperative Bank (GNCB) sales
agreements, transaction closure and post privatization monitoring including management and sale of
GNCB properties. The work is being carried out by specialized domestic and international consultants;
and
(ii) Supportfor the Privatization Unit's program to manage Government owned entities and properties.
PSTAC will support the same core consultant group's program to bring order to the National Investments
Commercial and Industrial Limited (NICIL), the Government's holding company. Activities will include
setting up a computerized accounting system, ascertaining the legal status and value of properties, and
managing them for the Government which includes lease, rent, divestiture, liquidation and restructuring
activities.
Component 2: Improve the coverage and efficiency of social safety nets
A diagnostic of existing social safety net programs identified a need for institutional strengthening and
targeted diagnostics and interventions to address problems in key programs.
Sub-Component 2.1: Strengthen Existin,e Social Safety Net Programs
(i) Strengthen the capacity of the MHLSS to manage safety net programs through improved systems,
processes and training. The Ministry of Human Services, Labour and Social Security (MHLSS) is
responsible for the management of assistance to the poor. The largest of these programs are the Old Age
Pensions, Public Assistance, and Difficult Circumstances programs. These programs combined reach an
estimated 55,000 beneficiaries. Benefit levels are low and service delivery systems are outdated and
inefficient. Consequently, this component aims to improve safety net coverage, by improving efficiency,
coverage and service and efficacy of the existing safety net programs and presenting alternatives for
unemployed workers in restructured industries through the implementation of computer systems and
improved procedures and training; and
(ii) Safety Net Diagnostics. The present school feeding program reaches only a quarter of the eligible
students. A diagnostic will be undertaken and recommendations developed to increase coverage and
efficiency possibly through decentralization. A second diagnostic will look at the vocational training
institute and whether the training it offers is aligned with labor market demand. A third diagnostic will
look at safety net legislation, propose reforms and possibly draft new legislation.
Sub-Component 2.2: Prepare Safety Net Options for Vulnerable Groups
(i) Undertake an analysis of the profile and needs of target populations affected by sector restructuring
and develop and debate safety net recommendations. In consultation with the Government, private sector
and civil society groups, a consultant team will undertake background studies, including survey work, to
provide an analysis of the profile and needs of target populations likely to be affected by sector
restructuring. The team would focus primarily on the issues facing the sugar and water sectors over the
next two years, taking advantage of on-going IDA assistance to restructure these sectors. This analysis
will serve as the basis for developing safety net options to mitigate the potentially adverse impact of
expected retrenchment on vulnerable groups. Specifically, the team would design retrenchment packages
and labor market and training programs for retrenched workers.
- 13 -



Component 3: Develop institutional capacity to manage, monitor, evaluate and improve HIPC,
PRSP, PRSC and PSTAC
The objective of this component is to support the Government's efforts to implement the strategy
embodied in the PRSP and monitor and evaluate progress. It aims to improve the Government's capacity
to: generate and disseminate reliable data; involve communities in monitoring PRSP activities and
impact; and build institutional capacity to undertake Government monitoring, evaluation and
implementation of the PRSP and PSTAC.
Sub-Component 3.1: Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics
(i) Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics (BOS) through improved processes, systems, training and IT
capacity. The capacity of the Bureau of Statistics to generate timely and appropriate data for
policy-making is constrained by weak in-house research and analytical capabilities. This component will
strengthen managerial and supervisory capacity by providing experts in IT, data generation and analysis,
and training for senior management including participation in appropriate seminars and workshops. In
light of the shortage of skilled statisticians coming through the education system, junior staff would
benefit from formal training programs and the statistics curriculum at the University of Guyana will be
improved. In addition to enhancing the technical expertise of the BOS, this sub-component will address
institutional weaknesses by significantly upgrading IT equipment for data management, data
dissemination, and providing for the establishment of a BOS website; and
(ii) Improve the coverage, timeliness, quality, quantity and use of relevant survey data and statistical
output. This sub-component will improve survey data by training BOS officials and supporting efforts to
improve questionnaire design, field-testing and processes for data entry. It will also assist field
operations in the collect baseline household survey living conditions data and train 2,500 census
enumerators to ensure that census operations are carried out with due regard to operational details.
Sub-Component 3.2: Establish a Policy Coordination and Programme Management Unit (PCPMU)
(i) Monitor and evaluate PRSP, HIPC, PRSC implementation. Once established, the PCPMU will be
responsible for the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of PRSP activities. Specifically, the M&E
functions would consist of: (a) coordinating a network of focal points within select government
ministries, (b) providing technical support and manage M&E capacity building programs for key
ministries, (c) piloting an innovative community-based M&E program on local PRSP impacts and
activities; (d) tracking key policy reforms within the PRSP, HPC and PRSC; and (v) developing and
carrying-out a public outreach program on PRSP activities and progress. The component will finance
local and international technical experts, including community development facilitators, a policy analyst,
a communications officer and IT consultants. It will also provide for a program of training, and IT
hardware and software. The head of this unit will also assist in PRSC and donor coordination;
(ii) Develop analytic and policy-making capacity in the PCPMU. The PCPMU would include a PSTAC
supported Policy Unit staffed by analysts that will be responsible for providing strategic policy advice to
the Government with particular emphasis on the implementation of reforms articulated in the PRSP; and
(iii) Manage PSTAC implementation. The PCPMU would be the agency responsible for managing and
coordinating the overall implementation of the PSTAC through a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). This
component will finance key personnel, including staff with disbursement and procurement experience
and secretarial support.
- 14-



*~~~~~~~~.41
-  W m p o n e W                Tc 6 w1%                       1 ah k
Component 1. Strengthen Fiscal, Financial and Fiduciary  0.39   7.4      0.37      7.8
Management
1.1. Strengthen the Revenue Authority
1.2. Strengthen Procurement Administration          0.57       10.8     0.56       11.8
1.3 Strengthen Fiduciary Oversight                  0.30       5.7      0.28       5.9
1.4 Integrate Human Resources and Payroll Databases  0.40      7.6      0.37       7.8
1.5 Support Privatization Activity                  0.33       6.2       0.32      6.7
Component 2. Improve Social Safety Nets              0.45       8.5      0.43       9.0
2.1 Strengthen Existing Social Safety Net Programs
2.2 Prepare for Possible Retrenchment                0.05       0.9      0.05       1.1
Component 3. Develop Institutional Capacity to Manage,  0.65   12.3      0.63      13.2
Monitor, Evaluate and Improve PRSP, PSTAC and
Economic Management
3.1 Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics Capacity
3.2 Establish a Policy Coordination and Programme    2.15      40.6      1.75      36.8
Management Unit
-Project Coordinating Unit                                   0.0                 0.0
-Policy Analysis Unit                                        0.0                 0.0
-Monitoring & Evaluation Unit                                0.0                 0.0
0.0                 0.0
0.0                 0.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _0 .0   _ _ _ _ _0 .0
Total Project Costs  5.29    100.0      4.76     100.0
Total Financing Required    5.29     100.0      4.76     100.0
*Price and physical contingencies are included in sub-components.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Component): Strengthenfiscal,financial andfiduciary management
1.1 Strengthen RevenueAuthority. Support will be provided for implementation of (i) administrative
reforms to reduce corruption and increase tax and customs administrative efficiency and (ii) tax policy
reforms agreed between the Government and IMF including consideration of a value added tax.
1.2 Strengthen Procurement Administration. This sub-component will support the implementation of
the new procurement legislation and administrative reforms.
1.3 Strengthen Fiduciary Oversight. Based upon CFAA findings there are three fundamental fiduciary
reforms that must be implemented: (i) reduction of line agency and ministerial discretionary power, (ii)
establishment of fiduciary oversight within Parliament, and (iii) enforcement of asset declaration among
high officials. The studies to be undertaken in this component will propose reforms based upon
international best practice and cause them to be publicly debated.
1.4 Integrate Human Resources and Payroll Data Bases. Systems consolidation will allow the
Government to better manage human resources and contribute significantly to the eventual
implementation of an integrated financial management system.
- 15-



1.5 Support Privatization Activity. This sub-component will support the privatization of the GNCB and
other Government owned entities.
Component 2: Improve social safety nets
2.1 Strengthen existing social safety net programs. This component will strengthen both the ministry
charged with managing safety net programs and the administration of the programs themselves.
2.2 Prepare safety net solutions for vulnerable groups. Expected restructuring of the bauxite, water and
sugar sectors may result in retrenchment of workers, creating a potentially volatile political situation.
The development of severance and training packages and alternative employment opportunities will need
to form part of the Government's overall strategy to restructure these industries if the reforms are to
succeed.
Component 3: Develop an institutional capacity to manage, monitor, evaluate and improve PRSP and
PSTAC implementation.
3.1 Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics Capacity. Technical assistance, equipment and training will
enable the BOS to provide accurate and timely data necessary for public sector management.
3.2 Establish a Policy Coordination and Programme Management Unit (PCPMU). The PCPMU will
develop capacity to track, monitor and evaluate HIPC, PRSP, PRSC and manage PSTAC
implementation.
3. Benefits and target population:
In the broadest sense, the benefits of the PSTAC will accrue to the people of Guyana who will benefit
from the implementation of the poverty reduction strategy and improvements in targeted public sector
performance. Like the PRSP and PRSC, the PSTAC will contribute to creating the conditions for poverty
reduction and sustained growth.
Component): Strengthen fiscal,financial andfiduciary management
The government, private sector and population at large will benefit from this component. Increased
Government efficiency and revenue will result from improved tax policy and collection, more transparent
procuremnent procedures, strengthened auditing and control of public expenditures, improved human
resource management and the efficient completion of privatization activities. In parallel, the private
sector benefits as reforms will contribute to a much improved investment and commercial environment.
Finally, the increased revenue and growth in economic activity will help to finance a variety of poverty
and public investment interventions that will benefit the populace, especially the poor.
Component 2: Improve social safety nets
Targeted programs serve some 55,000 poor Guyanese. It is hoped that strengthening of the Ministry of
Human Services, Labour and Social Security, the agency responsible for managing these programs, will
contribute to more efficient provision of services, payment, and possibly even expanded coverage.
Research into equitable severance and related packages is intended to benefit the segment of the
population directly affected by the expected future restructuring of the water and sugar sectors.
Component 3: Develop an institutional capacity to manage, monitor, evaluate and improve PRSP and
PSTAC implementation.
Public sector management requires timely and credible data. This component will strengthen the BoS
and create the PCPMU in the Office of the President, to ensure that PRSP, HIPC, PRSC and PSTAC data
is gathered, evaluated and that necessary changes are undertaken in government programs to maximize
growth opportunities and to reduce poverty country-wide.
- 16 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over 3 years. The Government official responsible for project
implementation will be the PCPMU Head. The Project Coordinating Unit will be located in the new
PCPMU. The PSTAC will fund key personnel, including the Head of the PCPMU who will be the
Project Coordinator. The project will also finance PCU staff with financial management, disbursement
and procurement responsibilities and experience with IDA projects. The financial capacity assessment
has been completed and PSTAC staff are competent to manage the loan and financial systems that will be
satisfactory by start-up. The Head of the PCPMU will be responsible for overseeing the implementation
of all project components and will have direct responsibility for:
* establishing and managing the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), M&E and Policy units within the
PCPMU (Sub-Component 4.2)
* directly managing sub-component 3.2, "Prepare safety net solutions for vulnerable groups"
* directly managing sub-component 1.5, "Supporting privatization activity".
Each of the other components will have a coordinator who will be a ranking ministerial or agency
official to ensure ownership and facilitate implementation. The responsible organizations and
coordinators are presented in the table below.
The Association will also retain a technically qualified national who will work out of the World Bank's
Guyana office for the duration of the project. This individual will be trained in World Bank
procurement, disbursement and financial management. The consultant will be responsible for both
monitoring project implementation progress and assisting component coordinators to plan activities,
prepare TORs, and to comply with the Association's financial, procurement and reporting requirements.
The individual will have a dotted-line reporting relationship to the head of the Association's Guyana
office who will be expected to help with implementation issues requiring higher level intervention, and
will report directly to the Washington-based task manager. In this way the project will mitigate
communications and implementation problems that have complicated project implementation elsewhere
in Guyana.
Component/Sub-Components                   Implementing        Coordinator
Agency
Component1: Strengthenfiscal, financial and
fiduciary management
1. I Strengthen Revenue Authority          Revenue Authority   Head of Revenue
Authority
1.2 Strengthen Procurement Administration  Ministry of         Secretary of the
Finance/Central    Treasury and
Tender Board (CTB)  Chairman of the
CTB
1.3 Strengthen Fiduciary Oversight         Attorney General's  Attorney General
Office
1.4 Integrate Human Resources and Payroll Data  Ministry of Finance,  Head of Payroll
Bases                                       Ministry of Public  System
Service            Implementation
l   Project
1.5 Support Privatization Activity         Privatization Unit in  Head of PCPMU
- 17 -



the Office of the
President
Component 2: Improve social safety nets
2.1 Strengthen Existing Social Safety Net Programs Ministry of Labor  Deputy Minister
and Social Welfare  for Human
Security
2.2 Prepare Safety Net Solutions for Vulnerable  Office of the  Head of PCPMU
Groups                                      President
Component 3: Develop institutional capacity to
manage, monitor, evaluate and improve PRSP and
PSTAC implementation
3.1 Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics Capacity  Bureau of Statistics  Head of Bureau of
Statistics
3.2 Establish a Policy Coordination and     Office of the       Head of Office of
Programme Management Unit (PCPMU)           President           the President; Head
of PCPMU
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Technical Assistance Credit.
The choice of the technical assistance credit follows a tradition of the Association supporting structural
adjustment/PRSC lending with technical assistance loans to assist Governments in achieving
benchmarks. The PSTAC components are dictated by and are essential to the success of the PRSP and
PRSC programs.
Fewer or More Components.
The strategic choice in designing the PSTAC was how many and which activities to include from the
extensive PRSC/PRSP matrices. The rationale for including the current components is set out in Section
3. The final selection was guided by the following considerations:
(i) In a country with weak institutions, reduced capacity, and a multiplicity of critical needs it makes
more sense to address the most important problems across a number of agencies than focus on a few and
attempt deeper institutional strengthening;
(ii) Such an approach is not likely to be more difficult to implement than this alternative, as the activities
of each component are limited;
(ii) Institutional strengthening would be the sine qua non for inclusion;
(iii) Fiduciary and poverty related activities would be given priority; and
(iv) Funding should be adequate to achieve the desired results taking into account IDB and other donor
activities.



A number of activities were proposed and rejected or delayed for subsequent operations before settling
on the current configuration of components. The Government and project team are satisfied that the
PSTAC includes priority activities and can be implemented successfully.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
t  o  . 4  ~-i-;-;i  ;  -,i,1:  ':  ^ ' Latest Supervision
Sec tor ssue   ;.    --,        P     t       .'7. :, ;2,  (R * ag j  '. -
*      ;    : . - |  ,; * ;  . - !'-<  ;' f ' - -  .-. .  > | n- ~ ..~ .-; S * ' -I -r B_n!  :dp -  pnly).
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Multi-sector                     Poverty Reduction Support
Credit (pipeline)
Privatization and financial sector  Financial and Private Sector  S            S
reform                           Institutional Development
Water Supply and Sanitation      Water Supply Technical           S             S
Assistance
Secondary Education              Guyana Secondary Education       S             S
Other development agencies
IDB                              Public Sector Modernization
IDB                              Urban Development Project
CIDA                             Guyana Economic
Management
CDB                              Revenue Authority
UNDP                             Bureau of Statistics
USAID                            Support to Local Government
Task Force
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A Quality at Entry Review (QER) conducted during project preparation recommended that the project
team  carefully review and take into account the problems encountered in implementing previous loan
operations, including those involving PSTAC components. A review of past GY operations was
conducted to supplement knowledge of current operations and the provision of technical assistance in
general. In Guyana, IDA-supported fiduciary and other reforms have often failed owing to lack of
government ownership and vested interests in addition to limited technical competence. The PSTAC will
also confront these problems, especially in the Revenue Authority, Procurement and Fiduciary Oversight
components. However, unlike some past operations, PSTAC objectives do not depend upon approval of
contentious new legislation but rather study and propose changes and strengthen agencies charged with
fiduciary responsibilities. Actual approval and implementation of reforms and attainment of fiduciary
benchmarks will be required by a series of PRSCs, and HIPC, IMF and EDB programs, which together
constitute huge financial and political incentives and contribute to Executive and agency ownership.
Lessons learned from World Bank experience with technical assistance loans and project implementation
in Guyana emphasize: country ownership and incentives, upstream work, clear objectives, and close
supervision. These are addressed in PSTAC as follows:
*   Ownership and incentives-As observed above, donor programs valued a several hundred million
dollars of assistance and high profile, public debate of results ensures ownership and incentives.
-19-



Institutional strengthening of target agencies also strengthens incentives.
*   Upstream work-each component was prepared with the assistance of either a World Bank or IMF
study (including CFAA, CPAR, PER, IMF/CARTAC tax and customs study, and individual
component diagnostics), PHRD support or an ongoing Association loan.
*   Clear objectives-overall objectives are provided in the PRSC and PRSP and this is reenforced by
HIPC, IMF, and IDB. The TAL objectives are also explicit and measurable.
*   Close supervision-recognizing country implementation problems, the Bank will maintain a project
management consultant in the Georgetown office to provide day-to-day monitoring and assistance
and a large supervision budget has been provided. The PCPMU's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
will help to identify problems and this will be carried out in the context of continuous supervision of
the PRSC and other donor activities hence feedback on PSTAC performance will be constant.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has demonstrated its commitment first by carrying out the activities associated with the
HIPC, PRSP and soon-to-be negotiated PRSC operations. It has agreed to addressing major policy,
oversight and administrative reforms in essential fiduciary and fiscal agencies and activities affecting tax
policy and tax and customs administration (Revenue Authority) and procurement as well as agencies and
parliamentary bodies affected by PSTAC's Fiduciary Oversight component. It has also agreed to locating
the PCPMU in the Office of the President. And to launch PSTAC activities it requested a Project
Preparation Facility of $397,000 to finance expenditures for (i) support for the Privatization Unit; (ii)
preparation of an integrated human resources and payroll database; (iii) training census enumerators; and
(iv) hiring of key PCPMU personnel.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Government has little capacity to transform agreed PRSP benchmarks into the sub-projects necessary
to achieve institutional reform goals. During PSTAC preparation, the Association and other donors have
dispatched technical missions to assist the client in diagnosing components and defining reform agendas
and work programs. Sub-components and related studies and Association activities are detailed below
*   Revenue authority tax and customs administration and tax policy-IMF/CARTAC study
*   Procurement--IDA, CPAR
*   Fiduciary Oversight-IDA CFAA, PER
*   HR MIS integration-consultant report and recommnendations
*   Privatization Unit--IDA operation (FPID)
*   Social Safety Net-MHSLSS-IDA report and recommendations
*   Severance-this future activity is supported by a current Norwegian Trust Fund survey
*   Bureau of Statistics-consultant report and recommendations
*   PCPMU-IDA diagnostic and stakeholder workshop.
Successful implementation of the detailed work programs developed for each sub-component will require
close IDA supervision and technical support at every stage including assistance with developing terms of
reference, contracting consultants, overseeing quality, and project management.
-20-



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
A cost-benefit analysis is not appropriate for the PSTAC
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
NA
Fiscal Impact:
PSTAC will contribute to the definition and preparation of a series of fiduciary reforms whose successful
implementation will have a substantial fiscal impact including tax and customs administration,
procurement, fiduciary oversight, and personnel management. Successful implementation will also
contribute to additional donor funding. Recurrent expenses associated with these programs are minimal.
3. Technical:
The technical capability of Government ministries is limited, hence component design calls for
consultants to carry out more demanding fiduciary studies in collaboration with country officials and
provides for ample training. Components will also benefit in many cases from continuing donor support
and involvement. Finally, component design has been kept simple with limited objectives to increase the
chances for successful implementation. How technical issues have been addressed in each component is
detailed in Annex 2.
4. Institutional:
The principal institutional challenges are (i) Government ownership/vested interests and (ii) the
weakness and inexperience of Government agencies. Regarding ownership, the components have been
designed based upon diagnostics in many cases and with component involvement. Also, component
agencies are cognizant of the institutional strengthening and fiscal benefits associated with PSTAC
interventions. Finally, donor programs predicated on meeting fiduciary benchmarks provide a strong
project implementation incentive.
A second institutional problem is the Government's chronically weak implementation capacity and its
ability to manage a multi-component operation. Specific design and implementation issues are
summarized in the table below.
Component/Sub-        Implementing     Component/Sub-Co       Possible Implementation Issues
Components            Agency           mponent
Coordinator
Component 1:
Strengthen fiscal,
financial andfiduciary
management
1.1 Strengthen       Revenue Authority  Head of Revenue       The component will be finalized
Revenue Authority                      Authority              following Board approval and depends
upon IMF and Government agreement.
-21 -






1.2 Strengthen         Ministry of       Secretary to the        Implementation will depend upon
Procurement            Finance/Central   Treasury and             overcoming the political obstacles that are
Administration         Tender Board      Chairman of the CTB      holding up implementation of recently
(CTB)                                      approved legislation establishing a new
procurement board and secretariat.
1.3 Strengthen         Auditor General's  Attorney General's     Additional resources may be required to
Fiduciary Oversight    Department        Office, Ministry of      retain long term consultants to help with
Legal Affairs           implementation.
Political opposition may hinder consensus
on reform proposals.
1.4 Integrate Human    Ministry of       Head of Payroll         Requires coordination between two
Resources and Payroll  Finance, Ministry  System                  ministries charged with implementing the
Data Bases             of Public Service  Implementation          merger of HR and payroll systems.
Project                  Finance will need to be found to maintain
the core implementation team after the
first year.
1.5 Support            Privatization Unit  Head of PCPMU          OK. Continuation of core consultant
Privatization Activity                                            group currently at the Privatization Unit.
Component 2: Improve
social safety nets
2.1 Strengthen Existing  Ministry of Labor  Deputy Minister,      Institutionally weak ministry.
Social Safety Net      and Social Welfare  Ministry of HLSSS,
Programs
2.2 Prepare Safety Net  Office of the    Head, PCPMU              OK. Study supported by Norwegian Trust
Solutions for Vulnerable  President                               Fund grant
Groups
Component 3: Develop
institutional capacity to
manage, monitor,
evaluate and improve
PRSP and PSTAC
implementation
3.1 Strengthen the     Bureau of Statistics  Head of Bureau of    OK. Single agency and component
Bureau of Statistics                     Statistics               activities detailed.
Capacity
3.2 Establish a Policy  Office of the    Head of Office of the     -Requires strong PCPMU capacity to
Coordination and       President         President; Head of       manage a multi-component project and
Programme                                PCPMU                    competent component agency capacity.
Management Unit                                                   -M&E subcomponent requires
(PCPMU)                                                           establishing effective M&E groups in line
ministries and develop a community based
M&E capacity.
The PSTAC addresses these component issues by limiting component objectives, ensuring that the head
of the PCPMU and component coordinators have the authority and experience necessary to get
component results, providing training and expert consultant support where needed and by maintaining a
World Bank consultant in the Georgetown office to monitor, evaluate and assist with implementation.
Implementation problems will be exacerbated by the need for day-to-day supervision and professional
support and communications problems between Washington and Georgetown. To overcome these
problems the World Bank will retain an experienced consultant in its Georgetown office to support
project implementation as explained above.
- 22 -






4.1 Executing agencies:
The project will be implemented by the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) which is part of the PCPMU
and reports to its Coordinator. The PCPMU is based in the Office of the President which should assure
access to the Secretary and President as needed. While implementation capacity is generally weak, the
PCPMU is the successor to a multilateral coordination unit that has experience with donor projects. The
PCPMU will have an experienced financial professional who is currently discharging similar functions
for the Association's Private Sector Institutional Development Credit (FPID). The Association's capacity
assessment finds that PSTAC financial management and control should be satisfactory. The former
coordinator will also be retained by the Government to help with implementation through December and
the question of his successor will need to be resolved as a signing condition. In addition, a procurement
officer will be retained in the PCU team. The PSTAC will address project, HlPC, PRSP, and PRSC
implementation by funding PCPMU policy analysts and specialists to staff the M&E subcomponent.
Components will be headed by Ministers/agency heads or high ranking officers with direct access to
them. Component counterparts are indicated in the table in section #4 above. Terms of reference and
sub-component supervision will be done by the beneficiary agencies but PSTAC procurement,
disbursement and financial management will be centralized in the PCU. The World Bank will maintain
a project management consultant in its Georgetown office to facilitate supervision and assist with project
implementation. We have also negotiated for two high level, possibly international consultants in the
PCPMU, one to head the group and another to work on M&E and PRSP and donor coordination
4.2 Project management:
The project will be implemented over 3 years. The institutional arrangements for managing the
coordination and implementation of the project will be vested in the new Policy Coordination and Project
Management Unit (PCPMU). Project and component management arrangements are detailed in 4.1
above.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A Country Procurement Assessment Report was drafted June 30, 1999 and updated in March 2002.
These conclude that the legal procurement framework is deficient and outdated and regulations do not
contain the essential aspects for a transparent and efficient system. Present procurement regulations and
procedures are not conducive to achieving thrift and efficiency nor improving accountability and creating
a fair, competitive environment for all parties involved in the process. The PSTAC contains a $550,000
procurement component.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management assessment was undertaken in end-February, 2002 and the results and
recommendations have been incorporated into the project's design. Findings indicated that the staff
member responsible for the FPID who will continue with the PSTAC PCU is capable of managing
project financial reporting, control and disbursement functions. Work is underway with Association
FMS support to adapt a commercial financial management system for PSTAC use. This will be
completed prior to Board presentation.                        l
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
NA
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
NA
-23-



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
NA
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
NA
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
NA
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Few of the components will generate results with direct social issues or impacts although the overall
success of PSTAC is expected to result in much greater Government efficiency and increased revenues
which will impact social programs. The relevant sub-components and their activities include:
* 1. I-Strengthen Revenue Authority. It is likely that the IMF and Government will agree on tax
reform that should render the existing system more efficient and equitable. PSTAC may support
preparation of these reforms including a new VAT. It will also contribute to improved tax and
customs administration including a program to reduce corruption.
* 3.1--Strengthen Existing Social Safety Net Prograns. This component will upgrade the Ministry of
Labor and Social Welfare's ability to manage three existing safety net programs serving about 55,000
of the poorest Guyanese. It will diagnose and develop recommendations to improve social safety net
legislation and two Ministry of Education programs, School Feeding and Vocational Institutions
which serve the poor.
*   3.2--Prepare Safety Net Solutionsfor Vulnerable Groups. This component will develop severance
and complementary programs to benefit workers laid off in water, sugar and possibly other sectors.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The PRSP was formulated with the broad participation of private and civil society organizations--some
8,000 Guyanese participated in consultations in developing the document. PSTAC components are
primarily directed at strengthening Government institutions and were developed with the collaboration of
the targeted agencies including involvement in component diagnostics (CPAR, CFAA, IMF diagnostic of
the Revenue Authority, Association diagnostics of the MHSLSS). The PCPMU will have a fully staffed
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit which will track and report PRSP/PRSC/PSTAC implementation
progress and a Policy Unit staffed with high level analysts who will evaluate the M&E reports and
develop policy recommendations. The M&E unit will also include a communications officer to ensure
that the activities and progress of the PRSP are broadly disseminated throughout the country and
"facilitators" to pilot community feedback mechanisms.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The PRSP was produced in collaboration with NGOs and CSOs. Some of these will be involved in
Component 3 monitoring and evaluation work undertaken by the M&E Unit in the PCPMU. This will
include monitoring in the regions at local levels and a communications officer will be retained to ensure
that performance results are publicly disseminated and available. Furthermore, in sub-components 3.1
the project will assist the Bureau of Statistics upgrade and better disseminate its reports to the public,
-24-



thereby increasing transparency and allowing greater access to information for all interested parties.
Component 2, focusing on the strengthening of MHSLSS social safety nets, will look at how the church
and other organizations might better help to deliver benefits to the poor. Steps will be taken to ensure
that debate surrounding the Component #1 fiduciary and fiscal reform initiatives--especially those
involving the Revenue Authority, procurement and fiduciary oversight--will involve major stakeholders
where appropriate and that results are disseminated to groups that have voiced concerns.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project will fund the establishment of the M&E unit in the PCPMU to evaluate and report on the
implementation of the poverty reduction strategy. The M&E unit will also be responsible for
strengthening data collection activities of the line-Ministries and coordinating reporting on social
development outcomes including community based feedback. As explained above, dissemination will be
coordinated by a PSTAC funded M&E communications officer. The PSTAC will also strengthen the
capacity of the BoS to generate and disseminate statistical reports.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
See 6.1-6.4 above-the M&E unit will monitor PSTAC, PRSP, PRSC, and HPC and innovate a special
program to obtain community feedback.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
'- I             .      L  . 'L 'i y.--,.;, *.: ,  - Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  9 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 436, GP 4.36)                                   U Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    (9 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                (9 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 U Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                        ( Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            ( Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  ( Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      C Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
NA
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of PSTAC and other Guyanese reform programs are put at risk by three governance
problems: ethnic rivalries often manifested in debilitating parliamentary stalemates, vested interests and
corruption, and the deteriorating security situation. The loan will address the first two of these by
reforming legislative frameworks and strengthening institutions in critical areas. Security concerns are
being taken up by other donors but to the extent that PSTAC reduces underlying causes such as poverty
and dysfunctional rules and institutions, it also mitigates security problems.
-25-



Sustainability concerns specific to PSTAC relate to (i) difficulties of strengthening institutions with
limited capacity, and,especially, (ii) problems associated with implementing PSTAC reform
recommendations. Regarding the latter, completing the studies and identifying what must be done to
reform legislation and regulations can be done under PSTAC, but actually implementing the reforms
depends upon Government good will, collaboration between the two major parties, and strong pressure
and financial incentives offered by multilateral donors. This is especially the case for the reforms
contemplated for the Revenue Authority, procurement, and fiduciary oversight. Despite HIPC, PRSC
and PSTAC incentives, procurement reform is being held up by political squabbling and an effective
'boycott' of parliamentary debate by the opposition party. This scenario could affect other reforms.
Nevertheless, there are strong mitigating factors, enumerated below.
(i) Project components are all directly or indirectly linked to the PRSP, PRSC, PRGF and HIPC hence
donor funding provides a significant incentive. IDB is also adopting an approach that links operational
support from its large loan pipeline to performance against benchmarks.
(ii) The M&E component will document progress and its communications activity will ensure public
dissemination of results.
(iii) The benefits accruing to component agencies from new procedures, upgraded systems and hardware,
and training strengthens ownership.
(iv) Each of the components has confirmed or likely funding from donor programs to carry on or deepen
PSTAC initiatives.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
>': --'Risk'     -           Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
(1.1 to 1.3) Weak institutions, vested    H        There are strong incentives to implement these
interests, ethnic inspired political               reforms since they are linked to PRSP, PRSC,
pressure and security problems threaten             IMF's PRGF and the Article 4 Consultations,
to undercut efforts to strengthen tax,             and will be incorporated into IDB's program
customs, procurement and fiduciary                  benchmarks for pipeline operations. PSTAC
oversight reforms.                                  and other donor programs are addressing
governance issues and their underlieing causes.
(1.4) Implementation of integrated        M        (1.4) Advantages for budgeting, HR
HR/Payroll system to other ministries is            management, and the eventual move to an
unfunded.                                          integrated financial system (DFLD) will
necessitate implementation in other mninistries
and money will be found.
(1.5) Successful privatization of GNCB    H         (1.5) Work on GNCB is well advanced and the
and other entities will not be achieved in         Component continues FPID work being carried
the current political and economic                  out by competent consultants.
environment.
(2.1 and 2.2) GOG financial constraints   H         (2.1) Legislative reform and targeting studies
will limit benefits from upgraded safety            will look at benefits improvement and service
net program implementation including               delivery will be enhanced. Additionally, the
training and severance benefits for                 IMF is expected to make space in its program
retrenched workers                                 for severance in restructured industries.
(3.1) Excessive reliance on consultants   M        (3.1) The program is smaller than previous
and over dimensioned program will                  attempts and straightforward and the exit
undercut the sustainability of Bureau of            strategy has been factored into component
Statistics interventions as in past                design
-26-



(3.2) Head of PCPMU will find it         H         (3.2) PCPMU head and M&E Coordinator will
difficult to coordinate nine components            be high level hires. PCU will have adequate
including PCU and M&E activities.                 staffing and systems to manage PSTAC.
Technical,assistance to carry out M&E are
appropriately dimensioned.
From Components to Outputs
(1.1 to 1.3) Vested interests will impede  H       Political and fiscal incentives to carry out
Revenue Authority work program and                 programs are substantial and including future
implementation of procurement reforms              donor funding. PSTAC programs will address
thereby delaying components. RA                    strengthening of management team (together
management team vacuum will need to                with IMF) and/or preparation of program
be resolved quickly.                               design studies and not implementation of
reforms which is covered elsewhere in donor
programs.
(1.4) Staffing and institutional weakness  M
will impede consolidating HR/payroll               The payroll system is nearly implemented by a
systems and installing in line ministries          competent team acceptable to both ministries
and the HR software is available from the same
vendor who will provide technical assistance.
(2.1) Technical level of MHSLSS will      S        Technical solutions will be simple and adapted
slow development and implementation of             to Ministry's capabilities.
safety net systems and reforms
(3.1) Bureau of Statistics program of    M         The component has been carefully developed to
institutional strengthening will prove too         match BOS capacity and upgrade in quality and
challenging and line ministries will not           timeliness,of reporting will provide incentives
collaborate with data.                             to stakeholders to collaborate.
(3.2) PCPMU will have difficulty          H        The PCPMU will include two high level
managing PSTAC and implementing                    consultants. PCU staffing and systems are
M&E sub-component which will be                    satisfactory to the Association. M&E
exacerbated by limited components                  component is a donor requirement and has been
capability.                                        carefully dimensioned. The World Bank will
maintain an experienced consultant in its office
to assist with implementation.
Overall Risk Rating                       H        Attainment of "Objectives" is considered high
risk despite multilateral donor program
reenforcement. "Outputs" are less risky given
their more limited focus but chronic
implementation problems still result in an
aggregate "H" rating.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
While the proposed studies, training and institutional strengthening to be carried out in the areas of
procurement, tax policy, tax and customs administration and fiduciary oversight should present few
problems, the areas themselves are intrinsically controversial. Ethnic divisiveness may also exacerbate
this situation-opposition party support will be necessary to move forward with a number of the
contemplated reforms.
-27-



G. Main CreditConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Validation by the Association of the Operations Manual
*   Hiring of a coordinator of the Policy Coordination and Programme Management Unit (PCPMU) and
staffing of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) satisfactory to the Association
*   Validation by the Association of the Procurement Plan
*   Establishment of financial management arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Z 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
A project preparation facility is in place funding activities in three components. The completion of a full
procurement plan and operations manual satisfactory to the Association are effectiveness conditions.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Chris Parel                      Ronald E. Myers                  Orsalia alatzopo  s
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director          Country lar ger/Director
-28-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GUYANA: Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC)
y;.'Hr '; '-                           '-'> ' -KPerSormance     r--:A o0.
r HiearhyL6f¢bjeivesb. ;           lixfcatrs,, IC-'- r-     -,-C:ri..                 .c i!     uptos      . v
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Government implements      -Implementation of tax,     -Periodic poverty status    -Vested interests and chronic
Guyana's strategy for poverty  customs, and fiduciary  reports and PRSP monitoring  institutional weakness can be
reduction as articulated in the  oversight reforms resulting in  reports.         overcome
PRSP with especial emphasis  increased revenues, equity,
upon fiduciary reforms.    efficiency and transparency  -PSTAC Supervision reports  -Donor leverage and
incentives will enhance
-Integrated HR/payroll system  -M&E unit in PCPMU reports program ownership
on HIPC, PRSP, PRSC and
PSTAC implementation       -Sustainability will be ensured
by continuing donor leverage
and targeted funding for
implementation of reforms
-Macroeconomic environment
and party/race relations don't
worsen
-Enhanced coverage and     Idem                        Idem plus donor funding
delivery of social safety-nets                         available for severance
including severance.                                   programs
-Effective carrying out of  Idem                       Idem
census and other surveys
resulting in improved reports
and greater reliance upon and
collaboration with BOS
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Institutional strengthening  * Improved functioning of  -Periodic poverty status   -Vested interests and chronic
across key Ministries/agencies  Revenue Authority (to be reports and PRSP monitoring  institutional weakness can be
charged with PRSP              defined)                reports.                   overcome
benchmark reforms.           0 Strengthening of new
procurement structure,  -PSTAC Supervision reports  -Donor leverage and
new regulations                                    incentives will enhance
* Development and debate  -M&E unit in PCPMU reports program ownership
of recommendations re.  on HIPC, PRSP, PRSC and
limiting discretionary  PSTAC implementation IMF   -Macroeconomic environment
powers, fiduciary       mission reports            and party/race relations permit
oversight, & asset                                 PSTAC implementation
declaration
* Integrated payroll & HR
management systems
* Management of GNCB
privatization
* Management of NICIIJ
Government owned
entities
* Increased efficiency in
safety net management
-29 -



* Design of satisfactory
severance packages for
restructured industries
* Efficient monitoring and
evaluation of PRSP
implementation process
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1: Strengthened fiscal,   1.1: Strengthen Revenue
financial and fiduciary   Authority                  Supervision & M&E reports  Idem above
management;                * Prepare program to
enhance efficiency in
accordance with IMF/
GOG agreement.
(Note that IMFIGOG
agreement required tofinalize
component)
1.2: Strengthen
Procurement Administration Supervision & M&E reports; idem above plus party
Tabling of regulatory      agreement on implementation
* Strengthen the newly   proposals                 of new structure
established Procurement
Board (NPITB) and its
Secretariat (NPTAS)
* Operationalize new
procurement legislation
through drafting of
necessary regulations, and
procedures
* Develop & implement
MIS                    Project supervision reports  GOG agrees, fully supports
studies
13: Strengthen Fiduciary
Oversight
Complete 3 studies
* limited discretionary
authority
* fiduciary oversight
mechanisms in Parliament
* improved asset         Project Supervision reports  Ministries continue to
declaration                                      collaborate/agree on
1A: Integrate Human                                 implementation team and work
Resources and Payroll                                program;
Databases                                            Adequate technical assistance
* Implement an integrated                           from vendor
payroll and human
resource management
database
- 30 -



* Upgrade the quality of
personnel records
1.5: Support Privatization  Project Supervision reports  GOG and parties continued
Activity                                            support of program; political
* Manage GNCB                                      and economic environment
privatization                                    stable
* Manage GOG owned
entities (NICEL) including
divestitures
2: Improve the coverage    2.1: Strengthen Existing
and efficiency of social  Social Safety Net Programs  Project Supervision reports  MHSLSS capacity adequate
safety nets                 * Strengthen the capacity                          for work contemplated
(including computer-
ization) of the MHSLSS
to manage three largest
safety net programs
* Diagnose school feeding
and vocational institute
programs
* Diagnose safety-net
legislation
2.2: Design appropriate
severance package for
(sugar) industry          Project Supervision reports  Conducive political
restructuring                                        environment and GOG
* Develop and debate safety                        continued support of
net recommendations                              restructuring program
3: Develop an             3.1: Strengthen Bureau of
institutional capacity to  Statistics Capacity       -Project Supervision reports  Executive and line ministry
manage, monitor,            * Strengthen the BOS     -Bureau of Statistics reports  support and collaboration
evaluate and improve          through improved       and website
PRSP/PRSC/HIPC and            processes, systems,    -Successful carrying out of
PSTAC implementation          training and IT capacity  census
* Improve the coverage,
timeliness, quality,
quantity and use of
relevant survey data and
statistical output.
* Train enumerators and
management for the
upcoming national census
and for future surveys.
3.2: Establish a Policy
Coordination and          -Supervision reports       GOG staffing adequate
Programme Management      -Quarterly reports on PRSP  assured access to President
unit (PCPMU)              progress and a comprehensive and key Goverament officials;
* Establish a PCPMU in the annual poverty progress report component ownership.
Office of the President  by PCPMU
that is adequately staffed  -Functioning PRSP website
and equipped to       -Satisfactory FMR and
-31 -



(i) monitor and evaluate procurement reports.
PRSP, HIPC, PRSC, and  -Policy analyst reports
PSTAC implementation
(ii) manage PSTAC
implementation (PCU)
(iii) undertake studies to
inform and improve
policies and
implementation.
-32-



-KycPrfm            dDeta-Colielbrh.trne
rHierarthyotObj6ectives 1      blndictors                                   g i.
Project Components /     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                         Outputs)
(US $000)                Same as above            Same as above
Component 1: Strengthen                      1896
Fiscal, Financial &
Fiduciary Management
1.1 Strengthen Revenue   375
Authority
1.2 Strengthen Procurement 556
Administration
1.3 Strengthen Fiduciary  285
Oversight
1.4 Integrate Human      365
Resources and Payroll
Databases
1.5: Support Privatization  315
Activity
Component 2: Improve                          479
Social Safety Nets
2.1: Strengthen Existing  429
Social Safety Net Programs
2.2: Severance Package   50
Design
Component 3: Develop                         2385
Institutional Capacity to
Manage, Monitor &
Evaluate PRSP
Implementation
3.1: Strengthen the Bureau  635
of Statistics Capacity
3.2 Establish a Policy   1750
Coordination and
Programme Management
Unit (PCPMU)
of which:
* Project Coordinating Unit 638
* Policy Analysts       288
* Monitoring & Evaluation  824
-33 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GUYANA: Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC)
Section I: Overview
The PSTAC is a US$5.29 million project comprising an IDA credit of US$4.76 million and
counterpart financing of US$529,000. The project consists of three components, as summarized
in the table below. Component costs indicated in all tables are inclusive of a 10% contingency,
and are net of taxes:
Table 1 Summary of PSTAC Components
Component                   US$ '000           Financing
1: Strengthen fiscal, financial and     1,896             IDA Credit
fiduciary management
2: Improve the coverage and efficiency   479
of social safety nets
3: Develop institutional capacity to     2,385
manage, monitor, evaluate and improve
PRSP and PSTAC implementation
IDA finance                              4,760          Total IDA Credit
Counterpart contribution 10%              529          Counterpart Finance
Total Project Costs                     5,289
The activities of the four components and their sub-components are explained in detail in Section
I.
Section II: The Components
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.90 million
COMPONENT 1: STRENGTHEN FISCAL, FINANCIAL AND FIDUCIARY
MANAGEMENT
The objective of this component is to improve the accountability, transparency and efficiency of
Guyana's public sector as regards financial management, fiscal discipline and fiduciary
arrangements. There are five sub-components each with their own executing agency. The costs of
each sub-component are summarized below:
- 34-



Table 2.1 Component 1 Cost Table
Sub-components                                         Cost (US$'000)    |
-1. 1: Strengthen the Revenue Authority                       375
1.2: Strengthen Procurement Administration                   556
1.3: Strengthen Fiduciary Oversight                          285
1.4: Integirate Human Resources and Payroll Databases        365
1.5: Support Privatization Activity                          315
Total Component Costs                                       1,896
SUB-COMPONENT 1.:
STRENGTHEN THE REVENUE AUTHORITY
The Executing Agency of this sub-component will be the Guyana Revenue Authority (GRA).
The GRA was established in 1996, amalgamating the former Customs and Excise Department
and the Inland Revenue Department. The GRA has autonomous status and stands apart from civil
service human resource management rules and regulations. Before amalgamation, Departments
were grossly under-staffed, existing staffs were poorly trained and revenue collection was
inefficient. Audit and internal audit were virtually nonexistent, and perceptions of corruption rife.
The new GRA was established to overcome these problems, and ultimately to improve efficiency
of collection and increase government revenue. While the GRA currently represents a
considerable improvement on the previous institutional arrangements, much needs to be done to
improve administrative efficiency in collection of tax and customs, tackle potential corruption
issues, and ensure that the staff are appropriately trained and have the relevant skills and
expertise.
This component will support the strengthening of the Revenue Authority (GRA) and possibly contribute
to the reform of tax policy. The IMF has recently concluded a diagnostic of GRA operations, which
include tax and customs, and tax policy. The Fund and Government of Guyana must still agree on a
reform programn. Hence, it is likely that this component will should be specified in December. However,
based upon the diagnostic it is almost certain that component funding will support one or more of several
activities considered to be priority by the IMF including
* employment of expert consultants to help manage the GRA and put in place the agreed reform
program
* definition and implementation of an anti-corruption program
* improved tax and customs systems, procedures and training
* preparation of agreed tax reforms including possible preparatory work for a new value added tax
(VAT).
(i) Employment of expert consultants. Given the limited technical resources available to the
Govermnent and need for independent managers and advisors, it is very possible that the
Govemment will agree to the hiring the of long term consultants who are tax policy and/or
administration experts to help manage the GRA and prepare and implement the reform programs.
At the moment both the GRA Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner positions are vacant and
the IMF will insist upon having a satisfactory management team in place as a PRGF review
- 35 -



condition. Hence, PSTAC could fund consultants comprising the management team.
(ii) Definition and implementation of an anti-corruption program. The need for such a program
to restore confidence in GRA and improve morale is considered among the highest priorities by
the IMF which has suggested that PSTAC funds could be used for activities that could include
diagnostics, development of a an anti-corruption program to identify and dismiss offenders and
code of conduct, and possibly drafting of new regulations for removing GRA staff. With
Government agreement such a program could be launched as soon as effectiveness is reached.
(iii) Improved tax and customs systems, procedures and training. The IMF/CARTAC study
makes numerous recommendations regarding reforms of the existing tax regime including
personal, corporate, minimum, withholding, excise, presumptive and other indirect taxes. The
preparations required to design and implement all of these changes would require significantly
more funding than is available in PSTAC. Nevertheless, once a program is agreed upon there is
work that PSTAC can initiate to launch the reform process.
(iv) Implementation of Value Added Tax (VAT). Should the Government and DMF agree on
implementing a VAT to total bill could be in the vicinity of $5 million. PSTAC funds could also
be used to launch this exercise.
Table 2.2 Revenue Authority Sub-Component (Cost US$'000)
Activity                           Year 1   Year 2  Year 3   Total
GRA operations and tax policy reform  125     125     125     375
* long term tax consultants
* anti-corruption program
* improved tax/customs administration
* preparation of VAT.
SUB-COMPONENT 1.2:
STRENGTHEN PROCUREMENT ADMINISTRATION
The Executing Agencies for this sub-component will be the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and,
once established, the National Procurement Tender Board (NPTB) and its Secretariat, the
National Procurement Tender Administration Secretariat (NPTAS). The outdated and deficient
public procurement system is well documented in the Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR) 1999 and the CPAR update of February 2002. The need to revise and update the
Procurement Law, rules, regulations and procedures governing public procurement are well
recognized and are benchmark conditions for the disbursement of HIPC and PRSC funds. A
Procurement Bill has been approved by Parliament. The new legislation provides for the NPAB
to take over the functions of the current Central Tenders Board, located within the MoF. This
sub-component will provide technical experts in procurement to assist the Ministry of Finance in
implementing the new arrangements and to launch and strengthen the new agencies. Activities
will include the following.
- 36 -



(i) Draft rules and regulations. Specialist advice will be provided under this sub-component for
the drafting of rules and regulations to operationalize the new Law. This component will also
provide for the printing of the new Law and its dissemination plus training for Government
officials.
(ii) Implement the new procurement law. The sub-component will help to establish and
strengthen the NPTB and its Secretariat, through provision of equipment and consultancy
services to advise on appropriate systems, procedures and administrative tools. These tools
include standard bidding documents, pre-qualification, evaluation, and contract forms,
documented internal administrative rules; procurement manuals, procurement guidelines and
procedures, and flow-charts and time schedules for different procurement methods. Consultants
will also assist the NPAB Secretariat to establish a management information system and record
keeping procedures.
To support professionalization a training program will be prepared for central and regional tender
board staff to be implemented over the first three years of the project. Public employees, who
will need to comply with the new rules, will benefit from a series of workshops, seminars and
training on the new public procurement procedures.
PSTAC will also provide experts to assist the NPTB to develop a plan for improving the
transparency of decisions regarding public procurement and capital investment including
dissemination of this information to the public. For example, the plan will address how best to
provide information on procurement rules and regulations, results of public biddings and future
bidding opportunities to the private sector, general public and civil society organizations.
Consultants will help to design and specify IT solutions to assist with dissemination. They will
also help develop systems to support electronic purchase of standard public sector equipment and
'e-procurement'. The allocation of funds for these activities is summarized below.
Table 2.3 Procurement Reform Sub-Component (Cost US$'000)
Activity                                            Year 1 Year 2  Year 3  Total
(i) Draft rules and regulations for procurement law
1.2.1 Provide international expertise to assist in drafting rules  115      115
and regulations for the new Procurement Law            l
(ii) Implement, once approved, the new procurement law
1.2.2 Purchase office furniture and equipment for the office of  25          25
the NPTB's Secretariat
1.2.3 Provide administrative tools for the NPTB Secretariat  100  46        146
1.2.4 Establish a Management Information System for the  30  27             57
NPTB's Secretariat
1.2.5 Undertake Procurement Training of Public Employees  25  25     16     66
1.2.6 Provide procurement information for the Public and  52  52     43     147
develop plan for e-Procurement systems             I
Total  347     150     59     556
- 37-



SUB-COMPONENT 1.3:
STRENGTHEN FIDUCIARY OVERSIGHT
The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) has recently been concluded. It
found that the Government's modus operandi allows for excessive discretion and that the system
in place provided few safeguards. The CFAA also found that the absence of checks and balances
leads to a debilitating lack of public oversight. The document provides a comprehensive "Action
Plan to Improve the Financial Management System in Guyana" that covers budgeting,
accounting, auditing, financial control and corruption. The IDB is also carrying out a diagnostic
of the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) and it is expected that a US$300,000 IDB grant and
a pipeline financial administration loan will provide support for consolidating the various laws
governing the OAG's activities, help to draft a new Audit Bill, and prepare procedures and
manuals. The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the UK's Department
for International Development are also providing technical assistance to the Ministry of Finance
and the Accountant General's office to improve treasury management and loan accounting and
eventually to implement an integrated financial management system.
Based upon the CFAA the Association decided to focus attention on issues of basic fiduciary
oversight that were considered prerequisites for refonming and upgrading the system. The study
indicated three priority studies to be carried out by PSTAC, namely
*   strengthen the fiduciary oversight committee linked to the Parliament
*   development of proposals to limit discretionary powers in key line agencies and ministries
*   strengthening the disclosure requirements for public sector officials.
The studies will be carried out by a single international consulting company working with Guyanese
officials. Each study will diagnose current legislative/regulatory framework and practice and identify
international good practice. The result will be a diagnostic with recommendations for how the Guyanese
framework can be reformed. Debate will be supported by the sub-component and possibly the drafting of
legislation. The component will be located in the Attorney General's Office. Specifically, each study is
expected to cover the following.
(i) Oversight of Public Financial Management. The near term action recommended in the
CFAA report involves identifying and setting up an oversight mechanism for public financial
management. This study will most likely focus on the Parliamentary Sectoral Committee on Econsonic
Services (PSCES) and its supporting secretariat. Both are authorized by the constitution but have not yet
been constituted. The Government and the Association believe the PSCES and its secretariat are the
appropriate vehicles for conducting oversight of public sector institutions. The study will comprise four
tasks: (a) develop an operational framework for the PSCES and its secretariat; (b) develop systems and
procedures for conducting analysis and presenting findings; (c) develop rules and procedures for
committee deliberations; and (d) identifying skills and training requirements for secretariat staff and
Committee members.
The study will diagnose the current situation in Guyana and develop reform recommendations
based upon good practice elsewhere and country realities. Specifically the study will cover the
following.
* A review of existing laws and regulations governing public oversight of the public sector
- 38 -



financial management processes. It should also consider a review of public budgets,
interpretation of accounting and financial reports, debt management, investment requirements
and sub-national finance.
* Development of a framework for building the capacity of the responsible entity (PSCES's
Secretariat). This framework should include but not be limited to staffing process, staff
qualifications, rules of conduct, code of ethics, operating procedures, legal standing, and
levels of authority. The framework should also include requirements for public disclosure,
budget and financial report analysis, and the introduction of amendments (to appropriation
bills).
* Proposal of a suggested technology for implementing the systems to maintain records.
*   Review and recommendation of training requirements for the members of the responsible
entity.
The consultants will work with the President's Office, Ministry of Finance, Public Accounts
Committee (of the Parliament) and the Private Sector to identify any bottlenecks to establishing
such a committee. They will also review any legislative history on such prior efforts to identify
potential problems in setting up such a commission.
The expected output will be a well-documented framework and guide that is accepted by the
Presidency, Ministry of Finance, Public Accounts Committee and the Private Sector for
immediate implementation.
(ii) Limiting of Discretionary Powers. The near termn action is to initiate a review of the
discretionary authority vested in the executive branch with special emphasis upon the President's
office, ministries and agencies whose exercise of discretion impacts most on public revenue and
the conduct of business. The CFAA's findings regarding the strong need to limit the discretionary
authority has now been reaffirmed by the IMFs recent diagnostic of the Revenue Authority. The cost to
Guyana in terms of foregone revenues, distorted incentives and demoralization is significant. Hence this
study will review and evaluate existing instruments of governance-statutes, charters, bylaws, operating
policies and procedures, rules and regulations, relationships with affiliates, etc-and how they are
implemented in key institutions, document good practice elsewhere, and make recommendations as to
how the discretionary framework must be reformed.
The study will diagnose the current situation and look at good practice elsewhere and country
realities. Specifically it will cover the following.
* A review of the constitution, laws and regulations that permit discretionary actions by
Commissioners and Ministries. This review would record and categorize such actions and
recommend reforms for the "policy setting" and "policy execution" levels.
* A review of the business processes and practices for executing policy currently in place. This
review would suggest best practices that delineate policy setting and policy execution.
* Analysis of discretionary authority actions and whether these actions are appropriate and
follow a transparent and logical process. Examples of these would be tax remissions,
customs waivers, tax abatements, licenses and permitting.
* A review of the waiver process for each of the large revenue earning institutions.
* Documentation of limits and actions that fall within the discretionary authority of the
executive level and legislative level.
- 39 -



* Development of a mechanism for isolating the top executive from discretionary or
non-transparent decisions.
* Development of a training program to educate senior public officials in the appropriate use of
discretion.
The consultant will work with the President's Office, Revenue Authority, Ministry of Finance,
Public Accounts Committee, the Ministry of Justice and such other agencies as necessary to
determine the extent of the discretionary authority and to determine whether appropriate the
checks and balances are in place to validate decisions of financial and economic significance.
The expected output will be a well-documented study identifying discretionary practices at
variance with best practice and prejudicial to the country and a recommended framework to
guide the executive and legislative branches on their fiduciary responsibilities with respect to
discretionary powers.
(iii) Disclosure of Public Officials Assets. The consultant will review the Law on Public
Disclosure that was passed and that includes the creation of an Integrity Commission (IC). The
IC currently is established under the authority of the President's Office and is often criticized for
not being sufficiently independent. Under the requirements of the current law, senior public
officials are required to file disclosure forrns of their personal assets. These forms are collected
and filed and no further analysis or investigation is done to determine growth in personal assets.
What is worse, the submissions are not made available publicly. Investigations may be requested
on the basis of complaints or anonymous tips. The IC is under-resourced and does not have an
Operations Manual or the capacity to perform necessary analysis to satisfy the spirit of the law.
Hence reliance is placed on the moral integrity of each individual with no due diligence to ensure
validity of the disclosure forms filed. Hence the study will look at good practice elsewhere that
ensures both due diligence and the fair and equitable treatment of public officials. It will determine (i)
what is required to make the process credible --including making submissions public, (ii) appropriate
Commission resourcing and Government support, and (iii) support required from the Auditor General
and other agencies to identify and follow-up on misdeeds. The consultant will also develop an
Operational Manual, and develop an action plan to implement the agreed upon changes.
Table 2.4 Strengthening Fiduciary Oversight (Cost US$'000)
Activity                           Year 1   Year 2  Year 3   Total
Completion of three studies        100      100     85       285
* fiduciary oversight commnittee
* limits to discretionary powers
* disclosure requirements
Total                             100      100      85       285
-40-



SUB-COMPONENT 1.4:
INTEGRATE HUMAN RESOURCES AND
PAYROLL DATABASES
The Executing Agencies for this sub-component will be the Ministry of Finance (MoF) and the
Public Services Ministry (PSM). This sub-component will enable the two ministries to integrate
the payroll and human resources databases, while ensuring that appropriate quality and security
mechanisms are also introduced. The benefits include improved (i) civil service management,
(ii) accuracy of human resources (HR) and payroll data, and (iii) establishment reliable data bases
for building a future integrated financial management system and upgrading pension
management, budget and other systems.
The new payroll system is fully operational and is being managed by the MoF. It uses an
off-the-shelf HR and Payroll application, "SmartStream". This component is primarily
concerned with installing and operationalizing Smartstream's HR application and integrate the
PSM database that has been under development in the PSM with Association support. The HR
database does not yet meet generally acceptable standards and functionality. While the data
contained in the human resources database could be used by a new human resources system, the
current database technology and design cannot effectively interact with the existing payroll
system. Under the current arrangements, the payroll database and the HR database cannot
automatically share information, and changes to personnel data are not automatically reflected in
the payroll database. Payroll data is also not available to the HR database. Activities to be
undertaken under this component are detailed below.
The sub-component will provided technical assistance to the MoF and the PSM to develop an
integrated database, consolidating the payroll and human resources data. The technological
options developed for the integration of the databases will take into consideration the capacity of
the telecommunications network. Consultants will also assist the IT' teams in the MoF and PSM
to cull and load the data available in the existing human resource database to the new system.
Additional hardware and software will be acquired as necessary to ensure that users in both
Ministries will have access to the new integrated database. Adequate attention will be given to
ensuring that the new system is installed correctly, and thoroughly tested, and that appropriate
security measures are in place to ensure that unauthorized personnel cannot access and alter data.
Once installed, the quality of the information in the current system in the PSM will be evaluated
and 'cleaned'. The consultants will also ensure that the processes are appropriate and will assist
in the preparation of user manuals and process documentation. Core staff in both MoF and PSM
will be trained in the use of the new application. At the end of this process, the MoF and PSM
will have accurate payroll and basic employee information, and will be trained and able to use
and update the database as necessary. Outputs expected from this component include the
following.
-41 -



Activity                              Key Outputs
Set up HR/Payroll          * connect PSM's HR Office hardware to MOF WAN network
environment                * set-up security access system
* install Smartstream HR module
* install SQL Server client tools, SmartStream client, Visio,
Office Professional, Project on client PCs
* install electronic document management software with all
relevant documents
Conduct training           * train core team in
o SmartStream HR fundamentals
o use of project tools
o SmartStream payroll process and HR and Budget
information screens
Define agency roles        * identify stakeholder agencies
* agree on stakeholder agency responsibilities
* establish HR operational procedures
Define employee data items  * list all data items to be captured during this phase
* list "owners"of the data items
* establish owner responsibilities for accuracy and
collaboration
Develop reports            * catalogue and operationalize reports for the integrated system
Cull and clean data        * identify procedures and software code used to cull the data
and document techniques
* clean data
rune performance           * identify tools which permit monitoring of network throughput
and means to improve SmartStream performance over the
network
The expected end result is a fully functioning, integrated HR and payroll system in place to
support the Government's goals in managing expenditure, jobs and positions. The work will be
done by the core seven consultant team that has already installed and successfully operationalized
the payroll system. The work will be done in year one of the loan. Financing for maintaining
members of the core team, replicating the systems in other ministries and agencies, and
integrating the new systems with the budget, pension and other systems will need to be found.
-42-



Table 2.5 Human Resources and Payroll Database Sub-Component (Cost US$'000)
Activity                                               Year 1   Year 2  Year 3   Total
1.4.1 Support core Project Implementation Team             90                      90
1.4.2 Train project team in the technical aspects of the HR  24                     24
application and user training
1.43 Purchase and install hardware for LAN and WAN          66                      66
Network
1.4.4 Acquire, install, and test dedicated communications line  25                  25
between MOF and PSM
1.4.5 Purchase, install and test software HR Software      120 _                    120
1.4.6 Develop workflow documentation / reengineering and            3               30
process documentation
1.4.7 System audit and evaluation                     _             1C              10
Total                                                    325       40       0     365
SUB-COMPONENT 1.5:
SUPPORT PRIVATIZATION ACTIVITY
The Executing Agency for this sub-component will be the Privatization Unit. The Privatization
Unit has been the recipient of forner Association support under the 'Financial and Private
Sector Institutional Development Project' (FPID). FPID is considered very successful. The
Government has already privatized state-owned financial institutions, the national airline, and
electricity companies, and is taking steps to privatize mining companies and introduce private
management to the bauxite, water and sugar industries. These reforms are fundamental to
improving the Government's fiscal situation - the targeted industries account for substantial
Government subsidies - and for improving growth prospects. The project will strengthen the
capacity of the Privatization Unit to undertake its program of privatization and state-owned
enterprise restructuring. In particular, the project provides support for concluding the
privatization of the Guyana National Cooperative Bank (GNCB) and managing the Government's
large portfolio of entities and properties through its holding company, NICIL (National
Investments Commercial and Industrial Limited). The main activities are summarized below.
(i) Manage the privatization process of the state-owned Bank (GNCB). This activity will fund
the continuation of the management team that has been responsible for privatizing the GNCB and
preparing it for hand-over to private-sector owners. The management team financed by FPID has
brought GNCB to the point of sale and will  maintain the value of assets and equity during the
transition stage. It continues to carry-out specific activities for successful privatization including:
maintaining cost rationalization policy and a lending freeze and continuing to provide services to
depositors including transaction-fee based services. In addition to these activities, PSTAC will
support the following
* Offer GNCB properties for sale
* Monitor GNCB post privatization including
- 43 -



o Conclude all outstanding employee issues
o Monitor the collection and disposal of bank loans
o Address the outstanding liabilities issue
o Reduce GNCB debenture from property sale and loan collection
(ii) Support the Privatization Unit's efforts to manage the Govemment's portfolio of entities and
properties. This activity will support the Privatization Unit's management of NICIL, alleviating
the Government's financial and administrative burden associated with its public holdings and
stepping up the program of privatization of state-owned enterprises. Specifically, the team will
assist with the following activities during the three year project period
*   set up a National Asset Register
*   ascertain the legal status of NICIL properties
-purchase or vest unmanaged government property into NICIL
-carry out valuation of properties
*   manage and monitor state-owned corporations/entities
-lease, rent, sell unutilized government property
-carry out financial and other analysis on state owned entities
-centralize the financial management of NICIL entities
*   wind up entities into NICIL--legal and financial requirements
*   investigating and liquidating non-functional state owned entities
*   carrying out recommended restructuring of state owned entities
Members of the core consultant team charged with carrying out these activities and supported by
PSTAC include the head of the privatization unit, senior financial analyst, financial controller,
and legal specialist.
Table 2.6 Privatization Sub-Component (Cost US$'000)
Activity                                      Year 1  Year 2   Year 3  Total
(i) Manage the privatization process of the
state-owned Bank (GNCB)
1.5.1 Offer GNCB properties for sale; Set up    72      54      30     156
National Asset Registry
1.5.2 Conduct audit of financial accounts, monitoring   26      15      41
GNCB, post privatization
1.5.3 Provide legal Advice for GNCB privatization  32   25      14      71
(ii) Support management of Government's portfolio of
corporations/entities and the divestiture program                    _
1.5.4 Manage and monitor state owned                    20      10      29
corporations/entities; Investigate and liquidate
non-functional state owned entities
1.5.5 Manage GNCB privatization and the                 17               17
Government's portfolio: contingency                                   I      I
Total                                          104     142      69      315
-44-



Project Component 2 - US$0.48 million
COMPONENT 2: IMPROVE THE COVERAGE AND EFFICIENCY OF
SOCIAL SAFETY NETS
This component aims to improve safety net coverage, through improving the efficiency and
efficacy of the existing safety net programs. In addition, the component will address safety net
solutions for potential retrenchments in the sectors undergoing restructuring. The Executing
Agency for sub-component 2.1 will be the Ministry of Human Services, Labour and Social
Security (MHSLSS), which has the responsibility for the management of safety net assistance to
the poorest and vulnerable groups in Guyana. Two small safety-net diagnostics will be
conducted by the Ministry of Education. The Executing Agency for sub-component 2.2
concerned with designing severance packages will be the PCPMU's Policy Unit in the Office of
the President.
Table 2.7 Component 2 Cost Table
Sub-components                                        Cost (US$'000)
2.1: Strengthen Existing Social Safety Net Programs         429
2.2: Prepare Safety Net Options for Vulnerable Groups        50
Total Component Costs                       479
SUB-COMPONENT 2.1:
STRENGTHEN EXISTING SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROGRAMS
The govermnent administers approximately 13 safety net programs, including programs
implemented by the Ministry of Labor, Human Services and Social Security, Ministry of
Education (ME), Ministry of Housing and Water (MHW), Ministry of Health (MH) and the
National Insurance Scheme. The largest of the programs are administered by the MHSLSS; they
are the Old Age Pensions, Public Assistance, and Difficult Circumstances programs. Combined,
these programs reach an estimated 55,000 beneficiaries. Yet, benefit levels are low and service
delivery systems are outdated and inefficient. For example, program records are kept manually.
Financial reporting, budget statements, estimates and actual expenditures are computerized, but
appropriations accounts are also kept manually. Other areas of institutional weakness were found
to be documentation of procedures, and financial management. Staff and social workers will
need to be trained in managing the upgraded information systems contemplated by this
sub-component. In addition, almost all departments have serious staff shortages. Main activities
are enumerated below.
(i) Strengthen the capacity of the MHSLSS to manage safety net programs through improved
systens, processes and training. Through provision of improved systems, processes, and
training, Ministerial staff will be able to significantly improve management of the three main
social safety net programs. Design and implementation of computerized systems is expected to
-45 -



improve the efficiency of safety net provision and client service, thereby contributing to better
targeted coverage and reducing the lengthy waiting times.
This sub-component will strengthen the Ministry by developing an automated MIS (financial,
program, personnel, management) and train personnel to use this new system. Consultants will
be provided to assist in documenting policies and procedures and the sub-component will finance
new computer hardware. The MIS system will also be able to track beneficiaries and provide the
requisite management information data for the Ministry to monitor and report on the impact of
the safety net programs.
The sub-component will include a thorough diagnostic of existing programs and development of
recommendations to strengthen targeting and distributions systems. This will include an
assessment of costs of improved targeting (especially school feeding and the old age pension
program) and development of options to systematize and standardize means testing. Technical
assistance will also be provided to examine the costs and benefits of alternative options for the
distribution of pension and public assistance benefits.
The sub-component will also include three small but important studies.
*   Reform Legislation. A legal review will be undertaken and proposals developed to reform
the Poor Relief Act, which was written in 1903 and last amended in 1973. The objective is to
provide a firmer legislative basis for proposed social safety net reforns.
*   School Feeding Program (Ministry of Education). A diagnosis is proposed of the School
Feeding Program to determine how the program might be restructured to improve its
reliability, improve coverage and targeting, and determine if their are advantages in using
local catering and delivery to reduce costs and encourage local economic development.
Specifically, the diagnostic will evaluate the present school feeding scheme relative to
decentralized production of buns, school based preparation and contracting of small vendors
to provide meals. This assessment will include (a) a comparison of relative costs,
administrative issues, employment generation potential and implications for local agriculture,
(b) an analysis of costs of extending school feeding options to secondary schools, and (c) an
analysis of the financial and social implications of introducing cost sharing in the school
feeding program.
*   Labor MarketAssessment and Employment. This study will look at projections for growth,
assessment of skills gaps, absorptive capacity of growth industries, absorptive capacity for
on-the-job training programs, and the retraining needs of potentially displaced workers. It
will investigate youth unemployment, gender issues and the different issues and requirements
facing urban and rural areas. The assessment will be used in the development of a strategy
for promoting the skills required for a restructured economy. In this context it will also look
at the Ministry of Education's vocational training institute and the MHSLSS's Recruitment
and Placement Service and make recommendations regarding the services offered.
- 46 -



SUB-COMPONENT 2.2:
PREPARE SAFETY NET OPTIONS FOR VULNERABLE GROUPS
The objective of this sub-component is to profile the needs of retrenched workers and develop
severance package and training proposals. In consultation with the Government, private sector
and civil society groups, a consultant team will work with the Policy Unit of the PCPMU to
undertake background studies, including survey work (a Norwegian Trust Fund grant will
contribute to this effort), to provide an analysis of the profile and needs of target populations
likely to be affected by sector restructuring. The team would focus principally on retrenched
workers in the sugar and water sectors over the next 2-3 years taking advantage of the
Association's on-going involvement in the restructuring of these sectors. This analysis will serve
as the basis for developing safety net options for mitigating the potentially adverse impact on
vulnerable groups. Specifically, the team would design retrenchment packages and labor market
and training programs for retrenched workers.
Table 2.8 Sub-Components 2.1 and 2.2 (Cost US$'OOO)
Activity                           Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Total
2.1.1 Establish Safety Net              5       5        5      15
Coordination Unit within MLHSSS
2.1.2 Design MIS                        52                      52
2.1.3 Implement pilot MIS                      102              102
2.1.4 Evaluate pilot implementation                     127     27
2.1.5 Undertake a Needs Assessment      28                      28
2.1.6 Capacity building, training,(center)      38               38
2.1.7 Capacity building, training, (local)               38     38
2.1.8 Produce risk and vulnerability    23                       23
assessment
2.1.9 Program and targeting study       23 _                     23
2.1. 10 Implement pilot reforms                 33               33
2. 1.11 Dissemination, training,                14               14
workshop
2.1.12 Labour Market Assessment         12                       12
2.1.13 Safety Nets Legislative                           12      12
Assessment
2.1.14 School Feeding Study             12                       12
Total Sub-component 2.1                15'     192       82     429
2.2.1 Design appropriate severance              20       3       50
package for retrenched workers
Total Sub-component 2.2     2        30              50
Total     155      212     112     479
- 47-



Project Component 3 - US$ 2.39 million
COMPONENT 3: DEVELOP INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY TO MANAGE,
MONITOR, EVALUATE AND IMPROVE PRSP AND PSTAC
IMPLEMENTATION
The objective of this component is to support the Government's efforts to implement the strategy
embodied in the PRSP and monitor and evaluate progress. It aims to improve capacity to
generate and disseminate reliable data, involve communities in monitoring PRSP activities and
impact, and build an institutional capacity to undertake Government monitoring and
implementation of PRSP commitments including those linked to extemal financing (e.g. HIPC,
PRSC, PRGF). A Project Coordinating Unit will manage PSTAC.
Table 2.9 Component 3 Cost Table
Sub-components                                                Cost (USs'OOO)
3.1: Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics                                635
3.2: Establish a Policy Coordination and                               1750
Programme Management Unit (PCPMU)
including
* Project Coordinating Unit
* Policy Analysis Unit
* Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
Total Component Costs                                  2,385
SUB-COMPONENT 3.1:
STRENGTHEN THE BUREAU OF STATISTICS
The Executing Agency will be the Bureau of Statistics. The sub-component will build
institutional capacity in the BoS, principally through the provision of: comprehensive training
programs, funding of statistics and managerial experts to work with local staff to improve BoS
products and reporting, and an IT upgrade. The overall objective is to increase in-house capacity
to produce timely, accurate and relevant data required for economic and social management.
Specific activities are enumerated below.
(i) Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics (BoS) through improved processes, systems, training and
IT capacity
The capacity of the Bureau of Statistics to generate timely and appropriate data for policy is
constrained by limited in-house research and analytical capabilities. This component will
strengthen managerial and supervisory capacity by providing experts in data generation, analysis
and other related subject matter areas to improve capabilities of the BoS staff. In addition, the
sub-component will finance a formal training program for junior staff, and provide for senior
- 48-



management participation in relevant seminars and workshops. Recognizing the shortage of
skilled statisticians coming through the education system, the project will also assist the
University of Guyana to strengthen the statistics curriculum and to improve collaboration
between the University of Guyana and the BoS.
In addition to enhancing the technical expertise of the BOS staff, the component will address
institutional weaknesses by significantly upgrading equipment and technology for data
management and dissemination. This includes computer hardware and software and high volume
printers to enable the BoS to respond to increased demand for publications and data.
Furthermore, the project will provide for the establishment of a BoS website to facilitate
dissemination of information to the public.
Funding will also be provided to support specific consultancies to both establish capacity where
it does not at presently exist and improve the quality of current activities in the areas of
*     Research
*     Publications
*     Dissemination and outreach, and
*     Media relations and public education
(ii) Improve the coverage, timeliness, quality, quantity and use of relevant survey data and
statistical output.
Secondly, the sub-component will finance consultant services to strengthen enumeration and
survey personnel, primarily through on-the-job training. The component will improve survey data
by providing experts to comment and improve upon questionnaire design, field-testing, and
processes for data entry. The component will also assist in field operations, supporting the
collection of household survey of living conditions baseline data. In addition, it will train 2,500
census enumerators to ensure the census operation is carried out with due regard to operational
details.
Table 2.10 Bureau of Statistics Sub-Component (Cost US$'OOO)
Activity                           Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Total
(i) Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics
(BOS) through improved processes,
systems, training and IT capacity                       .
3.1.1 Strengthen managerial and       38       75             113
supervisory staff capabilities
3.1.2 Strengthen in-house research and  8       11      11      27
analytical capabilities                                    _
3.1.3 Strengthen capabilities in        5       10      10      25
publications, dissemination, outreach
and media relations, with new
technology and equipment                                  l
3.1.4 Develop statistics curriculum at          1        1      25
University of Guyana
- 49 -



3.1.5 Senior management participation   12      1        1      36
in short- and medium- term focused
seminars, workshops and conferences
and attachments
3.1.6 Undertake structured training      8                      24
program for junior staff
3.1.7 Strengthening of IT capabilities  50      3               80
(computer, hardware, software, servers,
printers)
3.1.8 Upgrade printing equipment        20                      20
3.1.9 Upgrade data-security measures    30      1(              40
(ii) Improve the coverage, timeliness,
quality, quantity and use of relevant
survey data and statistical output.
3.1.10 Train enumeration staff in the   8       8              16
BoS Survey department
3.1.11 Advise BoS on questionnaire              1               12
design, sampling, and field testing
3.1.12 Assist BoS staff, in undertaking        111             110
household survey field operation
3.1.13 Upgrade data management                  11              10
system
3.1.14 Train census enumerators         9                       94
Total     279      304      51     635
SUB-COMPONENT 3.2:
ESTABLISH A POLICY COORDINATION AND
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT UNIT (PCPMU)
The PSTAC supports objectives set out in the PRSC which in turn is based upon the PRSP. The
Government must manage PSTAC. It has also committed to undertake the strategy for poverty
reduction set out in the PRSP. The donor community, and especially the Association, IMF and
IDB, have established benchmarks as conditions for external financing. Hence, both the
Government and donor community require a technical unit capable of monitoring, evaluating and
reporting on PRSP implementation and also HIPC, PRSC and the PSTAC. These tasks will
become the responsibility of the newly established Policy Coordination and Programme
Management Unit (PCPMU) in the Office of the President. The PCPMU will comprise three
smaller units
* Project Coordinating Unit--manages PSTAC implementation
* Policy Unit-evaluates policy and performance
* M&E Unit--monitors and evaluates of PRSP (PRSC, HIPC, PSTAC) progress
- 50-



PSTAC will fund the head of the PCPMU for its three year duration. This will be a high level
international hire who has been the key Government counterpart for PSTAC, PRSC and PRSP.
At the end of this period, the Government will need to assume responsibility for these activities
or find alternative sources of finance depending upon its agreement with the donor community.
The sub-component will do the foilowing.
(i) Manage PSTAC implementation. The PCU will be the agency responsible for managing and
coordinating the overall implementation of the PSTAC. The PCU will take over from its
predecessor Executive Implementation Unit in the Office of the President which has been
responsible for donor coordination and PRSP and PRSC development. The Head of the PCPMU
will be the project coordinator with ultimate responsibility for PSTAC implementation. The
sub-component will finance key personnel to ensure appropriate project financial and
procurement arrangements are satisfactory including an experienced disbursement/financial
officer, a procurement specialist and secretarial support.
(ii) Develop analytic and policy-making capacity in the PCPMU. The Policy Unit will be a small
unit with responsibility for evaluating and improving upon Government policies while providing
an analytical and research capacity in the Office of the President. The Unit, once established will
be staffed by economists and policy analysts who will be responsible for providing strategic
advice especially regarding PRSP implementation. The sub-component will finance two policy
analysts.
(iii) Monitor, evaluate and coordinate donor assistance PRSP, HIPC, PRSC, and PSTAC
implementation. The M&E unit will be responsible for monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of all
PRSP activities, including those that are benchmarks for external financing - such as the
Association's PRSC and the IMF's PRGF. The M&E unit will coordinate monitoring and
evaluation activities, which will be undertaken in partnership with the line ministries responsible
for implementation. Specifically, M&E Unit functions comprise (a) coordinating a network of
focal points within each Government ministry that will be conducting M&E and reporting
results, (b) providing technical support and management capacity in building M&E capabilities
in key ministries, (c) pilot an innovative community-based M&E program on local PRSP impacts
and activities, d) track key policy reformns within the PRSP, HIPC and PRSC, and e) develop and
execute a public outreach program on PRSP activities and progress. The coordinator will be a
high level, possibly international hire and the second ranking member in the PCPMU. In
addition to M&E, the coordinator will also assist in donor coordination including implementation
of the above-mentioned activities.
The sub-component will fund M&E Unit staffing and help equip the unit. In addition to the
head of the M&E Unit it will fund local and international experts to help design and implement
the M&E program. It will also assist in setting up the community-based M&E pilots, funding
facilitators to help develop the pilots and establish the feedback system. If the pilots prove
successful they will be expanded to other localities. PSTAC will also provide for training and
necessary IT hardware and software.
-51 -



Table 2.11 Policy Coordination and Programme Management Unit Sub-Component (Cost
US$'000)
Actinty                                                    Year Year    Year Tota
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1   2  3  l
(i) Develop analytic and policy-making capacity in the PCPMU.
3.2.13 Establish a Staff Policy Unit/ 2 analysts             40     40    40   120
(ii) Monitor and evaluate PRSP, HIPC, PRSC implementation.
3.2.4 Coordinator/ M&E Economist                             125   125   125   375
3.2.3 Provide secretariat support to M&E Steering Committee   2      2     2     6
3.2.5&6 Policy analyst provided to undertake M&E Coordination and  25  25  25   75
catalyze a network of focal points in ministries to execute timely and
comprehensive M&E program on PRSP goals and indicators
3.2.12 Hire, as needed, specialist consultants to conduct trainings,  32  32  32  96
evaluations, and expenditure tracking studies in key policy areas to
strengthen ministry capacity for M&E and reporting to PCPMU
3.2.7&8&9 Execute a communications program to promote         25    22    22    69
broad-based learning and improvement of the government's poverty
reduction policies and activities
(iii) Manage PSTAC implementation.
3.2.1 Manage PSTAC implementation                            200   200   200   600
3.2.10 Provide community development facilitators to pilot a capacity  40  40  80  160
building program for community-level M&E of local PRSP activities
and policy impacts
3.2.11 Pilot a capacity building program for M&E of local PRSP  10   15    20    45
activities and policy impacts
3.2.14 Audit PSTAC                                             7     7     7     21
3.2.15&16 Provide staff for PSTAC procurement and disbursement  36  36    36    108
3.2.17&18 Provide secretarial support to PSTAC                 12    12    12    36
3.2.2 Provide PCPMU IT hardware                               27                 27
3.2.19 Material and Logistics                                   4     4     4     11
Total                                                       585    560   605  1750
-52-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GUYANA: Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC)
ent',        .        - Sri*i  ~ tU   iiliS.    US imilion-
Strengthen Fiscal, Financial and Fiduciary Management        0.52          1.48          2.00
Improve the coverage and efficiency of social safety net     0.02          0.47          0.49
programs
Develop an institutional capacity to manage, monitor, evaluate  1.43       1.37          2.80
and improve PRSP and PSTAC implementation
Total Baseline Cost                                          1.97          3.32          5.29
Physical Contingencies                                      0.00          0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                         0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs'                1.97         3.32          5.29
Total Financing Required                1.97          3.32          5.29
Nu:o .M,.>.vaJroect2C5o2Bi- tegor ;t;xt;S-    $;>-,,>l-s rhSE.iliioUS  -n 'US;$nilliot  -US $rtiilliorl
Goods*                                                         0.16          0.64           0.80
Services*                                                      2.02           2.47          4.49
0.00
0.00
Total Project Costs        2.18           3.11          5.29
Total Financing Required        2.18          3.11           5.29
* Includes Training material and Operational Expenditures
** Includes Training
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 5.29 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 90% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 53 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness
GUYANA: Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC)
Quantitative economic and financial analyses are not applicable for TA operations such as this.
However, PSTAC supports and is part of a larger GY program that has as one of its principal objectives
to improve Government effectiveness. Owing to the limited funding, considerable attention was
accorded to selection of activities that would optimize impact. Debate regarding the four underlying
aspects of cost effectiveness resulted in a project design that incorporated solutions to optimize
effectiveness. The results are enumerated below.
(i)    Number of components. PSTAC has carefully selected from among the numerous PRSC matrix
components, nine areas that are strategic, address important HIPC, PRSP, and PRGF benchmarks, and
where Association involvement promises important results. In choosing not to focus more resources on
only a few components the project opted to diversify risk and takes into account limited absorption
capacity. In this way it constitutes a cost effective design strategy.
(ii)   Sufficiency offunding. Concerns regarding whether funding of the numerous components is
sufficient to implement significant reforms in any one have also been addressed in project design. Alone,
the funding is not sufficient. But PSTAC is intended to launch timely initiatives and care has been taken
to ensure that donor funding will be available to ensure the sustainability of its initiatives. Hence, it is a
cost effective use of limited funds to achieve sustainable results.
(ii)   Targeted component interventions. A number of the components require large work programs
and significant infusions of resources to reform operations. For instance, the CFAA identified such a
multi-agency work and the IMF/CARTAC diagnostic program for the Revenue Authority and tax policy
reform is another. Limited to only $4 million, PSTAC has opted to take on the three underlying
governance areas identified as prerequisites for fiduciary reform and will support Revenue Authority
reform with a timely infusion of resources likely to support a new management team and/or an
anti-corruption programs, both prerequisites for successful reform. In this way PSTAC affords timely
and effective reform finance.
(iii)  Institutional development of beneficiaries. PSTAC contributes in most components to increased
efficiency of the beneficiary agencies by addressing key problems with a carefully selected menu of
hardware, software and training interventions, development of procedural manuals and tools required for
upgrading operations and inclusion of diagnostics that will lead to similar interventions. In this way the
beneficiary agencies should also become more efficient in running programs and using resources.
In these ways PSTAC design addresses important cost effectiveness considerations. Specific component
interventions and justifications are presented in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1: Cost Effectiveness of PSTAC Interventions
Sub-Component      Targeted Cost Effectiveness  Targeted Beneficiary  Possible Leveraged/Linked
& Justification            Area                                             Funding*
1.1 Revenue Authority  Depends upon IMF/GOG   .   Guyana Revenue      .       1MF/CARTAC (Tax
agreement but likely will  Authority             Reform Program)
include one or more of the  *  Country and tax payers  *  Public Sector
following               (increased revenue,      Modernization and Public Financial
* Detection of Corruption and rationalization of tax burden, Administration pipeline operations
Fraud in Customs and GRA  accountability)        (IDB)
. Strengthen management team
and improve efficiency of tax &
customs administration
-54 -



| Preparation of a VAT and
lother tax reforms        I                         I
Justification: Agreement on a reform package is a condition of the next IMF PRGF Review to take place in December 2002
and is essential for the HIPC completion point. The component will most likely fund the two most critical needs: the new
management team and/or corruption mitigation. Preparing tax reforms and efficiency initiatives might also be included. But
without a strong team and 'moralization' of the Revenue Authority implementing the reform agenda will be difficult.
1.2 Procurement         * Upgrading procurement   *    Country procurement  *        Public Sector
regulations, procedures and  stakeholders and the new  Modernization and Public Financial
tools to intemational standards procurement bodies  Administration pipeline operations
* Strengthen the newly                              (IDB)
established NPTB, its
Secretariat
* Justification: This component addresses the second major condition for HIPC completion. New, satisfactory Procurement
Laws will need to be in place by December and are required for HIPC completion. Procurement underpins every IFI project as
well as much Government expenditure (40% of the GNP) and has been criticized in the past for inefficiency and corruption.
This component will support the launch of the new framework and agencies and operationalize the laws.
1.3 Fiduciary Oversight  Complete 3 studies:       *   Attorney General,    *        Public Sector
* Limits needed on         Auditor General,         Modernization and Public Financial
waivers/discre- tionary    Parliamentarians         Administration pipeline operations
authority                                            (IDB)
* Fiduciary Oversight                                *       Study on Strengthening
mechanisms and framework In                         the office of the Auditor General
Parliament                                          (1DB) and Accountant General,
l Improved Asset Declaration                        budgeting (CIDA, DIFID)
regulations and enforcement
* Justification: The CFAA elaborated a large action program but the three PSTAC studies focus on what are considered the
three critical prerequisites identified for fiduciary reform to go forward.
1.4 HR Management and   * Improving GOG's HR      *    Ministry of Finance and *    Information Technology
Payroll Integration     management and payroll     Public Services Ministry  Program and Pension Study (IDB)
through systems            *   Other Ministries and  *FMIS development (CIDA)
implementation and integration agencies who will link-up to
* Consolidation of records  this system
required for budget, FMIS,
pension and other systems work
* Increase administrative
efficiency through training and
rr                        I_                        I
* Justification: This component will have an immediate effect on both public expenditure and HR management and will set the
stage for implementation of improved budget, FMIS, pension and other systems which also support these objectives.
Integration and upgrade is the critical first step.
1.5 Privatization Unit   Finalizing the Privatization of *  Privatization Unit and  *  DIFID funding will
Support                the GNCB                   GOG through reducing costs  support the Privatization Unit
- Manage GOG owned entities and increased revenues
(NICIL) including divestitures
* Justification: Bringing GNCB to point of sale is a HIPC condition and managing the sale and its aftermath is a major
activity requiring support. Managing State-owned companies and properties is also a major undertaking that will benefit the
private sector and GOG and PSTAC is complementary another HIPC condition involving the private sector investment
framework.
2.1-2.2 Social Safety Nets * Strengthen the capacity  *  Ministry of Labor,  *       Nutrition Program (IDB)
Strengthening          (including computerization) of Human Services and Asocial *   Social Statistics and
the MHSLSS to efficiently  Security                  Policy Analysis-Bureau of
manage its business and    *   Ministry of Education  Statistics (IDB)
focusing on the three largest
- 55 -



safety net programs
* Undertake diagnostic studies
to assess needed reforms:
school feeding, vocational
institutes, labor market and
statistics, and safety-net
legislation.
* Diagnose safety-net
legislation, including
Retrenchment Packages.
* Design severance and safety
nets for staff retrenched owing
to industrial restructuring
* Justification: The PRSP and PRSC are poverty reduction initiatives hence it is incumbent upon the Association to look at
upgrading safety net programs and make provisions for any eventual industrial restructuring resulting from donor program
requirements.
3.1 Bureau of Statistics  * Improve processes, systems, *  Bureau of Statistics and  *  Social Statistics and
Strengthening           training and IT capacity  users of its output       Policy Analysis-Bureau of
* Improve the coverage,                             Statistics (IDB)
timeliness, quality, quantity and
publication and use of relevant
survey data and statistical
output.
* Train enumerators and
management for the upcoming
national census.
Justification: Developing a plan for the 2002 census and tracking HIPC are Completion Point conditions. Training
enumerators is a critical census activity. The statistical data base is a continuing IMF/IFI concern and the BOS will eventually
need to take over from the PCPMU the donor program, PRSP and poverty tracking in addition to improving its statistics and
reporting capacity to enhance GOG economic and donor program management.
3.2 Policy Coordination  * Establish a PCPMU in the  *  Office of the President  *  None although M&E
and Programme           Office of the President that is  *  GOG--improve its ability functions will eventually need to be
Management Unit         adequately staffed and    to upgrade essential donor  taken over, most probably by the
Establishment           equipped to               programs critical to the  BOS which will be a recipient of an
-Head, PCPMU            (i) Monitor and evaluate PRSP, populace             IDB operation.
-Project Coordinating Unit HIPC, PRSC, and PSTAC
-Policy Analysis Unit  implementation
-Monitoring & Evaluation  (ii) Manage PSTAC
Unit                   implementation (PCU)
(iii) Undertake studies to
inform and improve policies
and implementation
* Justification: The limited capacity in managing and implementing Association projects requires the creation of the PCPMU,
especially in order to ensure Procurement according to World Bank guidelines. The second aim of this component is to
implement a monitoring system for Association programs, which is a condition for HIPC completion.
*This does not take into account future PRSCs and TACs that are included in the Association's CAS and
program.
- 56 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GUYANA: Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC)
Years Ending
"Years" refers to project years with Year 1 commencing with loan effectiveness, estimated to be
mid-December, 2002.
I Year1 I    Year 2  I Year 3  I Year 4    Year 5I Year 6    I Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        1205.0     868.0     515.1       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs          993.8     941.8     765.4        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs      2198.8     1809.8    1280.5       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
.Total Financing          2198.8    1809.8    1280.5        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA               2021.1     1634.0    1104.8                 0.0       0.0       0.0
Government              177.7      175.6     175.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Central              149.4      175.7     175.7       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing  2198.8    1809.6    1280.5       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
Govemment stability and loan processing schedule will permit November, 2002 Board and orderly project
implementation.
- 57-



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
GUYANA: Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC)
Procurement
1.    Procurement under this Technical Assistance Credit would be limited to the hiring of
consultant services and the purchase of goods (mainly computer hardware, software). It is
anticipated that about 90 contracts would require to be processed in a period of about 36 months,
of which about 60 would be for consultants services.
Procurement Responsibility
2.    The Government has decided to establish a completely new Policy Coordination and
Programme Management Unit (PCPMU) located in the Office of the President headed by a
Coordinator reporting directly to the Secretary of the Office and to the Presidency of the Country.
The PCPMU's Coordinator will be responsible for overall project management. The PCU,
established within the PCMU, will be responsible for implementing procurement activities and
will be staffed with one procurement and one financial management professional working under
the supervision of the PCPMU's Coordinator.
Procurement Plan
3.    Procurement plans (bid packages only) have been prepared for each sub-component under
the project and they provided the basis for the aggregate amounts for the proposed procurement
methods shown in Tables A and Al. Preliminary estimates were made for completing Tables A
and Al. However, the Revenue Authority and Fiduciary Oversight programs will be identified
more precisely during the first months of project implementation when the IMF and GOG reach
agreement and a complementary procurement plan will be prepared and agreed with the
Association. Procurement time tables will be prepared by the borrower and sent to the
Association for approval before any procurement activity may start under the project. A
complete procurement plan, which will be updated every six months, will be incorporated into
the project's Operations Manual and will be the key instrument for project supervision and
implementation.
Procurement Methods
4.    The procurement methods to be used for the acquisition of the goods and services
described below and the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The
threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
5.    Goods: Procurement of goods will be carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and any special provision stipulated in the
Credit Agreement.
- 58-



6.    Goods to be purchased under the project include computer hardware and software,
printing equipment, furniture and small purchases for training and workshop uses. Most of the
Information Technology (IT) acquisitions (hardware and software), will be purchased through
ICB. About US$120,000 will be used to purchase by direct contracting the software to
implement and integrate a personnel data base and the existing payroll system. This approach is
required to ensure compatibility and full integration with the existing system. These purchases
will help the Ministries of Finance and Public Service to integrate the Payroll and Human
Resources databases, establish Management Information Systems (MIS's) in the National
Procurement Tender Board and others, and to strengthen the Bureau of Statistics and the existing
social safety nets. Training materials and miscellaneous furniture and office equipment
estimated to cost approximately US$139,000 in aggregate, will be procured following
international shopping procedures. Additional training materials, electrical supplies, physical
security systems, printing services and other miscellaneous goods and services estimated to cost,
approximately, US$103,000 in aggregate will be procured following national shopping
procedures.
5.     Consultant Services and Training: Contracts for Consulting Services and Training will
be awarded following the "World Bank Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999,
January 1999, and May 2002), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
6.    Consulting services totaling approximately US$4.4 million will make up the bulk of
activities supported by the proposed project. These services will be used for, among others,
management support for the PCPMU (monitoring and evaluation of the PSRP, HIPC and PRSC
and project administration of the proposed PSTAC), consulting services and technical assistance
in different areas of expertise, system upgrading and software application development, training
and workshops. Training and workshops total an estimated US$105,000. Consulting services
totaling about US$660,000 for strengthening the Guyana Revenue Authority, and fiduciary
oversight have been estimated for incorporation in Table Al. These will be reviewed by the
borrower during the first six months of project implementation.
7.    Individuals: Approximately US$2.5 million will be contracted with individuals selected
by comparison of qualifications of at least three candidates in accordance with Chapter V of the
Consultants Guideline. Approximately US$1.4 million has been assigned for extending the
contracts (sole source) of several consultants working now in the Privatization Unit, HR MIS
implementation, and the PCPMU, and to retain the current Project Coordinator, based on his
unique experience for the purposes of the assignment. However, should a new coordinator be
required, this individual would be selected following a competitive process, in accordance with
the Consultant Guidelines.
8.    Firms: About US$1,4 million will be contracted using the QCBS method to support and
strengthen ongoing privatization efforts, managing of the privatization process of the state-owned
Guyana National Cooperative Bank, managing the procurement reform sub-component, and
developing and delivering training programs.
-59 -



Prior review thresholds
9.    The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity
assessment of the project implementing unit and are summarized in Table B. The Association's
procurement review will be carried out in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelines for
Procurement for Goods and Consultants and the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
10.   Consulting Services: Prior to the issuance of any request for proposals, a complete
procurement plan for selection of consultants under the project should be prepared by the
coordinator and submitted for the Association's review. The plan should be an updated version
of the procurement plan (bid packages and time tables) discussed during appraisal. Specific
consultant contract documents to be reviewed by the Association will include short lists, TOR,
CV's, evaluation reports and contract forms. In addition to the regular tasks of prior and ex-post
review, the Association may also carry out spot checks of procurement activities carried out by
the Borrower.
11.   Goods: Prior to the issuance of any invitation of bids the procurement plans for each
sub-component should be reviewed taking into account the possibility of further packaging to
reduce the number of procurement processes and take advantage of the economies of scale.
Assessment of the Agencv's CaDacitv to ImDlement Procurement
12.   The proposed project entails the implementation of a large number of activities that will
benefit several Ministries and Government Agencies as part of the PSRP, the HIPC, the PRSC,
and the proposed Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC). In light of the importance
of the overall program the Government has decided to establish a Policy Coordination and
Programme Management Unit (PCPMU) which will be located in the Office of the President
reporting directly to Secretary and to the Presidency of the Country . This Unit will be headed by
a Coordinator who will responsible for overall project implementation. The Coordinator will be
assisted by two professional staff for the implementation of the TAC. As this unit is not yet in
place, the capacity assessment was geared to evaluate the organizational structure proposed by
the Government and to recommend the required staff, their technical qualifications, and the
mechanisms required to be in place to meet Association's requirements and adequately manage
and implement the project. The capacity assessment report was approved by the Regional
Procurement Advisor on 10/25/2002.
13.   Project management including procurement and financial management activities will be
the responsibility of the PCPMU Coordinator who will be assisted by an administrative assistant,
a financial management (FM) officer, and a procurement officer. The Coordinator will be the
current Head of the Executive Implementation Unit who helped prepare the project. He will
supervise and become involved in the day-to-day running of the project and it is expected that his
proximity to the President will facilitate PSTAC implementation. The FM staff has been
identified and is an experienced professional in Association projects and will also assist the
Coordinator in the procurement record-keeping, and contract processing and reporting
-60-



requirements. Recruitment of the procurement specialist for the unit is a condition of
effectiveness for the credit. The Coordinator will coordinate with each of the counterparts in the
different Ministries and Agencies involved in the project to process procurement matters. It is
anticipated that the technical input (TOR and Technical Specifications) for the purchase of goods
and hiring of consultants will be provided to the Coordinating Unit by all sector counterparts and
the Unit will be responsible for completing the procurement packages and ensuring that the
Association's guidelines and local procurement legislation are met
14.    Most of the issues concerning the PCPMU have been addressed in the capacity
assessment, and corrective measures have been agreed with the Government. These are spelled
out in the Action Plan below. The risks identified in the assessment include: (i) new
procurement legislation will be enacted and new regulations put in place, and the transition from
the old procurement system to the new one will be lengthy; (ii) the procurement decision-making
authority is too centralized in the Central Tenders Board because of low approval thresholds; (iii)
the CTB already handles a majority of the procurement in the country and procurement
requirements under this project will increase the CTB's work load and the agency suffers from
too few competent staff to manage its workload; and (iv) there is a large number of
sub-components funded by the project and a large number of counterparts, some of them very
weak. This alone will require very close coordination and support from the PCPMU including
the preparation of complete procurement packages in some cases.
ACTION PLAN
Agreement                                           Due Date
1.Prepare detailed internal administrative procurement procedures,
taking into account local legislation, and incorporate them into the  Condition of Effectiveness
project Operation Manual (see point 8 below).
2. Agree with the Association on the sample model procurement
documents to be used for consultants and goods, and get the CTB's
approval to avoid further interventions or delays in the future. Sample Operations Manual is Condition of Effectiveness
documents will be part of the project's Operations Manual.
3. Appointment of a PCPMU coordinator with broad experience in
project management and procurement.                                   Condition for Effectiveness
4. Appointment of the procurement specialist (acceptable to the       Condition of Effectiveness
Association) and the financial management specialist/administrative
assistant.
5. The Project Coordinator and procurement specialist should complete a
basic procurement seminar with emphasis in goods and consultants,
either at the Association's headquarters or in the field through a         Dated Covenant
Association instructor.
6. Prepare the project's Operations Manual, which includes a section on
procurement based on the scope and outline discussed during the       Condition of Effectiveness
-61 -



assessment. Procurement time tables should be part of the Manual.
7. Agree with the CTB that copies of all procurement processes handle
directly by them should be forwarded to the project PCU. Details ol
how this matter will be handled by the CTB as well as to the details o
the information to be incorporated in the project files, should be spelled  Operations Manual is Condition of
out in the project's OM.                                                  Effectiveness
8. Make adjustment to the FM software package to handle procurement
reporting requirements, including procurement time tables.           Condition of Effectiveness
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expendfture Category             ICa              NCO           Other2        N.B.F.    Total Cost;
1. Works                                                                                        0.00
0                (              0             0         (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.41             0.00          0.43          0.00         0.84
(0.41)           (0.00)         (0.30)       (0.00)       (0.71)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00          4.44          0.00         4.44
Consultant                           (0.00)           (0.00)         (4.05)        (0.00)      (4.05)
0.00             0.00           0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                              0.41             0.00           4.87          0.00        5.28
_______________ __   (0.41)     (0.00)         (4.35)       (0.00)       (4.76)
iFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
v Consultants: See table IA.
-62-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method.
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS  QBS     $FS     LCS     co     Other   N.S.F. Total Cost'
A. Firms              1.52   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.52
(1.52)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.52)
B. Individuals       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.92    0.00     2.92
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (2.53)  (0.00)  (2.53)
Total  1.52    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    2.92    0.00     4.44
(1.52)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (2.53)  (0.00)  (4.05)
Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selecton
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of Individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
Goods: US$120,000 would be purchased via direct contracting; US$139,000 through lntematjonal
Shopping; and US$103,000 using National Shopping.
Consultants: Individual consultants in accordance with paragraphs 5.1-5.3 of the World Bank's
consultants guidelines (up to an aggregate amount of US$2.2 million); individual consultants
selected on the single source basis in accordance with paragraph 5.4 of the guidelines (up to the
aggregate amount of US$1.4 million including US$600,000 for the PCPMU coordinator).
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 63 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Tfhreshold            Procurement             Prior Reviow
Expenditure Category     (IJ$ thousands)            Method
1. Works
2. Goods                        >75                    ICB                    All
>10<75           International Shopping          All
<10               Local Shopping           Post Review
3. Services                    >100                   QCBS                    All
Consultants Firms              <100                   QCBS                 Post Review
Individual Consultants*        >20               See Section V of       TOR, contracts, CV
Guidelines
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
15.   In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from World Bank offices, the
capacity assessment of the PCPMU has recommended one full supervision mnission to visit the
field every six months which will include post review of procurement actions. Based on the
overall risk assessment (HIGH) the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less
than I in 5 of contracts signed. Independent Procurement Reviews (IPR's) will be carried out by the
Association, one year after project start-up and a second one year later.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-64 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
GUYANA: Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC)
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Financial Management Action Plan
Action                    Responsible Entity       Completion Date
1. Set up the PCU        PCU                      Condition of Effectiveness
information management
system (linkage between FM
and Procurement for
budget/activity
implementation monitoring).
2. Approve budgetary units in PCU/MOF              Before commencement of
he National Budget.                               each year of project
implementation
3. Finalize financial     PCU                      complete
management section of the
Operational Manual
4. Submit audit TORs -    PCU/WB                   complete
decision on Auditor General
5. Appoint the Auditor    PCU                      complete
General
6. Submit draft Project   PCU                      complete
Monitoring Reports (FMRs).
7. Submit first FMRs     PCU                       45 days after the end of the
quarter in which
effectiveness takes place
Implementing EntSies
16.   The Office of the President will be the implementing entity and a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) has been established within the Office to coordinate all activities under this program.
Regarding the financial management arrangements, the PCU has appointed a qualified
accountant (who gained experience working with the Association's Financial and Private Sector
Development Project, and has substantial private sector experience) to oversee all aspects of
financial management for the project. This staff member will also liaise with the MOF's Finance
and Accounts Division for matters of consolidation of budgetary and accounting information, and
for monitoring the flow of funds to the project.
-65-



2. Audit Arrangements
Accounting Policies and Procedures
17.   Administrative procedures will be in place to ensure that financial transactions are made
with consideration to safeguarding project assets and ensuring proper entry in the
accounting/monitoring systems. The PCU has developed the financial management section of
the Operations Manual which outlines the roles and responsibilities for staff, clearly details the
segregation of duties and defines the standard operating procedures for the unit. This work was
completed following the initial assessment and has subsequently been reviewed and found
acceptable by the Association. The full Operations Manual including the procurement section is
a Condition of Effectiveness.
18.   Government counterparts initially considered that this accountant will also oversee the
procurement activities of the project. However, the PCU currently manages four other projects,
and due to the constraints on human resources, the appraisal team did not concur with the GoG's
suggestion. The Association recommends that the accountant take a dedicated role to oversee
only financial management matters, and that PCU be expanded to include a procurement officer
to oversee these activities. This has been agreed by the Government.
19.   The project accounting system (see Accounting section below for more detail) will have
the capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial transactions of the project, and produce
financial statements useful to project management and meeting IDA's fiduciary requirements.
The accounting system had been designed (under the Association's Financial and Private Sector
Development Project) to be able to capture all financial information and allocate among both
categories (the World Bank's legal/disbursement categories) and project activity. However, this
system had not been functioning nor producing reports and information as originally envisioned.
Therefore, the PCU has obtained a basic accounting system that will enable it register all
financial and accounting information (by component/activity and category), and allow the
information to be exported into the report formats to meet the Association's requirements for
periodic project reporting (see FMR section below). Procurement information will be
maintained in a spreadsheet/database and this information will be linked to the accounting and
budget information to enable the PCU to effectively carryout contract and procurement
management.
20.   The project currently does not submit detailed monthly statements of expenditures to the
MOF, and financial reports are only used within the Office of the President.
21.   Segregation of duties The PCU has a clear organizational structure for financial
management but lacks the documented established procedures for the operation of the project
with regard to the procurement function. Said procedures would support an adequate segregation
of duties between procurement and financial management.
22.   It should be noted, however, that during the initial assessment, budgeting, payment and
recording activities were observed within the PCU during the appraisal mission and found to be
adequately independent. All payment orders/requests are reviewed and signed by the PCU
-66 -



executive director before being processed by the Accountant General's office in the MOF.
23.   Given the numerous contracts for this Credit, there is a strong need to maintain separate
the procurement and financial management functions, although the two officers will need to
share information and collaborate on the financial reports on a regular basis.
24.   Budgeting. The loan agreement and project cost tables will be the main inputs for the
project budgets and counterpart (GoG) funding estimates. The PCU should follow prescribed
governmental budgetary heads for the classification of forecasted expenditures. Additionally, in
accordance with recognized good practice, the PCU will prepare at least:
*     the annual work plan classified by work lines, with goals/objectives, physical and
financial programs;
*     the budget proposal specifying the sources of funds, the summarized and detailed
expenditures by major areas and specific objects;
*     after approval by Parliament: the budget execution program broken down monthly, and
the quarterly document of budgetary commitment authorization (if the PCU will prepare a formal
submission for the GoG Budget Estimates);
*     the monthly report on budgetary execution to be issued 10-15 days after the end of each
month; and
*     the quarterly report on evaluation of budgetary execution to be issued within 15 days after
the end of the quarter.
25.   Association account reconciliations will be prepared on a monthly basis by the
Accountant and will be available 15-20 days after the end of the month.
26.   Accounting. There are certain limitations in the former accounting system (system used
for the Association's Financial and Private Sector Development Project) that do not permit the
user to generate various reports, and certain interfaces are considered redundant. Additionally,
when the system was recently transferred to a new host computer, part of the systems' database
(main program, not financial or procurement information) was lost and the system is currently
inoperable.
27.   Therefore, the project has implemented a basic system that will be able to account for all
financial transactions by source of financing and by general category. The system is widely used
throughout the Caribbean and has had significant success in the overall management of
Association-financed projects. The system has an inherent limitation in that it does not permit
for multiple users, and is not efficient to manage overly complex projects (usually in the
hundreds of millions of dollars), however it is more than sufficient to meet the needs for the
financial management of the Credit. The project will use a modified cash basis as the method of
accounting for the project.
28.   Safeguard over assets. Assets acquired by the project will be in the custody of the
respective institutional departments (line-Ministries/Agencies). For the proposed project, the
PCU will keep detailed subsidiary records of plant and equipment acquired. The amounts in this
-67-



register will be reconciled monthly against the respective accounting balances. At least one
annual physical inspection will be undertaken by PCU staff, preferably with the participation of
staff from the external auditors and the Auditor General's Department
Audit arrangements
29.   Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and in accordance
with the terms of reference (TORs) already reviewed and cleared by the Association . In addition
to the audit opinions on project financial statements, Special Accounts and Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs), a special purpose report will be required to deal specifically with the
internal control structure of the PCU. This report will be required to be submitted to the
Association no later than 2 months following the period of 6 months after effectiveness.
30.   The GoG has expressed its desire to appoint the Office of the Auditor General to audit the
project. This office has undergone a series of evaluations (CFAA) and diagnostic studies (IDB),
and the Association will consider permitting the Office of the Auditor General to audit the PPF
and first year's financial activity and will assess its performance (quality, thoroughness and
timely delivery) before deciding if the Office of the Auditor General will fulfill the audit
requirement for the remainder of the life of the project.
31.   For cost benefit and efficiency purposes, and in accordance with the Audit Memorandum
of April 4, 2002 (Memorandum from James Adams, Vice President, OPC ), the first audit of the
project would cover funds managed from the date of effectiveness through December 31, 2003
(including the funds managed under the PPF). Subsequent audits would then follow the
provisions of Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Loan Agreement (January 1st through December 31st of
each year).
32.   The PCU will prepare, if needed, an action plan to address any issues and
recommendations contained in the audit reports. The action plan and follow-up activities would
be communicated to the Association.
33.   The table below summarizes audit requirements:
Audit Report                       Due Date
Project financial statements.      4 months after the end of the reporting period
SOE                                same as above
Special Accounts                   same as above
Internal Controls                 -2 months after the period of 6 months after effectiveness
Reporting and Monitoring
34.   Financial statements and reports will be prepared in formats satisfying the Government
and IDA's monitoring and fiduciary purposes.
- 68-



35.   On a monthly basis (at least), the PCU will prepare the project's Statement of
Expenditure, a matrix classifying receipts by financing source and expenditures by financing
source and disbursement category. The expenditures would be compared to the projected figures
per the quarterly budgets prepared as indicated in the Budgeting section above.
36.   In addition to Statement of Expenditure, the monthly financial reports will include the
Special Account Reconciliation Statements. Any difference in the amount of expenditures
reported under the two financial statements must be clearly explained. The project financial
statements, along with the physical progress and procurement sections of the Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs), will be submitted to the Association on a quarterly basis, and will
be submitted no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each quarter. The contents of the
FMRs have been discussed and the initial design of the reports has been agreed by the PCU and
the Association.
37.   For Association purposes, the annual financial statements will include, as well, the
schedule of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) presented during the year in support of
Withdrawal Applications.
Strengths and Weaknesses (PCU)
38.   The use of QuickBooks Pro will enable the PCU to maintain a record of expenditures in
accordance with the Association's recommended practices for project accounting. In addition,
the existing PMU has experience with Association-financed projects through the Finance and
Private Sector Development Project, and this famniliarity with World Bank policies and
procedures will enable the PCU to concentrate its efforts on the development of technical rather
than administrative details. However, some weaknesses exist in the, project management
arrangements, addressed in the table below:
Significant Weaknesses                      Resolution
Staffing of the PCU                   1) Extension of contract for Finance
Officer
2) Contract Procurement Officer, preferably
experienced in World Bank procurement
procedures and policies
Reporting                             1)   Quarterly reports to be submitted to
the Association and GoG
2)   Budget vs. Actual reports submitted
monthly
_  3)  Monthly SOEs
- 69 -



Risk Analysis
Risk                            Risk Rating  Risk Mitigation Measures
Inherent risk
Country specific               High        Establishment of specialized project unit
(PCU) within Office of President and
appointment of qualified staff; restrict
location of Special Account (SA); use of
SOEs for disbursement with lower
threshold in the SA
Control risk
Moderate to  Experience with Association financed
Implementing Entity            High        projects. Segregation of FM and
Procurement functions
High          Approval of budget units prior to
Funds Flow: counterpart funds               commencement of fiscal year (not
currently practiced by unit - counterpart
funding will be affected by new SDP)
Moderate      Establishment of the PCU;
Staffing                                    re-appointment of experienced FM
personnel (extension of contract)
High         Implement adequate accounting system
Accounting policies and procedures          with sufficient internal controls.
N/a           N/a
Internal Audit
High          Appointment of auditors before
External Audit                              effectiveness;
Moderate     Association support to generation of
Reporting and Monitoring                    flexible draft FMRs prior to effectiveness
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Funds Flow
39.   Loan funds will be disbursed to one Special Account (US dollar account for Association
funds), and this account will be utilized for the purposes of the implementation arrangements
agreed. As is the current practice in Guyana, the Special Account will be opened by the Ministry
of Finance (MOF) and maintained in a commercial bank (located at Riggs Bank, N.A. in
Washington, DC) with a local currency account maintained in the Bank of Guyana. The special
account will be replenished via the use of Statements of Expenditure (SOE) due to the high
inherent risk factor, the lower threshold in the special account would pose a lower exposure and
risk to the Association.
- 70-



40.   Additionally, the PCU will execute all payment orders on behalf of the line-Ministries
and Agencies which, under the project, will receive financial support for specifically approved
activities in their annual work plans. The line-Ministries and Agencies will carry out the
procurement for services and/or goods in accordance with World Bank procurement guidelines,
and payment orders for eligible expenditures will be forwarded to the PCU for financing and
execution. This arrangement will not require additional accounts for Association funds, as all
financial transactions will flow directly from the PCU's Special Account. This arrangement will
also fall under the normal scope of work for the annual external audit.
41.   The PCU has not yet prepared its budget request for this project (preparatory phase) for
the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2002. Counterpart funds for the Association's Financial and
Private Sector Development Project are drawn directly from the government's consolidated
accounts, and there is no specific budget provision for this project. The appraisal team was
informed that the proposed project would operate in a similar manner, although the required
counterpart funds under the TAC would meet primarily recurrent operational expenditures, and
would also need to meet the percentage of financing not covered by the new Standard
Disbursement Percentage (SDP). The new SDP would require that counterpart funds be used to
meet the percentage of a contract (most likely 15%) that the Association will not finance due to
local tax law.
42.   Payments and operation of IDA accounts. Before payments for acquisition of goods
and services can be processed, a purchase order or contract must exist. On the basis of these
documents, appropriation warrants are issued, provided that there's available budget. IDA
account reconciliations will be prepared on a monthly basis by the Accountant and will be
available within 15 days after the end of the month.
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expe nditu're Caii6oryW,   >  Arnount in US$illiorn '#~,.F!d(cd!ec  i
1. Goods                              0.67                100 foreign; 85 local
2. Services                           4.09                       100
0.00
Total Project Costs                    4.76
Total                                  4.76
Special account:
-71 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GUYANA: Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC)
Projecthd                          Kj      icntR.an
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     9
First Bank mission (identification)            02/24/2002                  02/24/2002
Appraisal mission departure                   07/30/2002                   08/19/2002
Negotiations                                  09/19/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  12/19/2002
Prepared by:
Chris Parel, Public Sector Management, LCR
Preparation assistance:
Tania Hollestelle, Language Program Assistant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
''- ~Na'm'e  K ,*,Ff,r;''.-,   ,,  -,r>¢  'Sp c.all*r, \ l-'''  - 3    --     -      -i  l |
Chris Parel                      Task Team Leader
Vladimir T. Jadrijevic           Sr. Procurement Specialist
Eduardo Brito                    Sr. Counsel
Camille Anne Nuamah Lampart      Country Officer
Edward Daoud                     Sr. Financial Officer
Tracey M. Lane                   Public Sector Management-YP
Enzo De Laurentiis                Sr. Procurement Specialist
Rajeev K. Swami                  Financial Management Officer
James Droop                      Country Coordinator
Homa-Zahra Fotouhi               Country Officer
Judy L. Baker                     Sr. Economist
Wolfgang Kohling                  Economist--YP
John Pollner                     Lead Financial Sector Specialist/Peer Reviewer
Keith McLain                     Social Development Economist
John D. Blomquist                Sr. Economist
Haeduck Lee                      Sr. Economist
Jamil Sopher                     Consultant--CFAA/Peer Reviewer
Tania Hollestelle                Language Program Assistant
Pilar Gonzalez                   Counsel
Juan Carlos Alvarez              Counsel
-72-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GUYANA: Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC)
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Financial Management and Procurement Capacity Assessments together with the to-be-completed
Operations Manual (Effectiveness Condition) will constitute the PIP for this small TAL.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment
Capacity Assessment for Procurement
ISGN
QAT Environmental and Social Comments on the PAD and ISDS
Public Sector TAC QER Report
C. Other
Project Concept Note
Project Concept Document
Project Pre-Appraisal Document
Project Appraisal Document
Review Meeting Minutes: PCN, PCD/Preliminary. PAD
Agendas and Peer reviewer and other reviewer comments on project cycle documents
Public Information Document
Component reports prepared by World Bank staff and consultants on most components
including:
procurement, fiduciary oversight, HRMIS integration, Bureau of Statistics,
M&E/PCPMU,
social safety nets/MHSLSS
*Including electronic files
-73-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GUYANA: Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC)
04-Nov-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Mlillons                    disbursements
Project ID  FY   Purpose                              IBRD       IDA                     Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Frm ReVd
P057272     2000 FINANCIAL & PRIVATE SECTOR               0.00     4.80                       0.00    0.26      0.42    0.00
P007269     1996 GY- SECONDARY EDUCATION                  0.00    17.30                       0.00    s.78      7.05    5.31
P007257     1994 GY WATER SUPPLYTA AND REHABILITATION     0.00     17.50                      0.00     7.55     9.06    7.95
Total:     0.00     39.60                      0.00     13.58    15.52    13.26
GUYANA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                 EFC
FY Approval           Company                           Loan   Equity     Quasi    Partic    Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1998                  Guyam Bank                        0.00     1.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.50      0.00     0.00
1998                  SEF Cara Lodge                    0.68     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.45     0.00      0.00     0.00
1998                  SEFIDS                            1.23     0.00      0.00     0.00      1.23    0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:            1.91      1.00     0.00      0.00      1.68     0.50     0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                              Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:             0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
- 74 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GUYANA: Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC)
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL,                                           America   -middie 
Guyana, & Carib.     Incomie      Development diamond'
20011.
Population, nid-year.(milllons)                        0.77       524      2,164                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atias method, US$)                    '840      3,560      1,240 .
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                       0.64     1f,3682    2,877
Average annual growth, 199541
Population (%)                                          0.5        1.5   -   1.0
Laor force (%                         -... 1.5                    2.G .     .         NI                             Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 199541)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povertV line)
Urban population (% of total population)  .              38        76       ,468
Ute expectancy at birth (years)          :               83        70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 54       -29   :    33
Child malnutrition (%.of children under 5)               12         9            11        Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)     94      . 85        80
lUiteracy(% ofpopulalfoname 15+)   .                      I                  .1 15
GrPssprimaryenrollment, (io/school-aDepopulation)       102       130        107        -     Guyana
.Male       .             ,               .       .t103.       . 131      107         -Lower-middle-income group
Female                    -o. 101                             . 128.       , 07
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991       2000      2001
, . , : ..181 9S1 ∞   --200t,  Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ Sbons)                              0.57      034        0.71      0.70
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                 31.4     42.2       22.6  -   21.9
Exportsofgoodsandservices/GbP,                68.9    116.5       96.1      94.9   .                 Trade
Grosscdomesticsavings/G1P                      8.0     17.9        8.0       5.6
Gross national savings/GDP           .           .     -5.3        7.3       3.1                         \
Current account balance/GOP                  -32.4    -45.3   . -15.3      -18.8       om
Interest payments/GOP: .                       6.3     14.0        6.3,    6.5 6s                              I Investment
TotaldebVGDP                                 159.5    589:2      205.8     201.6
Total debt servIe/exports             .          ..    26.5       15.9     . 15.0
Present value of debt/GOP                                        11...  ..  t 8.3,
Present value of debt/exports  I.                                        .     .. .6                Ie   de
-  .   . -        .    :        .   .               ~~~~~~~~~~~Indebtedness
-   1981-91  1991-01     2000 .     2001   2001405
(average annual growth)-
GOP      ,                           -2.5      4.5     -1.4        . 15      2.7               Guyan
GDP per capita  ...  .               -2.0      4.1     -2.0 .   , ,08,    .  1.8               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        -1.0 .    1.7     -1.9    ,   0.2      .1.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991       2000      2001      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           4
Agrculture                                    22.2     38.4       31.1      31.3
Industry                                      30.5     32.0       29.0      28.3     20
Manufacturng                                14.9     12 9        8.2       8.2
Services                                      47.3     29.6       39.9      40.4      o
Private consumption                           63.0     60.9       67.3      69.0    -20           97          0        01
General government consumption                29.1     21.2       24.7      25.4
Imports of goodsand services                  92.3    140.9      110.7     111.3               -     0            GDP
(average annual growth)                   1981-91   1991-01      2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   -0.5      3.9       -9.1       3.4     15
Industry                                      -5.2      6.6       -1.6       0.2     10
Manufacturing                               -8.6      7.4      -13.8       2.5
Services                                      -1.1      3.7        5.1       1.0      o   ,
Private consumption                           -4.7      5.5        1.1       4.1     -       e                      00   01
General government consumption                 4.1      6.8       28.2       4.4     10
Gross domestic investment                     -2.8     -2.3       -4.6      -1.9                   Exports  --e-Imports
Imports of goods and services                 -2.2      1.2        4.4       2.0
Note: 2001 dats are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key Indicalors In the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. II data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete.
- 75 -



Guyana
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991       2000     2001     Inflation (%)
(% rhange)
Consumer prices                              .     0t.5       6.1       2.7    t'
Implicit GDP deflator                       4.3   126.7       6.6      -0.8     s
Govemnment      l finaw e
(% of GOP. indudes cuent grants)                                                 .          S7    Se    S9
Current revenue                                    49.2      39.5      39.     4
Current budget balance                       *-    14.3       4.7       4.0             -GP deflator      :0CP
Overafl surplus/deficit                      ..     0.6      -7.5      -8.6
TRADE
(USSnfDblions)                            1981     1991      2000     200       Export and bnport levels (USS milL)
Total exports (fob)                        346      254       505      490     7S
Rie                                         ..     18        52        50
Sugar                                       ,      90       119       109     sW
Manutactures                               ..      20        78        77
Total imports (cl)                         428      307       585      584
Food                                       ..      23        69        69     2         _0
Fuelandenergy                               ..     67        121      132
Capitalqoods                               ..     139        132      115      0
9S   go   97   SS   99   O    01
Export price index (1995=100)                ..     108        81       84
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..     83       100       95                *EVorts       rImports
Temmsoftrade(1995=100)                       ..     131        81       88
BALANCE o PAYUENTS
1981    1991      2000      2001     Current account balance to GDP (%
(US$ fmmilin)
Exports of goods and services              369      357      685       662      0
Importsofgoodsandservices                  499      431       789      776
Resource balance                           -129     -75      -104     -114     -6
Net Income                                  -55    -107       -52      -61         I             liii
Not current transters                        ..      29        47       44     -10
Current account balance                    -185    -153      -109     -131     -1*
Flnancing items (net)                        ..     193       171      147
Changes In net reserves                      ..     -41       -62      -16
MAmo:
Reserves including gold (USS mllions)        ..     123       297      285
Converslon rate (DEC, IocasSS)              2.8    111.8     182.6    187.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ mDllons)                                                                  ComposaItn of 2001 debt (US$ milL)
Total debt outanding and disbursed         910     1,984    1,465     1,406
IBRD                                      42       55         8        6                        .       6
IDA                                       26      134       180      188                 G:125       :18
F: 45
TotaldebtservAce                            97      102       116      105
IBRD                                       3       11         4        4                                  C_: lO
IDA                                        0        1         2        3
Composition of net resource flows
Otficialgrants                             9      158        39
Ofcicalcreditors                          11t      67        23        ..        E: 552
Prlvate creditors                         -15     -13         0        0
Foreign diret investment                   -2       0        67       M. Dr 389
Portfolio equity                           0        0         0
World Bank program
Comrnmlments                              23       18         0        0     A - lBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             15       40         6       10     B-IDA    D - Other naililateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       1        6         4        5     C- IMF                    G - Short-tern
Netflows                                  14       34         2        5
Interest payrments                         2        6         2        2
Nettransfers                              12       28         0        3
ueverapmeMM EconoPrEs                                                                                          VI I /Ut
-76-



IBRD 25723
-  REION7LE ON 7                                                       _
A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
UL'"
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~     ~~~~~~ U, R<          I                 N2gjr  A}'  MJ-E
*   The boundaries, colors,
denominations and any
other information sho..'n
PRIMARY ROADS                                        ~~~~~~~~on this map  do  not
imply, on the port of 4/
SECONDARY ROADS                                      ~~~~~~~~~~The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the /egai
TRACKS                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~status of any territory,
or any endorsement
S   PRAIMARYROADS                                                      zr * v  t t g  or cceptance of such
REGION BOUNDARIES
-    INTERNATIONAL AIROUDRTIES.A                                         \
1 \tX        REGION'9        I    
MILES R   B\AIL
L0 10 20 30 40 50        \          (  f AISHALTON                                            1994
0 2'0  4'0ET  60  8                                               Gr 
fLOWpmqrbl)GktYAN/
L WL 8R~AZIL                                                 B  R A      Z 'I L
MARCH 1994









TPMAG2
Report No.:       25042  GUA
Type:     PAD



