Report No. PID11027
Project Name             Guyana-Public Sector Technical (@)
Assistance Credit (PSTAC)
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Central government administration
(100%- )
Project ID               GYPE74762
Implementing Agency
The Government of Guyana
The Office of the President
Address: New Garden Street,
Georgetown, Guyana
Contact Person: Dr. Roger Luncheon
Tel: 1010-220-011-592-225-7051
Fax: 226-3395
Email: skele@guyana.net.gy
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        August 16, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      August 15, 2002
Bank Approval Date       November 7, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
BackgroundGuyana is a highly indebted, low middle-income economy, with a
population of about 750,000 people and per capita income estimated at
US$750. It has relied heavily on development assistance since
independence in 1966. Following independence, Guyana pursued a state
interventionist policy of "cooperative socialism." After two decades of
declining investment and negative growth resulting in an unsustainable
debt situation, the Government adopted an economic recovery program in
1988. During the period of declining prosperity there was a significant
emigration of skilled workers. The country still suffers from considerable
emigration of qualified persons to neighboring Caribbean countries, the
UK, Canada, and the United States. In contrast to its abundant natural
resources, human resources are extremely limited and the situation is
exacerbated by ethnic rivalries.The key tenets of the economic reform
program initiated in the late 1980's included: (i) trade and capital
liberalization; (ii) removal of price controls and subsidies; (iii)
privatization and a reduction in the size of the public sector; and (iv)
expanded spending for social services. Adoption of the economic recovery
plan led to macroeconomic improvements including low inflation, real GDP
growth averaging over 6% between 1992 and 1997, and a decline in the rate
of poverty, which decreased by 8% between 1992 and 1999. In 1998,
however, economic performance deteriorated and negative GDP growth, down
to -1.7% in 2000, was recorded due to political disturbances, drought
conditions brought about by El Nito, and lower commodity export prices.
Recovery has been slow and real GDP growth rates rose to 1.4 W in 2001 and
are expected to increase to 4.29 by 2006. A currency depreciation
increased utility prices and this coupled with a large June 1999 wage
increase for civil servants resulted in an increase in inflation from 4.7%
in 1998 to 8.7% in 1999. With economic recovery, inflation fell to 5.8%



and is expected to drop to 2.5w in the years following 2005. Public sector
reform efforts have concentrated on institutional strengthening and
streamlining the public sector. The Government has privatized state-owned
financial institutions, the national airline, and electricity companies,
and is also taking steps to privatize the mining companies and introduce
private management to the bauxite, water and sugar industries. There has
been less progress with public sector modernization and civil service
reform. As a result, the public sector faces weak financial management,
overlapping and contradictory functional responsibilities, and
over-centralization of decision making. Following a two-month strike by
civil servants between May and June 1999, a binding arbitration tribunal
granted substantial civil service wage increases amounting to an
additional 1.3t of GDP between 1998 and 1999 and a further 0.9w of GDP
between 1999 and 2000 (or an increase in the public sector wage bill of
GY$2.6 bn and GY$2.1 bn respectively, not accounting for the expenditures
for severance payments). This development continued in the following years
and is expected to increase the civil service wages by another 0.7T of GDP
to 11.4t of GDP. Civil service wages will account for 32t of the total
non-capital expenditures of the government. Under the IMF-agreed
macroeconomic framework, the Government has agreed to limit the
nonfinancial public sector wage bill in 2002 to G$33 billion. Government
StrategyThe Government's overall development strategy is set out in the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), prepared under the Enhanced-HIPC
initiative. The PRSP built on an earlier, Government-authored 10-year
National Development Strategy and was formulated with broad participation
of private and civil society organizations. The objective of the PRSP is
to identify an actionable agenda to reduce poverty by restoring growth to
pre-1997 levels, improving social services, and expanding and
strengthening social safety nets. Analysis based on the 1992 Living
Standards Measurement Survey and the 1999 Living Conditions Survey
demonstrates that the overall incidence of Guyanese living below the
poverty line has decreased, particularly in urban and coastal areas.
However, poverty is still endemic in rural areas and predominates among
Amerindian groups. The 1999 data indicate that 889 of the Amerindian
population fall below the poverty line, and that poor households are
generally larger, agrarian, live in the interior and have very low levels
of education. The Government's strategy is to tackle the fundamental
causes of poverty as reflected in the PRSP matrix. Low economic growth,
poor governance, weak local governments, deterioration of social services
(health and education), and inadequate safety nets for the poor are
singled out for attention. The basic tenets of this strategy which are
also addressed by the PSTAC are as follows:Endorse a Participatory
Approach and Ownership. The strategy contained in the PRSP has been
developed through a highly participatory approach to legitimize its
priorities and build ownership. Hence, some 8,000 Guyanese were involved
in PRSP consultations, including representatives of community groups, the
private sector and civil society groups. Establish Clear Benchmarks. The
Government has committed to achieving measurable benchmarks defined in the
PRSP and is consequently developing programs to achieve those benchmarks.
It has also committed to establishing the requisite institutions to
monitor and evaluate program results.Strengthen Fiscal, Financial and
Fiduciary Areas. The Government has committed to an IMF program and
recognizes the need to maintain fiscal and financial discipline.
Consequently with the help of the IMF and World Bank, in close
coordination with the donor community, it will: (i) Consider the reform of
- 2 -



tax policy with IMF support and upgrade the Revenue Authority responsible
for the Government's tax and custom revenue collection. (ii) Undertake
public sector programs, jointly financed by IDA and the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), to strengthen its fiduciary and procurement
arrangements. This work will build on the diagnostics and recommendations
contained in the World Bank Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)
and the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA). (iii)
Strengthen the basis for civil service management by consolidating payroll
and human resources databases. These will be included in an integrated
financial management system planned in a subsequent operation to be funded
by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).(iv) Endorse
increased reliance on private sector led investment and income generation.
Results to date include increased subcontracting of government functions
and the establishment of a Privatization Unit that has privatized more
than 20 public enterprises since the publication of the Government's
Privatization Policy Framework Paper in 1993. (v) Overhaul and reform
the budget process and systems with the assistance of CIDA and other
donors.Support Decentralization/Local Government Strengthening. The
Government recognizes that fiscal management and efficient service
delivery require reforms to the framework governing relations between the
central and local governments.
2. Objectives
The objective of the Public Sector Technical Assistance Credit (PSTAC) is
to assist the Government in building its capacity to meet the governance
and poverty reduction objectives set out in the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP). The Bank will support the implementation of the PRSP through
a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) covering a broad
range of policies. The PSTAC supports the PRSCs and focuses on two of the
seven pillars that comprise the poverty reduction strategy, namely (i)
build stronger institutions and improve governance, and (ii) improve
safety nets. Specifically, the PSTAC's development objectives are to:
Strengthen fiscal, financial and fiduciary management,Improve the coverage
and efficiency of social safety nets, andDevelop institutional capacity to
manage, monitor, evaluate and improve PRSP implementation.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The PSTAC is a complementary credit to the PRSC to provide technical
support to the specific policy areas that are benchmarks in the PRSC. The
PRSC represents a move from investment lending to programmatic lending.
This requires improved fiduciary arrangements, including public sector
procurement and financial management. In close cooperation with other
donors, the Bank will leverage its comparative advantage in this area to
assist the Government, drawing on the diagnostic work undertaken as part
of the CPAR and the CFAA. The PSTAC complements technical assistance
provided by other donors to the public sector, especially in public sector
modernization (IDB) and economic management (CIDA). For example, support
to the Bureau of Statistics and procurement strengthening have been
coordinated with the IDB's program of Technical Cooperation, and
strengthening of the Guyana Revenue Authority will be developed in
conjunction with the outcome of the IMF tax policy study.
4. Description
Component 1: Strengthen fiscal, financial and fiduciary management. The
objective of this component is to improve the accountability, transparency
-3 -



and efficiency of Guyana's public sector as regards financial management,
fiscal discipline and fiduciary arrangements. Specifically, it aims to do
the following:Sub-Component 1.1: Strengthen the Revenue Authority.
Definition of this component requires agreeemnt between the IMF and the
Government. Activities could include the following:(i) Employ expert
consultants to help put in place the agreed reform program. This could
include the funding of high level consultants for period of a year or
more. (ii) Define and implement an anti-corruption program. The reform
that consolidated taxation and customs agencies, creating the GRA, was
undertaken in part to address corruption. This work needs to be
continued. A diagnostic, code of conduct, new regulations allowing for
dismissal of corrupt officials, systems and training programs are
contemplated.(iii) Improve tax and customs systems, procedures and
training. There is a need for basic institutional strengthening of GRA
business systems and revision, documentation and dissemination of
procedures and guidelines. Training of officials must accompany these
reforms.(iv) Prepare for implementation of agreed tax reforms including
possible preparatory work for a new value added tax (VAT). The GRA
diagnostic makes concrete recommendations for changes in existing taxes as
part of a transition to a reformed system that could include a value added
tax (VAT). The development, regulation and documentation of these reforms
may be launched by PSTAC. Sub-Component 1.2: Strengthen Procurement
Administration(i) Draft rules and regulations for procurement law. Once
the Procurement Law receives Parliamentary approval, specialist advice
will be provided on the drafting of rules and regulations to implement the
Law. Training will be conducted on the implications for public procurement
procedures and practices, and support will also be provided for
dissemination and printing of the new Law. (ii) Implement the new
procurement law once approved. The National Procurement Administrative
Board (NPAB) is to be established following the implementation of the
Procurement Law, and will replace the former Central Tenders Board. The
component will help to strengthen the NPAB through improved systems and
procedures, including the drafting of Standard Bidding Documents and
procurement manuals, and establishing a Management Information System in
the NPAB's secretariat. Public employees will benefit from a series of
workshops, seminars and training on public procurement.Sub-Component 1.3:
Fiduciary OversightThree critical governance studies are to be funded
under this component. Results and recommendations should be publicly
debated and form the basis for draft legislation and regulations. The
CFAA found that improvements in these areas was essential to fiduciary
reform efforts.(i) Strengthening the fiduciary oversight committee linked
to the Parliament. This study will look at existing legislation regarding
the Economic Services Committee and the supporting secretariat. The study
will comprise four tasks: (a) develop an operational framework for the
secretariat; (b) develop systems and procedures for conducting analysis
and presenting findings by the secretariat to the committee; (c) develop
rules and procedures for committee deliberations; and (d) identifying
skills and training requirements for secretariat staff. (ii) Development
of proposals to limit discretionary powers in key line agencies and
ministries. The IMF's GRA study reaffirms the CFAA findings regarding the
need to limit the discretionary authority of the executive including a
number of key agencies and ministries. The cost to Guyana in terms of
foregone revenues and distorted incentives is significant. Hence this
study will review and evaluate existing laws and regulations and how they
are implemented in key revenue earning institutions, document good
- 4 -



practice elsewhere, and make recommendations as to how the discretionary
framework must be reformed.(iii) Strengthen the disclosure requirements
for public sector officials. This study will review the Law on Public
Disclosure and the strengthening and reorganization of the Integrity
Commission. Under the current law, senior public officials are required
to file disclosure forms of their personal assets but coverage is
incomplete and there is no follow-up once the records are filed.
Enforcement is also lacking. Hence the outcome of the study will be a
proposal for a reformed disclosure framework that will incorporate good
practice elsewhere. Sub-Component 1.4: Integrate Human Resources and
Payroll Databases(i) Implement a consolidated payroll and human resource
management database. This sub-component will (a) upgrade the payroll
database used by the Ministry of Finance to include human resources data;
(b) migrate existing data contained in the stand-alone database currently
being developed by the Public Services Ministry; and (c) clean the
consolidated data. This component aims to improve the accuracy of payroll
data and to provide improved records for human resource management.
Personnel in the Ministry of Finance and Public Services Ministry will be
trained in the use of the new systems, and provided the necessary
additional hardware to use the systems in both Ministries. Future
operations will need to expand use to line ministries and
agencies.Sub-Component 1.5: Support Privatization Activity(i) Management
support during the privatization process of the state-owned bank (GNCB).
Continuing previous World Bank support financed under the Financial and
Private Sector Institutional Development Credit (FPID), this component
will support management of the Guyana National Cooperative Bank (GNCB) and
preparation for privatization. The component will also finance activities
of the international management team, such as the auditing of accounts and
overall management of the bank, necessary to ensure that the value of
assets and equity are maintained during the transaction phase between sale
and ultimate transfer of the bank to private owners.(ii) Support the
strengthening of the Privatization Unit engaged in the Government's
divestiture program. Following previous Bank support financed under the
FPID Project, this sub-component will support the Privatization Unit with
international experts and staff to complete the program of privatization
of state-owned enterprises. This will include specialist advice on
capital markets effects, and financing of legal consultants to assist in
the production of prospectuses and bidding documents. Component 2: Improve
the coverage and efficiency of social safety nets. A Bank diagnostic of
existing social safety net programs identified the need for institutional
strengthening and targeted diagnostics and interventions to address
problems in key programs. Sub-Component 2.1: Strengthen Existing Social
Safety Net Programs(i) Strengthen the capacity of the MHLSS to manage
safety net programs through improved systems, processes and training.
The Ministry of Human Services, Labour and Social Security (MHLSS) is
responsible for the management of assistance to the poor. The largest of
these programs are the Old Age Pensions, Public Assistance, and Difficult
Circumstances programs. These programs combined reach an estimated 55,000
beneficiaries. Benefit levels are low and service delivery systems are
outdated and inefficient. Consequently, this component aims to improve
safety net coverage, by improving efficiency, coverage and service and
efficacy of the existing safety net programs and presenting alternatives
for unemployed workers in restructured industries through the
implementation of computer systems and improved procedures and
training.(ii) Safety Net Diagnostics. The present school feeding program
- 5-



reaches only a quarter of the eligible students. A diagnostic will be
undertaken and recommendations developed for increasing coverage and
efficiency possibly through decentralization. A second diagnostic will
look at the vocational training institute and whether the training it
offers is aligned with labor market demand. A third diagnostic will look
at safety net legislation, propose reforms and possibly draft new
legislation.   Sub-Component 2.2:   Prepare Safety Net Options for
Vulnerable Groups(i) Undertake an analysis of the profile and needs of
target populations affected by sector restructuring and develop and debate
safety net recommendations. In consultation with the Government, as well
as the private sector and civil society groups, a consultant team will
undertake background studies, including survey work, to provide an
analysis of the profile and needs of target populations likely to be
affected by sector restructuring. The team would focus primarily on the
issues facing the sugar and water sectors over the next two years, taking
advantage of on-going Bank assistance to restructure these sectors. This
analysis will serve as the basis for developing safety net options to
mitigate the potentially adverse impact of expected retrenchment on
vulnerable groups. Specifically, the team would design retrenchment
packages and labor market and training programs for retrenched workers.
Component 3: Develop institutional capacity to manage, monitor, evaluate
and research HIPC, PRSP, PRSC and PSTAC. The objective of this component
is to support the Government's efforts to implement the strategy embodied
in the PRSP and monitor and evaluate progress. It aims to improve the
Government's capacity to: generate and disseminate reliable data; involve
communities in monitoring PRSP activities and impact; and build an
institutional capacity to undertake Government monitoring, evaluation and
implementation of the PRSP and PSTAC.Sub-Component 3.1: Strengthen the
Bureau of Statistics(i) Strengthen the Bureau of Statistics (BOS) through
improved processes, systems, training and IT capacity. The capacity of
the Bureau of Statistics to generate timely and appropriate data for
policy-making is constrained by weak in-house research and analytical
capabilities. This component will strengthen managerial and supervisory
capacity by providing experts in IT, data generation and analysis, and
training for senior management including participation in appropriate
seminars and workshops. In light of the shortage of skilled statisticians
coming through the education system, junior staff would benefit from
formal training programs, and the statistics curriculum will be improved
in collaboration with the University of Guyana. In addition to enhancing
the technical expertise of the BOS, this sub-component will address
institutional weaknesses by significantly upgrading IT equipment for data
management, data dissemination, and provide for the establishment of a BOS
website. (ii) Improve the coverage, timeliness, quality, quantity and use
of relevant survey data and statistical output. This sub-component will
improve survey data by training BOS officials and supporting efforts to
improve questionnaire design, field-testing and processes for data entry.
It will also assist field operations in the collect baseline household
survey living conditions data and train 2,500 census enumerators to ensure
that census operations are carried out with due regard to operational
details. Sub-Component 3.2: Establish a Policy Coordination and Program
Management Unit (PCPMU)(i) Monitor and evaluate PRSP, HIPC, PRSC
implementation. Once established, the PCPMU will be responsible for the
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of PRSP activities. Specifically, the M&E
functions would consist of: (a) coordinating a network of focal points
within select government ministries, (b) providing technical support and
- 6 -



manage M&E capacity building programs for key ministries, (c) piloting an
innovative community-based M&E program on local PRSP impacts and
activities; (d) tracking key policy reforms within the PRSP, HIPC and
PRSC; and (v) developing and carrying-out a public outreach program on
PRSP activities and progress. The component will finance local and
international technical experts, including community development
facilitators, a policy analyst, a communications officer and IT
consultants. It will also provide for a program of training, and IT
hardware and software. (ii) Develop analytic and policy-making capacity in
the PCPMU. The PCPMU would include a PSTAC supported Policy Unit staffed
by analysts that will be responsible for providing strategic policy
advice to the Government with particular emphasis on the implementation of
reforms articulated in the PRSP. (iii) Manage PSTAC implementation. The
PCPMU would be the agency responsible for managing and coordinating the
overall implementation of the PSTAC through a Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU). This component will finance key personnel, including staff with
disbursement and procurement experience and secretarial support.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER         $0.44
IBRD
IDA              $4.00
Total Project
Cost             $4.44
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over 3 years. The Government official
responsible for project implementation will be the PCPMU Head. The
Project Coordinating Unit will be located in the new PCPMU. The PSTAC will
fund key personnel, including the Head of the PCPMU who will be the
Project Coordinator. The project will also finance PCU staff with
financial management, disbursement and procurement responsibilities and
experience with Bank projects. The financial capacity assessment has been
completed and PSTAC staff are competent to manage the loan and financial
systems that will be satisfactory by start-up. The Head of the PCPMU will
be responsible for overseeing the implementation of all project components
and will have direct responsibility for establishing and managing the
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), M&E and Policy units within the PCPMU
(Sub-Component 4.2)directly managing sub-component 3.2, "Prepare safety
net solutions for vulnerable groups"directly managing sub-component 1.5,
"Supporting privatization activity"Each of the other components will have
a coordinator who will be a ranking ministerial or agency official to
ensure ownership and facilitate implementation.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability is expected to be enhanced by the following: (i) Project
components are all directly or indirectly linked to the PRSP, PRSC, PRGF
and HIPC hence donor funding provides a significant incentive. (ii) The
M&E component will document progress and its communications activity will
ensure public dissemination of results.(iii) The benefits accruing to
component agencies from new procedures, upgraded systems and hardware, and
training strengthens ownership. (iv) The project pipeline--especially
fiduciary operations--and the possibility of allocating donor funding for
social safety nets strengthens the likelihood of sustainability.
-7 -



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from World Bank experience with technical assistance and
project implementation in Guyana emphasize the limited capabilities of
project counterparts and consequently the importance of maintaining close
supervision during project implementation. Successful supervision in
Guyana will require (i) close monitoring, (ii) full support from senior
management on decisions related to difficult and/or controversial
activivities, (iii) good documentation of decisions and pro-active
follow-up on compliance and legal covenants, and (iv) avoiding turn-over
of key client project team members. To ensure smooth implementation, the
Bank will maintain a technical project adviser in the Bank's Georgetown
office who will be responsible for client assistance and day-to-day
project monitoring, and who will report to the Task Manager and the Guyana
Country Coordinator.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project is not expected to have any
environmental impact
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Chris Parel
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473-3918
Fax: 202 522-3133/34
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID has been processed by the InfoShop during the week ending August
23, 2002.
-8-



