Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6706-ET
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 80.80 MILLION
TO
THE FEDERAL DEKOCTATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR AN
ETHIOPIAN SOCIAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
March 13, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
ETHIOPIAN SOCIAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
(as of 11/10/95)
Currency Unit                               Ethiopian Birr
US$ 1.00                                    Birr 6.3
1 Ethiopian Birr                           US$ 0.159
US$ 1.00                                    SDR 1.49
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADLI                  Agricultural-Development-Led Industrialization
AR                    Annual Review of the ESRDF Performance
AWPB                  Annual Work Program and Budget of the ESRDF
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CPC                   Community Project Committee
CSA                   Central Statistical Authority
ERRP                  Ethiopian Recovery and Rehabilitation Program
ESRDF                 Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation & Development Fund
ESRF                  Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation Fund (ESRF)
FAD                   Financial and Administrative Department
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
GOE                   Government of Ethiopia
IA                    Implementing Agency
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
IDA                   International Development Association
IRR                   Internal Rate of Return
MCH                   Maternal and Childcare Health
NCB                   National Competitive Bidding
NCS                   National Conservation Strategy
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
NRWSP                 National Rural Water Supply Program
RO                    Regional Office of the ESRDF
SA                    Special Account
TGE                   Transitional Government of Ethiopia
UJNDP                 United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                United Nations Children's Fund
WMU                   Welfare Monitoring Unit
Government Fiscal Year
July 8 - July 7



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
ETHIOPIAN SOCIAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       The Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Implementing Agency:            Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development
Fund (ESRDF)
Beneficiaries:                  Poor communities, mainly in rural areas throughout
Ethiopia, with a special focus on women
Poverty:                        Program of Targeted Interventions.
Amount:                         SDR 80.80 million (US$ 120 million equivalent)
(Overall project size: US$ 242.40 million)
Terms:                          Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Commitment Fee                  0.50% on undisbursed credit balances beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:                 See Schedule A
Net Present Value:              US$ 138 million at 12 percent discount rate
Economic Rate of Return:        22.6%
Staff Appraisal Report:         14907-ET
Maps:                           IBRD 26958
IBRD 26557
IBRD 26558
Project ID:                     771
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR AN ETHIOPIAN SOCIAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia for SDR 80.80
million, the equivalent of US$ 120 million on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years to
help finance the Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund Project. Major co-
financers include UNDP, Government of the Netherlands, NORAD and Government of Italy.
1.    Country and Sector Background. Ethiopia, one of the poorest countries in the
world, has over 50 million people with an average per capita income of US$ 130. In
1991, the Transitional Government of Ethiopia inherited a devastated economy marked
by low growth, static or declining production, massive external debt, neglected or non-
existent infrastructure, severely degraded natural resources, a lack of basic social services
in rural areas, and immense strains on urban facilities. The country's social indicators are
substantially worse than Sub-Saharan African averages. Life expectancy is less than 50
years; for every thousand infants, an average of 122 die within their first year; 20 percent
of children die before reaching the age of five; almost 700 women die in childbirth for
every 100,000 births (less than 25 percent of births are attended by trained mid-wives);
more than 70 percent of the country is susceptible to malaria, the major killer; the average
daily calorie intake is only 76 percent of recommended minimum levels; 7 to 10 percent
of children are moderately to severely stunted, and 40 to 60 percent of children under five
are stunted. Chronic drought, heavy population land pressures, and lack of access to safe
water for over 90 percent of the rural population, combined with low incomes and poor
social services, create an intractable cycle of chronic poverty. Half the population live
below the poverty line, and as many as 85 percent of households in some regions. The
poverty burden is exacerbated by millions of transitory poor: returning refugees,
displaced families, refugees from Somalia and Sudan, demobilized soldiers, orphans and
street children, and redundant public servants.
2.    The Government responded with a program consisting of a number of elements,
all of which IDA is supporting. The first was an Emergency Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Program (ERRP) which pumped US$ 650 million into jump-starting the
economy and revitalizing the private sector. This was accompanied by a comprehensive
program of macroeconomic reform which has helped stabilize the economy, lower the
rate of inflation, restore the competitiveness of Ethiopia's foreign exchange rate, and keep
the fiscal deficit and its domestic bank financing under control. Structural changes have
helped stimulate private investment, production and exports, by abolishing state
monopolies, freeing up import and export tariffs, and simplifying licensing procedures.
These policy reforms aim to stimulate employment-generating economic growth as the
long-term basis for poverty reduction. The third strand of the program focuses directly
on the poor. Public spending has been significantly re-channeled to expand and improve
the quality of basic health and education services that currently reach only a small
proportion of the country's rural poor; and to expand and rehabilitate roads essential for
both formal and informal sector trade. Two other vital measures are a program to provide



-2-
access to safe water in rural areas, and a program to reduce the current 3 percent
population growth rate. These measures have been supplemented by targeted, safety-net
programs for groups whose abject poverty, incapacity and isolation restricts their ability
to benefit from broader economic growth trends.
3.    Project Rationale. Ethiopia is a vast country of poor, isolated rural communities
and inadequate communications. The poorest communities live in areas where the
agricultural sector has reached the limits of its capacity to absorb more labor, where
population pressure is threatening even further environmental degradation, and where
there are weak links to the formal economy. The recent creation of a federal system in
Ethiopia, involves a substantial devolution of political and economic responsibility to
regions and provides the political framework for all future development programs.
Central and regional governments will manage broad economic and sector policies and
finance large scale infrastructure, especially for power and roads. Beyond that,
development is being moved as close as possible to poor beneficiary communities which
are being empowered to take the lead in designing projects that respond to their social
and economic priorities and are small and simple enough for them to invest in, manage,
and maintain. This strategy will help ensure that the right priorities are financed and give
beneficiaries a stake in these investments and a responsibility to ensure sustainability.
4.    Since the political change, many NGOs and agencies such as UNICEF have
successfully fostered participative development approaches. The most organized
Government effort has been the US$ 13 million pilot Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation
Fund (ESRF), launched as a component of the ERRP to test a social fund approach in
three regions. The ESRF has financed community-initiated sub-projects in areas of
critical importance to poor communities' economic and social welfare, including small-
scale irrigation schemes, primary schools and health facilities, feeder road rehabilitation,
rural water supply, latrines and drainage schemes in urban areas, and support for income-
generating activities. The size of these infrastructure sub-projects has ranged from about
US$ 10,000 to US$ 200,000. IDA has actively supported the ESRF pilot, which, since it
began in December 1992, has completed 219 community-initiated projects reaching 2.1
million poor beneficiaries, with a special emphasis on poor women, the country's most
vulnerable population group. The pilot has provided basic health services for 329,000
villagers, extended school places to over 20,000 children of poor families, brought safe
water to 67,000 rural household members, and sanitation to 234,000 of their urban
counterparts. Roads rehabilitated through ESRF support have helped over 780,000 poor
people make better contact with markets and social service facilities. Independent
evaluations have vouched for the quality of ESRF financed infrastructure, which has been
designed to meet nationally approved standards.
5.    Operating as an autonomous agency with its own financial channel, ESRF has
accomplished these results at an overhead cost of less than 5 percent, which is below the
7.8 percent administrative overhead of the civil service based on the recent Public
Expenditure Review. The ESRF standards involve a community contribution of at least
10 percent of the project costs. In reality they provided far more, an average of 18
percent. The total costs of projects delivered through the ESRF were between 6.9 percent



-3-
and 30 percent lower than similar projects managed by sector ministries. ESRF was also
efficient, delivering its results between 33 percent and 61 percent faster than average
project completion times for public agencies.
6.    For all ESRF-financed sub-projects, Community Project Committees were
established to manage implementation, often assisted by local NGOs or regional bureaus.
Fulfilling an up-front requirement for project financing, these committees have remained
in place to take responsibility for maintenance of infrastructure and to collect user fees to
cover recurrent costs for water supply, irrigation, and sanitation schemes. ESRF has
financed basic education and health facilities only when regional bureaus have agreed to
budget the recurrent costs to cover salaries for health workers and teachers, and the
provision of medicines, supplies and textbooks. The ESRF pilot has made an important
contribution to capacity building in Ethiopia, fostering community-based development,
and establishing and training many community project committees. The ESRF has also
helped forge links among community leaders, NGOs, regional bureau staff, and private
contractors, to form a critical mass of support for participative development in a country
where capacity is very weak.
7.    The Government has decided to continue the ESRF approach because of its ability
to adjust to Ethiopian realities and harness the efforts and energy of poor communities, at
the same time help accomplish major poverty reduction goals: (i) improving the access
of children (especially girls) to primary education, encouraging greater parental
contributions, and reducing the high rate of illiteracy, especially among women; (ii)
improving the coverage and quality of basic health services, reducing mortality rates and
preventable diseases, improving standards of nutrition, and introducing realistic cost
recovery; (iii) providing access to safe water to rural communities through simple cost-
effective technologies which communities can maintain through user fees; (iv) improving
sanitation conditions in urban areas through low-cost communal latrines and drainage
schemes, which communities will maintain through user fees and contributions; and (v)
expanding income opportunities through small-scale irrigation for poor farmers.
8.    The alternative to continuing and expanding the social fund approach would be to
rely on the new regional administrative mechanisms and NGOs to provide the main
support to community-based participative poverty reduction efforts. There would,
however, be strong drawbacks to such an alternative. Firstly, the new regional structures
have a substantial mandate and very limited capacity. Having inherited the main
responsibility for implementation from central government, they face a testing period
developing regional sector strategies and designing large-scale interventions, especially in
the road sector, energy, and other areas of neglected infrastructure. Participative
community-based work is very intensive, and the desire in Ethiopia is to control the
growth of governmental bureaucracy and delegate responsibility as far as possible to local
institutions. The regional administrations will play a full and significant role in
supporting the ESRDF, so the choice of proceeding with the proposed project does not
imply that regional governments will have no involvement in community-based
development. On the contrary, the partnership between the regional administrations and
the ESRDF will help build community-based experience, and over time as the regional



-4-
administrations become stronger, the social fund approach will become an integral part of
their development role. There is also a disadvantage to relying purely on NGO
interventions in participative poverty reduction programs. While many NGOs in Ethiopia
have an excellent track record and are already operating as partners with the social fund,
their interventions due to limited resources are scattered and difficult to sustain, results
are sometimes variable and inconsistent, and overhead costs sometimes quite high.
9.    Project Objectives. The Project will expand to all regions of Ethiopia, the social
fund mechanism successfully tested by the ESRF pilot. Known as the Ethiopian Social
Rehabilitation and Development Fund (ESRDF), this social fund will provide financial
and technical support to poor, mainly rural communities to launch small projects aimed at
creating the assets and services needed to upgrade their economic and social standards
and strengthen self-reliance. The ESRDF will (i) support community initiatives to
construct or rehabilitate, and maintain basic economic and social infrastructure and
services necessary for improved incomes, health, and productivity; (ii) increase
community capacity to identify development priorities, manage project implementation,
and maintain ESRDF-financed assets; (iii) support measures beneficial to environmental
conservation and rehabilitation; and (iv) respond to the needs of vulnerable groups,
especially poor women. ESRDF will focus exclusively on sustainable developmental
initiatives, and will not finance relief activities. The Project will also support the
establishment of a Welfare Monitoring System in Ethiopia to improve the collection and
analysis of information used to guide poverty reduction efforts, and track the impact of
policy measures on the poor.
10.   The ESRDF will operate as a major component of the Govemnment's poverty
reduction program, reaching an estimated 7 million beneficiaries in Ethiopia's poorest
and most isolated communities. The ESRDF will promote beneficiary-managed
participatory development to maximize communities' financial and managerial
contributions. The ESRDF has an advantage over public-agency managed programs,
providing a cost-effective way of delivering micro-projects, responding directly to
community priorities, and establishing a basis for long-term sustainability.
11.   Project Description. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 243 million
over five years. The costs will be financed by IDA (US$ 120 million); Government of
Ethiopia (US$ 36 million) and Communities (US$ 24 million). Among other donors
committed to support the Project, UNDP has already allocated US$ 6 million, and
Norway, US$ 4.3 million. Italy and the Netherlands will finalize their contribution soon,
and Sweden and Finland are considering participation. It is anticipated that additional co-
financing will be found during the life of the project and complete the financing plan.
Based on a survey of community needs, it is anticipated that the bulk of economic and
social infrastructure sub-projects will fall into four main categories. Primary health sub-
projects (12 percent) will provide communities with the basic health facilities and
services needed to improve access to essential preventive and curative health care and
nutrition monitoring. Basic education sub-projects (11 percent) will provide primary
school facilities for poor children currently receiving no education. Rural water supply
and sanitation sub-projects (32 percent) will provide villages with access to safe water



-5-
through simple-to-maintain systems, and poor urban communities with latrines and
improved drainage. Small-scale irrigation sub-projects (31 percent) will provide earth
dam and river diversion schemes that will help irrigate areas typically between 50 and
200 hectares in size, providing alternatives to dependency on rain-fed cultivation in
drought-prone areas, and enabling small farmers to increase their income from cash crops
and contribute to improved nutrition in their communities.
12.   As many small-scale irrigation sub-projects will be implemented on international
waterways, notification and Project Details were sent to five riparian states (Egypt,
Sudan, Eritrea, Djibouti, and Kenya), as required by OP 7.50. They were given four
months in which to comment and raise any objections to IDA supporting this component.
Sudan and Egypt requested and were sent additional information, and Egypt requested
and was granted an additional two months in which to reply. None of the notified
countries raised objections to IDA supporting the component, and Bank Management
agreed with the assessment of the project team and other experts on irrigation and riparian
issues that the proposed abstractions would not cause appreciable harm to downstream
countries. Therefore, the project would include small-scale irrigation sub-projects up to
the limits for each international river basin described in the Table below, which contains
the information notified to the five riparian states. The legal documents for the project
include assurances from the Government of Ethiopia that these limits will not be
exceeded. As it was not possible to notify Somalia because of the political conditions in
that country, the Ethiopian Government agreed that the project would not be used to
finance the construction of small-scale irrigation schemes on waterways flowing into
Somalia.
Table: ESRDF Irrigation Sub-Project Abstractions by River Basin
River Basin    Irrigation Area (ha)    Total Water  Mean Annual  Percentage
Requirements      Run-Off      of Water
(millions cm)   (billion cm)   Utilized
Boro               542                3.7            13.5         0.03
Abay               6,030             48.2             52.2         0.09
Tekeze             3,799              40.2            12.0         0.33
Awash               1,530             13.4             4.6         0.29
Omo               4,813              30.1            18.0         0.17
Sub-Total: Int'l      16,714             135.6           100.3         0.13
Waterways
Rift              2,001              14.2            5.6          0.25
Project Total         18,715            149.8            105.9        0.14
Note: The Rift is not an international river basin.
13.   Capacity Building (5 percent of total project costs). The success of the project
will depend upon extensive skills development programs to ensure (i) that ESRDF can
effectively mobilize community involvement; rigorously appraise community-initiated
sub-projects for their cost-effectiveness and sustainability; and supervise and evaluate the
impact of Fund-financed activities; (ii) that communities can establish their own Project
Committees able to identify feasible small projects to improve the economic and social
welfare of their members; participate in the design and manage the implementation of
sub-projects; and manage the maintenance of assets and collect user fees to cover costs



-6-
and simple technical repairs; and (iii) that a network of local facilitators (regional bureau
staff, NGOs, private contractors, and specially trained community facilitators) are ready
to support implementation and assist communities. By building skills in participatory
development, the capacity building program will contribute to the long-term
sustainability of the ESRDF, through a further phase at the end of the project period or by
incorporating the ESRDF's developmental approach into regional development programs.
14.   The Welfare Monitoring System (1.6 percent of the project) will help establish a
program to track the country's essential poverty and social indicators, determine whether
poverty reduction efforts are succeeding, and analyze the impact of policy measures that
may affect the poor. The Annual Review of Social Trend and Poverty by a high level
National Welfare Review Committee, will be supplemented by specially designed
surveys on poverty-related and social topics. Through a study fund, the Welfare
Monitoring System will encourage the participation of a wide network of public and
private institutions in poverty surveys and analyses, and help strengthen the main
coordinating body, the Central Statistical Authority. It has been agreed that all data and
analyses emerging from this program will be freely available to interested parties.
15.   Schedule A presents the estimated project costs and financing plan, Schedule B
provides the Economic and Financial Analysis Tables and Key Performance Indicators;
Schedule C provides Procurement Methods and Disbursement Schedule; Schedule D
provides the Project's Key Processing Events; and Schedule E provides the Status of
Bank Group Operations. Maps are also provided showing the location of ESRDF offices,
and the location of proposed small-scale irrigation schemes and their relationship to
riparian countries. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 14907-ET) is being distributed
separately.
16.   Project Implementation. Organizational Structures. ESRDF has been
established as a semi-autonomous agency by a Government Proclamation, with its own
structure, and financial channel separate from the civil service and regional
administrations. An ESRDF Board, consisting of selected Ministers, including the
Government policy-maker responsible for regional affairs, will ensure policy consistency
and approve financial allocations to regions. A Central Office will draw up an annual
budget and work program, manage all financial transfers, and monitor and evaluate
project implementation. Regional Offices will carry out day-to-day ESRDF activities,
including community promotion, sub-project appraisals, and monitoring of
implementation and post-completion maintenance. The offices will propose viable sub-
projects to Regional Steering Committees responsible for ensuring that Regional Offices
operate in line with the ESRDF rules. Communities receiving ESRDF support will
establish Community Project Committees responsible for ensuring community financial
and material participation in sub-project implementation and the maintenance of ESRDF-
financed infrastructure. These committees will be able to seek the assistance of NGOs
and other local facilitators, but will be responsible for signing the sub-project Financing
Agreements with the ESRDF.
17.   Operational Procedures. The ESRDF Operational Manual, satisfactory to IDA, is
part of the Proclamation establishing the ESRDF. The Manual will govern all operations



-7-
and activities of ESRDF, including activities financed by other donors, and ensure
consistency of practice in all regions. Modifications to the Manual can be made only by
the ESRDF Board with the consent of IDA. The Manual contains the policy framework
and organizational structure of the ESRDF; roles and responsibilities; criteria and
procedures for sub-project identification, appraisal and financing; implementation,
procurement and disbursement arrangements; and monitoring and accounting
requirements. Annexes to the Manual provide sample contracting documents and
standard forms for use in processing sub-projects. To supplement the Manual, detailed
Handbooks are being developed as part of the capacity building program to guide the
design and implementation of sub-projects in each ESRDF sector.
18.   Regional Offices will submit an annual work program and budget based on a
pipeline of community-initiated sub-project proposals that are viable and within the
Office's operating capacity. At the same time, they will report on their achievements in
the previous year. The Central Office will produce a consolidated Annual Review and
Annual Plan and Budget, along with targets for the agreed Performance Indicators
(shown in Schedule B), to submit to the ESRDF Board and IDA. Once the program has
been approved, Regional Offices will receive an advance equivalent to four months'
estimated expenditure. Replenishments will be decided by the Central Office on receipt
of SOEs and other required documentation, and up-to-date performance reports.
19.   Tracking ESRDF activities and production of half-yearly and annual reports will
be supported by a rigorous Monitoring Information System (MIS) that will record details
of sub-project implementation costs compared to standard unit costs; performance
efficiency; community participation and beneficiary impact (especially for women);
procurement methods; and environmental impact. The MIS will also track the
relationship between administrative overheads and work load. The Project will be subject
to an annual audit, a procurement and technical review after the first 18 months, and a
Mid-Term Review after 30 months of implementation.
20.   Procurement arrangements will be kept flexible to reflect different conditions
armong the regions in availability of servi-es, markets, and local contractors. However
procurement will be guided by the need to (i) maximize community involvement and
responsibility; (ii) ensure quality; and (iii) ensure cost-effectiveness through competitive
bidding. Community Project Committees will be responsible for all local procurement
under the supervision of the Regional Offices. The limited international procurement in
the project will be managed by the ESRDF Central Office.
21.   Lessons Learned from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement. The Bank has been
closely involved in helping Ethiopia develop a poverty reduction strategy based on
economic growth, improved basic social services, and measures to help poor groups and
communities manage their own development. IDA financed the pilot ESRF to test the
value of a social fund as part of a wider poverty reduction program. Based on the pilot
experience, the Bank has worked with the ESRF to fine-tune the policies, structures, and
processes needed to expand the Fund to poor communities throughout Ethiopia. Special
attention, based on the pilot experience, will be given to community promotion,
arrangements for recurrent costs and maintenance, sub-project appraisal criteria and



-8-
incentives to attract and retain high quality ESRDF staff. From implementing more than
30 other social funds, the Bank has learnt (i) the need for a streamlined autonomous
structure, which has been assured in the case of the ESRDF; (ii) the importance of
obtaining full community participation, which the ESRDF will achieve through intensive
promotion, training of community project committees, community investments in project
and recurrent costs, and flexible procurement procedures; and (iii) the need to use simple,
well-tested technologies suitable for community management, an approach already
piloted in the ESRF.
22.   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The objective of the most recent CAS for
Ethiopia, discussed by the Board on June 13, 1995, is to reduce poverty "through a
combination of sustainable economic growth, improvements in basic social services, and
special targeted measures to improve income, self reliance, and the quality of life for the
poorest groups and communities." The ESRDF Project is a key mechanism for achieving
such objectives, complementing other Bank assistance to the development of the policy
framework to stimulate production, exports and private investment; measures to reduce
population growth and develop human capital; improvement and expansion of essential
infrastructure; environmental rehabilitation and conservation; and capacity building to
s .pport economic growth and social progress. In addition to its involvement in the pilot
ESRF on which the ESRDF is based, the Bank's support is needed to attract donor
contributions towards an integrated package of resources to support this large program.
23.   Agreed Actions. Before Credit Effectiveness, the Government will have: (a)
established a Local Account in the name of ESRDF and deposited counterpart funds
equivalent to the Government's share for the first year of project costs, based on the
agreed first year's plan and budget; (b) obtained the approval of the ESRDF national
Board of the Operational MOanual and of the Work Program and Budget for the first year
of ESRDF operations; (c) adopted Project Accounting and Management Information
Systems acceptable to IDA; (d) signed a sub-grant agreement with ESRDF acceptable to
the Association; and (e) finalized standard bidding documents for goods, works and
consulting services based on the Bank's standard bidding and contract documents. The
Government has given the following assurances. The Project will be implemented in
accordance with the Operational Manual adopted by the ESRDF Board. Any proposed
changes to the Operational Manual will be made in consultation with IDA. The sector
handbooks will be developed by the end of the first year of ESRDF operations under the
Project. Under terms of reference agreed with IDA, the Government will conduct an
independent assessment of sub-project implementation after eighteen months of project
effectiveness, focusing on community related procurement and disbursement. The
Government will conduct a mid-term review of project implementation and impact with
IDA before the end of the first 30 months of project operation. Those filling the positions
of ESRDF General Manager, the Deputy General Manager, and Regional Manager will
have qualifications commensurate to their duties. Data and analyses generated under the
Welfare Monitoring System will be fully accessible to interested users. Finally, with
regard to the small-scale irrigation component, which is subject to the requirements of OP
7.50 (see paragraph 12 above), it has been agreed with the Government that the project
will not include irrigation sub-projects on international waterways beyond limits



-9-
specified in the Development Credit Agreement. The financing associated with this
component, will (as is the case for all other components) be subject to IDA's prior
approval during the annual work program review. There will also be an annual ex-post
review based on a report from the ESRDF showing the cumulative abstractions from the
respective rivers. The mid-term review will include an assessment of the aggregate
amount of water abstracted from each international waterway. No withdrawals will be
made from the credit for irrigation sub-projects located on an international waterway once
the aggregate abstractions have reached the agreed limit for that waterway.
24.   Poverty Category. The ESRDF is targeted at rural communities living in the
poorest and most isolated areas of Ethiopia, and is expected to reach seven million
beneficiaries. Care will be taken to maximize the benefits for and ensure the participation
of women. ESRDF will help reduce poverty by providing poor communities with basic
infrastructure and services to improve productive output and incomes, and the quality of
basic health care, education, nutrition, and family planning. Almost a third of ESRDF
resources will be devoted to sub-projects to increase access to safe water, contributing to
better health (Ethiopia's worst diseases are water-borne) and help women replace the
burden of water-carrying with more productive activities. The small-scale irrigation
component will help poor farmers in drought-prone areas to increase food security.
25.   Environmental Aspects. The environmental assessment found that the ESRDF
will make a positive contribution to the Government's National Conservation Strategy,
by improving the provision of safe water, and sanitation facilities in urban areas;
including, where possible, conservation and rehabilitation components within sub-
projects (for example, tree planting schemes associated with social infrastructure and
activities concerned with terracing, soil improvement, and water conservation); and
promoting environmental awareness among communities and other local participants in
the project. The Operational Manual contains a detailed list of criteria to enable the
ESRDF to review sub-projects for potentially negative environmental impact. Sub-
projects found to have such potential will be financed only if agreements are reached on
appropriate mitigating measures which ESRDF will closely monitor. The environmental
assessment found that the only potential area of concern relates to small-scale irrigation,
where care will be needed to avoid adverse effects on soil quality, siltation, and increased
risk of water-borne disease. This will be dealt with through special features of project
design, close monitoring, and technical support to communities. Training will help
improve the understanding among ESRDF staff, community organizations, and
facilitating agencies of the environmental aspects of the project. Given the limited
potential for environmental harm, the Project has been rated Category B.
26.   Program Objective Categories. ESRDF is a targeted poverty intervention that
will benefit the poorest segments of the population, and especially disadvantaged groups
such as poor women.
27.   Participatory Approach. As the ESRDF design has been based on the ESRF
experience, the process has been intensely participative. The ESRF team analyzed the
pilot project data and produced the project design, manuals, and procedures; special
consultations took place with communities throughout the country on their needs; the



--10-
communities in the pilot operation were interviewed during the evaluation; and the ESRF
team worked with government officials from all ES?DF sectors, and with regional
officials for arrangements to establish Regional Offices. There has also been intensive
consultation with NGOs and private contractors involved in the pilot, and with
participating UN agencies and donors committed to support the expanded program.
28.   Project Benefits. If sub-project proposals match the assessment of community
needs (based on the experience of the pilot and the rapid rural appraisals), the ESRDF
will contribute to poverty reduction in Ethiopia by irrigating over 18,000 hectares of land,
providing improved income to 88,00") households or 440,000 household members;
providing over 13,000 rural water supply schemes, supplying safe water to 3.4 million
poor villagers; constructing 45 sets of communal latrines and 23 drainage schemes,
improving the environmental health of 147,000 people living in the poorest urban areas;
providing more than 350 equipped primary health facilities, catering to a catchment of
over 3 million people in poor rural villages; and providing 340 elementary schools that
will serve over 100,000 children a year from poor families;
29.   The aggregate economic benefit flows for the ESRDF as a Projectpackage
indicate that the Project will have a weighted economic rate of return of 22.6 percent.
The total discounted benefit streams of US$ 369 million exceed the overall discounted
cost streams of US$ 231 million, generating an overall net present value of economic
benefits of US$ 138 million, at a discount rate of 12 percent. The project benefits will
reach about 7 million people (14 percent of the population) mostly in the poorest income
quartile which includes a higher proportion of women than men. The basic health
component will have the highest economic rate of return (ERR), 46 percent, due to
Ethiopia's heavy burden of disease, especially the prevalence of farmers contracting
malaria at planting time and the consequent impact on crop yields. Recent surveys show
that on average Ethiopians suffer nine illness episodes per year, averaging 9.5 days
debility per episode (or 85 days a year). A third of these days lost to illness are due to
water-borne diseases. Therefore, the ERR will also be high for urban sanitation (37
percent) and rural water supply (24.5 percent). The direct ERR for the basic education
component will be 16 percent, not including the beneficial effects on women's fertility
rates and improved health practices through educating women. The ERR for the small-
scale irrigation component varies according to the value of the crops grown and sold.
Based on the variety of common crops grown in Ethiopia the ERR could vary from three
percent to 24 percent, with a median value of 13.5 percent. As a result, the appraisal of
ESRDF sub-projects in this sector will focus on crop varieties and combinations that
provide the most optimum returns on investment, maximizing the use of lower cost
diversion canals and the growing of high value vegetable crops.
30.  In addition to these quantifiable benefits, the ESRDF will make other significant
contributions through building capacity at a community and regional level; building
experience within government and the private and NGO sectors of a participative
approach to poverty reduction; and improving the quality of data and analysis to track
progress in the poverty reduction program.



-11-
31.   Project Sustainability. The project design has focused on mechanisms to
increase the likelihood of sustainability. Firstly, beneficiaries have a direct stake in the
project outcomes. The ESRDF will finance only proposals identified by the communities
as priorities, and in whose design and implementation the community is fully involved.
All sub-projects will require a community investment of at least 10 percent of total project
costs (and more where possible). Rigorous screening and appraisal will ensure that sub-
projects are viable and cost effective, will bring the expected benefits to the community,
and can be maintained with local technical capacity and resources. The project will
ensure community responsibility for maintenance and recurrent costs through (i)
Financing Agreements which specify community accountability; (ii) a maintenance
schedule and standards; (iii) a community organization to manage maintenance and
collection of user fees; (iv) adequate technical arrangements, availability of spare parts,
and training and technical assistance for community caretakers of infrastructure; and (v)
monitoring and supervision during and after implementation. The MIS will provide early
warning of risks to sustainability, and the ESRDF will use a Study Fund to research
methods that help enhance sustainability. Because of the Project's positive fiscal
advantages, there are also strong incentives for the Government and regional authorities
to support the ESRDF approach and institutionalize it beyond the Project period. Based
on the experience of the ESRF pilot, the Project will deliver basic infrastructure and
services more cheaply and efficiently than public sector comparators without sacrificing
quality. In addition, the average required community investment in sub-project costs will
bring an additional saving of at least ten percent to the exchequer. Using modest
assumptions the ESRDF would be able to deliver its results at 82 percent of the cost of a
comparable program managed through public agencies, a saving of about US$ 47 million.
Most recurrent costs will be carried by communities, and the recurrent cost implications
for the Government (mainly the provision of staff and materials for basic health and
education facilities) will represent a modest 0.55 percent of total recurrent expenditures.
As the ESRDF will be providing part of the infrastructure already plarned in Government
budgetary projections, these recurrent costs do not, in any case, constitute additionality.
32.   Risks. The main risks involve weak institutional capacity in some regions. In the
first year, the ESRDF will concentrate on building capacity in these regions, and
disbursements there will be gradual as the Regional Offices build experience, focus on
community promotion and training community committees, and create their network of
facilitators. As the success of the ESRDF in new regions depends on attracting and
retaining high caliber and committed staff, the ESRDF has been provided with its own
improved incentive package. Another risk relates to consistency of operation and quality
standards in a highly decentralized operation. This risk will be lessened through the use
of the Operational Manual and sector handbooks combined with special training
programs for regional committees and staff. The ESRDF Board represents all regional
councils, and therefore has a strong interest in the effective operation of the Fund
throughout the country. A rigorous MIS and reporting system will keep the Board
informed on all major aspects of ESRDF performance. This will be supplemented by
close Bank supervision, which includes a specialist to track the project from the Bank
Resident Mission. The Annual Review and Budgeting process ensures that resources
transferred to regions will be based on a pipeline of vetted community proposals and



-12-
evidence from the previous year of the Regional Office's ability to deliver a high quality
work program. The disbursement procedure permits careful performance monitoring, as
Regional Offices will receive an advance of four months of anticipated project costs and
the Central Office will replenish their accounts only on receipt of stipulated
documentation and up-to-date MIS information. A further risk relates to the
sustainability of assets built with ESRDF support. Sub-project agreements will be signed
only with communities that commit to specific arrangements for maintenance and
collection of user fees (or where recurrent costs is a governmental responsibility, that
regional bureaus undertake to budget for these). The effectiveness of these measures will
be tracked throughout the project. The impact of these risks on project outcomes were
assessed, and the conclusion reached that even under the most extreme assumptions, the
project's NPV was positive.
RECOMMENDATION
I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D.C.
March 13, 1996
Attachments



Schedule A
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ Millions)
Component          Yrl       Yr2        Yr3       Yr4        Yr5       Total
Rural Water Supply     9.12      15.01     22.95      18.32       9.64     75.04
Small-Scale Irrigation  4.46    23.11      26.77      13.58       7.03     74.95
Health                 2.95       5.74      8.03       7.75       4.38     28.85
Education              2.74       5.33      7.46       7.19       4.08     26.80
Urban Sanitation       0.22       0.43      0.61       0.59       0.33      2.18
Study Fund             0.16       0.16      0.16       0.16       0.16      0.80
TA/Training            4.07       3.30      2.70       2.17       0.10     12.34
Welfare Monitoring     1.33       0.53      0.52       0.41       0.34      3.13
EquipmentlVehicles     2.63       1.19       1.33      0.01       -         5.16
Operating Costs        2.19       2.68      2.76       2.76       2.76     13.15
Total                 29.87      57.48     73.29      52.94      28.82    242.40
Financing Plan
(US millions)
Source            Foreign        Local          Total       % of Total Costs
IDA                       56.76          63.24         120.00           49.50
Government of Ethiopia                   36.36         36.36             15.00
Community Contribution                   24.25         24.25             10.00
IJNDP                      4.50           1.50          6.00              2.50
Other Donors               13.95         41.84         55.79            23.00
Total                     75.21         167.19        242.40            100.00






Schedule B
Page 1 of 5
Ethiopia
Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund Project
Project Benefits and Costs
(1995 US$ millions)
Present Value of Flows          Fiscal Impact
Financial      Economic
Analysis       Analysis      Taxes        Subsidies
Benefits
Small-Scale Irrigation Component      117.0               141.06   7.05
Health Component                                           74.73
Education Component                                        37.86
Urban Sanitation Component                                   5.37
Rural Water Supply Component                               110.72
ESRDF Fund Package                                        369.74
(Aggregate of 5 Above Components--Net)
Costs
Small-Scale Irrigation Component      59.06                71.13                       3.15
Health Component                                           35.17                      12.40
Education Component                                        30.42                      49.00
Urban Sanitation Component                                  2.12
Rural Water Supply Component                               73.11                  (negligible)
ESRDF Fund Package                                         231.49                  (negligible)
(Aggregate of 5 Above Plus Capacity
Building Cost)
Net Present Value
Small-Scale Irrigation Component      58.02                69.92
Health Component                                           39.56
Education Component                                          7.44
Urban Sanitation Component                                   3.25
Rural Water Supply Component                               37.61
ESRDF Fund Package                                         138.25
Internal Rate of Return
Small-Scale Irrigation Component      9.2%                  13.5%
Health Component                                           46.2%
Education Component                                         16.2%
Urban Sanitation Component                                 37.5%
Rural Water Supply Component                               24.5%
ESRDF Fund Package
(Weighted Returns of All Components)                        22.6%
Overall Risk: Probability that NPV < 0                        0.20
Note: The institutional capacity building component benefits were not quantified.



Schedule B
Page 2 of 5
Main Assumptions:
Discount Rate: 12%
Real Exchange Rate Constant 1995 prices
Time horizon: irrigation (25 years), health, education (25 years)
Switching Values of Critical Items
Small-Scale Irrigation Component     Cropping pattern with all cereals reduces IRR to 3%, cropping
pattern with all vegetables increases IRR to 23%
Nature of Benefits
Small-Scale Irrigation Component     Incremental output of cereals, pulses and vegetable cash crops
Health Component                     Reduction in (a) incidence of illness due to preventive care--EPI,
MCH, FP and (b) duration of illness due to curative care.
Benefits calculated from Household Survey Data 1994/95 and
Health Survey. Productivity gains from fewer sick days valued
at opportunity cost--shadow wage
Education Component                  Incremental lifetime earnings net of opportunity cost of
children's time (based on Household Survey 1994/95)
Urban Sanitation Component           Reduction in incidence of illness from infectious diseases.
Productivity gains from fewer sick days. (Based on Household
Survey Data 1994/95)
Rural Water Supply Component         Reduction in water-borne infectious diseases. Benefits:(a) lower
medical care cost (b) productivity gains from fewer sick days (c)
productivity gains from release of women's time valued at
opportunity cost. (Based on Household Survey 1994/95)
ESRDF Package Benefit                Individual component benefits and increase in agricultural
output from irrigation, net of overlapping benefits on earnings
if components affecting same household. Net of capacity
building cost.
Main Beneficiaries
Small-Scale Irrigation Component     88,000 households (440,000 people) in 6 river basins
Health Component                     3,000,000 people served by 357 primary health facilities
Education Component                  108,000 children every year--more girls than boys
Urban Sanitation Component           147,000 people in urban areas
Rural Water Supply Component         3,400,000 people served by 13,035 water supply facilities,
women preferentially benefited
ESRDF WHOLE PACKAGE                  7,000,000 beneficiaries



Schedule B
Page 3 of 5
Financial Summary
(US$ millions)
Implementation Period                Operational Period
FYI      FY2      FY3       FY4       FYS    FYI    FY2    FY3
Project Costs
Investment Costs          29.87    57.48    73.29   52.94        28.82
Recurrent Costs             1.45     4.24      7.36    9.96      11.40  12.3   13.2    14.2
Total                       31.32    61.72    80.65   62.90        40.22  12.3   13.2    14.2
Percentages
Financing Sources
IDA                       46.8      46.1     44.9    41.6        35.4
Government of Ethiopia    16.1      17.0      17.8    20.1       24.5   44.7   44.7    45.0
Community Contribution    12.0      13.2      14.0    16.7       21.9   55.3   55.3    55.0
Other Donors & UNDP       25.1      23.7     23.3    21.6        18.2
Total                      100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0        100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0



Schedule B
Page 4 of 5
Key Performance Indicators
(for ESRDF as a whole and for each Regional Office)
Planned            Actual          %
Performance Indicator                (specified annually                  Difference
in the AWPB)
Input Indicators
*   Project Disbursement
(a) Percent of total project funds disbursed
(b) Annual disbursement target (Birr)
*  % of requests accepted by type of project
Process Indicators
*   % of projects with a 20% cost overrun over
appraised costs, by type of project
*   Average total community investment as
percentage of sub-project costs
*   Project processing time by type of project:
(a) % of projects with 10% time overrun over
standard schedule (Submission to
financing agreement )
(b) % of project with 10% time overrun over
standard schedule (financing agreement to
implementation)
(c) % of project with 10% time overrun over
planned schedule (implementation to
completion)
*   Overhead costs as percentage of sub-project
costs
(for ESRDF as a Whole and for each RO)
Output indicators (by type of sub-project)
*   Numbers of sub-projects completed
*   Completed sub-projects with "satisfactory"
technical quality ratings by type of project
.   No. of beneficiaries reached
*   Ratio of female to male beneficiaries
*   No. of beneficiaries trained
*   Ratio of female trained beneficiaries to male
trained beneficiaries
Outcome Indicators (Post-completion
Evaluations - by type of sub-project)"
.  % of sub-projects with "satisfactory"
maintenance rating
*  % of sub-projects with "satisfactory"
utilization rating
*   % of sub-projects with "satisfactory"
beneficiary perception rating
.  % of sub-projects with "satisfactory" IA
obligation rating
.  % of women among beneficiaries reached
*   Women as a % of total community project
committee members
Sub-projects are rated in the course of a post-completion visit by the PO, as follows:
a) Satisfactory
b) Not satisfactory, but corrective actions being taken
c) Not satisfactory, and no corrective actions being taken



Schedule B
Page 5 of 5
Key Performance Indicators
(for Welfare Monitoring System)
Performance Indicator                            Planned            Actual
(specified annually in             Difference
the AWPB)
Input Indicators
*  Percent of funds disbursed
(a) WMU
(b) CSA
*  Number of studies initiated
*  Total cost of studies initiated
*  Months of technical assistance provided
Process indicators
*  Number of meetings of:
(a) Welfare Steering Committee
(b) Advisory Group
*  WMS: Elapsed time (months) from start of
fieldwork to production of basic report
*  Number of users (outside the CSA) of WMS
primary data
Output indicators
*   Numbers of copies of "Social Trends"
distributed
*   Number of person days of training for
MWU and CSA staff
*   Number of workshops conducted
(a) National
(b) Regional
*   Number of studies/reports produced:
(a) by WMU and CSA
(b) by others (using the study fund)






Schedule C
Procurement Methods
(US $ Millions)
Category                ICB       NCB       Other      NBF       Total
Sub-Projects
1. Civil Works                              84.2      66.29               150.49
(51.67)   (21.00)              (72.67)
2. Con. Materials/Equipment        11.58    19.67     16.74                47.99
(11.58)   (10.00)   (15.00)             (36.58)
3. Services                                            9.34                 9.34
Services
4. Training/TA/Studies                                13.14                13.14
(4.78)               (4.78)
5. Welfare Monitoring                                  3.13                 3.13
(0.81)               (0.81)
Miscellaneous
6. Office Equipment/Vehicles       5.16                                     5.16
(5.16)                                  (5.16)
7. Operational Costs                                            13.15      13.15
Total                                16.74    103.87    108.64     13.15     242.40
IDA Contribution                    (16.74)   (61.67)  (41.59)              (120.00)
* IDA contribution in parenthesis
*  Difference between Project costs and IDA financing will be financed by Government and other
donors
IDA Disbursement Schedule
(US $ Millions)
FY 97       FY 98       FY 99        FY 00       FY 01
IDA            14.86        28.46       36.28        26.21        14.19
Total          14.86        43.32       79.61       105.81      120.00
IDA Disbursement
Category               US$ millions     (% below refer to amounts without taxes)
Goods and Works
Goods/Works for Sub-Projects         83.56      100% of foreign costs; 90% of local costs
Consultants' Services
Training/Capacity Bldg./Study Fund    4.78      100%
Welfare Monitoring                    0.81      100%
Equipment, Vehicles, and Furniture
Equipment for Sub-Projects           11.58      100% of foreign costs, 90% of local costs
Office Equipment & Vehicles           5.16      100% of foreign costs; 90% of local costs
Unallocated                            13.11
Refund of Project Preparation Advance   1,00
Total                                 120.00






Schedule D
Projects' Key Processing Events
Event                                         Date
Time taken to Prepare Project         16 months
Prepared by:                          Government with IDA assistance. IDA team comprised L.
Roberts (Task Manager), G. Gopal, L. Frigenti, T.
Marchant, S. Boubacar, P. Vandenheede, C. Lyle, J.
Coolidge, W. Steel, P. Boerma, R. Castro, A. Marc, F.
Gadelle, T. Lium,
First IDA Mission                     November, 1993
Pre-appraisal Mission Departure       October 6, 1994
Notification sent to Riparians        February 13, 1995
Appraisal Mission Departure           February 20, 1995
Last Date for Receipt of Responses from   June 13, 1995; for Egypt extended to August 13, 1995.
Notified Riparian Countries
Date of Negotiations                  January 1996
Planned Date of Effectiveness         July 1996
List of Relevant PCRs/ICRs and PPARs   Ethiopia Forestry Project ICR (14545-ET); Ethiopia
Sixth Education Project ICR (14087-ET); Ethiopia
Second Road Sector Project ICR (14065-ET); Ethiopia
Agricultural Research Project ICR (13760-ET); Ethiopia
Technical Assistance Project ICR (13704-ET)






SCHEDULE E
Page I of 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of December 31, 1995)
Twelve (12) Loans and forty four (44) Credits closed.                     108.60       874.68      33.52
Cr.17650         1987    Ethiopi      Small Scale Irrigation & Con.                      7.00       4.08
Cr.18730         1988    Ethiopia     Education VII                                     64.06      38.70
Cr.19130         1988    Ethiopia     Family Health                                     33.00      19.83
Cr.19560         1989    Ethiopia     PADEP I                                           85.00       8.10
Cr.21030         1990    Ethiopia     Market Towns Dev.                                 40.20      21.37
Cr.21610         1990    Ethiopia     Second Addis Urban Dev.                           35.00      26.52
Cr.23510         1990    Ethiopia     Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction            150.00      10.46
Cr.24380         1993    Ethiopia     Road Rehabilitation                               96.00      83.69
Cr.25260         1993    Ethiopia     SAC I                                            250.00      74.97
Cr.25880         1994    Ethiopia     Calub Energy Dev. Pr.                             74.31      76.64
Cr.27400         1995    Ethiopia     Nat. Fertilizer Project                          120.00    120.44
Cr.27410         1995    Ethiopia     National Seeds Project                            22.00      22 08
Total                               108.60      1851.25    540.40
of which repaid                   108.60        68.36
Total held by Bank & IDA              0.00      1782.89
Amount sold     6.04
of which repaid 6.04
Total Undisbursed                                          573.92



Ethiopia                                                     Schedule E
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS                                                       Page 2 of 4
As of December 31, 1995
(In Millions US Dollars)
Original Gross Commitments
Undisb
IFC                         Held by   Held by    incl.
Fiscal Years Committed              Obligor                 Type of Business      IFC Loan   Equity    Ptpnt.    Totals    IFC        Ptpnt.    Ptpnt.
1965/70/73           a/ Textile Mills of Dire Dawa     Textiles                        2.39      1.36      1.07      4.82
1966                 a/ Ethiopian Pulp and Paper S.C.   Timber, Pulp and Paper                   1.91                1.91
1968                 a/ H.V.A. - Metahara, S.C.        Food and Agribusiness           4.87      3.52      0.65      9.04
1989                 a/ Red Sea Petroleum Exploration Pr Mining and Extraction of Fuel Minerals  7.80                7.80
Total gross commitments b/                                    7.26      14.59      1.72    23.57
Less cancellations, terminations, repayment & sales           7.26     14.59       1.72    23.57
Total commitments now held c/
Total commitments held and pending commitments
Total unidisbursed commitments
a/ Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written-off, sold, redeemed or repaid.
b/ Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c/ Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investements.



Schedule E
Page 3 of 4
Ethiopia - Implementation Issues
As of December 31, 1995, there were 12 ongoing projects in Ethiopia. Out of this, six
projects (amounting to a commitment of US$ 270 million) were prepared in the 1980s during
the Derg regime period. The other six projects have been prepared since FY92 in response to the
changed policy environment in the country. The country portfolio represents a total commitment
of US$ 977 million, with an undisbursed amount of US$ 507 million (and US$ 433 million
excluding adjustment operation) as of end-December 1995. Disbursements for investment
operations have averaged US$ 67 million a year during the period FY91-95.
Ethiopia's poor portfolio performance is explained by a number of factors. First, the
civil strife in the 1980s slowed down the pace of implementation of projects. Implementation
delays were caused by inappropriate policies and general mismanagement during the several
years prior to the Transitional Government (TGE) assuming power. Second, many of the projects
which had been designed by the previous government did not correspond to those of the new
regime, thus resulting in a loss of commitment and ownership by the new regime. Third, sector
strategies (e.g., forestry sector, environmental aspects) had changed, rendering some projects or
components of projects inappropriate in the new sector setting. The ongoing institutional changes
in the country, including the regionalization process, have raised a new set of issues and
development challenges. While generic and other problems remain, of course, there has been a
real, substantive change in the status of IDA's projects in Ethiopia.
The current portfolio better meets government priorities and is better focused on the key
development objectives of the country. The Government, with the assistance of the Bank
Group, has made an effort to restructure and rationalize the portfolio. This rationalization has
included in some cases the significant modifications of projects to accord better with the
priorities established by the new regime, and in other cases, the closure of low priority or
problem projects. A total amount of about US$ 112 million was canceled from projects in FY94
and FY95. The restructuring process has helped to reduce the number of projects in the portfolio
from 19 in FY94 to 16 in FY95, and lowered the number of problem projects as measured by
"implementation progress" from 4 to 3 over this same period.
On the basis of development objectives rating, however, the percentage of problem
projects rose from 16 to 19, during this period, mainly due to the downgrading of the Transport
project. Two problem projects, Livestock Services and Transport, were subsequently closed
during FY95, thus further reducing the number of problem projects turned over to FY96 to only
one under both ratings.  The projects currently rated as unsatisfactory are the Peasant
Agricultural Development Project (PADEP I), Market Towns and Second Addis Urban
Development. While PADEP I has been restructured, and it has begun to show signs of
improvement, the unsatisfactory rating is being retained until the impact of the restructuring is
clear and disbursements begin to take place. While the development objectives of Market
Towns and Second Addis Urban Development remain valid and implementation progress in
some components of the projects continue to be satisfactory, several other important components
require restructuring to fit the Government's current policies. The restructuring of these projects
is expected to be completed during FY96 and performance rating in the future will reflect the
actual implementation experience of the restructured projects.



Schedule E
Page 4 of 4
The Bank Group is continuously monitoring those projects which have been slow to
disburse. The Small Scale Irrigation project, which was launched in FY88, did not disburse in
the first four years because Ethiopia was at its height of a centrally controlled economy. Since
FY92, the remaining concerns on the security situation and the more recent phase of
regionalization, had a delaying impact on the progress of the project. Following the agreements
on the revised action plan in FY93, and improvements in beneficiary participation, the progress
and, more importantly, the physical implementation of the project on the ground in the last two
years has been greater than the progress achieved in the previous four years. The second and
final extension of the project has been agreed for end-December 1996. The Education VII and
the Family Health Projects, which were also approved in FY88, were not implemented in the
first four years. Following the restructuring of projects in FY93, implementation pace has begun
to pick up, and supervision strengthened. The Calub Gas project (FY94), was slow to disburse as
it became effective only in October 1995, once the problem of recruitment of consultants was
addressed. The pace of implementation should pick up from here onwards. The closing date for
the second tranche of SAC I has been extended to September 1996 to give time to Government to
put in place pre-shipment inspection services to enable the disbursement of the funds.
A number of other actions are also being taken to improve performance of the country
portfolio. The Resident Mission has been strengthened to better focus on implementation issues.
Increased attention is being given to functional supervision (e.g., procurement, accounting and
auditing, disbursements) and to early detection and action on problems. Efforts are being made
to ensure the government commitment to the implementation of the projects and improved
quality of projects at the entry level. CPPRs are being strengthened to address general obstacles
to project implementation and assess in depth the issues related to problem projects, and involve
beneficiaries in project implementation and supervision activities, as well as in project
preparation.



MAP SECTION






H
34              36               38   /            4042                              44               46               48
ETHIOPIA
RED                 LOCATIONS OF ESRDF OFFICES
)                     ~~~~~~~RED
1W6                                        ERITREA                    SEA                             ESRDF Offices'
/                                                          0    SELECTED TOWNS
/                                                           f^*    NATIONAL CAPITAL
/                           j>- STATES/REGIONS (Unofficial 1994 boundaries)
,   .,              r  .                          ._._. INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
i-14  SUDAN                      \.    ~~~~~~~~TIGRAY                               The State/Regior, r,arees are per Article 47  14'
MEKEE--  E                                  of the Constitution of Ethiopia.
_    GONDER
/                                        AFAR ~0GULF OF
a12'                     ,/ 1'<1             LAKE           1-   AFAR                                                  ADEN                  12'
-.            TANA                         ASAYTA  I
1    *'    0  ~~AMHARA                            ( eDJI-BOUTI
BAHIR DAR    ',        DESE         '       iLake Abe  /
BENtH,ANGUV                 DEBRE             0                          /
.     ,  ,--.   -   MARKOS
K0 
OAS  SA                   -4DEJES           c-.     /            I\    * 
(                     ~~~~~~~ADDIS                  HARAR0
|              NEKbPTI        ABA      B,K>               HARAR  \
i <,   Egi              @_    1  ZI HARAR--- \4\v
BEDELE           - -<                                       ,
'0 
|-8  }  GAMBELA (:            >   ZIWAY  ASSELA                                                                       78
-~k.AMBELLA' \"1-/                       LLoke    ~
w.QWBELLAv   MJIAO                 $hqfd>  Lake Ziway  \+> f
Z  ~ DODOLA             OROMIA                                               /
N.  QAIZAN TEFERI                                                 /      
of arcoolian th       ARBA    -A\;AS            ROBE                        SOMALI                    */   SOMALIA
Th. bodr-e  -1-r                      ARBA       . .                   f
d---h-zaton -d -ny      SEPR
o  hus m7p do no  l    ,^.bu, u               ,.                        GODE            .
The Worl-d S-o  Gro-p, .                     4e
o-y y,dg-t ro  thre legol                     e                                                             /
Stows  o1  airy  territory                    arno
or any -zd-rsootet                         ;                                                             /
or acceptarnce of auct     I                                 7 .                            __        -
\udre  / ,                                                         KILOMETERS   0  50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400
a!4                     KN YA        LAKE       N               / *'         ..,j_--                     MILES  0    50    00   150   200   250  4
.o r-f  i >   34 *)     16-.  LAKE        l               4                 47446                                               a
ULJGAND)A  I                       TURKANA _      .- . /-                      / 4        .        44      6
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'~.                                                                                                                              -






IBRD 26557
300                             40                              50
ETHIOPIA                               30-
(                              \  ESRDF - ETHIOPIAN SOCIAL REHABILITATION
300                          Cairos                         DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
RIPARIANS CONCERNED WITH THE PROJECT
ARAB
LIBYA   !   REPUBLIC                                               RIVERS
LIBYA                   OF                                                     NATIONAL CAPITALS
0l  F G Y P T                ;-                  -. -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
EGYPT
1*-*-*-  ~                  - . - . - . -                                                               200-
I-  i                                                               0   100  200  300  400 Miles
20>                                                                                I     I    I    I     I
0 100 200 300 400 Kilometers
CHAD~~~~~~~~~~..
C H A D I                                                 | ERITREA
Khartoum     / Asmara*
SUDAN                                                  D %'JIBOUTI
'1                                             /                        /  o  Djibouti
Addis                                              lo-
,  .\                        q                ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~Ababa          SOMALIA
J                            ~~~SOMALIA
CENTRAL>'                                                     ETHIOPIA                           /
AFRICAN   \.
REPUBLIC                                            \.                                     /
|.                    jMogadishu
z/UGANDA   KENYA
0  KampalaK                              0j
Nairobi 
RWANDA* Kigali                  N* 
Bujumbura
ZAIRE                           BURUNDI                           .
)    TANZANIA
\  Dar es Salaam
N \                                                 wThe bounder.,, -olor, dno-o.=oons nord ony oher mnform.toi
|I.                             ;'                                                 thown,, on thin mop do cot imp-, tsn d t h Prtl o  The World Boak
Grop, coy !udg,,n,t-o the ego) stotu  of ocy tenrito.y or oy
!           -30 '                       400             n     tdornemn t or occeptonce  of suchbo nriwe.
SEPTEMBER 1995






314              31                                  41ol              4                                                          -2-
34               36          J.~/ 38                 40'               42'                               ETHIOPIA
RIVER BASINS AND
ADMINISTRATIVE REGIONS
1 6                                                                                                               0    SELECTED TOWNS
SUDAN                                  E R I T R E A                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
14                    RIVERS
_                                      . /                                            RIVER BASIN BOUNDARIES
- 14                                    @ {~-           TIC;(UAe ,v ~'-                                                PROVINC      E BOUNDARIES
| Mekele                                              -  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
MekeleO  -         
/        ~~~TEKEZE-                  A,__                               _  __   _  __   _   __   _  __   _
K       1    BASIN             i                   ' /             1
,_ r    ,       AFAR BASIN  \       J      44'               46       :         48" 12-
rGondera,3                           
12                    -         r          Gd                                                DJIBOUTI
ABBAY   BASIN                                         ASIN
/                 ~~~~~~Debre                                                                                       1
< _. Markos                                                                                              o
)                       N >J0                                AWASH                        0     50   100   150   200 Miles
_10                                                                                   BASIN                        I     I      I      I     I
i, t 9.4ll 5 H*     I                       I                                I                                  I
3i   t/4$HAer n                               f LIL                             \0  50  100 150 200 KIo-ters
Nekempt      is Aba
8           ( BARO-AKOBO                             O    E          elo                  LWAB1 SHEBELE               OGADEN BASIN    /
~~~NBASIN~~~~~  ~ABAI
\GAMBI' LLA
'xbAz91SFlL   omb-            3I    GENALEA'A >  
6                               - Kf LU-AB:SIN   MrnchO                   BASIN  >              \                           /      SOMALIA
1         ~~~RIF1T                                             s-       -
CA                              _   _                                                                          l  VALLEY  /     Ioooo,D,lUa,les colors ionom naotionS  VnALcLEY  _
m /  jBASIN  { < r-~~~ shnwn on th,5 up do flot mipl .ofui oF ary oPrrs> ...........o.this u-op do tot -plo o It,rvsitsanydltoitk    40  ClO
w  4    /    t                             \      \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.,  J-'                    enooc-emsti, a op ccoptonoe of siorh bout scIa0
_ ',      7 ' =    _                  316   KENYA   "--   <             ' 40              '42                 44                 46
-'UGANDA36 KEY_-                                                     I









IMAGING
Report No: P-   67%16 ET
Type: MOP



