Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14907-ET
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
ETHIOPIAN SOCIAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
MARCH 13, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region



The Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development
Fund (ESRDF) Project
Currency Equivalents
(as of 11/10/95)
Currency Unit                                Ethiopian Birr
US$ 1.00                                     Birr 6.3
I Ethiopian Birr                             US$ 0.159
US$ 1.00                                     SDR 1.49
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADLI                   Agricultural-Development-Led Industrialization
APB                    Annual Plan and Budget
AR                     Annual Review
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
CPC                    Community Project Committee
CSA                    Central Statistical Authority
ERRP                   Ethiopian Recovery and Rehabilitation Program
ESRDF                  Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation & Development Fund
ESRF                   Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation Fund (ESRF)
FAD                    Financial and Administrative Department
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GOE                    Government of Ethiopia
IA                    Implementing Agency
ICB                    International Competitive Bidding
IDA                    International Development Association
IRR                    Internal Rate of Return
MCH                    Maternal and Childcare Health
NCB                    National Competitive Bidding
NCS                    National Conservation Strategy
NGO                    Non-Governmental Organization
NRWSP                  National Rural Water Supply Program
SA                     Special Account
TGE                    Transitional Government of Ethiopia
UJNDP                  United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                 United Nations Children's Fund
WMU                    Welfare Monitoring Unit
Government Fiscal Year
July 8 - July 7



The Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1. ECONOMIC  OVERVIEW  .............................................................                                                    I
A. General Economic Situation in Ethiopia ..............................................................I
B. Patterns and Sources of Poverty in Ethiopia .                         .............................................................2
2. CONTEXT  FOR  THE  PROJECT .............................................................                                             4
A. Development and Sector Strategies for Ethiopia .............................................................4
Sectoral Strategies ..............................................................5
B. The Experience of the Pilot Social Rehabilitation Fund .......................................................9
Evaluation  of ESRF  Perf.,rmance                    ............................         ................................. l0
C. Lessons from  Other Social Fund Operations .............................................................                         13
D. Rationale for IDA  involvement .............................................................                                    14
3. THE  PROJECT .............................................................                  .                                      14
A. Origins of the Project .............................................................. 14
B. Project Objectives .............................................................. 14
C.  Project Description .............................................................. 15
1. Roles and Responsibilities in the ESRDF  Program  .........................................................  15
2. Organizational Structure of ESRDF  ......................                          ....................................... 16
3. Project Approach .............................................................                                              17
D. Project Components .............................................................           .                                    19
1. Construction and Rehabilitation of Social and Economic Infrastructure and
Improvement of Related Services .............................................................                             19
2. The Welfare Monitoring System  ............................................................. 25
3. Capacity Building, Training and Research .................................................. ........... 26
E. Special Issues Reiated to Project Performance .                              ............................................................   28
F. The Development Significance of the ESRDF .............................................................     31
G. Benefits and Risks .............................................................. 32
H. Legal Framework .............................................................             .                                    35
1. Project Implementation ............................................................. 36
I.  Annual Plan and Budget, and Annual Review .............................................................   36
2. Project Costs and Financing ..............................................................                                  36
3. Procurement ............................................................. 38
4. Disbursement ............................................................. 43
5. Accounts and Audits ............................................................. 44
6. Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision ..................................                         ........................... 45
7. Mid-Term   Review  and Project Evaluation .................................................. ........... 47
4. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                                           ........................................ 47
This report has been prepared by a joint Ethiopia-IDA team. The Ethiopian team includes ESRF staff and
representatives from the Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation, Finance and other relevant line
ministries. IDA staff include: Lee Roberts (Task Manager); G. Gopal, L. Frigenti, T. Marchant, S. Boubacar
(Lawyer), P. Vandenheede (Disbursement Officer), C. Lyle, J. Coolidge, W. Steel, P. Boerma, R. Castro, F. Gadelle
and T. Lium. Lead Advisor: J. van Holst Pellekaan. Peer reviewers: S. Jorgensen, A. Marc, A. Williams.
Department Director: James W. Adams. Division Chief: Jacob van Lutsenburg Maas.



TABLES
Table 1 Perfornance of ESRF Pilot to December 30, 1995 ............................................. 11
Table 2  Sub-Project Costs: ESRF Compared to Public Agencies .................................... 11
Table 3  Average Sub-Project Completion Time: ESRF &  Public Agencies ................... 12
Table 4  Summary of Project Costs .......................................................                        19
Table 5  Estimated Cost Saving of ESRDF .......................................................                 33
Table 6  Financing Plan .......................................................                                 36
Table 7  Recurrent Cost Implications for the Government ................................................ 38
Table 8  Annual Recurrent Cost Implications for Communities ....................................... 38
Table 9  RWS Projects: Daily Recurrent Cost Implications for Households ................... 38
Table 10  Procurement Schedule                          .................................................... 40
Table 11  Procurement Arrangements .......................................................                      40
Table 12  IDA  Disbursement Schedule .......................................................                    43
Table 13  Summary of IDA  Disbursement                           ............................................ 44
ANNEXES
Annex A            Social Indicators of Development, 1994/95
Annex B            National Poverty Reduction Strategy
Annex C            Summary of the Rapid Regional Assessments
Annex D            Sub-Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex E            Organizational Structure
Annex F            Implementation Plan
Annex G            Rural Water Supply Component
Annex H            Small-Scale Irrigation Component
Annex I            Welfare Monitoring System
Annex J            Environmental Assessment
Annex K            Gender Action Plan
Annex L            Procurement Plan
Annex M            List of Documents in the Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 26958 Location of ESRDF Offices



ETHIOPIA
ETHIOPUIN SOCIAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Implementing Agency:        Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund
(ESRDF)
Beneficiaries:              Poor communities, mainly in rural areas throughout
Ethiopia, with a special focus on women
Poverty Category:           Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                     SDR 80.80 million (US$ 120 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Commitment Fee:             0.50% on undisbursed credit balances beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:             See Paragraph 3.69
Net Present Value:          US$ 138 million
Economic Rate of Return:    22.6%
Staff Appraisal Report:     14907-ET
Maps:                       IBRD 26958
Project ID:                 ETPA771






THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
ETHIOPIAN SOCIAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
1. ECONOMIC OVERVIEW
A. GENERAL ECONOMIC SITUATION IN ETHIOPIA
1.1   Country Background. Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in the world, with
a population of over 50 million people and an average per capita income of US$ 130.
Ethiopia's economic status is reflected in the poor condition of the productive sectors,
neglected or non-existent infrastructure, degraded environment, and very poor social
indicators and basic services. Agricultural growth declined from an average of 2.2
percent a year during the 1960s to 0.5 percent in the 1980s and the early 1990s. The 6
million hectare under cultivation has hardly increased since the early 1980s. Only about
2 percent of farm land is irrigated. Agriculture supports about 85 percent of the
population, but its contribution to GDP has dropped from 65 percent in 1960, to about 40
percent today. The industrial sector has also stagnated under the previous regime because
of excessive public sector domination and discouragement of private sector activity, and
accounts for only 10-12 percent of GDP today.
1.2   Ethiopia's infrastructure is undeveloped, and has deteriorated significantly due to
lack of maintenance during the last twenty years. The country's road density is one of the
lowest in Africa (only 15.2 km per 1000 square km, and only 4000 km of paved roads).
Nearly three quarters of the country's farms are more than half-a-day's walk from all
weather roads; and 65 percent of the road network is classified as poor due to inadequate
maintenance, war damage, and overloading. This adds substantially to vehicle damage
and transport costs. Limited energy capacity is also a major constraint to development.
1.3   Ethiopia's population growth rate of over 3 percent has resulted in heavy pressure
on many areas, resulting in severe environmental damage through stripping of forests for
fuelwood and poor farming and conservation practices. About 200,000 ha are deforested
each year. At current rates of soil loss, the areas unable to sustain crops could grow five-
fold in twenty years, reducing by 15 percent the capacity of land to support its current
population, reducing incomes by 30 percent in areas with few economic alternatives.
1.4   The Government's Economic Reforms. In May 1991, the Transitional
Government (TGE) inherited a devastated economy and massive debt from the military
dictatorship that ruled Ethiopia for two decades. The TGE introduced an Emergency
Recovery and Reconstruction Program (ERRP) to jump-start the economy with US$ 650
million support from an IDA-led donor group. Accompanying this was a program of
macroeconomic reform which has helped stabilize the economy, dismantle the centrally
planned system of the previous regime, restore Ethiopia's competitive position through a
substantial exchange rate devaluation, and open opportunities for private investment. The
industrial and service sectors responded strongly with growth of 7.6 percent and 9.6
percent respectively in FY94. Given the economy's heavy reliance on agriculture, the
FY94 drought reduced GDP growth from 12 percent the previous year to 1.7 percent. In



2
FY95, the rate of growth was restored to about 5 percent, and is expected to exceed 6
percent for FY96. Prudent financial management has resulted in greater control over
inflation and the fiscal deficit, although the increase in economic activities is placing
pressures on both. An increase in government spending between FY93 and FY95, from
23.2 to 26.4 percent of GDP, was financed mostly by revenue increases resulting from
improved coffee exports, and the fiscal deficit1 decreased from 7.1 to 3 percent of GDP.
The Government is also paying off its debt to domestic banks. Inflation was substantially
reduced from 36 percent in 1991, and is estimated to be running at the equivalent of an
annual rate of 13.4 percent, buoyed by foreign exchange inflows and domestic monetary
expansion.
1.5   The Government has enacted structural reforms to stimulate investment, trade,
and production. Exports have been boosted by eliminating all export taxes (except on
coffee) and reducing license fees. All retail prices have been decontrolled, except for
pharmaceuticals and petroleum. The top import duty was lowered from 230 to 60
percent, and the negative import list abolished. The introduction of an auction system has
improved foreign exchange availability and narrowed the auction and parallel rates to less
than 10 percent. State monopolies in freight forwarding, marketing, and export activities
have been abolished, and the banking system opened to domestic private participation.
The 1992 Investment Code introduced new investor incentives, and the Government has
embarked on a privatization program under an autonomous Privatization Agency.
1.6   Macroeconomic and structural reforms have been accompanied by a substantial
restructuring of public expenditures, shifting resources from defense to social services
and roads. Education's share of the budget increased from 7.1 percent in FY89 to 13.4
percent in FY95, and that of health increased from 2.8 percent to 5.4 percent. Allocations
to roads increased from 3 percent to 14 percent over the same period.
B. PATTERNS AND SOURCES OF POVERTY IN ETHIOPIA
1.7   Social Indicators and Social Services. Ethiopia's poverty is revealed by the
country's social standards. Life expectancy is just 48 years, 117 per thousand infants die
within the first year, as do twenty percent of children under five. Almost 700 women die
in childbirth for every 100,000 births. More than 70 percent of the country is susceptible
to malaria, and tuberculosis is the major cause of hospital registered deaths.
1.8   Five factors contribute to Ethiopia's poor social conditions. Thefirst is over-
crowded housing which spreads communicable diseases. The second is lack of safe
water, producing high rates of diarrhea and schistosomiasis. Only 17 percent of the
country has access to safe water, compared to the Sub-Saharan African average of 41
percent. Almost 94 percent of the rural population use untreated water from rivers, lakes,
and wells. Almost 40 percent of urban dwellers and most rural households have no
sanitation facilities. The third factor is inadequate nutrition and poor infant feeding
practices, worsened by chronic diarrhea. The daily per capita calorie intake in Ethiopia is
1 After grants, on a cash basis.



3
only 76 percent of recommended levels. Between 7 and 10 percent of Ethiopian children
are moderately to severely wasted, and between 40 and 60 percent of children under five
are both stunted and wasted. Micro-nutrient deficiencies contribute to high levels of
goiter, anemia, and rickets. About 1.5 percent of the population is blind due to vitamin A
deficiency, and about 26 percent suffer from iodine deficiency. Thefourth factor is the
low education and literacy, which results in high fertility rates, poor maternal and infant
health, and poor nutrition practices.
1.9   Thefifth factor is the poor condition of Ethiopia's basic social services. Only 55
percent of Ethiopian families live within 10 kilometers of a health facility, and only 10
percent of children under five receive modern health care. Compared to generally
accepted guidelines, Ethiopia's health stations have to serve twice as many people as they
should (about 23,000 each), and health centers three times as many (about 317,000 each).
Despite recent improvements, immunization rates are still well below Sub-Saharan
African norms, and less than 25 percent of births are attended. Ethiopia has the lowest
primary education enrollments in Sub-Saharan Africa, only 22 percent, with 16 percent
fewer girls than boys enrolled. Recent declines in enrollments are due to a combination of
war damage to about 1,160 primary schools (about 15 percent of the total); the low ratio
of properly trained teachers; very high drop-out rates (47 percent between grade I and
grade 2); and poor quality of education.
1.10  Chronic Poverty. Ethiopia's chronic poverty is the result of high population
growth rate and poor economic performance. From 1981 to 1991, population grew at
almost 3 percent a year, economic growth averaged only 1.7 percent a year, and growth in
agriculture averaged only 0.9 percent a year. Poor economic growth is the result of
policy distortions under the previous regime; intermittent droughts endangering 7 million
people; loss of productive land due to environmental degradation; low use of agricultural
technology; constraints on internal trade due to transport difficulties and state marketing
monopolies; over-dependence on a small range of exports; domestic conflict and
insecurity; low rates of investment and savings; and a low level of external development
assistance ($15 per capita a year compared to Sub-Saharan Africa's average of $34). In
the decade 1978/9 to 1988/9, per capita food grain production dropped from 200 kg per
person to about 150 kg per person, matched by increased food imports from 178,200 tons
to 1,460,400 tons, 70 percent as relief assistance.
1.11  The World Bank's "Ethiopia- Food Security Study" (June 1992) estimated that
there are (i) 19 million rural resource poor reliant on farming but unable to obtain
sufficient food for the household due to inadequate land, livestock, poor climatic
conditions or soil fertility; (ii) 750,000 poor rural resettlers, inadequately resettled and
experiencing significant hardship trying to live by farming; (iii) 400,000 urban poor,
chronically under-nourished, many in women-headed families, spending 85 percent of
their low income on food; and (iv) 230,000 urban unemployable with no family support-
structures, unable to work because of age, disability, or mental illness.
1.12  Transitory Poverty. Transitory poverty in Ethiopia is the result of war, forced
resettlement, and drought. There are four main categories of transitory poor: (i) rural
pastoralists in drought prone areas, who have lost their traditional livelihood and coping



4
mechanisms; (ii) groups affected by the war, over two million refugees and persons
displaced within Ethiopia, households suffering dramatic family losses, the disabled,
farmers whose means of livelihood was destroyed, and demobilized soldiers; (iii) over
half million rural refugees from Sudan and Somalia; and (iv) urban dwellers vulnerable
to policy reform, especially public sector employees being retrenched.
1.13  Distribution of Poverty. The TGE' 1992 Social Dimensions of Adjustment
Study classifies almost 52 percent of Ethiopian households as very poor, chronically
poor, vulnerable, or susceptible nomadic groups. In some areas, the percentage of poor
households exceeds 70 percent and in the worst cases is as high as 85 percent, with more
than 50 percent of households in the extremely poor category. In the areas in which
poverty is especially acute, there is a severe lack of basic social services, acute lack of
access to safe water supply, and primary school enrollments as low as 7.1 percent,
compared to the national enrollment average of 22 percent.
2. CONTEXT FOR THE PROJECT
2.1   The proposed Project will be an expansion of the pilot Ethiopian Social
Rehabilitation Fund (ESRF) to all parts of Ethiopia. This section provides the context in
the form of (i) the development and sector strategies for Ethiopia; (ii) the experience of
the pilot ESRF; and (iii) lessons from other social fund operations.
A. DEVELOPMENT AND SECTOR STRATEGIES FOR ETHIOPIA
2.2   Ethiopia's Development Strategy. Sustained poverty reduction is the main goal
of the Government's development strategy, to be achieved through a combination of
sustainable economic growth, improvements in basic social services, and specially
targeted measures to improve incomes, self reliance, and the quality of life of the poorest
groups and communities. Drawing on the Bank report "Ethiopia: Toward Poverty
Alleviation and a Social Action Program (1993)", the aim is to strengthen the capacity of
the rural population to cope with periodic droughts, and provide food security. Economic
growth will be the basis for poverty reduction through increased employment and
incomes, higher food production, and export foreign exchange earnings. The economic
growth program has four elements. The first is to maintain macroeconomic stability, by
reducing the budget deficit and domestic bank financing of the deficit, controlling
inflation, and keeping the foreign exchange rate competitive and interest rates positive.
The second is to stimulate production through the strategy of Agricultural-Development-
Led Industrialization (ADLI), which will balance the importance of agriculture as a
source of income and food, with the sector's limitations in providing employment for
Ethiopia's rapidly growing population, by increasing output in three areas: (i) in
agriculture through improved small-holder productivity, and expansion of larger farms,
especially in the lowlands; (ii) in the industrial and service sectors through improved
productivity; and (iii) in the production of minerals to diversify Ethiopia's exports. The
third is encouraging investment through private sector growth, streamlining procedures
governing investment and trade, and liberalizing the financial sector. The fourth is
improving infrastructure, services, and natural resource management, through focused



5
;nvestments essential to sustained growth, especially in roads, electricity, agricultural
services and credit, and environmental rehabilitation.
Sectoral Strategies
2.3   This section will summarize the Government's sector strategies related to poverty
reduction most directly concerned with community-based programs and the proposed
ESRDF Project.
2.4   Improving Social Services. A priority goal is to strengthen the social sectors, to
reduce the population growth rate and improve productivity and employment
opportunities of the poor, through better basic health, education, safe water and
sanitation, and nutrition. This program will need to correct regional and urban-rural
imbalances, improve services to women and children, and encourage a wider range of
public and private service providers. Between FY91 and FY95, military spending
reduced from 24.6 percent 13.4 percent of the budget, and allocations for education and
health increased from 7.1 percent to 13.4 percent, and 2.8 percent to 5.4 percent,
respectively.
2.5   Basic Education. The GOE's goal is to expand primary education, and technical
and vocational training; make access to secondary education more selective and
competitive; and improve the internal efficiencies cf the educational system. Primary
education will provide a basis of mathematics and science, promote practical problem-
solving aimed at future schooling and employment, and increase awareness of the
physical and social environment. At the primary level, both English and local languages
will be used as media of instruction. Strong emphasis will be given to community
involvement in building, rehabilitating, and maintaining primary schools, and in
participating in basic education management. Efforts are being made to improve the
training of teachers, upgrade educational materials, strengthen National Regional
Government of primary and secondary schools, and correct gender and regional
imbalances.
2.6   Basic Health and Nutrition. Most of the increased resources for health will go
to the primary facilities and services, increases in essential drugs and supplies, and more
and better rural health workers. The goal is to reduce maternal and child morbidity and
mortality, combat communicable diseases by improved immunization, control diarrhea,
improve treatment of respiratory diseases, strengthen antenatal care and delivery services,
and promote nutrition programs linked to MCH. The short term priority is rehabilitating
war-damaged facilities, especially health clinics at the woreda level, each to be headed by
a health officer trained to diploma standard. These clinics will provide curative and
rehabilitative health care and family health services; educate and mcbilize communities
to improve environmental health conditions (digging latrines, maintaining water facilities,
and clearing malarial swamps); and encourage community investment in construction,
and participation in asset management and maintenance. Actions have also been taken to
establish the new structure of health services at the woreda, zonal, and regional levels.



6
2.7   Population Management. Reducing the growth in population is essential for
capturing the poverty reduction benefits of economic growth. The GOE aims to reduce
current high fertility rates from an average of 7.7 children per woman to 4 children, by
2015. This will be achieved through a significant increase in contraception use; lower
maternal, infant, and child mortality; increase in girls education and women's literacy;
programs to increase women's income and economic participation; and information
programs promoting smaller family size. A National Population Council has been
established to coordinate this multi-sectoral program, supported by regional and zonal
population councils and woreda committees.
2.8   Rural Water Supply and Urban Sanitation. Because of the prevalence of
diseases related to contaminated water and poor waste disposal, better rural domestic
water supply and urban sanitation is a major prerequisite for improving the health of poor
households. The inadequate state of rural water supply in Ethiopia is both a reflection
and cause of the country's poverty. Only 19 percent of the rural population have access to
organized water supply, and as schemes are often out of commission actual coverage is
about ten percent. In some regions, rural communities have almost no access to safe
water. Domestic investment in rural water supply has declined recently with donors and
NGOs providing the bulk of the financing. The Government's proposed National Rural
Water Supply Program (NRWSP) envisages expenditures of US$ 303 million in 13,390
schemes by 1998, but this program is yet to be fully financed. With limited resources and
a huge demand, the Governmnent faces a dilemma in balancing new construction with
maintenance and rehabilitation. Currently 83 percent of resources go to new
construction, and 17 percent to rehabilitation. GOE policy is to promote simple, low-cost
technology (hand-dug wells and handpumps) for small communities with the principle of
covering maintenance costs through user fees. Institutional strengthening will be a major
priority, involving a more rational distribution of responsibility for rural water
management among regional authorities, ensuring that each region has adequate
organizational structures, and building effective linkages among regions and between
regional bureaus and the central ministry.
2.9   The GOE also gives high priority to improving urban environmental conditions,
especially sanitation, as part of its program to upgrade the health of the urban poor. The
approach is to provide urban communities with financial and technical assistance and
incentives to invest in and manage their own sanitation facilities. The environmental
aspects related to improved water and sanitation services, particularly disposal of solid
waste, drainage and refuse disposal, are key concerns in the GOE's National
Conservation Strategy. The contributions of the ESRF pilot and expanded ESRDF are
part of a broader effort to improve urban sanitation, which includes the IDA-financed
Second Addis Urban Development Project, the Ethiopia Water Supply Development &
Rehabilitation Project to be proposed for IDA financing, and the UNDP-World Bank
Water & Sanitation Program. The ESRDF will focus on community initiated and
managed schemes, mainly in Addis Ababa and Harrar, two cities that have the status of
regions and are therefore included in this otherwise rural program.
2.10  Small-Scale Irrigation. The ADLI strategy aims to increase agricultural output
and rural employment and incomes, by boosting the productivity of small-holder farmers,



7
and diversifying crops to increase the value of exports and reduce fluctuations in
production. Irrigation will be the primary vehicle for overcoming the formidable
constraints of unpredictable rainfall patterns and insufficient soil moisture for the
productive use of modem inputs. The GOE's strategy distinguishes three kinds of
irrigation schemes. Individual small-scale irrigation schemes cover up to 200 ha, and
usually consist of diversions from small rivers, springs, or micro-dams to individual
farmer plots. Medium-scale irrigation schemes, often owned by farmer cooperatives,
cover areas of between 200 and 1000 ha and generally rely on medium-sized dams or
diversion methods. Large-scale irrigation schemes are concentrated mainly on state
farms, and utilize major diversions normally requiring pumping. The GOE gives strong
emphasis to small-scale irrigation schemes, and envisages more than doubling the
160,000 ha of land currently under irrigation, utilizing the considerable supply of largely
untapped ground and surface water in some of the country's major river basins. The
importance of new and rehabilitated small-scale irrigation schemes are reflected in
allocated expenditures for the period up to 1996.
2.11  Programs Targeted at Poor Groups. To supplement measures aimed at
economic growth, the GOE has launched programs aimed at specially disadvantaged
groups. These include rehabilitation programs for over half a million refugees returning
from Somalia, Sudan, and Djibouti; credit and retraining programs for retrenched public
employees; credit and rehabilitation programs for 500,000 demobilized soldiers;
consumption programs for 25,000 highly vulnerable households; cash assistance to
160,000 of the poorest rural households to purchase fertilizer, seeds, tools, and veterinary
drugs; food/cash-for-work public works programs to improve infrastructure in 15 cities;
essential agricultural inputs for 150,000 displaced people resettled on farms in Tigray,
Amhara, Oromiya, and SEPRA; urban food and health umbrella programs for slum
dwellers in Addis Ababa; and cooperative programs with World Food Program and
UNICEF for destitute farmers and women, and the unemployed.
2.12 Regionalization and Community-Based Development. The most important
political events influencing the development program has been the devolution of
significant authority and responsibility to the administrations of the newly established
regions whose status has been confirmed in the December 1994 Constitution for the
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. In addition to a range of governmental powers,
devolution includes a transfer to National Regional Governments of responsibility for
development planning and project implementation, within the budget allocations and
broad sectoral policies established by central ministries. The goal of this process is to
give Ethiopia's various nationalities far greater control over their own political affairs,
and economic and social development. This trend goes hand-in-hand with the goal of
increasing the capacity and self-reliance of local communities, encouraging them to take
responsibility for their own development through community planning and project
committees. These projects will involve community contributions to project and recurrent
costs, the use of labor-intensive methods, and the choice of simple technologies that
communities can maintain. The goal is to utilize this mechanism to deliver small-scale
projects that communities can manage themselves, focusing on improving community
health, nutrition, education, and family planning through better basic social infrastructure
and services; and providing the essential infrastructure (feeder roads, irrigation schemes,



8
marketing centers, grain storage, rural power) and training required to stimulate economic
activities and increase incomes. This process will be supported by intensive training of
communities, local NGOs, local small private contractors, and other facilitators of
community-based development. The ESRF pilot has been a major initiative within this
program.
2.13 Strategies for the Advancement of Women. The Government places great
importance on removing the constraints on women's economic and social participation,
and encouraging their progress. The new constitution guarantees to women the right to
acquire, manage, and transfer land and property; gives women fundamental social rights;
and protects women from traditional harmful practices. Development strategies,
especially at the community level strongly emphasize women's participation in planning
and implementation; giving women literacy and basic skills to engage in economic
activities; facilitating access to savings services and credit for income generation
activities; and supplying simple technologies (such as grain mills and oil seed presses)
that can help reduce the burden of women's work. Sectoral programs, generally
implemented through community participation, will have a major impact on improving
women's economic and social status, especially primary education which will help a
whole new generation of girls. MCH programs will preserve the health of mothers and
their infants. Water supply programs will ensure accessible safe water, saving hours spent
by women carrying water from distant and often contaminated sources.
2.14 Strategy for Environmental Conservation and Rehabilitation. The GOE's
National Conservation Strategy (NCS) articulates the policies, strategies, actions, and
investment program needed to address the main environmental problems confronting
Ethiopia. Under the NCS, each National Regional Government is responsible for
formulating regional conservation strategies based on the NCS guiding principles. The
NCS is comprehensive and multi-sectoral in scope, highlighting the need to (i) limit land
degradation and loss of tree cover; (ii) respond to the insufficient supply and poor quality
of water resources; (iii) manage the increasingly serious effects of urban degradation; (iv)
contain the progressive loss of bio-diversity; and (v) reduce the damage done by poor
management methods on the ecological stability of rangelands and the livelihood of the
traditional rangeland populations. The NCS stresses the need for environmental
objectives in all sector strategies, programs and projects dealing with agriculture, energy,
roads, water supply, industry, and urban development. Finally, the NCS emphasizes the
importance of giving communities a stake in conservation and rehabilitation, through
providing environmental education, the right incentives, stress on environmental criteria
in community-led project implementation, and methods that the community can readily
use to preserve their natural resources.
2.15 World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ethiopia. The Bank's
CAS for Ethiopia supports the Government's program to promote employment-
generating economic growth as the long-term foundation for poverty reduction. The CAS
includes assistance with a policy framework to stimulate production, exports, and private
sector development; measures to reduce population growth and develop human capital;
improvement and expansion of essential infrastructure; environmental rehabilitation and
conservation; and institutional capacity building for economic growth and social



9
development. The proposed ESRDF Project is a central element of the CAS. It translates
into practice a number of important CAS principles: improving project implementation
by building capacity at a regional level; focusing directly on poverty reduction methods,
including labor-intensive activity, basic services and infrastructure for poor rural
communities, improving incomes and food security; increasing the economic and social
participation of women; and encouraging community concern for environmental
conservation and rehabilitation. The proposed Project will also contribute to key sectoral
goals emphasized in the CAS: support to small-holder farmers through irrigation
schemes; expansion and rehabilitation of rural water supply and urban sanitation;
improvements in basic health services for the poor; expansion of primary education with
a focus on increasing girls' participation; and support to community-based initiatives
aimed at improving essential infrastructure and stimulating incomes, especially for poor
women.
B. THE EXPERIENCE OF THE PILOT SOCIAL REHABILITATION FUND
2.16 The Selection of a Social Fund Mechanism. The pilot ESRF began in
December 1992 as a component of the Ethiopian Recovery and Rehabilitation Program
(ERRP). The aim was to test whether a social fund approach could be an effective way of
giving millions of poor households and communities in one of the world's poorest
countries, greater control over their economic and social advancement, a goal that could
not be achieved by central public agencies alone. The devolution of accountability
implied by a social fund approach coincided with the decision to regionalize political
authority.
2.17  The challenge of the ESRF was to see whether the pilot could match the features
of the most successful social funds, which have been able to make a distinct contribution
within the range of development approaches. They can provide a parallel track to the
conventional public-sector planning cycle (which inevitably creates queuing problems)
by allowing a community with energy and commitment to launch initiatives within its
own time-frame. Social funds can be an effective way of encouraging private efforts
which can often deliver more cost-effective results than the public sector alone. They can
be an effective way of attracting community investment, which reduces the cost to public
funds and establishes a basis for ownership around which maintenance arrangements can
be built. The mechanism more readily permits multi-sectoral integration than projects
designed and managed by public sector agencies. Social funds can also contribute to
community-based development by building local management skills, encouraging
community decision-making on joint assets, and developing a sense of achievement and
self-reliance.
2.18 Summary of the Pilot Fund Experience. The US$ 13 million ESRF pilot has
been operating in Southern Shoa, Addis Ababa, and Tigray, with 10 percent of its
financing available for other regions. Its goal has been to provide financial and technical
support for small community-initiated projects, in which communities invest at least 10
percent, and carry contractual responsibility for management and subsequent
maintenance. ESRF was launched through a promotional campaign to inform
communities about the Fund's facilities and procedures, identify community needs, and



10
provide basic training in identifying and submitting sub-project proposals. The pilot
encouraged management by community committees, and fostered linkages between
communities and local support groups, local government officials, community
facilitators, NGOs, and private contractors. Within a general sub-project limit of US$
250,000, the Fund is open to any initiatives with a positive developmental benefit for the
community. In practice, the pilot has focused on support for (i) the rehabilitation or
building of basic health facilities, primary schools, micro-dams, feeder roads, water
supply and sanitation facilities; (ii) programs in adult skills development and literacy
training; and (iii) support for income-generating ventures carried out by small groups,
often consisting of women. ESRF was launched with a modest administrative structure,
and has operated with an overhead of less than 5 percent of total project cost, which is
efficient by social fund standards, and compares very favorably with the public sector
costs of delivering project services.
2.19 Results to Date. At December 30, 1995, 1,026 proposals had been received, of
which 462 were regarded as priorities and suitable for appraisal. Subsequently, 67 were
returned to applicants for reformulation, 170 failed to meet ESRDF appraisal standards,
and 225 were approved for financing. Six were later canceled due to legal requirements
and performance failure of implementing agencies, and another nine delayed. In total, the
ESRF had completed 219 sub-projects by December 30, 1995. Some 564 suitable
proposals have been placed in the pipeline for consideration by the follow-up ESRDF
program.
Evaluation of ESRF Performance
2.20 Community Participation. ESRF's performance has been measured through an
independent evaluation after eighteen months operation, a mid-term review in October
1994, and 6 supervision missions. The evaluation's independent engineers confirmed
that the infrastructure built with ESRF support satisfied national sector standards and has
been of good quality. There is also evidence that the ESRF has been successful in
generating community commitment and helping build community leadership. The Fund
has received over a thousand community initiated sub-project proposals; and despite the
fact that many communities have weak local structures, 37 percent of all community
proposals were drawn up and submitted by community committees themselves. The
remainder were helped by facilitators such as local bureau staff and NGOs. About 72
percent of ESRF sub-projects are being implemented by community project committees,
and in cases where a facilitating intermediary is named as implementing agency, the
ESRF also requires that a community committee be formed and participate.



11
Table 1 Performance of ESRF Pilot to December 30, 1995
Sub-Project Sector   No. of Implemented   Sub-Project Costs (Birr)   % of Community   No. of Direct
Sub-Projects     [includes cost sharing]  Contribution    Beneficiaries
Health Infrastructure          33                10,061,439               14.0           369,000
Education Infrastructure       36                14,850,951               17.3            21,600
Literacy & Skills Training     12                 6,575,867               48.6           387,231
Urban Sanitation               22                 7,761,780               9.8            233,701
Rural Water Supply              9                 3,231,616               12.1           66,859
Small-Scale Irrigation          7                 4,729,293              55.9             11,330
Feeder Road Rehabilitation      7                 5,526,648               3.6            782,712
Drainage                        7                 3,825,497               9.8             74,590
Storage                         4                  724,711                7.5            145,500
Conservation                    2                  852,567                12.0             4,087
Income Generation              80                12,928,359               9.3             14,787
Total                         219                71,068,728              18.0          2,111,397
2.21   ESRF Financial Performance. The average cost of the ESRF-financed sub-
projects compares favorably with similar projects implemented through the civil service.
As the Table below shows, the ESRF has been able to deliver essential community
infrastructure at sub-project cost savings of between 6.9 percent and 30 percent.
Table 2 Sub-Project Costs: ESRF Compared to Public Agencies (Birr)
Project Sector           Avg. ESRF Sub-     Avg. Public Agency    ESRF Saving
Project Cost        Project Cost          (%)
Small-Scale Irrigation (per ha)     29,500                  40,000           27.5
Rural Water Supply
Spring Development                 27,000                30,000             10.0
Hand Dug Well                      12,400                 15,000           17.3
Shallow Well                      70,000                100,000            30.0
Primary Village School             270,000                315,000            14.3
Health Center                     1,250,000              1,500,000           16.7
Health Clinic                      285,000                306,000             6.9
2.22   Communities have provided on average 18 percent of total sub-project costs from
their own resources (in cash or kind), further reducing costs to the public budget, and
building commitment to maintain the facilities. The fact that community investments
exceed the 10 percent standard, reinforces the likelihood that these sub-projects are
genuinely community priorities. Through collaboration with sector bureaus and NGOs,
ESRF also attracted cost-sharing amounting to 10.7 percent of sub-project costs.
2.23   ESRF Procedures. The evaluation concluded that the ESRF has followed
rigorous procedures for sub-project appraisal and implementation, contracting with
beneficiaries and facilitating agencies, and project accounting and financial control.
These procedures are described in the Fund's Operational Manual. The evaluation also
commented on the high quality and dedication of the staff, the Fund's streamlined
operations, and its rapid responsiveness to community proposals. The performance of the
ESRF can be demonstrated by the following Table which shows, where comparable data
is available, that ESRF has been able to make significant time savings in delivering
projects compared to similar projects delivered through public agencies.



12
Table 3 Average Sub-Project Completion Time: ESRF & Public Agencies
Sub-Project Areas      ESRF Avg.       Public Agency Avg.  ESRF Time Saving
Completion Time    Completion Time     (Percentage)
Primary Village Schools    4 months           6 months            33.3
Urban Elementary Schools   5 months           8 months            37.5
Health Stations            6 months           12 months           50.0
Health Centers            12 months           24 months           50.0
Shallow Wells              7 months           18 months           61.1
Micro-Dams                10 months           30 months           66.7
2.24   ESRF Benefits and Beneficiaries. The 2.1 million people benefiting from the
ESRF pilot consist of those in the poorest and most vulnerable categories: primary
schooling for over 20,000 children from poor families; training for almost 390,000 adult
illiterates and destitute ex-soldiers; basic health services for 329,000 inhabitants of poor
villages; latrines for over 230,000 people, and improved drainage for a further 75,000
people in the poorest sections of Addis Ababa; rehabilitated feeder roads linking poor
communities to markets and other essential facilities, benefiting over 780,000 villagers;
measures to help the productivity of poor peasant farmers: irrigation and micro-dam
storage for over 1 1,000, storage facilities benefiting 145,000, and conservation measures
benefiting almost 44,000; and income generation schemes reaching almost 15,000 people
belonging to vulnerable groups (destitute ex-soldiers, women heads of household,
displaced civilians, poor peasants, and orphans). The provision of community water
supply infrastructure has provided 67,000 inhabitants of poor households with safe
alternatives to untreated water sources at the affordable cost, and has helped reduce the
burden to traditional women water carriers.
2.25   ESRF Post-Completion Performance. While it is too early for a definitive
study on the sustainability of assets created with ESRF support, the evidence is that many
requirements for future sustainability are in place. For completed sub-projects in water
supply, urban sanitation, irrigation, income generation, where coramunities have
contracted responsibility for maintenance and meeting recurrent costs, Community
Project Committees established to manage implementation have continued to operate to
manage the maintenance of the assets. For water supply schemes, they operate as Water
Committees, setting water tariffs and collecting user fees. The collected money, used for
maintenance and repairs, has so far been sufficient. Completed small-scale irrigation sub-
projects are managed by Water Users' Committees with their own by-laws and
regulations, assisted by Ministry of Agriculture extension workers. Users contribute from
the sale of produce to maintenance and repair costs. Maintenance of public latrines is
managed by beneficiary families and supervised by the kebele administration, which
collects user fees and provides keys to door locks that limit access to members.
2.26  Identified Problems and Solutions. One of the most important reasons for the
pilot's success was the responsiveness of Fund staff to community needs. Hlowever, the
ESRF's thin structure was often stretched to its limits and its work schedule delayed.
Sometimes Fund staff had to provide extensive assistance to bring community proposals
to an acceptable level for consideration. In many rural areas there was a shortage of local
contractors with the financial resources to purchase construction materials and facilities



13
to transport the materials to remote sites. ESRF could often purchase construction
materials more cheaply from central stocks, and transport it more efficiently using its own
facilities. In such cases, ESRF took on procurement responsibility, leaving the local
project committees to deal with labor contracts. The formula worked effectively but
produced a heavy workload for the Fund. The proposed solution to this problem,
incorporated in the design for the expanded ESRDF, is a comprehensive capacity
building program to (i) prepare the Fund for its expanded role; (ii) respond to the
weaknesses among bureau staff, NGOs, local contractors; and (iii) provide communities
with skills to manage their own initiatives by training community project committees,
and strengthen links between communities and local facilitating groups. The Fund is
recruiting high quality staff for the expanded phase, supplemented with more use of
short-term consultants for technical studies and specialized supervision. The Fund will
use sub-contracts with specialized institutions or NGOs in providing training and
technical support to community organizations and local bureaus. Action will also be
taken to improve the incentive structure for Fund staff, given that some excellent staff
were attracted away by higher NGO and international agency salaries.
2.27  The evaluation found that many income-generating proposals received by ESRF
were of too low a standard for consideration, demonstrating the need for ESRF to expand
its research and educational role in this area. ESRF also experienced difficulties coping
with the work-load generated by the banking aspects of income-generating operations. In
the future, the Government will support the development of savings and credit
intermediary organizations, village banks, at the community level.
2.28  Finally, while it was found that ESRF was committed to maximizing benefits to
poor women and responding to environmental concerns, establishing specific functional
responsibilities in the ESRF would improve the attention given to both themes. It was
also agreed to include more specific gender and environmental criteria for sub-project
identification, appraisal, monitoring, and evaluation.
2.29 Additional Regional Studies. To supplement the learning experience of the pilot
ESRF, rapid assessments were carried out for most regions on their special needs. These
reports, which are contained in the Project File, provided the basis for the Project Cost
Projections and the staffing needs of each regional office.
C. LESSONS FROM OTHER SOCIAL FUND OPERATIONS
2.30  In addition to the pilot experience, the design of the ESRDF has been based on the
lessons from some 30 other social funds and social programs the Bank is financing
mainly in Latin America and Africa. UNDP, the Inter-American Development Bank, and
the African Development Bank are also supporting social funds. Like most social funds,
the ESRDF will operate as a semi-autonomous financial and administrative agency,
reporting to a high level and visible Board, separate from but collaborating with the civil
service. Like other funds, the ESRDF will have an incentive structure aimed at attracting
and retaining high quality staff. In line with the findings of the Africa Technical
Department's study "Social Action Programs and Social Funds, A Review of Design and
Implementation in Sub-Saharan Africa" (June 1993), the ESRDF will carry out extensive



14
community promotion to ensure that proposals are genuinely beneficiary initiated;
operate with a high degree of autonomy; ensure high standards through rigorous
appraisal; and work with flexible financing, procurement and disbursement processes to
encourage community participation in implementation. Most ESRDF financing is likely
to go to the type of small infrastructure projects shown by social fund experience to be
most successful in terms of quality and sustainability, and their contribution to
community efforts to increase incomes and improve their quality of life. Social funds
operate with an administrative overhead cost of between 5 and 15 percent of overall
project costs. The ESRF was able to operate at the low end of this range and although the
ESRDF's overhead expenses will be higher than the pilot phase, because of the
remoteness and limited capacities of some regions, these expenses will still remain at the
low end of the range. Overhead costs will be reviewed each year as part of the process of
approving the annual operating budgets.
2.31  The ESRDF will also follow other important lessons from social fund experience:
(i) operating as an action-research program with close monitoring, feedback learning
loops, and adjustment to varying circumstances; (ii) focusing on building the capacity of
local community leaders and facilitators to ensure ownership and high quality community
participation; (iii) using well-tested, simple, and labor-intensive technologies; (iv) being
managed as an integral part of a broader poverty reduction strategy.
D. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.32 World Bank's Comparative Advantage. The Bank has strong advantages as a
supporter of ESRDF. The Project is an essential part of the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy to support the Government's poverty reduction program. The Bank's close
involvement in the ESRF pilot, and its experience of many other IDA-financed social
funds IDA has been used in the Project design to ensure that the Project will respond to
both Ethiopian realities and lessons from other countries. The Bank is also in an
advantageous position to attract support for ESRDF from other donor agencies.
3. THE PROJECT
A. ORIGINS OF THE PROJECT
3.1   Based on the evaluation of the pilot, the Government has decided to continue the
ESRF as part of its poverty reduction program, expand the Fund to all regions of the
country, organize implementation on the basis of the new regional structures, and
contribute 15 percent of the expected costs of the expanded phase.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.2   The expanded Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund (ESRDF)
will provide to poor, mainly rural communities the assets and services needed to improve
their economic and social standards. ESRDF will provide financial and technical support
to communities and community groups to construct or rehabilitate, and maintain basic



15
economic and social infrastructure and services that they have prioritized and in which
they are willing to invest. In addition, ESRDF will support community actions aimed at
environmental conservation and rehabilitation. ESRDF's efforts will be focused on poor
communities, and especially, poor women. To achieve these goals, ESRDF will
strengthen community capacity in project identification, implementation, and
maintenance. The Fund will support only sustainable, cost effective developmental
initiatives, and will not be involved in relief activities.
3.3   The Project will also support the establishment of a Welfare Monitoring System
to strengthen capacity to collect and analyze information related to causes, patterns, and
incidence of poverty; and improve the basis for developing poverty reduction strategies,
assessing the impact on the poor of economic policy reform, and evaluating the benefits
of other poverty reductions interventions.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Roles and Responsibilities in the ESRDF Program
3.4   Communities. ESRDF will be a demand-based program, and will finance only
sub-projects that are community-initiated and suitable for community management. For
each sub-project, the benefiting group or community will form a Community Project
Committee (CPC) which will participate actively in identifying, preparing, appraising and
implementing sub-projects, and will be a party to all contractual arrangements with the
Fund. The CPC is also responsible for collecting community contributions (not less than
10 percent in cash, kind or labor) to the capital costs of the sub-project, and for managing
the maintenance of facilities through user fees, and other community contributions.
3.5   ESRDF. ESRDF is responsible for promoting the Fund among communities and
National Regional Governments; and for appraising sub-project proposals received from
communities to ensure that they are cost effective ways of improving community assets
and social conditions, are developmental and sustainable in nature, and are
environmentally sound. Once a decision is taken to finance a sub-project, the ESRDF
monitors and supervises implementation, and ensures a proper hand-over of completed
facilities to Community Project Committees. ESRDF is also responsible for monitoring
and reporting on all Fund activities.
3.6   Facilitators. Communities will be able to obtain support from a wide range of
facilitators that will collaborate with ESRDF, including NGOs, regional sector bureau
specialists, private contractors, and specially trained community facilitators.
3.7   National Regional Governments. Regional sector bureaus will be responsible
for ensuring that the sub-projects satisfy sector policies and standards; for committing
budget resources for recurrent costs that are government responsibility; and for providing
ESRDF technical support in sub-project design, appraisal, and implementation.



16
2. Organizational Structure of ESRDF
3.8   ESRDF will operate on a decentralized basis through Regional Offices. The
ESRDF board is the highest policy level of the ESRDF structure. The ESRDF Central
Office will plan and manage financial transfers, and monitor and evaluate project
implementation. Regional Steering Committees will approve sub-projects and ensure that
the Regional Offices, which receive, process and recommend community applications for
ESRDF support, operate in accordance with the Operational Manual.
3.9   ESRDF Board. The Board, chaired by the Prime Minister or representative,
consists of the Head of the Regional Affairs Bureau, the Minister of Finance, the Minister
of Economic Development and Cooperation, The Minister of Water Resources, and the
Minister of Agriculture. The ESRDF General Manager is a member and acts as its
secretary. The Board is responsible for ensuring consistency with ESRDF policies and
the procedures of the Operational Manual, for approving the annual budget and work
program, for approving the progress report, and for appointing the external auditor of the
Fund's operations.
3.10 ESRDF Central Office. The Central Office is headed by a General Manager
who will keep the Board informed on key issues relating to ESRDF's operations. The
Office is responsible for (i) ensuring that ESRDF operates according to Operational
Manual; (ii) preparing annually for the Board and IDA a review of ESRDF performance
(including a financial report), and a consolidated work program and budget based on the
pipeline of proposals received by Regional Offices; (iii) supervising and monitoring the
activities of Regional Offices; (iv) replenishing regional accounts on receipt of specified
financial records and supporting documentation; (v) managing all international
procurement for ESRDF; (vi) managing the project performance monitoring and
information system; (vii) managing the capacity building, training, and research program
and providing technical support to regional offices; (viii) proposing policy changes to the
Board; and (ix) representing ESRDF in all legal matters. The General Manager is assisted
by a Deputy General Manager.
3.11  Regional Steering Committees. Each Committee is responsible for approving
sub-projects proposed by its Regional Office, once satisfied that they are in line with
regional development goals. The Committee is also responsible for ensuring that the
Regional Office follows the requirements of the Operational Manual; and for approving
the annual financial report, and annual program and budget of the Regional Office for
submission to the Board and IDA. The Chairperson of the National Regional Council, or
representative, chairs the Committee consisting of the Heads of the Social Development
Sector, the Economic Development Sector, the Planning and Economic Development
Bureau, and the Finance Bureau; and representatives of the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
or the Development Bank of Ethiopia, and representatives of civic organizations. The
Manager of the ESRDF Regional Office, appointed by the Chairperson of the National
Regional Council, is a member of the Committee and act as its secretary.
3.12 Regional Offices. Ten Regional Offices, (and three Regional Sub-Offices in
larger regions), are responsible for the day-to-day ESRDF operations, promoting the



17
activities of the Fund, processing sub-project proposals, proposing appraised sub-projects
for financing to the Regional Steering Committee, supervising implementation and post-
project maintenance, disbursing sub-project funds, preparing work programs based on the
pipeline of received proposals, maintaining the accounts and project monitoring
information, and submitting reports and documentation to the Central Office.
3.13  Staffing of the Central and Regional Offices. The Central and Regional Offices
are already operation, and are staffed with technical specialists, generally qualified
engineers, in the main areas of ESRDF's project business, and specialists to manage the
Fund's administrative, accounting, monitoring, and capacity building functions. The
organization structure is shown in Annex E, and Map I indicates the location of the
offices. ESRDF has its own salary structures designed to attract, motivate and retain high
caliber staff, and special allowances for posts in isolated regions. The staffing levels of
each office will be reviewed annually to ensure that they are in line with proposed work
programs and performance.
3. Project Approach
3.14  Operational Manual. ESRDF operates according to a detailed Operational
Manual which satisfies IDA requirements. Modifications to the Manual can be made
only by the ESRDF Board in consultation with IDA. The Manual (i) contains the policy
framework and organizational structure of the ESRDF; (ii) describes roles,
responsibilities, and authority; (iii) defines criteria and procedures for identification,
appraisal and financing of sub-projects; (iv) specifies implementation, procurement and
disbursement arrangements; (v) lays out monitoring, accounting, and auditing
requirements; and (vi) describes the procedures for annual work programming and
reporting. Annexes to the Manual provide sample contracting documents and standard
forms for use in processing sub-projects. Adoption of the Operational Manual by the
ESRDF national Board is a requirement for credit effectiveness.
3.15 Handbooks. The Manual will be supplemented by Handbooks on Small-Scale
Irrigation; Social Sectors; Rural Water Supply and Urban Sanitation; Promotion and
Training; and MIS operation. Cross-cutting themes like gender and environment will be
included in each Handbook. Handbooks will include project design, appraisal, and
implementation guidelines; national and regional technical standards and specifications;
training materials for building the capacity of community committees, practitioners, and
implementors; and the organizational accountability and framework for supervision,
quality control, and post-completion maintenance. The Handbooks are being prepared by
the Central Office in coordination with Regional Offices, taking account of the socio-
economic features of each region, and highlighting mechanisms to promote community
participation. Work on the Handbooks has commenced, financed by UJNDP and based on
terms of reference (available in the Project File) developed in consultation with the IDA.
While some Handbooks will be ready earlier, all Handbooks will be ready before the end
of the first year ofproject implementation.
3.16 Promotional Phase. ESRDF will start operations in new districts with a program
to promote the objectives of ESRDF among communities, explain its operating



18
mechanisms and benefits, describe its experience with other communities, and discuss
links between ESRDF-financed activities and other development initiatives. This will be
followed by a participative review of the community's overall needs and priorities, and
ways in which Fund can assist. Fund staff will assess the capacity of the community to
identify needs, prepare and submit proposals, and manage implementation and asset
maintenance. Some initial training may be offered, or plans made to provide training
later. They will also discuss the possibility of local facilitators to provide assistance. For
those wishing to submit a proposal for ESRDF support, Fund staff will help communities
establish Community Project Committees to take leadership of the process. During
promotional visits, the ESRDF will present its particular mandate within the context of
overall community needs to improve basic social standards and facilities, improve
incomes, conserve environmental assets, and attend to the needs of special groups such as
poor women.
3.17  Screening and Appraising Proposals. Communities may submit proposals to
the ESRDF Regional Office directly or with the help of a facilitating intermediary or
NGO. Proposals can be sent by a Community Project Committee, a local association
(such as a farmers' group), or a cooperating set of individuals (such as a women's group
or parents' committee). The Regional Office screens proposals to determine whether they
fall within ESRDF's business mandate, are relevant to the needs and priorities of the
community, are the result of community initiative, are presented in a complete enough
form, and appear feasible. Proposals that fail to satisfy ESRDF standards and criteria will
be rejected, although ESRDF will arrange for assistance to improve proposals that show
promise but are in some way defective. After the preliminary screening, a formal
appraisal will be done by an ESRDF Project Officer in coordination with the regional
sector bureau concerned, and based on criteria and standard formats included in the
Operational Manual. The criteria include: (i) suitability of the sub-project to community
management and maintenance; (ii) the realism of sub-project costs in line with standard
costs for the sector; (iii) the tangibility and importance of anticipated benefits to the
community, and the cost benefit (including calculation of an economic rate of return); (iv)
the cost effectiveness based on the number of beneficiaries reached and consideration of
least-cost alternatives; (v) satisfaction of national and regional sector technical standards
and plans; (vi) arrangements for the community's investment of at least 10 percent of
sub-project costs (in the form of cash, materials, labor, or other services); (vii) the
adequacy of arrangements for management of implementation and maintenance, and
coverage of recurrent costs; (viii) responsiveness to the needs of women and other special
groups; (ix) satisfaction of environmental standards defined in the Operational Manual;
and (x) the clarity of indicators for sub-project monitoring and evaluation.
3.18  Project Approval, Financing Agreements, and Implementation. Successfully
appraised sub-projects will be submitted by the Regional Office to the Regional Steering
Committee for approval. If approved, the Regional Office will sign a Financing
Agreement with the Community Project Committee (and with any intermediary acting on
behalf of communities) specifying the goals of the sub-project, accountability and
liability, project costs, details of the community contribution, implementation,
procurement and supervision arrangements, disbursement procedures, special actions
needed to mitigate any negative environmental effects, and follow-up arrangements for



19
maintenance and recurrent costs. Where, as in the case of health facilities and schools, the
sub-project involves recurrent costs for maintenance and operation for which the regional
bureau is responsible, the ESRDF will finance the sub-project only once the National
Regional Government has agreed to take on and budget for this responsibility.
Agreements will be required on the community's responsibility for maintenance and
recurrent costs of water-supply, sanitation, and small-scale irrigation schemes. Examples
of the Financing Agreements are contained in the Operational Manual.
3.19   Implementation arrangements will be kept flexible to reflect very different
conditions among the regions in terms of availability of services, markets, and local
contractors. However, the general principles that will guide implementation will be to (i)
maximize community involvement and responsibility; (ii) ensure adequate quality; and
(iii) ensure the most cost-effective methods through competitive bidding.
D. PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.20 The sub-projects supported by the ESRDF will depend on community demand.
However, projections (Table 4) have been made of the likely scope of ESRDF activities
based on the pilot ESRF, the regional studies, and extensive Govermment surveys of
community needs. These projections are consistent with the framework of national
development priorities. The Fund will not preclude any sector, but it is anticipated that
most infrastructure sub-project proposals will deal with primary health, basic education,
water supply and sanitation, and small-scale irrigation. Standard costs have been
calculated for each of these categories, to ensure that ESRDF focuses on small-scale
activities appropriate to community management and maintenance.
Table 4 Summary of Project Costs (US$ millions)
Component         Yrl       Yr2       Yr3        Yr4       YrS      Total
Rural Water Supply    9.12      15.01     22.95      18.32      9.64     75.04
Small-Scale Irrigation  4.46   23.11      26.77      13.58      7.03    74.95
Health                2.95      5.74       8.03      7.75       4.38    28.85
Education             2.74      5.33       7.46      7.19       4.08    26.80
Urban Sanitation      0.22      0.43       0.61      0.59       0.33     2.18
Study Fund            0.16      0.16       0.16      0.16       0.16     0.80
TA/Training           4.07      3.30       2.70      2.17       0.10     12.34
Welfare Monitoring    1.33      0.53       0.52      0.41      0.34      3.13
Equipment/Vehicles    2.63       1.19      1.33      0.01       -        5.16
Operating Costs       2.19      2.68       2.76      2.76       2.76     13.15
Total                29.87      57.48     73.29     52.94      28.82    242.40
1. Construction and Rehabilitation of Social and Economic Infrastructure and
Improvement of Related Services
3.21   With the legacy of war and neglect, the construction or rehabilitation of basic
economic and social infrastructure is likely to account for the largest share of ESRDF's
financial support. ESRDF will encourage economic activities linked to this infrastructure,



20
and support sector bureau efforts to improve delivery of social services. This section
summarizes the detailed economic analyses (available in the Project File) undertaken for
the main sectors in which communities are likely to request support.
3.22  Basic Health. The rehabilitation, expansion and construction of primary health
care facilities (health posts, centers and clinics) will be the core of this program, using
accepted Government standards. Assistance to refurbish or construct such facilities may
be combined with ESRDF support for broader regional programs to improve primary
health care services. These activities could take the form of promotional, educational and
training activities at the community level aimed at supporting the public health programs
run by regional bureaus and NGO providers of health care. For example, ESRDF can
provide programs to educate communities, and especially women, in basic health
practices and disease prevention, good nutrition practices and the importance of periodic
assessment of children's nutritional status, and the use of family planning methods.
ESRDF can also support practical community-based health initiatives, such as clearing
malarial swamps using non-traditional means, and upgrading the knowledge and skills of
traditional birth attendants. The Fund will pilot the use of labor-saving devices (such as
grinding mills and oil presses) and methods to help alleviate the burden of women's work,
to encourage greater attention to family health and nutrition. By promoting the
involvement of community committees in the management of health facilities, ESRDF
will help communities increase the efficiency of basic social services delivery, maximnize
the benefits of their own and Government investments, and encourage a general shift to
greater community ownership and participation. The National Regional Governments
will be responsible for the recurrent costs associated with ESRDF financing of basic
health facilities, namely the training and salaries of health workers, and the provision of
medical supplies. Communities will contribute through the cleaning and upkeep of
facilities, and providing services based on the local situation.
3.23  Based upon assessments of community needs, it is anticipated that the ESRDF
will finance the construction of 357 primary health facilities, providing basic health
services to over 3 million beneficiaries in poor, previously under-served communities.
This will make an important contribution to improvements in maternal and child health.
Improved access to preventive health measures will reduce the incidence of infectious
diseases, and improved access to curative health services will reduce the duration of
illnesses. Both outcomes will therefore contribute to increased household productivity.
The Ethiopia Rural Household Survey (1994/95) indicates an average illness rate at any
time of 346 per 1,000 people, and an average individual rate of nine illness episodes a
year each lasting on average 9.6 days. This translates into 258 million person days of
disability for a population of three million, the number that will benefit from the ESRDF
basic health component. Based on a varying levels of effectiveness of the ESRDF
provides health centers in reducing disability rates (from 33 percent to 75 percent), the
direct economic benefits would be captured in terms of worker income gained 2, Based
on the range of health center efficiency, the economic rate of return (ERR) of the
2 The calculations used both market daily wage rates for rural workers, and the shadow wage rates for
unskilled labor (60 percent of market wage)



21
component would range from 32 percent to 67 percent, and an average health center
efficiency rate of 50 percent would yield an ERR of 46 percent.
3.24   Basic Education. Sub-projects in this sector will include (i) the rehabilitation,
expansion, or construction, and equipping of primary schools, based on accepted
Government standards; and (ii) adult training, including literacy training (especially for
women), training in the use of simple technologies and methods, training in business-
related skills, training for special groups such as farmers and those responsible for water
management, and training for communities in development need identification and
project management. In addition, ESRDF will support community initiatives to use the
school as a center for other development activities, and encourage community
participation in basic education management. These initiatives could include the
establishment and training of parents' committees to play an active role in the operation
of the school and the teaching of their children. As in the case of basic health, the Fund's
role beyond infrastructure provision, will focus on educational and promotional activities
that support the efforts of the regional educational bureaus and NGOs working to
improve basic education. For example, the Fund can help promote efforts to improve the
educational participation of girls and reduce their drop-out rates; and can help provide
training for children in environmental issues and methods of natural resource
conservation. The National Regional Government will be responsible for recurrent costs
associated with ESRDF financing of basic education facilities, namely the training and
salaries of teachers, and the provision of educational supplies. Communities will
contribute through the cleaning and upkeep of facilities, and may offer other services. In
line with Govermment policy, parents will also contribute through different forms of
investment in their children's education.
3.25   Based on an assessment of community needs, it is anticipated that the ESRDF will
finance the construction of 238 primary village schools and 102 urban elementary schools
in poor communities currently without such facilities. These facilities will add 108,000
additional children to educational enrollments each year, which constitutes about five
percent of the current primary school population. The quantifiable direct economic
benefits are related to additional earning potential from those who complete primary
eduication. The Rural Household Survey (1994/95) indicates that completion of primary
education on average doubles incomes earned, producing an ERR for the ESRDF basic
education component of 16 percent.3 The component will also have important tangible
benefits that cannot be readily quantified, including lower fertility rates for girls attending
school, and improved child health practices by educated mothers.
3.26   Rural Water Supply. ESRDF will finance water-supply sub-projects to raise the
health standards of rural communities and assist in reducing women's burden of fetching
water. These sub-projects will promote the use of low-cost and simply maintained
technologies appropriate for direct community participation, with a special emphasis on
ground water resources (hand-dug wells, spring development, and boreholes). In the
selection of technologies, careful attention will be given to cost-effectiveness related to
3 The calculation deducted the opportunity cost (herding, farmn help, and child minding by young girls)
from the benefit stream. The calculations use the value of labor at their shadow price rates.



22
the size of the community, the expected lifetime of the facility, and the capacity of the
community to take responsibility for upkeep and repairs. The Fund will also take care to
integrate smaller community initiatives with larger mainstream sector development
programs, through close liaison with regional water bureaus. In terms of recurrent costs
related to the provision of water-supply schemes, the goal is that they will be self-
sustaining, through community user fees that will be used to maintain the facilities. All
Financing Agreements with communities will therefore specify the community's
responsibility for maintenance, and describe the community management structures and
procedures for collecting and applying user fees to cover facility maintenance. Special
encouragement will be given to the representation of women on community water
committees.
3.27  While the actual number and distribution of schemes will depend on community
proposals, based on ESRF assessments of community needs, it is anticipated that the
ESRDF will finance 13,035 rural water supply schemes (8,913 hand-dug wells, 1,492
spring developments, and 2,630 shallow wells) providing safe water for the first time to
communities with a total population of 3,381,500 people. The most direct economic
benefit of this component will be productivity gains through improved health resulting
from avoidance of disease contaminated water. At any time, 72 per thousand Ethiopians
suffer from diarrhea-related illness resulting from unsafe water. The provision of safe
water to 3.4 million people through the ESRDF, would (on the basis of an assumed
modest 50 percent reduction in diarrhea-related illness) save 3 million person days of
productive labor. This ERR will be increased by two other important benefits: lower
household medical expenses due to lower incidence of disease; and the release of
women's time (otherwise used in carrying water from traditional sources) for income-
eaming activities, as well as better attention to family nutrition, and improved conditions
for increasing girls' school attendance. The overall ERR for this component will be 24.5
percent.
3.28  Urban Sanitation. Through sanitation sub-projects, ESRDF will contribute a
healthier environment in urban residential areas, and help improve public health. Two
main types of sub-projects will be financed: latrines, and rehabilitation or construction of
drainage systems. Based on the success of such schemes in Addis Ababa during the pilot
period, ESRDF will ensure a significant degree of community investment and ownership
in the implementation of these sub-projects. As in the case of water-supply facilities, the
maintenance of sanitation facilities will be self-financing, through a system of user-
charges, subscriptions, and community labor efforts. I he Financing Agreements will
include details of the management processes and rules for covering the recurrent costs at
the community level. Based on assessments of community needs, it is anticipated that the
ESRDF will finance 45 latrine and 23 drainage schemes, mainly in Addis Ababa where
there is an acute need and the basis for community collaboration is most advanced. These
facilities will serve 147,000 beneficiaries, and make an important contribution to the
containment of epidemics (especially dysentery and cholera), which are a continual



23
danger in the poorest districts of the city. Based on the best available comparative data4,
the labor days saved due to improved health resulting from such facilities, will produce
an ERR of 37 percent.
3.29   Small-Scale Irrigation. Where small-scale irrigation schemes have been
successful, they have provided many rural communities with a valuable, albeit limited,
input for local food supplies and livestock management. These schemes in Ethiopia are
essentially community based. To provide water security in an equitable manner,
cultivators are allocated a small parcel of irrigated land to supplement their traditional
production from rain-fed crops and animal husbandry. During and after the rains,
irrigation is used to secure and enhance production of field crops. In the dry season, the
emphasis is on mixed horticultural crops. Storage dams are also important in providing
water for livestock during drought conditions. Although there are abundant water
resources in Ethiopia, their harnessing and utilization is costly owing to the seasonal
characteristics of stream flow. Economy of water development will be a key aspect of
ESRDF support for small-scale irrigation schemes. During the life of the Project, cost
comparisons will be made between ground water utilization and the cost effectiveness of
schemes relying on surface water. Initially, the ESRDF will promote the use of
traditional and well-tried technologies suited to local management and operation, and the
limited maintenance resources available under prevailing conditions. Over time,
however, ESRDF will encourage efficiency in the management of the irrigation system
through research and into improved modern methodologies now finding their way into
developing countries. A key appraisal priority will be to match the investment in water
catchment or storage facilities with the economic returns likely to result from cultivation.
Therefore, a careful assessment will be made of the land to be cultivated through
irrigation to determine fertility, crop choice and suitability, siting, and long-term
sustainability. ESRDF will support the efforts of the agricultural bureaus and extension
workers to train farmers in irrigated farming methods, and in the maintenance of water
catchment infrastructure and irrigation schemes. In its appraisal of small-scale irrigation
sub-projects, the ESRDF will take account of the community's access to the essential
agricultural inputs needed to ensure that the full potential of the investment is captured.
Close attention will also be given to factors like susceptibility to flood damage, silting,
dam safety, environmental and water-related health factors, and the interests of
downstream communities.
3.30   Although the schemes to be supported through ESRDF will be modest in size,
they will become a vital factor in the economic well-being of the communities they serve,
and the Fund has special responsibility to guard against failure. It is also recognized that
there is limited capacity in this sector in Ethiopia to carry out the special variety of
assessments and tests that are needed to assure effective results. The Fund will therefore
4 There is not sufficiently reliable urban health data for Ethiopia, so the ERR calculations draw on the
Rural Household Survey which reveals an average rate of 9 illness episodes a year lasting for an average of
9.6 days. As urban health trends may be expected to be more positive than rural trends, the ERR makes an
assumption that improved sanitation will prevent two of those nine episodes which is modest considering
that diarrhea-related illnesses constitute one of the major burdens of disease in Ethiopia, afflicting over
seven percent of the population at any time. Calculations use shadow wage rates.



24
work in close association with all available expertise in the country, regional bureaus,
NGOs experienced in the sector, and private contractors. ESRDF has also agreed, where
necessary, to utilize the services of international specialists in the initial capacity-building
period, to provide on-site supervisory assistance and on-the-job training. Experts in the
Bank team will also actively participate in supervising these components closely until it
is clear that the necessary local capacity has been mobilized. The Bank will collaborate
with the International Program for Technology Research in Irrigation and Drainage
(IPTRID) in providing this support. The maintenance and recurrent costs of these small-
scale irrigation schemes will be the responsibility of the beneficiary farmers' groups that
will organize a water charge system to raise financing for repairs and upkeep. The source
will be the proceeds from cultivation and livestock, although in specific locations,
communities may agree to contribute as well. Regional bureaus will carry out periodic
inspections and provide advice.
3.31   Based on assessments of community needs, it is anticipated that the ESRDF will
finance earth dam and river diversion schemes, providing irrigation for 18,715 hectares of
arable land. This will provide additional production and income for 87,844 households,
or 439,220 household members. Using Ministry of Agriculture data, the ERR for this
component was calculated using eight alternative farm models5 that illustrate the types of
investments to be supported by the ESRDF small-scale irrigation component. The
analysis revealed a range of economic returns, the lowest being schemes which
concentrate on lower value cereal crops irrigated by higher cost storage dams, and the
highest being those that devote as much hectarage as possible to higher value vegetable
crops (potatoes, onions, peppers) irrigated by lower cost diversion canals.6 The ERR
calculations indicated that the "break-even" least attractive investment option would
consist of schemes devoted to 75 percent cereal crops using storage dam irrigation. The
most viable schemes are those devoted to 50 percent or more vegetable cash crops using
diversion canals. The ERR, based on these two combinations, would range from three
percent to 24 percent, with a median value of 13.5 percent. In practice there will be a
number of variables (in addition to crop yields, market prices, and irrigation scheme
construction costs) that will need to be taken into account during appraisal of ESRDF
small-scale irrigation sub-projects. For example, crop selection will depend on soil
suitability and availability of other inputs in addition to seeds; revenues from crops will
be subject to variations in local markets; and the choice of potential irrigation schemes
will depend on topology, nature of the water source, rainfall patterns, availability of local
inputs, and other factors. Based on this economic analysis, the Operational Manual will
contain a methodology for sub-project appraisal of small-scale irrigation schemes
(utilizing all important variables) aimed at maximizing the ERR, and ensuring that only
viable schemes are financed.
5 These consist of four combinations of typical higher and lower value crops, and two types of irrigation
systems to be supported by the ESRDF: diversion canals from rivers, and storage dams.
6 Storage dams cost about twice as much as diversion canals on a per hectare-irrigated basis; and lower
value cereal crops produce per hectare returns of only a third to a half of that produced by higher value
vegetable crops.



25
3.32  Because ESRDF-financed small-scale irrigation activities will be undertaken on
international waterways, notification procedures required under OP 7.50 have been
carried out, and the Government has provided that maximum water abstractions from
these rivers will not exceed the agreed limits.
3.33  Other Forms of Infrastructure and Services. Rural and feeder roads are an
essential part of an integrated approach to improving the economic and social well-being
of communities given the isolated nature of many parts of the country. ESRDF will
support community proposals for the improvement of small stretches of local roads,
especially where they complement and are essential for the success of other ESRDF-
financed activities in a community. ESRDF will also support community proposals for
other type of basic infrastructure that can help improve economic and social conditions
(such as market places and grain storage facilities). In addition to helping improve social
service delivery as part of social infrastructure sub-projects, the Fund can consider
separate social service improvement sub-projects, and a variety of training proposals.
ESRDF will work closely with communities that have innovative proposals that may
require refinement, and will collaborate with all agencies working at the community
level.
2. The Welfare Monitoring System
3.34  The Project component to support the establishment of a Welfare Monitoring
System will assist the development of poverty reduction policies and programs, and
improve monitoring of the social consequences of wide-scale development activities.
Information generated by the system will support policy makers and planners at both
national and regional levels, enabling them to (i) identify poor and vulnerable groups for
targeted programs; (ii) assess the short and medium term effects on the poor of
macroeconomic and sectoral policies and programs; (iii) monitor changes in status of
poor and vulnerable population groups; and (iv) identify key policy issues for designing
effective poverty alleviation strategies. The Project will help build capacity in collection,
analysis and use of welfare monitoring data through provision of training, analytical
programs and equipment, and assistance with survey-related costs.
3.35  The Welfare Monitoring System will come under the authority of a high-level
National Welfare Review Committee with overall responsibility for the review of poverty
and welfare conditions in the country, and for the coordination of poverty alleviation
efforts. The Committee, assisted by a Welfare Monitoring Unit (WMU) established in
the Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation, will specify the outputs that the
system is to produce, and coordinate the efforts of various contributors. One of the
regular outputs will be an Annual Review of Social Trends and Welfare. Other studies to
help monitor and better understand poverty in Ethiopia will be organized by the
Committee through the WMU which will administer a Welfare Monitoring Study Fund to
pay for many of the outputs expected of the system (poverty profiles, gender studies, food
security reviews etc.). In addition the fund can finance qualitative and participatory
poverty assessments to complement the statistical data generated by the Central Statistical
Authority (CSA) and line ministries, or employ consultants to undertake specially
commissioned data collection or data processing activities.



26
3.36 The WMU will be a coordinating and commissioning agency, contracting for
surveys and analyses on a competitive basis. Possible suppliers of services and
information include line ministries, the university and research centers, and private
consultants. No institution will have a monopoly, and the Welfare Monitoring System
will foster utilizing a wide range of acceptably qualified organizations and specialists to
carry out data gathering, processing and analytical functions. However, as there is a
shortage of effective survey agencies at this stage of Ethiopia's development, and because
of the urgency of establishing the necessary poverty data base, assistance will be given to
strengthening the CSA, the agency with the most advanced institutional capacity. This is
not intended to restrict entry for others, and the CSA will in fact sub-contract as soon as
other providers emerge with the required capacity. In addition to ensuring high standards
through competition, the widening of the range of suppliers will help meet the increasing
demand for survey work in Ethiopia (including regional surveys) and enable in-country
specialists to manage, coordinate and participate in all surveys in Ethiopia.
3.37  The project will help CSA strengthen its data collection and processing
capabilities, and its storage and data library facilities. The urgent need for training,
technical assistance, vehicles, and equipment for data processing and analysis will be
provided through Norwegian assistance to strengthen the WMU and to enable the CSA to
undertake welfare monitoring surveys. These include an agricultural survey; an income,
expenditure and consumption survey (with a poverty module); and the initiation in 1995
of the Annual Review of Social Trends and Poverty Survey. Agreement has been reached
on an easy-access policy for wide distribution of welfare monitoring data to interested
users and analysts. The Welfare Monitoring System with help from the Project will also
support the strengthening of regional data processing and analytical capacities, as well as
skills in poverty-focused planning capabilities, possibly through the creation of Regional
Poverty Review Committees and Welfare Monitoring Units at the regional level. A fuller
description of the Welfare Monitoring System is given in Annex I.
3. Capacity Building, Training and Research
3.38  The major implementation challenge for the ESRDF will be the current weak
capacity in some regions of Ethiopia. The pilot project demonstrated that both the ESRF
institutional structure and community structures could be made to work with the
necessary level of facilitating support from regional bureaus, NGOs, and private
contractors. The pilot also identified a range of technical areas, quite aside from
variations among regions, where it will be vital to strengthen capacity, especially in the
construction of micro-dams and irrigation schemes. In addition, the expansion of the
Fund will require a program to build the capacity of new Community Project
Conmmittees, activate a wider range of facilitators, and train additional Fund managers
and staff. The ESRDF capacity building program is a major component of the Project,
not only critical to successful implementation, but also a significant contribution to
building capacity in the country's new regional structures. The program will include a
practical research component aimed at improving understanding of community needs,
effective implementation methods, and the ESRDF's impact on poverty reduction and
community well-being.



27
3.39  Objectives and Beneficiaries of the Capacity Building Program. The Program
aims to (i) provide ESRDF with the capacity to manage the Fund and carry out the
responsibilities describcd in the Operational Manual; (ii) provide local community
leaders and associations with the skills and knowledge needed to participate fully in sub-
project management; (iii) strengthen the capacity of local facilitators to support
communities in ESRDF a,ctivities; and (iv) build critical technical capacity in the Fund
and among its collaboi 2ting partners. At all levels, training will emphasize the
importance of environmental zonservation, the special needs of women and other
disadvantaged groups, methods of cost recovery, strategies for ensuring sustainability,
and ways to incorporate improved service delivery in infrastructure sub-projects. The
capacity building program will be financed in part by a tNDP program support project
that will help coordinate co-itributions from other soairces for capacity building activities
in the project. The program will build on the success of the UNDP support project for
ESRF pilot, and the regional capacity building project UNDP is supporting under the
Management of Technical and Economic Change Program.
3.40  Capacity Building for ESRDF. The ESRF pilot established valuable base
capacity for the expanded Project, and some pilot staff will take their experience to new
Regional Offices. However, the expanded Fund will require extensive recruitment and
training of project staff in ESRDF procedures, methods of promotion and community
strengthening, and sector technical knowledge. Training priorities for staff in the Central
Office include the management of the central accounting and monitoring of decentralized
operations; techniques of building local capacity; and effective methods of building
sustainability, targeting investments, improving basic social service delivery, and simple,
labor-based technologies. In addition to skills development, the program will include
establishing computer-based systems, and supervision and monitoring processes; and
providing essential office and transport facilities.
3.41   Capacity Building for Communities. ESRDF will provide training and other
forms of technical support to enable Community Project Committees to identify needs,
manage the sub-project cycle, and maintain the assets developed through Fund support.
ESRDF will work with communities to help identify individuals held in high regard by
the communities, and who can be trained to act as community facilitators, assisting
communities with proposals, supervising implementation, training beneficiaries in asset
maintenance, and acting as a link with ESRDF Offices.
3.42 Capacity Building for Collaborating Agencies. ESRDF will need the help of
regional bureaus and NGOs in the implementation of the Fund's program. In some cases,
it will be necessary to strengthen the capacity of such agencies to operate within the
procedures of the Fund, to increase their skills in working participatively with
communities, and to increase their technical capabilities in specific sectors.
3.43  Approaches to Capacity Building. Many capacity building priorities are already
well analyzed and programs are being designed to meet the needs of various groups.
These include training for community leaders and organizations in managing the sub-
project cycle, and basic training in Fund procedures for new Project staff. Other
programs will be tailor-made for the special needs of a group of beneficiaries, specialists,



28
or facilitators, working on specific sub-projects or sectors. Special programs will be
designed in the management of rural water supply, and as described earlier, specialists
will be contracted to provide on-the-job, on-site supervision and training support in
micro-dam construction and small-scale irrigation. The sector handbooks will be an
important way of conveying essential technical knowledge and capturing the best of
ESRDF experience through regular updates. The capacity building program will also
support selective overseas training and study tours to experience different effective
approaches to community-based development. A more detailed description of the
program is contained in the Project File.
3.44  A number of elements have been included to ensure that the capacity building
program is cost effective. While ESRDF Central Office will manage and ccordinate the
capacity building program, training delivery will be contracted to a network of local
training agencies, NGOs, and consulting specialists selected both for their experience and
to ensure adequate coverage. To ensure the best outreach in dissemination of training to
the regions, the program will use a training-of-trainers approach to build a network of
skilled community facilitators and specialists. As the success of the ESRDF depends
upon the collaboration of many players in a country with limited capacity, training
programs will include a wide range of participants: community leaders, ESRDF
specialists, regional bureau sector staff, collaborating NGOs, and private contractors.
Fund staff responsible for coordinating the capacity building program will participate in
training to monitor impact and make judgments about cost effectiveness.
3.45  Study Fund. The program will include a Study Fund under Central Office
management, which can be used to increase the effectiveness of ESRDF activities. The
Study Fund can be used for on-going studies on operational and technical aspects of the
ESRDF, as well as the participation of and impact on beneficiaries, and will go into
greater depth than the regular MIS, using both MIS data and additional research.
Regional Offices and Central Office specialists will also be able to make proposals to use
the Study Fund for special assignments (for example, market research linked to income
generation and small business opportunities, alternative simple technologies, methods of
cost recovery, critical links among sectors, labor-based implementation), and the Central
Office will propose the most relevant of such proposals in the Annual ESRDF Program.
ESRDF will also cooperate with the Welfare Monitoring Unit and participating donors to
research issues relating to sustainability, and the effectiveness of ESRDF community-
based methods and their broader applicability.
E. SPECIAL ISSUES RELATED TO PROJECT PERFORMANCE
3.46  Environmental Factors. The ESRDF has two environmental goals. Thefirst is
to ensure that each sub-project will be reviewed at appraisal, using environmental criteria
contained in the Operational Manual, to identify any potentially negative environmental
impact. Such potentially negative consequences will require agreement on appropriate
mitigating measures, and ESRDF will be responsible for monitoring such measures. Sub-
projects found to have a negative environmental impact that cannot be mitigated will not
be financed. The only potential area of concern relates to small-scale irrigation, where
action will be taken to avoid adverse effects on soil quality, siltation, and the risk of



29
water-borne disease. These potential problems will be dealt with through special features
of project design, close monitoring, and technical support to communities, as described in
the Small-Scale Irrigation Handbook. The second objective is to use ESRDF as a vehicle
to actively pursue the GOE's environmental objectives, promoting better conservation
practices and maximizing the positive environmental impact of ESRDF sub-projects (for
example, tree planting schemes associated with social infrastructure, improvement in
urban environmental conditions through sanitation schemes, and specific sub-projects
targeted at terracing, soil improvement, and water conservation).
3.47  An Environmental Analysis was conducted and its results are detailed in Annex J.
The main recommended mitigation measures have been integrated into the project design.
Sub-components that include physical investments will be submitted to Environmental
Impact Assessments according to the requirements, rules and regulation of the
Government of Ethiopia. The training for ESRDF staff, community organizations, and
facilitators will focus on environmental factors in sub-project design, and the actions that
can limit negative consequences. Training will also promote effective conservation and
rehabilitation practices, and explore opportunities for sub-projects to contain conservation
components. The Operational Manual includes a check-list of such opportunities.
3.48 Impact on Women. ESRDF has developed a gender impact assessment and
action plan consisting of four elements. Thefirst is a Gender Checklist to be used during
project screening and appraisal to identify whether a proposed sub-project has a
potentially negative impact on women. If such an impact is anticipated, agreements are
required on suitable mitigatory measures to make the sub-project eligible. The second is a
policy to give special consideration to proposals that emphasize benefits for women.
ESRDF's promotional activities will focus attention on women's priorities and needs, will
support (through training and other means) the active participation of women in
Community Project Committees), and help to establish women's groups to pursue
proposals of special interest to them. Thirdly, ESRDF will make every effort to recruit
women staff, and already has had some success in this endeavor. In each ESRDF office,
a staff member will be responsible for promoting and coordinating activities related to
women, and all ESRDF staff and facilitators will be trained in ways to maximize benefits
to women and encourage their participation. Fourthlv. the management information
system will capture and report information on the participation of women in ESRDF and
the impact of sub-projects on women. The research program will also focus on the role
women have played, and the project approaches, designs, and methods that have helped
increase benefits to them. The Gender Action Plan is included as Annex K.
3.49  Consistency of Operation. Consistency of operation will be an important
consideration, because of the Project's decentralized implementation. Measures have
been built into the Project to ensure consistency within the ESRDF and with broader
sector policies and strategies. All major decisions and activities will be based on the
procedures of the Operational Manual (which is part of the Proclamation setting up the
Fund), and guided by sector Handbooks. The ESRDF Board, representing all Regional
Councils, will monitor operations of the Regional Offices for consistency, through semi-
annual and progress reports prepared by the Central Office. The project monitoring
system includes performance indicators and specifications aimed at measuring



30
consistency. The replenishment of Regional Offices' accounts will take place only if the
Central Office is satisfied that Regional Offices have operated consistently within
ESRDF procedures. Finally, Regional Steering Committees will need to be satisfied that
sub-projects are in line with sector plans and standards before agreeing to finance them.
3.50 Pace of Implementation. The pace of implementation in each region will vary
because of the considerable differences in institutional capacities. The first year of
implementation will focus on strengthening the operational capacity of ESRDF Regional
Offices. In the initial period, the identification, processing, and implementation of sub-
projects will take place more gradually in weaker regions than in those already involved
in the pilot or those that start with a stronger institutional foundation. The
Implementation Plan, which blends capacity building and operational activities, is shown
in Annex F.
3.51  Sustainability of the ESRDF Mechanism. Although implemented nationwide,
ESRDF will operate as a pilot in new communities that have received little sustained
outside support for their own developmental initiatives. The decentralization of ESRDF
to regional management is also part of the pilot process. ESRDF will actively pursue
experimental approaches to community management and participation, the use of simple
labor-based technologies, improvements in the quality of basic social service delivery,
and improved arrangements for maintenance of assets and services directly involving
community responsibility. By decentralizing the process, and linking it closely with
regional and community structures, the goal is to integrate the ESRDF's participative
approach into local development activities. This will provide the Government with an
option as to whether to launch a further phase of ESRDF after the Project closes, or to
integrate the approach into regional development management. The close collaboration
between the ESRDF and regional bureaus, the capacity building program, and the
experience provided by the Project in managing community-based development, should
all help ensure the sustainability cf the methods introduced by the ESRDF
3.52 Sustainability of ESRDF-Financed Assets and Services. The ESRDF's
approach should enhance the likelihood of sustainability, by promoting private initiatives
and giving beneficiaries a direct stake in improved assets and services. Five aspects of
ESRDF design are aimed at promoting sustainability. Thefirst is community ownership:
ESRDF will finance only those initiatives proposed by communities as their priorities,
ensuring full community participation in sub-project design and implementation. The
second is the requirement that communities provide at least 10 percent of total project
costs, and wherever possible larger contributions (in the pilot project, community
investments reached over 25 percent in some sectors). The third is rigorous screening
and appraisal to ensure sub-projects are viable, will deliver expected benefits to the
community in keeping with standard costs, and can be maintained at reasonable expense
and with local technical capacity and resources. Sub-projects which have an estimated
cost of US$ 200,000 or more will be eligible for financing only if appraisal can
demonstrate an economic rate of return of 12 percent or more. Thefourth is to make
specific provisions for maintenance and recurrent costs through (i) a clear contract in the
Financing Agreement concerning sector bureau and community responsibilities; (ii) a
specific maintenance schedule and standards; (iii) an organizational structure at the



31
community level responsible for managing the asset or service; (iv) adequate financial
and technical arrangements (regional bureau budgeting of recurrent expenses, cost
recovery schemes to finance maintenance funds, availability of spare parts and
maintenance services, and technical training for community specialists); and (v)
arrangements for monitoring maintenance and screening new proposals based on
maintenance performance. The ESRDF approach of encouraging the integration of
linked sub-projects based on an overall understanding of community needs and priorities,
can also help to enhance sustainability. Finally, the monitoring and research program will
help identify and respond to problems of sustainability at an early stage before
deterioration has reached the point where it is too expensive to reverse.
F. THE DEVELOPMENT SIGNIFICANCE OF THE ESRDF
3.53  ESRDF has been designed to fit the development realities of Ethiopia. Sustainable
economic growth will lay the foundation for long term poverty reduction. This needs to
be complemented by actions that will enable millions of poor people in isolated rural
communities to take advantage of the benefits that economic growth can bring. Such
benefits could pass them by unless there are significant improvements in their standards
of health, education, and their access to water, a scarce and vital asset for domestic and
farming use. The escape from poverty will also depend on the capacity for households to
increase their meager incomes. Some will be able to do so through improved farming
methods utilizing water provided by small-scale irrigation schemes supported by careful
conservation of natural resources. However, because of significant land-population
pressure in the poorest areas of the country and the high cost of expanding land under
c.Altivation, many others will need to rely on off-farm employment. These priorities are
the main-stream of ESRDF business, and the Project is a central part of the poverty
reduction strategy.
3.54 Ethiopia's commitment to regional devolution will bring development decisions
closer to communities and increase their responsibility for the development process itself:
the identification of priorities, the design and management of interventions, and the
maintenance of assets. The ESRDF has been designed to utilize the new regional
institutional structures, to stimulate the participation of beneficiary communities (in terms
of investment, management, and responsibility for sustainability), to strengthen working
relationships among governmental bodies, NGOs, and private sector contractors, and to
build the capacities of all involved in this participative developmental approach.
3.55 ESRDF Compared to Other Options. The ESRF was piloted to determine
whether a specialized financing agency could jump-start the process of participative
community-based development to empower local communities right from the outset, and
to compensate for the inevitable length of time that it will take to strengthen weak
regional institutions. In addition to testing whether the mechanism would work (respond
to beneficiary-initiated proposals and deliver the priority infrastructure and services
required), it was also important to ensure that the Fund could do so at acceptable costs
and levels of effectiveness and efficiency. Through the pilot, the Fund has demonstrated
its capacity to foster and respond to community-led efforts, and to deliver good quality
infrastructure and services with significant community investment, at lower costs and



32
more efficiently than could be done by public agencies. To some extent, this is a
reflection of the careful limits placed on the ESRF's activities. The Fund operates with
small projects that are suited to community participation, using simple technologies and
established sectoral standards. Any experimental or risky ventures are introduced strictly
on a pilot basis so that they can be closely monitored. The work load of the Fund is also
carefully attuned to the delivery capacity of Fund offices, especially the work load of
Project Officers. (Calculations based on the pilot experience are contained in the Project
File). The ESRDF is therefore not a replacement for larger-scale public agency
responsibility for delivering sector programs. It is an essential complement, because
while the Fund ensures that sector standards are respected, it can respond rapidly and
flexibly to community initiatives. Its streamlined structure and operating procedures,
financing mechanism independent of the civil service budget, ease of operation across
sectors, and planning process based upon a pipeline of community proposals, gives the
Fund some special advantages over public agencies, and well placed to work directly with
beneficiaries. Without the Project, many ESRDF objectives could be achieved through
public programs, but at much higher cost and over a longer time frame. This would
especially disadvantage thousands of poor communities in some of the poorest parts of
the country, where it will take time to build effective regional public institutions. The
unique contribution of ESRDF is its ability to work closely and respond rapidly to poor
communities, and to mobilize the contributions of specialists from the public, private and
NGO sectors to build the capacity needed for participative poverty reduction efforts.
G. BENEFITS AND RISKS
3.56   Direct Project Benefits. The Project will contribute to Ethiopia's program of
economic and social reconstruction by providing new or rehabilitated infrastructure and
services in a number of vital basic sub-sectors. If sub-project proposals match the
assessment of community needs (based on the experience of the pilot and the rapid rural
appraisals), by completion the Project would have (i) irrigated 18,715 hectares serving
almost 88,000 households and contributing to the income of almost 440,000 household
members; (ii) provided 13,035 rural water supply facilities (hand-dug wells, spring
developments, shallow wells) benefiting 3.4 million members of poor communities with
no satisfactory alternative access to safe water; (iii) constructed 45 sets of communal
latrines and 23 drainage schemes benefiting 147,000 people in the poorest parts of Addis
Ababa and Harar; (iv) constructed or rehabilitated and equipped 357 primary health
facilities serving over 3 million people in poor rural communities; and (v) constructed or
rehabilitated 340 elementary schools, serving 108,000 children from poor rural families.
The Project will make an environmental contribution through water conservation and
sanitation schemes, and through measures to conserve or rehabilitate natural resources. 7
3.57   The economic benefits attached to ESRDF sectors have been described in the
sections covering each sector. Based on the Project cost projections, the economic rate of
7 The Project will have many indirect benefits that will be difficult to measure, because of other intervening factors.
These include the investment by women of time saved through water supply projects in income-earning activities and
better nutritional practices; and through the small-scale irrigation component, increased local availability of food in
food-insecure areas.



33
return of the ESRDF package as a whole will be 22.6 percent. The total discounted
benefit streams of US$ 369 million exceed the discounted cost streams of US$ 231
million, and the Project will generate an overall net present value of economic benefits of
US$ 138 million (using a discount rate of 12 percent). (The full economic analysis is part
of the Project File).
3.58   Impact of the Project on the Poor. The Project will operate largely among poor
rural communities including those living in the poorest regions of Ethiopia, where well
above half the households are below the poverty line (many spend most of their income
on food and still do not escape malnutrition), trying to subsist on agricultural activities in
areas suffering from intermittent severe drought and some severe environmental
degradation, and without even the most basic health and education services or safe water.
A limited number of sanitation sub-projects will benefit the urban poor in Addis Ababa
and Harrar. While most assets and services created through ESRDF will benefit the
communities as a whole, special care will be taken to maximize the benefits to
disadvantaged groups. It is estimated that the ESRDF will bring benefits to an estimated
7.1 million people living in the poorest areas and communities of the country, providing
them access to assets and resources that will enable them to improve their incomes,
increase their economic security, and improve their social conditions. The design and
processes of the Project will pay special attention to the needs and opportunities of poor
women, many of whom head single parent households, and who are the largest, least
resourced and most vulnerable group in the country.
3.59   Cost Savings. If the Government were to invest in community infrastructure
through more conventional public programs, the ESRDF approach would offer
substantial savings. Using figures more modest than the savings achieved by the ESRF
pilot, the Table below indicates that the ESRDF could deliver its results at about 82
percent of the cost of a public agency managed program, a saving of about US$ 47
million.
Table 5 Estimated Cost Saving of ESRDF
Sector       ESRDF Project    ESRF Pilot Cost Saving    Adjusted ESRDF Cost     Cost
Costs            (Percentage)          Saving (Percentage)    Saving
(USS) Rounded    Saving on    Community   Saving on    Community   (USS
Project Costs  Contribution  Project Costs  Contribution   million)
Small-Scale Irrigation  75.0         27.5         55.9         15           10        18.75
Rural Water           75.0         10.0 - 30.0    12.1         12           10        16.50
Schools               27.0           14.3         17.3         10           10        5.40
Health Facilities     29.0          6.9 - 16.7    15.1         10           10        5.80
Sanitation             2.2          n/a            9.8         n/a          10        0.22
Total                  208.2                                                         46.67
(254.87)*
* comparable cost delivered through public agency managed project
3.60 Contribution to Regional Capacity Building. The Project will make an
important contribution to building the capacity and self-reliance of local communities,



34
and strengthening regional institutions and facilitating organizations (both governmental
and non-governmental). Capacity building will provide managerial and participative
skills needed to support community-based development activities, and the analytical and
technical skills necessary for sound investments and sustainable projects. Substantial
ESRDF-financed contracting for local services will provide the local private sector
opportunities to learn new techniques and consolidate their businesses. The Project will
also make contributions to building knowledge in some vital areas: simple, community-
based technology and labor-intensive methods; methods of maximizing private
investment in construction and maintenance of basic social and economic infrastructure;
community-based approaches for conserving and rehabilitating the country's degraded
natural resource base; and (through the Welfare Monitoring System), the underlying
patterns and causes of poverty in Ethiopia.
3.61   Risks. The success of the ESRF pilot was due to the fact that it was management
intensive; was operating in three limited areas; and was cost-effective because the
infrastructure in the pilot regions is relatively developed. These factors will not be as
favorable under the expanded ESRDF, and the project will face some risks in terms of
efficiency. The main risks relate to limited institutional capacity in some regions where
even governmental structures are still in a rudimentary state. Implementation will begin
more slowly in areas in where capacity is weak, so that the ESRDF can concentrate on
building skills and putting community management structures in place. The ESRDF
Regional Offices will come under great pressure to assist communities prepare their
proposals, and to act as technical advisors, which could strain the Fund's modest staffing.
In addition to attracting and retaining the highest caliber staff through its improved
incentives, the Fund will respond to community needs by forming partnerships with a
network of NGOs, sector agencies, and domestic and foreign private contractors, and
will train local community facilitators to work directly with community groups.
3.62  The decentralized structure of ESRDF presents challenges in achieving quality
standards. Four measures are being taken to ensure these: (i) the comprehensive but
simple Operational Manual setting out technical, cost, and quality standards, supported
by sector technical handbooks and pre-designed forrns and computer systems; (ii)
oversight by a national Board representing the highest regional and national officials with
a common interest in the effective operation of ESRDF; (iii) special training programs for
regional office staff and local facilitators, especially in sector technical areas,
supplemented by on-site supervisory help from domestic and foreign experts; and (iv) a
rigorous process of monitoring, reporting, and supervision. The Central Office will be
given adequate human and financial resources to track project progress through a rigorous
monitoring system, and support performance through training and technical assistance.
3.63   There should be no significant risk of Government failure to provide recurrent
costs for the operation and maintenance of basic education and health facilities created
with ESRDF support, as the recurrent costs and staffing implications are not additional to
projected sector requirements and have already been included in projected budgets and
plans. However, the sustainability of water supply, irrigation, and sanitation
infrastructure created through the Project will depend on communities keeping to their
commitments to maintain and repair infrastructure, and collect user fees to cover



35
recurrent costs. As these communities are among the poorest and most vulnerable in the
country, they are also the ones most susceptible to economic shocks. However, for the
first time in generations, Ethiopia has a political and economic program that promises
stability and growth. Although there are no guarantees, the risk of collapse has to be
balanced against the realization that stability and growth are unlikely without programs
such as the ESRDF.
3.64 The Government, UNDP, the Netherlands, Italy, and Norway have already
committed support to this Project, and other donors, including Sweden and Finland, have
expressed interest. While most of the commitments are expected to materialize, there is
still some risk that the full project costs will not be financed up-front. As the ESRDF is a
demand-based program of small sub-projects based on an annual plan and budget, a
financing gap at credit effectiveness would not present a problem as long as additional
donor support emerges during the project's lifetime. The worst scenario, a continuing
financing gap, would simply mean that the Project would expend its financing earlier
than the planned five year period and this need not be significantly detrimental.
H. LEGAL FRAMEWORK
3.65 A Government Proclamation (law) has been issued, which establishes ESRDF as
a semi-autonomous national entity, operating according to procedures specified in its
Operational Manual which include special procurement and disbursement rules that will
give ESRDF its needed flexibility. (A copy of the Proclamation is contained in the
Project File). ESRDF will collaborate closely with the central and regional bureaus, but
will not be part of either structure. The financial allocations made to ESRDF Regional
Offices will be recorded as budget allocations to regions, but financial flows will take
place directly to ESRDF offices through a channel separate from the Ministry of Finance
allocation to regional governments. There will be no blending of ESRDF financing with
regional bureau resources, and ESRDF will operate and be audited as a separate
accounting center. ESRDF will inherit the assets and liabilities of the pilot ESRF.
3.66  Community Project Committees (CPCs) will act as implementing agencies and
sign Financing Agreements with ESRDF. Wherever possible, CPCs that already have
some legal status, or some other representative body that is registered and has legal
capacity to act on behalf of the benefiting community will be selected. In some cases,
particularly in urban areas, ESRDF will enter into agreement with a CPC, under the seal
of a registered village association that will accept accountability on behalf of the CPC. In
some remote areas there may be no such intermediaries, and normally the community will
elect its own under the requirement that 50 percent of the households identify an adult
member to sign the minutes of the meeting that elects the CPC. The minutes will be
countersigned by the woreda administration through a simple process similar to that of
notarization, and attached to the Financing Agreement. Prior to completion of sub-
project appraisal, the ESRDF Project Officer will verify through informal interviews with
the community whether the CPC election meeting took place in the manner required, and
will check on a random basis, whether the signatories actually reside in the community.
The Operational Manual contains a copy of the Financing Agreement, and guidance on
the important terms and conditions to be included in the Financing Agreement.



36
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1. Annual Plan and Budget, and Annual Review
3.67  The Project Cost Projections (described in detail in the Project File) are based on
(i) an assessment of community needs in different regions; (ii) standard costs for various
sectoral activities in Ethiopia; and (iii) the implementation performance of the pilot
project after 27 months of operation, including data on work load factors, and project
processing times. Because the Project is demand-based, actual implementation and
disbursement will be determined by a pipeline of eligible community proposals, subject
to the capacity of each Regional Office. These will form the basis of the Annual Plan and
Budget supported by a Review of the previous year's performance, prepared by each
Regional Office, reviewed by the Regional Steering Committees, and consolidated by the
Central Office into a composite ESRDF Plan and Review for final authorization by the
National Board in consultation with IDA. Regional submissions for the Annual Review,
and Annual Plan & Budget will be based on standard formats linked to the MIS system
(Details are contained in the Operational Manual, and summarized in Annex D). The
Annual Plan and Budget also establishes annual targets for selected key performance
indicators (shown in Annex D) which will be closely monitored throughout project
implementation. The first year's plan, which has been agreed by IDA, is based on an
assessment of the needs and proposals anticipated from conimunities within a broad
indicative resource envelope established for each Regional Office. Adoption of the first
year 's Work Program and Budget by the ESRDF national Board is a requirement for
credit effectiveness. In subsequent years, the plan and budget will be based on progress
made in disbursing fumds against sub-projects being implemented, and the pipeline of
screened or appraised sub-project proposals.). The Welfare Monitoring Unit will prepare
an annual implementation plan and budget for the Welfare Monitoring Program which
will be sent to the Welfare Review Committee for final authorization, in consultation
with IDA.
2. Project Costs and Financing
Table 6 Financing Plan (US$ millions)
Source         Yrl      Yr2      Yr3      Yr4       Yr5      Total
IDA                  14.86    28.46     36.28    26.21    14.19     120.00
Government of Ethiopia    4.50  8.62    10.99     7.94     4.30      36.35
Community Contribution    3.00  5.75     7.33     5.30     2.87      24.25
Other Donors & UNDP   7.51    14.65     18.69    13.49     7.46      61.80
Total                29.87    57.48     73.29    52.94    28.82     242.40
Source          Foreign       Local        Total      % of Total Costs
IDA                     56.76        63.24       120.00          49.50
Government of Ethiopia               36.35        36.35          15.00
Community Contribution               24.25        24.25          10.00
UNDP                     4.50         1.50         6.00           2.50
Other Donors            13.95        41.85        55.80          23.00
Total                   75.21       167.19       242.40         100.00



37
3.68  As shown in Table 6, the total projected costs of the Project are estimated at US$
243 million equivalent (net of tax and custom duties). These projections took account of
war damage, existing state of infrastructure, range of economic opportunities and
population size in each region, as well as the capacity of the ESRDF mechanism to
deliver (details contained in the Project File).
3.69 The Project will be financed by an IDA credit of US$ 120 million equivalent
representing 49.5% of the total project costs. The Government's contribution is estimated
at about US$ 36 million, part of which will cover the operating costs of the ESRDF,
estimated at US$ 13.15. The Community contribution will be about US$ 24 million.
UNDP is providing US$ 6 million towards the capacity building program, and other
donors about US$ 56 million to project costs. The operating costs of the Fund will be
reviewed each year according to delivery efficiency and work load to ensure that they are
justified in terms of operations delivered. It is anticipated that in its first year the ESRDF
will be unable to achieve the operating efficiency of the ESRF pilot, firstly because the
project will be launched in new areas that have limited capacity, and secondly because
much of the ESRDF's time in the first year will be spent on promotion, project
identification, and capacity building tasks to lay the foundation for more rapid
implementation from the second year onwards. However, the experience of the first year
will be used to establish expectations on operating costs for individual regional offices
and the ESRDF as a whole, and the Fund will be expected to operate within these limits.
It is anticipated that operating costs will be in the low end of the scale of operating costs
that are typical for Bank-financed social funds.
3.70  Recurrent Costs Implications. The projected ESRDF recurrent costs, ajoint
responsibility for benefiting communities and Government should present no major
problems. The main Government responsibility for recurrent costs, the equivalent of 0.55
percent of FY95 recurrent expenditures, will relate to the provision of personnel,
supplies, and equipment for schools and health facilities. From the project's fifth year,
this will average US$ 2.98 million for schools and US$ 1.53 million for health facilities,
equivalent to an increase of 2 and 7 percent respectively of the FY95 current recurrent
budget for these sectors. In all other ESRDF sectors, beneficiary communities will carry
most of the recurrent costs. In irrigation, Government's contribution will be limited to
some periodic maintenance that cannot be done by communities, meaning a recurrent cost
implication to the Government budget estimated at US$ 770,000 from the fifth year of
the Project. Communities will be responsible for recurrent costs for the maintenance of
Rural Water Supply schemes, raised through user fees. The regional Water Resource
Development Bureau will supply spare parts at cost to the Community Committees, carry out
water quality tests, provide training for motorized pump operators and make follow-up visits
to ensure that the system is properly managed. They will also carry out any major repairs
beyond the capacity of the communities. The Government recurrent costs are estimated
at US$ 220,000 from the fifth year of the Project. During each sub-project appraisal,
ESRDF will ensure that the relevant Government agency is brought into the appraisal
process and their concurrence to providing financial and technical support for the sub-
project obtained before sub-project approval. Sanitation schemes will be maintained fully
by community user fees.



38
Table 7 Recurrent Cost Implications for the Government (US$ million)
Sector         FYI        FY2        FY3        FY4        FY5
Education          0.30       0.90        1.73       2.54       2.99
Health             0.15       0.46        0.89       1.30       1.53
Irrigation         0.15       0.43        0.60       0.70       0.77
Rural Water Supply   0.04     0.10        0.16       0.21       0.22
Total              0.64        1.89       3.38       4.75       5.51
3.71   The Table below shows the recurrent costs to be carried by communities. The
ESRF pilot demonstrated the capacity of communities to manage and pay for the
maintenance of Fund-financed water supply, sanitation and irrigation infrastructure. In
the expanded ESRDF, rural water supply will constitute the largest recurrent cost
category for communities. Most schemes will require low cost, simple maintenance,
suitable for community ownership and management. For more complex schemes,
ESRDF will ensure that the benefiting households are aware of the cost implications for
maintenance, and integrate capacity building into the project design.
Table 8 Annual Recurrent Cost Implications for Communities (US$ millions)
Type         Yrl         Yr2          Yr3         Yr4          Yr5
Education        0.02        0.04         0.08        0.10         0.11
Health           0.24        0.64         1.15        1.44         1.59
Irrigation       0.29        0.88         1.22        1.43         1.56
RWS              0.26        0.79         1.53        2.24         2.63
Total             0.81        2.35        3.98         5.21        5.89
3.72   The daily costs to households for ESRDF-financed water supply is shown in the
Table below. Most recurrent costs for spring development and hand pump schemes will
be met through the provision of labor and services. The higher cash contribution for
motorized pump schemes represents about 3 percent of a poor family's income.
Table 9 RWS Projects: Daily Recurrent Cost Implications for Households
US$ / Per day                US$ / Annual
Total    Cash   Non-Cash   Total      Cash   Non-Cash
Spring Development   0.031    0.007    0.024    11.29     2.69      8.60
Hand Pumps          0.038     0.012    0.026    13.71     4.30      9.41
Motorized Pumps     0.018     0.015    0.003     6.61      5.62     0.99
3. Procurement
3.73 The Proclamation establishing ESRDF, permits ESRDF to follow the
procurement rules detailed in its Operational Manual. These rules have been designed to
encourage commnunity participation; support sub-project sustainability; and respond to
regional differences including disparities in the institutional capacity of communities, and
in the local availability of services, markets, and contractors. Procurement arrangements
will be reviewed by IDA every six months, and steps taken, where needed, to improve



39
economy, efficiency and process transparency. Sample tender documents and contracts,
acceptable to IDA, have been developed for national competitive bidding and contracting
based on the experience of the pilot phase, and are included in annexes to the Operational
Manual. Procurement for the Welfare Monitoring Component will be handled by the
Welfare Monitoring Unit.
3.74  In addition to monitoring the procurement operations of the Regional Offices and
implementing agencies, the ESRDF Central Office will manage all international
procurement of goods or construction materials, utilizing the services of the Procurement
and Market Information Service Enterprise (PMISE), which has been established as an
autonomous state enterprise from the ERRP Central Procurement Cell. The Central
Office will also be responsible for procurement of some items through International
Shopping procedures. The Community Project Committees (CPC), as implementing
agency, will be responsible for local sub-project related procurement as stated in the
Financing Agreement signed with the Regional Office. The terms of this agreement will
need to comply with the provisions of the Operational Manual and the Credit Agreement.
The Agreement also specifies monitoring and reporting requirements to ensure that the
CPC complies with the procurement terms and conditions. The CPC's procurement
activities will be supervised, and assisted where needed by the Regional Office.
3.75  The Central Office will monitor all local procurement activities, through the
Procurement Unit of its Financial and Administrative Department, strengthened by the
recruitment of an additional Senior Procurement Officer and two Junior Procurement
Officers. Each Regional Office will have two Procurement Officers to assist Project
Officers determine and supervise procurement arrangements in line with the Operational
Manual, and to monitor and assist CPCs. Procurement training will be provided for Fund
staff, CPCs, and other agencies involved in ESRDF-associated procurement.
3.76 Procurement Schedule. Actual procurement requirements will be determined by
the pipeline of appraised and financed community-based sub-projects. The Procurement
Schedule (Table IO), and the Procurement Arrangements (Table 11) are estimates based
on Project Cost Projections. The Procurement plan, shown as Annex L, reflects the
standard procurement processing time for all goods and materials to be procured by the
Central Office through ICB. From the second year onwards, Regional offices will
provide similar procurement plans as part of their Annual Work Program and Budget.
3.77  Procurement Arrangements. Procurement of goods or construction materials
costing more than US$ 100,000 (machinery necessary to implement sub-projects as well
as vehicles and equipment for ESRDF offices and the WMU) will be undertaken through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with World Bank Procurement
Guidelines for all procurement financed or managed by IDA. This is expected to amount
to US$ 16.74 million and will be coordinated by the Central Office for the ESRDF share,
and by the WMU for its share. Annex L provides a list of items that will be imported.
Before credit effectiveness, the Government will have finalized standard bidding
documents for goods, works and consulting services based on the Bank's standard
bidding and contract documents.



40
Table 10 Procurement Schedule (US$ Millions)
Categories              Yrl        Yr2        Yr3        Yr4        Yr5       Total
Sub-Projects
Goods & Works for Sub-Projects   14.59     39.88      62.92      45.24      24.27      186.90
Svcs. & Training for Sub-Projects    0.79   2.27       2.90       2.19       1.19        9.34
Equipment for Sub-Projects       4.11       7.47                                        11.58
Services
Training/TA/Studies              4.23       3.46       2.86       2.33       0.26       13.14
Welfare Monitoring Unit          1.33       0.53       0.52       0.41       0.34        3.13
Miscellaneous
Office Equip.Nehicles            2.63       1.19       1.33       0.01       -           5.16
Cperational Costs                2.19       2.68       2.76       2.76       2.76       13.15
Total                             29.87      57.48      73.29      52.94      28.82      242.40
*Equipment for years I and 2 will be procured in the first year.
Table 11 Procurement Arrangements (US$ millions)
Category                ICB      NCB      Other      NBF       Total
Sub-Projects
1. Civil Works                             84.2     66.29               150.49
(51.67)  (21.00)              (72.67)
2. Con. Materials/Equipment       11.58    19.67     16.74               47.99
(11.58)  (10.00)  (15.00)              (36.58)
3. Services                                          9.34                 9.34
Services
4. Training/TA/Studies                               13.14                13.14
(4.78)              (4.78)
5. Welfare Monitoring                                3.13                 3.13
(0.81)              (0.81)
Miscellaneous
6. Office Equipment/Vehicles       5.16                                   5.16
(5.16)                                 (5.16)
7. Operational Costs                                          13.15      13.15
Total                               16.74   103.87   108.64    13.15       242.40
IDA Contribution                   (16.74)  (61.67)  (41.59)              (120.00)
* IDA contribution in parenthesis
** Difference between Project costs and IDA financing will be financed by Government and
other donors.
3.78 The Financing Agreement signed between ESRDF and implementing agencies
(IAs) will specify procurement arrangements for each sub-project which will be
consistent with guidelines provided herein and recorded in the Operational Manual.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB), with procedures and documents satisfactory to
IDA, will be required for all contracts for civil works below US$ 500,000, and purchase
of goods/materials below US$ 1 00,000 with the following exceptions.
3.79 In remote areas, IAs may procure goods through competitive National Shopping
by obtaining at least three bids, for contracts estimated to cost US$ 50,000 equivalent or



41
less per contract, up to an aggregate IDA total not exceeding US$ 6 million. Works
estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or less per contract, shall be procured under lump sum
fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations, obtained from three domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation, up to an aggregate of US$ 15 million.
3.80  In order to increase community ownership and sustainability of sub-project
activity, the Project encourages communities to implement sub-projects themselves. In
such community self-help projects, the CPC will implement the works, contracting labor
directly from the community, and purchasing goods and materials as stated in its
Financing Agreement. ESRDF will ensure in such cases, that the CPC is provided with
or hires requisite technical consultants to supervise implementation. Such self-help
projects will be contracted by the ESRDF, subject to provisions in the Operational
Manual, with IDA financing up to US$ 15 million. Out of this US$ 15 million, an
estimated US$ 8 million in goods and construction materials will be procured through
competitive national shopping as stated above in para 3. 79. In cases where no bids are
received, they may be procured through direct contracting, up to a total aggregate of US$
1 million. Works estimated to cost US $ 50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an
aggregate of US$ 6 million, will be procured through procedures stated in the Operational
Manual.
3.81  Consultant Service Contracts will be awarded in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines, "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as
Executing Agency" (Washington D.C., August 1981) as detailed in the Operational
Manual. Both the Central and Regional Offices will contract consultants to provide
technical assistance and capacity building. Many of these will be small contracts for
training ESRDF staff, local government, and NGO staff; or for promotional activity.
ESRDF will also have a Study Fund for conducting studies related to ESRDF activities.
These contracts are expected to total US$ 13.14 million (IDA US$ 4. 78 million) over five
years, and a substantial proportion of this will be procured locally. Regional Offices and
implementing agencies will be permitted to hire consultants to conduct requisite technical
studies, supervise implementation, or provide other services permitted in the sub-project
Financing Agreement. The cost of these contracts will be part of the sub-project costs.
3.82 For the Welfare Monitoring Component, all procurement with IDA funds (US$
0.81 million) will be subject to the principles stated above. Vehicles and equipment will
be procured through ICB (see Table 11, item 6). A significant portion of IDA funds will
go towards technical assistance and consulting services procured as described in the
previous paragraph.
3.83  Equipment For Sub-Project Implementation. The appraisal verified that there
are remote communities in a number of areas where there is a lack of contractors with
access to equipment able to carry out civil works on competitive terms. This constraint
could especially limit ESRDF's capacity to respond to demands from such communities
for small-scale irrigation and water supply sub-projects which will require equipment-
based civil works. The situation is likely to evolve over the project period as more
contractors emerge as a result of general and regional economic growth and development.
At the outset, IDA will respond to this need by providing a limited selection of equipment



42
to the ESRDF to be available for commercial leasing to contractors who otherwise
qualify for such assignments. Although ownership and responsibility for such equipment
will remain with the ESRDF, the management of leasing and maintaining this equipment
will be sub-contracted to competent agencies. When the private sector has developed,
such sub-contracting will be procured on a competitive basis. However, at the outset,
IDA will agree to allow the contract to be established with a regional bureau or other
public agency as long as (i) the competence of such an agency has been appraised; (ii) the
contract is for a limited period, not to exceed two years; and (iii) the cost to a contractor
to the ESRDF of leasing such equipment shall not be eligible for IDA financing.
Procedures for dealing with such contracts are contained in the Operational Manual.
3.84 The initial provision of equipment will be for an amount not to exceed US$ 11.58
million, based on projections of sub-project needs in equipment-intensive sub-sectors.
Independent performance reviews of the arrangements will be carried out by qualified
technical specialists. A first review will be conducted at the end of the first year, and a
second in time to ensure review and definition of subsequent arrangements during the
mid-term review. The reviews will ensure that the equipment is being effectively
maintained and utilized; that leasing is being carried out on a fair and commercial basis;
that implementation is benefiting from this arrangement; and account is being taken of
any significant changes in the private sector's capacity either to take over the
maintenance and leasing arrangement, or to provide equipment-based civil works on
competitive terms. During the mid-term review, ESRDF and the Bank will assess the
need to continue or modify such arrangements. In the event that the need has increased
without an adequate supply response from the private sector, the Bank may consider an
additional limited provision of equipment on similar or modified terms. Full details of
the procedures to be followed are contained in the Operational Manual.
3.85  Procurement Reviews and Assessments. Prior review, combined with financial
audits and procurement assessments, will ensure that procurement complies with agreed
procedures. All ICB contracts and all other contracts above US$ 100,000 will be subject
to Bank prior review. In addition, the first five contracts from each region will be subject
to prior review. All competitive contracts for consultancy and training services, costing
the equivalent of US$ 50,000 or more for consulting firms, and US$ 25,000 or more for
individuals, will require Bank prior review, as will all single source consultancy or
training contracts regardless of their value. The ESRDF Central Office will provide Bank
supervision missions with all documentation for a sample of sub-projects subject to post
review, selected by the Bank team during the mission. The Central Office will also have
available for supervision missions copies of appraisal reports for all sub-projects above
US$ 100,000.
3.86 The ESRDF Annual Review will evaluate the effectiveness of procurement by
and on behalf of communities. At the end of the first 18 months, under terms of reference
agreed with IDA, ESRDF will contract independent consultants, to assess the economy
and efficiency of community managed procurement, and the technical quality of
infrastructure sub-projects. This review will determine the need for modifications to the
procurement arrangements, revisions to the profile of infrastructure sub-projects eligible
for financing under the Project, and the need for further studies of a similar nature.



43
3.87  Unit Costs Database. ESRDF will collect and maintain at the Central and
Regional levels, an up-to-date data base of unit costs, commonly required for project
implementation. Unit prices of individual items included in the works will be used to
derive the total cost of the works. The data base will be used in appraisal and monitoring
as a tool to review the project budget in the Financing Agreement and as a guide when
procurement is through direct contracting.
4. Disbursement
Table 12 IDA Disbursement Schedule (US$ million)
FY 97     FY 98     FY 99     FY 00     FY 01
IDA          14.86    28.46      36.28     26.21      14.19
Total       14.86      43.32     79.61    105.81     120.00
3.88  It is estimated that the proposed IDA Credit of US $120 million will be disbursed
over a period of five years, in accordance with Table 12 above. The project will use
flexible disbursements mechanisms, being piloted in the Bank, consisting of a Simplified
Special Account Procedure which allows decentralized management of sub-projects.
Initial training has already been provided to ESRDF staff on the requirements of these
disbursement mechanisms. The process will also help simplify the administration of
funds in various currencies coming from several co-financiers. Based on the approved
Annual Plan and Budget, Regional Offices will, as stipulated in the Operational Manual,
prepare and submit to the Central Office summary statements of expense, where they will
be consolidated as the basis for the preparation of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) in
support of Applications for Replenishment of the Special Account, submitted to IDA at
agreed regular intervals. The Government's share of the Project cost will be identified
separately. The statements of expense will also identify and quantify items of
expenditure to be centrally procured for reasons of economy and efficiency. The Welfare
Monitoring Unit will utilize the normal SOE procedure.
3.89  Special Accounts (SAs) and Local Accounts. To expedite disbursements, the
Government will open three SAs with the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (or any other
bank acceptable to IDA), one (US$ 9 million) operated by the Central Office of the
ESRDF, and one (US$ 100,000) by the Welfare Monitoring Unit and one (US$ 100,000)
by the Central Statistical Authority for the Welfare Monitoring component. The Central
Office will open another account in local currency into which the Government
contribution will be deposited for local currency expenditures and operational costs not
financed by IDA. The Government's deposit into a local account offunds equivalent to
its share of the first year of Project costs (based on the agreedfirst year 's plan and
budget), is a condition for credit effectiveness.8 On credit effectiveness, the Central
Office, the Welfare Monitoring Unit, and the Central Statistical Authority will each
submit a withdrawal application for an initial deposit to the Special Account, drawn from
8 This figure will take account of the amount that the Government has already contributed to the
establishment of the ESRDF operating structure.



44
the IDA Credit and the grants administered by the Bank for other donors to the Project,
for an amount estimated at four months of disbursements. Replenishment of funds from
IDA to the SA will be made on evidence of satisfactory utilization of the previous
advance, reflected in the SOEs prepared by the Central Office, and SOEs prepared by the
Welfare Monitoring Unit. Replenishment will also depend on whether Regional Offices
are current in providing MIS data and reports. Withdrawal applications for direct
payment and special commitments will be no less than US$ 1 00,000. The total budget
for all centrally managed items will be retained in the SA under the financial management
of the Central Office. Each Regional Office will open two local accounts, one for
funding sub-projects and one for administrative expenses. The Central Office will make
an initial advance into each account to cover four months of estimated expenditures,
based on the annual work program submitted by Regional Offices. All documentation
supporting ESRDF and Welfare Monitoring SOEs will be made available at the Central
Office and the Welfare Monitoring Unit, for inspection by Bank supervision missions.
During the Project launch workshop, specialized training will be provided to ESRDF staff
on the requirements of the Simplified Special Account procedures.
3.90   Project Preparation Facility. An advance from the Project Preparation Facility
equal to the amount of US$ I million has been approved to finance start-up costs of
launching the project.
Table 13 Summary of IDA Disbursement
Category             US$ millions    (% below refer to amounts without taxes)
Goods and Works
Goods/Works for Sub-Projects     83.56     100% of foreign costs; 90% of local costs
Consultants' Services
Training/Capacity Bldg./Study Fund  4.78   100%
Welfare Monitoring                0.81     100%
Equipment, Vehicles, and Furniture
Equipment for Sub-Projects       11.58     100% of foreign & ex-works costs, 90% of local costs
Office Equipment & Vehicles       5.16     100% of foreign & ex-works costs; 90% of local costs
Unallocated                        13.11
Refund of Project Preparation Advance  1.00
Total                             120.00
5. Accounts and Audits
3.91   Accounting. For the ESRDF, the accounting system used for the pilot phase is
being improved to (i) accommodate a significantly expanded size of the program; (ii)
reflect the central and decentralized levels of financial accountability, operating as a self-
contained system within Regional Offices, and as a consolidated system at the Central
Office; and (iii) link effectively with the Management Information System developed for
the expanded phase. Initially, regional accounting data will be transmitted monthly on
diskettes to the Central Office where it will be consolidated; but it is hoped that
telecommunications improvements will allow Central Office direct access to regional
accounting data. Consolidated Financial Statements will be produced on a quarterly
basis, and the Management Information System will include more regular (monthly)



45
monitoring by Central Office of essential cash and banking data linked to operations.
The Central Office's pilot Financial and Administrative Department (FAD) will be
expanded to include a number of skilled staff to handle the increased financial
responsibilities and accounting requirements. Each Regional Office will have an
Administrative and Accounting Department. The Welfare Monitoring Unit and the
Central Statistical Authority will maintain their respective separate accounting system for
the Welfare Monitoring Component.
3.92 Auditing. The annual financial statements of ESRDF, the WMU and the CSA
will be audited in accordance with International Standards of Auditing by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. Additionally, in each region internal regional auditors
reporting to the Chair of the Regional Steering Committee, will audit the ESRDF
financial statements and physical activities of Regional Offices, and submit audit reports
to the Central Office, for review by the ESRDF Board, which can authorize the removal
of internal auditors. ESRDF will submit to IDA copies of various reports and audits
submitted to the Board.
6. Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision
3.93  Principles of Monitoring. The monitoring cycle will contain a number of steps.
The communities' identification of their own needs and priorities during the promotion
stage, will represent the base-line for monitoring the future impact of ESRDF-financed
interventions. ESRDF project staff will make field trips to track progress, and will record
information based on defined indicators on (i) the progress of implementation; (ii) the
quality of completed sub-projects; and (iii) the benefit to communities and the
sustainability of facilities created with ESRDF financing. Monitoring sustainability will
be specially important where communities submit a number of proposals to be
implemented in sequence. All monitoring and evaluation will gather both quantitative
and qualitative information, and use participatory methods, encouraging communities to
assess progress and results in terms relevant to them.
3.94 Project Monitoring Information System. ESRDF's Project Monitoring
Information System (MIS) has three purposes. Thefirst is to track implementation and
disbursement progress on an on-going basis, to facilitate the preparation of Semi-Annual
and Progress Reports. The second is to enable the Central Office to carry out special
studies and analyses related to ESRDF operations. The third is to enable the Central
Office to assess the outcome of the ESRDF Project against an agreed list of Performance
Indicators (see Annex D). Given that the ESRDF is not a blueprint project, targets for the
performance indicators will be established annually on the basis of the previous year's
performance, rather than at the beginning for the entire lifespan of the project. The
monitoring of the indicators will be an important component of the annual review
process. In addition to helping prepare reports for the ESRDF Board, this monitoring will
assist Bank supervision missions, the Mid-Term Review, the production of the
Implementation Completion Report, and specially designed evaluation and research
studies, including any commissioned under the Welfare Monitoring System. The Project
MIS will contain computerized data updated and forwarded by the Regional Offices. The
system (whose main components are summarized in Annex D) will enable ESRDF to (i)



46
identify the achievements of the ESRDF; (ii) keep track of proposals received and
approved and their progress through the implementation cycle; (iii) analyze the sector
content and evolution of the portfolio; (iv) ensure that all the sectoral requirements
specified in the Operational Manual are being followed; (v) analyze unit costs based on a
range of criteria; (vi) analyze the efficiency of ESRDF operations; (vii) analyze the main
patterns of procurement; (viii) analyze the participation of communities, women, and
other groups; (ix) analyze environmental factors; and (x) maintain budget control. The
MIS will be integrated with the accounting system to facilitate the production of financial
and performance based reports. The establishment of accounting and management
systems for Project implementation, acceptable to IDA, is a requirement for Credit
Effectiveness. If the ESRDF computerized Accounting and MIS system in any Regional
Office is not operational before disbursement begins, the manual system already
approved will be used until computerized, and the Central Office will ensure that this
manually captured accounting and MIS information will be transferred to the
computerized system.
3.95  Regular Reporting. Regional Offices will prepare and submit to the Regional
Steering Committees and ESRDF Central Office, Semi-Annual Progress Reports, which
will provide details implementation progress (physically, financially, and in terms of
implementation management) based on implementation goals and timetable. The Central
Office will prepare for submission to ESRDF Board, a Consolidated Semi-Annual Report,
within six weeks of the end of each half-year, summarizing overall implementation and
disbursement progress, highlighting any specific problems that require Board attention,
and proposing actions to correct these problems. The Annual Report (AR) will cover
results for the whole year. Progress will be measured against the previous year's Annual
Work Plan and Budget (AWPB), and the AR will provide the basis on which the
forthcoming AWPB will be prepared. The AR will include the annual project financial
and performance audits. Formats for these reports are contained in the Operational
Manual.
3.96 Sub-Project Completion Reports. A short report will be written on the
completion of each sub-project by the responsible ESRDF Project Officer in consultation
with the beneficiaries, implementing agency, facilitators, and regional bureau staff. The
report will include (i) a summary of the physical achievements and outcomes based on
agreed sub-project goals; (ii) a statement of the benefits as seen at this stage; (iii) a
description of specific problems encountered and actions taken to remedy them; (iv) a
summary of the sub-project accounts; and (v) a description of the follow-up steps,
including maintenance arrangements and responsibilities, and linkages with other
activities both current and planned. Copies of all Sub-Project Completion Reports will be
submitted to Regional Sub-Committees and ESRDF Central Office.
3.97 Bank/Donor Supervision. The Bank will supervise the Project through a
headquarters- based task manager who will carry overall responsibility for
implementation and leading supervision missions. There will be two supervision
missions each year consisting of a small team of sector specialists and donor
representatives. The missions will study the implementation records, accounts and
audits, and MIS data retained by the Central Office, and make sample visits to Regional



47
Offices, selected project sites, and participating communities. One of these missions will
coincide with the ESRDF annual planning cycle, and will review the Annual Work Plan
and Budget and the previous Annual Review. In addition to these regular supervision
missions, there will be the independent consultant review at the end of the first 18 months
to assess the economy and efficiency of community managed procurement, and the
technical quality of infrastructure sub-projects; the Project Mid-Term Review, and on-
going liaison with the Central Office on their research program into beneficiary impact.
7. Mid-Term Review and Project Evaluation
3.98 Mid-Term Review. The mid-term review will take place after 30 months of
project implementation to identify project successes and problems to be addressed, and
modifications that may be needed in project procedures for the second half of the Project.
The mid-term review will include independent consultant studies of a sample of sub-
projects by region and sector, using beneficiary participatory assessment methods.
3.99  Project Evaluation. A year before the completion of the Project, an independent
evaluation will be carried out to assess (i) whether the Project has accomplished its
project objectives and contribution to the broader poverty reduction program; (ii) the
effectiveness of ESRDF project management, the institutional structure, and the
operational procedures; and (iii) the value of the ESRDF as a development mechanism
for poverty reduction.
4. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1   Before Credit Effectiveness, the Government will have:
(a) established a Local Account in the name of ESRDF and deposited
counterpart funds equivalent to the Government's share for the first year of
project costs, based on the agreed first year's plan and budget;
(b) obtained the approval of the ESRDF national Board of the Operational
Manual and the Work Program and Budget for the first year of ESRDF
operations;
(c) adopted Project Accounting and Management Information Systems
acceptable to IDA;
(d) signed a sub-grant agreement with ESRDF acceptable to the Association;
and
(e) finalized standard bidding documents for goods, works and consulting
services based on the Bank's standard bidding and contract documents.
4.2   Agreements have been reached on the following:
(a) The Project will be implemented in accordance with the Operational Manual
adopted by the Board;
(b) Any proposed changes to the Operational Manual will be made in
consultation with IDA;



48
(c)  The sector handbooks will be developed by the end of the first year of
ESRDF operations under the Project;
(d) The project will not include irrigation sub-projects on international
waterways beyond limits specified in the Development Credit Agreement;
(e)  Under terms of reference agreed with IDA, GOE will conduct an
independent assessment of sub-project implementation, after eighteen
months of project effectiveness, focusing on community related
procurement and disbursement;
(f)  GOE will conduct a mid-term review of project implementation and impact
with IDA before the end of the first 30 months of project operation;
(g)  Those filling the positions of ESRDF General Manager, Deputy General
Manager, and Regional Manager, will have qualifications commensurate to
their duties; and
(h)  Data and analyses generated under the Welfare Monitoring System will be
fully accessible to interested users.
4.3   Subject to the above conditions and agreements, the proposed project constitutes a
basis for an IDA credit of SDR 80.80 million (US$ 120 million equivalent) to Ethiopia at
standard terms with 40 years maturity.



Annex A
Page I of I
Social Indicators of Development, 1994/95
Unit of Measure            Most Recent
Estimate (MRE)
Human Resources
Total Population (mre = 1993)                  millions                      54.9*
Population Growth Rate                         annual %                       3.1
Crude Birth Rate                           per thousand pop.                 51.4
Total Fertility Rate                       births per woman                   6.9
Infant Mortality Rate                    per thousand live births           122.0
Under 5 Mortality Rate                                                      204.0
Life Expectancy at Birth
Overall                                                                   49.0
Female Advantage                                                           3.2
Income and Poverty
GNP per Capita                                   US$                        130.0
Investment in Human Capital
Medical Care                                   % of GDP                       1.5
Population per                                  persons
Physician                                                              30,560.0
Nurse                                                                   5,144.0
Access for Health Care                      % of population                  55.0
Gross Enrollment Ratios in Primary Ed.   % of school-age group               30.0
Source: Social Indicators of Development, 1994 and 1995, World Bank
* The recently completed census is likely to show a substantially higher figure.






Annex B
Page 1 of 6
National Poverty Reduction Strategy
A.    Introduction
I.     The reduction of poverty is a central goal of the Government's Economic Development
Strategy for Ethiopia. The roots of Ethiopia's extensive poverty are deep and complex, and
reducing poverty will require a range of mutually reinforcing measures at a number of different
levels. Shaping out this strategy depend, therefore, on a sound understanding of the nature and
causes of poverty in Ethiopia.
2.     Although poverty in Ethiopia takes many forms, it is important to differentiate between
transitory poverty and chronic poverty. Transitory poverty is the result of the dislocation caused
by years of protracted war and policy actions by the previous regime, that resulted in
displacement and separation of hundreds of thousands of people from their social and economic
sources of support. In this category there are refugees returning from the bordering countries to
which they fled to escape war and persecution, families uprooted by the previous government's
forced resettlement policies, people displaced as a result of losing their means of livelihood
(especially rural populations that fled to the cities), demobilized former soldiers, workers
retrenched from overstaffed public agencies, orphans and the disabled. Special, targeted
programs will help reintegrate many of these transitory poor back into community settings and a
means of economic and social support. Some proportion will fail to reintegrate and will swell the
numbers of the chronically poor.
3.    It is estimated that well over half of the population of Ethiopia are chronically poor, and
millions of others are vulnerable, through shocks such as droughts and environmental damage, to
joining the chronically poor. Although this form of poverty exists in urban areas, the cities have
borne the brunt of transitory poverty problems, and chronic poverty is chiefly a rural
phenomenon in Ethiopia, and especially severe in some parts of the country. From a macro-
economic viewpoint, chronic poverty in Ethiopia is fairly readily understandable. Due to a
combination of misconceived policies, massive wastage of national resources diverted into war,
significant neglect of some regions of the country, and recurring climatic disasters, the Ethiopian
economy has stagnated and declined at the same time that the population has been increasing at
about three percent a year.
4.     The results of this general economic situation can be seen in the poorly developed and
neglected state of the country's essential infrastructure, the lack of basic social services and
access to safe water, some of the worst health indicators (in terms of child and maternal
mortality, disease, and malnutrition) in Africa, and severe and increasing environmental
degradation in areas where population pressure has taken its toll on limited land resources. About
85 percent of the population earn their living from agricultural activities, but due to neglect of
the sector, the contribution of agriculture to GDP has declined from 65 percent in 1960 to about
42 percent today. Industry has also remained undeveloped offering employment to a more or less
static 5 percent of the population. In the last two decades, productive sources of growth were
squeezed out by an over-concentration of public sector spending on activities that did little to
contribute to economic development, and in reality squandered the resources of the country and
trapped the rural population in a chronic and deteriorating poverty spiral.



Annex B
Page 2 of 6
B.    Main Elements of the Poverty Strategy
5.    It can be seen from the above that an effective poverty reduction strategy needs to be
constructed from a number of important elements. Firstly, with the end of the war, the return of
economic and civilian stability, the main causes of transitory poverty have been eliminated, and
conditions are favorable for actions to reverse the effects. The primary focus for action will be
the implementation of well-targeted programs that respond to the special needs and conditions of
various groups, aimed at helping these groups reintegrate with social support structures and
providing them with the means to achieve economic self-reliance. In some cases, the programs
need provide little more than access to credit or other resources, together with appropriate
training and technical support. In other cases, such as disabled victims of war, longer term
support structures may be needed. But wherever possible, the goal will be to assist both
communities and individuals to reduce or eliminate dependence on continuing state support.
Although fairly simple in conception, these programs are nevertheless expensive in terms of both
resources and capacity in a country gradually recovering from economic stagnation, and facing
huge social and economic rehabilitation costs.
6.     The strategy to reduce chronic poverty requires a more complex combination of
elements. As chronic poverty has its roots in an incapacity of the economy to meet the pressures
of population growth, the overall strategy will focus on both expanding the economy and
reducing the rate of population growth. Increased economic growth is at the heart of the
Government's economic development strategy, and will provide the basic, long-term sustainable
foundation for poverty reduction. Economic growth will not only provide an expansion of
employment and incomes, but will also respond to chronic poverty in two other important ways.
Firstly, it will reduce food insecurity, which is the most serious vulnerability for the chronically
poor. This will be accomplished both through an increase in domestic food production, and
through increased export earnings which can be used to pay food imports to cover any gaps in
domestic production. Secondly, economic growth will increase government revenues at the same
time as permitting increased devolution of economic responsibility from the public to the private
sector. The result will be a higher allocation of public resources for the basic social services and
infrastructure vital to improving the living conditions and economic prospects of the chronically
poor.
7.     Another important strategic element to reduce chronic poverty is the important poverty
characteristics of the different regions of the country. Although there are no parts of Ethiopia that
are free of significant poverty, there are some regions that were especially neglected, badly
affected by war, or prone to natural disaster. Particularly in Wello, Tigray, Hararghe, and
Gamgoffa, a large majority of households are classified as chronically poor or very vulnerable.
These are areas suffering from significant degradation of environmental resources, rural isolation
due to inadequacies of the road network, very poor social services and facilities, and limited
economic options. Even in the most badly afflicted regions, there are both the resources and
human potential for long-term development and reduction of poverty. However, unless these
regions receive special attention, and the resource transfers to build the basic infrastructure for
both productive activities and social service delivery, it is possible that they could be by-passed
by the wider benefits of economic growth. It is also essential that regions are assisted in building
the capacity to initiate and manage a development process relevant to their own specific needs,
and that this process is linked as closely as possible to the grass-roots through community
participation and ownership.



Annex B
Page 3 of 6
C.    Key Interventions in Poverty Reduction
8.     Based on the strategy described above, the Government's program of poverty reduction
is diverse but with interlinked interventions, each of which are complex and described in detail
in other documents, but which will be presented briefly here.
9.     Targeted Assistance Programs. There are now a large range of special targeted
assistance programs aimed at the needs of special groups who are suffering the consequences of
war, policy neglect, or the transitory effects of economic reform. At a summary level the most
important of these programs are:
(a) Rehabilitation Programs for Returning Refugees, providing both consumption and
production assistance to help 550,000 refugees from Somalia, Sudan, and Djibouti to
reintegrate into urban and rural communities.
(b) Program for Retrenched Public Sector Employees, which will provide retrenched
persons with compensatory payments, training for redeployment, and credit for income-
generating ventures.
(c) Rehabilitation Programs for Ex-Soldiers, providing just under 500,000 ex-soldiers with
both temporary food assistance and access to a revolving fund to purchase productive
assets, to assist their reintegration into urban and rural life.
(d) Consumption Assistance Program for Socially Disadvantaged Groups, responding to the
needs of about 25,000 households made up of the elderly, disabled, and orphans.
(e) Production Assistance for the Poorest of Poor Rural Households, providing cash
assistance to about 160,000 poor rural households to purchase inputs such as fertilizer,
seeds, handtools, and veterinary drugs.
(f) Public Works Programs, which will be put into effect in 15 cities where the urban poor
are concentrated, and which, in collaboration with local communities, will concentrate
on agricultural and infrastructure assets that will reduce vulnerability to natural disasters
and provide economic opportunities. These programs are supplemented by food/cash-
for-work programs in areas such as soil conservation, irrigation, and dam construction.
(g) Rehabilitation Assistance for Displaced People, providing essential agricultural inputs to
assist over 150,000 displaced persons to take up farming activities in Tigray, Amhara,
Oromiya, and Southern Ethiopia.
(h) Emergency Projects, over 60 projects supported by World Food Program aimed at small-
holder and cooperative dairy production, upgrading of farming practices, increasing
school enrollments in drought and war affected areas, and providing employment to
food-insecure rural households.
(i) Urban Food Umbrella Projects, focusing on slum improvements in Addis Ababa;
employment, training, and income-generation activities for ex-soldiers, and improving
nutrition and basic health services for selected, poor households.
) UNlICEFAssistedArea-Based Programs, which provide economically marginalized
groups (such as women-headed households, chronically unemployed, and destitute) in
certain rural and urban areas, with essential basic social services.
10.   Reducing Population Growth. While reducing population growth rate is a complex
and long-term prospect, it is also an essential requirement for the utility of many of the other
poverty reduction actions that will be taken. Unless the growth in population can be managed,
the benefits of economic growth will not be effectively captured, the task of improving basic
social service delivery will not be feasible, and the goal of sustainable environmental



Annex B
Page 4 of 6
conservation will become unattainable. Rapid population growth has not only placed basic
services and natural resources under great strain, but also dramatically altered the demographic
profile of the country increasing the proportion of unemployment among the young and wasting
the productive resources of the nation. High fertility rates combined with high rates of infant
mortality and infant disease places an inordinate strain on poor women and reduces their
opportunity to play a productive role in economic activities. Managing population growth will
become even more urgent as the improvements in primary health care result in lower mother and
child mortality rates and an increase in life expectancy.
11.    The Government has therefore adopted a population policy which has set goals for
reductions in the current high rates of fertility from an average of 7.7 children per woman to an
average of about 4 children per woman by 2015. This goal will be achieved through a
combination of measures including a significant increase in contraceptive use; reductions in
maternal, infant, and child mortality; increase in female educational enrollments, removal of
legal and customary constraints on women's economic and social activities; and the launching of
a nationwide population education and information program to promote the importance of
smaller families, and the link between family size, human welfare, and environmental security.
These approaches form the basis for a program which will be accompanied by improved
research, data collection, analysis, and dissemination regarding population trends and issues. To
design and implement this multi-disciplinary approach to population management, and to ensure
the integration of mainstream population management initiatives with efforts to promote
improved income-earning opportunities in the various productive sectors, a National Population
Council has been established made up of a number of sector ministers and heads of relevant
agencies, each of whose organizations will have specific implementation responsibilities in the
population program. This national body will be supported by a structure of population councils at
the regional and zonal levels, and committees at the woreda level.
12.    Stimulating Economic Growth. Employment generating economic growth will be the
most important foundation for long-term sustainable reduction of chronic poverty in Ethiopia.
The program to stimulate economic growth has four key elements. The first is the maintenance
of macro-economics stability through prudent fiscal and monetary management. Much has
already been achieved in this respect, and it is the goal of this program to ensure that the budget
deficit is carefully managed and progressively reduced, along with domestic bank financing of
the deficit; that inflation is kept under control; that the foreign exchange rate is kept competitive
based on market provision of foreign exchange; and that real positive interest rates are
maintained to stimulate savings. The second is to stimulate production to generate employment,
increase domestic production of food and other essential commodities, and increase exports. The
Government has adopted a strategy of agricultural-development-led industrialization (ADLI),
which responds to the current limitations of the agricultural sector and its key role in the
economy. The goal of this policy is a parallel emphasis on three sources of growth and
employment. The first is to increase output from the agriculture sector through improvement of
productivity in small-holdings and expansion of large-scale farms, especially in the lowlands.
The second is to significantly increase the productivity of the industrial and service sectors, in
recognition of the limitations of the agricultural sector in providing employment for Ethiopia's
rapidly increasing population. The third is to increase the production of minerals to add diversity
to Ethiopia's exports.
13.   The third key element in stimulating economic growth is to encourage investment by
stimulating the growth of the private sector, streamlining licensing, export, and import processes,



Annex B
Page 5 of 6
rationalizing and divesting state enterprises, ensuring the availability of foreign exchange, and
liberalizing the financial sector to provide a wider range of investment and international banking
services. Finally, underpinning both the stimulation of production and encouragement of
investment, the program to increase economic growth will require significant selective
investment in infrastructure, services, and resource management. In terms of infrastructure the
key priorities are road improvement and maintenance, and expansion of electricity supply. In
terms of services, priorities include agricultural extension and research, and the provision of
improved rural credit. Finally, expansion of agricultural production and an increase in mining
activities will require emphasis on a number of aspects of environmental rehabilitation and
conservation.
14.   Provision of Improved Social Services. Another key aspect of the poverty reduction
program is the expansion and improvement in quality of basic social services which will have a
critical impact not only on the quality of life for the chronic poor, but also improve their access
to economic opportunities and contribute to their productivity. The Government has made
significant reallocations of budgetary resources for the social services, increasing spending since
FY89 from 12 to 24 percent of the total budget. The largest proportion of these increases are
going to basic services, primary education (which is now receiving 47 percent of the education
budget), and primary rural health care (for which the allocation within the health budget has
almost doubled since FY89). Within the education and health programs, emphasis will be given
to a number of factors directly related to poverty reduction. In education this includes improving
the participation of girls, improving female literacy, correcting regional imbalances, and
improving the incentives for primary enrollments by utilizing local languages. Within the health
sector, special emphasis is being given to expansion of maternal and child health, the control of
communicable diseases, nutrition programs, and complementary measures to improve access to
safe water and sanitation.
15.    Focus on Regional and Community Development. The final important aspect of the
poverty reduction process is the emphasis on regional and community development. As indicated
earlier in this paper, while there are few parts of Ethiopia that do not suffer from chronic poverty,
there is a concentration of especially poor and vulnerable households in certain regions of the
country that have experienced extensive war destruction, the displacement of their populations,
policy neglect, and climatic and environmental damage. Ethiopia has launched a far-reaching
process of regional devolution, which will facilitate economic and social development and the
reduction of chronic poverty. By taking responsibility for managing the development process,
regional administrations can ensure that the special needs and conditions of the regions are taken
into account in the development planning process. There are a number of ways in which this
trend can contribute to poverty reduction: fostering the participation and ownership of
communities (including community cost-sharing, appropriate cost recovery mechanisms, and
improved community maintenance of assets); encouraging the use of labor-intensive methods,
appropriate technologies, and local resources; and improving the efficiency of implementation
by removing central bottlenecks, expanding technical and managerial capacity within the
regions, and encouraging the growth of local private sector contractors. The Government has
already ensured that regions with special rehabilitation and development needs receive the
necessary resources, and has launched a far-reaching program to train officials and other
facilitators of the development process. The next step will be to prepare in-depth regional
development plans that respond both to the special needs and poverty profile of the regions, but
also exploit the natural assets and resources the regions provide.



Annex B
Page 6 of 6
D.    Contribution of the ESRDF
16.    The Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund (ESRDF) is an important
component of the poverty reduction strategy and program described above. While the main focus
of the ESRDF is to contribute to the reduction of chronic poverty, it will also be of benefit to
special targeted groups, especially poor women. The special contribution of the ESRDF will take
a number of forms. Firstly, the program is aimed at building community self-reliance by
providing poor communities in rural areas with economic assets critical to improved incomes,
social assets vital to improving the quality of life and productive potential, and knowledge,
skills, and experience in managing their own development. Secondly, while the program will
respond to any community initiative that is feasible, sustainable, and truly developmental, it will
give special focus to sectors that have been identified as vital in the strategy to reduce chronic
poverty: namely, rural water supply and conservation, small-scale irrigation, primary health
facilities and services, basic education facilities and services, and micro-enterprise development
through support for small-scale income-generation initiatives. In addition, by taking an activist
role in promoting development practices among communities, the ESRDF can also make a
positive impact on environmental practices, nutrition standards, family planning, energy savings,
and a number of other interventions of great importance to poverty reduction. The ESRDF will
also be an important method of piloting and experimenting with approaches to community-based
development, helping to integrate sectoral interventions in mutually reinforcing ways. The
program will also provide an opportunity to test new institutional mechanisms at a local level,
especially the strengthening of traditional savings organizations and service cooperatives to
provide micro-credit and small-scale banking services to communities currently beyond the
reach of the financial sector Finally, the ESRDF will make an important contribution to building
capacities and skills at the regional level, and in this way helping to strengthen the
responsiveness of regional administrations to community-based participative development and
the utilization of labor-intensive approaches.
17.   The project to support the expanded ESRDF will contain a component to support the
establishment of a poverty monitoring system for Ethiopia. This component will contribute an
invaluable and indispensable tool for poverty reduction, enabling policy makers to track the
impact on poverty levels of both broadly conceived economic reform measures, as well as
specific targeted programs and interventions. The poverty monitoring system will be especially
important in establishing a reliable information base on the sources and nature of poverty in
different regions of the country, and provide the foundation for the design and monitoring of
regional development programs with a poverty reduction focus.



Annex C
Page I of 2
Summary of Rapid Regional Assessments
Region           Socio-Economic Features                      Infrastructure                           Implementing Capacity
Tigray     Population of 5 million including a high  Heavy destruction and damage of social and  Strong community participation in developmental
concentration of rural dwellers affected   economic infrastructure (particularly roads and  activities; strong NGOs operating closely with
by war and drought as well as displaced  basic health and educational services), soil erosion  communities and regional authorities. Experience
refugees returned to their native   and lack of irrigation.                      as a pilot region of ESRF.
villages.
Afar      Population of about 4.5 million;    Very poor community infrastructure: only 63  Weak both at Govemmental and non-
majority (94%) are pastoralists     primary schools (many not functioning); 19   Governmental level; lack of trained and skilled
depending on multi-species livestock  clinics; 3 health centers; and I hospital. Potable    personnel; very few licensed or non-licensed
production for their subsistence;   water is an acute problem.                   contractors in the region.
nomadic economy which encourages
households to move frequently within
their tribal territory.
Amhara      Second largest Region with a       461 health stations, 40 health centers and 10  Reasonable good implementing capacity. Many
population of almost 15 million;    hospitals with health service coverage for about    non-governmental organizations also operating,
average density of population the   29% of the population; 2420 primary schools, 221  some based on traditional community structures.
highest after Addis Ababa; 90% of the  lower secondary schools, and 71 higher secondary   Lack of equipment and machinery, shortage of
population engaged in agriculture.  schools, with an overall coverage equal to 14.4%,   skilled masons and engineers are also the reason
9.8% and 6. 1% of the population. Poor road  for reduced implementation capacity. But
network covering only the major urban areas; All  compared to other parts of the country, this Region
rural areas as well as small towns have no access   has a good availability of skilled personnel and a
to safe drinking water supply and sanitation.  relatively higher numbers of well-trained and
educated people.
Oromyo      Located in the center of Ethiopia with a  Coverage of basic socials services relatively better  A few NGOs are involved with community
multi-ethnic population of about 20  than elsewhere in Ethiopia, with 757 health  development activities. Performance of Regional
million; about 2.7 million are ex-  centers, 51 health stations and 25 hospitals, but the  Bureaus has been quite satisfactory; presence of
soldiers, displaced farmers, returnees,   ratio of doctors to the population is still very low    qualified personnel mainly coming from near-by
flood and drought victims, street   at 1/64,147 (national ratio is 1130,600). Also many  Addis Ababa. Structure of local communities
children and orphans, and women head   poor communities still without basic infrastructure  strong enough to support a bottom-up approach..
of households. Seventy percent of
population engaged in agriculture.






Annex C
Page 2 of 2
Region            Socio-Econom ic Features                       Infrastructure                            Implementing Capacity
Somali      Lying in the remote south-eastern part   Poorly developed infrastructure and in recent  Weak implementing capacity. Lack of skilled
of the country with a population of  times focus has been more humanitarian relief than  personnel and difficulty in recruiting skilled
800,000. Nomadic population and      on longer term development because the civil war   personnel. South East Development Project
influx of refugees from Somalia makes  in Somalia has driven large number of refugees  implemented by the African Development Bank
estimation of population difficult.  into the Region. Very poor road conditions and  has been handicapped by lack of resources and
Animal husbandry provides main       even humanitarian food aid has to be flown in,  poor infrastructure. The World Bank Calub Gas
economic base. Crop farming negligible  making it very expensive.                   Project is under implementation in the Region.
due to inadequate rainfall and water
supply.
Benishangul   In the western part of Ethiopia with a  Poor transportation system (only one unpaved road  Implementing capacity of both non-governmental
population of I million.             connects regional capital with Addis). Weak social  organizations and regional government quite
infrastructure: 23 elementary schools, 11 junior  weak; acute shortage of skilled and experienced
secondary, and 2 higher secondary with coverage   manpower; bad transportation system limited only
of about 17% in urban, and lower in rural areas; 78  to a part of the region.
health stations, 6 health centers, I pharmacy and 2
hospitals with a ratio of I doctor for every 40,000
people.
SEPRA       Federation of southern regions with a    Delivery of social services inadequate with only    Several NGOs operating in the area, mainly
population of 10.5 million; 45 ethnic  248 health centers, mostly in urban areas, and  implementing programs in agriculture, soil and
groups. Economy mainly based on      1349 primary schools. Transportation network is   water conservation, basic social services, as well
agriculture with a high potential for  very poor and many woredas are completely    as engaged in relief programs. Regional Bureaus
cash crops like coffee, but constrained    isolated; outside urban areas, no or little access to   are staffed with well-trained and skilled
by fragmented land holding;          potable water or sewerage systems and consequent  professionals, but their number is still inadequate
environmental degradation; lack of   widespread diseases among rural population.    to the size of the population and the territory, with
proper farming practices; and severe  Millions of demobilized soldiers, displaced   a consequent reduced implementing capacity.
pockets of drought.                  civilians due to tribal conflict, returning refugees.
Gambella    In the south-western part of the country   Weak basic social services: 65 elementary schools,  Serious shortage of skilled and trained personnel.
with a population of 200,000, and with   5 junior secondary schools, and I senior secondary  A few Governmental and non-governmental
seven different ethnic groups. Although  school and many of them are not operating; 27  organizations operating in the region.
land has high arable potential, only a  health stations, I health center, and I hospital
small portion is irrigated due to absence  mainly out of reach of rural communities.
of extension services, lack of       Transportation system limited to 318 km of earth
agricultural inputs                  roads with most of the areas where people live
being inaccessible. Another problem is pressure on
river banks due to lack of irrigation in the
interiors.






Annex D
Page I of 7
Sub-Project Monitoring and Evaluation
I.      Monitoring and evaluation are two elements of the ESRDF Management Information
System, which will provide managers of the Fund with access to physical and financial
information about the progress of sub-project activities and the financial commitments and
expenditure of the Fund. The MIS will be used to track sub-projects, Local Financial
Intermediaries, and the overall operational efficiency of the ESRDF.
A. Sub-Project Tracking
2.       Information will be gathered at each stage in the sub-project cycle, processed manually
or by computer, and contained in the reporting system. The following flow chart illustrates the
different stages of the sub-project cycle and the way in which they are to be tracked through the
MIS.
Information Stages for the MIS                                                              Chart 1
STAGE                            INPUT                           OUTPUT
PROMOTION/
\    REQUEST       N       ,-- ~       ~    ~        |           Status Report, analysis
I und Requesl lorm, promotion I          of applications
enquiryiform
APPRAISAL TO                Analysis of contracted
APPRAISAL TO                             appaisal .t                   pro;. by type, IA,
APPROVAL                     Micro f raject     par              beneficiaries, value, tech.
- l   --       ---   --          i          features
lechnical Specs    _j            -
Xlosk Specs      0
IMPLEMENTATION                             /             I          Analysis of pro'ecis under
MO 'TRNG               --l,qress rpl.Physical adimplementation by time,
MOITRNGg-orcsreport, ahysicu ond }work done, funds disbursed
-   -                    financial moniloring   I
COMPLETION   8                            - ~                    r 
|       o  M P|   |NAnalysis of projects
MONITORING                        phton  report,                       comeplte
IPOSTCOMPLETION                        ..
MPONITCORPTI NG  |                   Field visit report &            Analysis of ulilization and
MONITORING   &   t             t   participative monitoring                function
FOLLOW  UP            f        -      6Th for    _
r  Report for IG      
IMPACT          l                .          study                 Impact assessmenf
ASSESSMENT    !                   Particitory field study                 report
f    __                f -- __                                      f                  -



Annex D
Page 2 of 7
3.     Appraisal to Completion.. Information will be formulated by the concerned PO
assigned to follow the implementation of the sub-project in question. For a construction sub-
project executed by an implementing agency where there is no additional technical supervisor, a
review on site will be necessary at least once a week by the implementing agency and
representatives of the Sub-Project committee. Where there is a technical supervisor, he or she
will undertake the tasks detailed above, and the review by the implementing agency/Sub-Project
committee will be every 2 weeks. A monthly report will be submitted by the implementing
agencies to the RO and the relevant data will be entered into the MIS by each Regional Office,
and detailed tables of analysis will be generated each month and retained for the use of the
Regional Office. A printed summary of the analysis, together with updated computer files from
the MIS will be forwarded to the Central Unit each month. The format for the MPR is contained
in the Operational Manual.
4.     Post Completion Monitoring and Follow-Up. All projects will be visited at least once,
when a settled pattern of utilization has become established so that important features of
sustainability such as maintenance and participatory management can be assessed. Information
will be collected using the technical checklist developed for the relevant sector, contained in the
technical handbooks. All sub-project post completion monitoring will include participative
community-based methods of record-keeping for post-project management.
5.     A Micro-project Completion Report (MCR) will be the final report of the sub-project.
The PO is responsible for completing the MCR after discussion with representatives of the
beneficiaries/Sub-Project Committee, the implementing agency, the local government sector
authority, the contractor, and the supervisor. Copies of the MCR on recently completed sub-
projects are forwarded for information to members of the Regional Steering Committee, and
after their consideration, to the Central Office, where the results of all MCRs are incorporated in
reports to the National Board.
6.    Impact Assessment. A sample of completed sub-projects will be selected for a formal
impact assessment. The sample will reflect the sectoral and regional distribution of sub-projects,
with special attention to sub- projects which are technically innovative; which have
implementation periods in excess of nine months; and which cost more than Birr I million.
Impact assessments will be undertaken after sufficient time has elapsed for economic or social
change to have taken place, generally not less than one year after completion of project activities.
The Fund will contract not less than one set of impact studies every year, the results of which
will be presented to the National Board. Impact studies will use a participative approach, with
both structured and open-ended enquiry mechanisms, and both individual and group interviews.
The studies will also draw on sub-project reports and participatory monitoring. The focus of the
studies will be the change in economic and social welfare of sub-project beneficiaries as a result
of the sub-project construction and operation. Comparisons will be made with the information
collected during appraisal and from socio-economic baseline surveys where they exist. Special
emphasis would be placed on gender issues, the environment, sustainability, and links with other
relevant initiatives.
B. Monitoring ESRDF Operational Efficiency
7.     The MIS will also track a limited number of indicators related to the overall efficiency of
ESRDF operations. These will include elapsed time in completing each sub-project cycle phase,
and the recording and monitoring of overhead costs and personnel.



Annex D
Page 3 of 7
C. Monthly and Semi-Annual Reports
8.    Monthly Progress Reports (MPR). The monthly progress report of the PO will be key
element for the RO for proper follow-up and monitoring of sub-projects under implementation.
Based on the PO's report, the RO will be responsible for submitting to the CO monthly
summaries of regional accounts and physical activities. The main report which will bring this
together and monitor and track micro-project implementation is the MPR. The format is
contained in the MIS Handbook.
9.    Semi-Annual Report. The Semi-Annual Report monitors the progress of the overall
ESRDF program. The essential components of this report will be: (i) progress report for the half-
year with reference to annual plan; (ii) summary, by Regional Office of sub-projects under
preparation since the previous report; (iii) summary of sub-projects under implementation, with
date contracts signed, expected duration, and comments on any problems incurred; (iv) summary
of sub-projects completed since the previous report, dates contracts signed, expected duration,
actual duration, amount requested, actual expenditure, results and problems incurred; (v)
summary of impact assessments completed since the previous report with a synopsis of the
findings; (vi) Finance and Administration Officer's report for the half-year with reference to
annual budget, including comments on over- or under-expenditure. The format is contained in
the Operational Manual.
D. Annual Work Program & Budget, and Annual Report
10.   The Central Office will be responsible for producing a consolidated report for the Board
based on submissions from Regional Offices and other information and analyses drawn from the
MIS system. The purpose of the report is to contribute to the preparation of the next annual work
program and budget for the ESRDF based on (a) past performance, and (b) identified community
needs. The detailed formats for the regional submissions and consolidated report are specified in
the MIS Handbook, and summarized here.
11.   Annual Report. The Fund will prepare an Annual Report for submission to the
National Board and once approved, for distribution to donors and other interested bodies. The
report will be prepared when the end of year accounts are available, and will be submitted no
later than 4 months after the end of the financial year. It will utilize the key performance
indicators, a sample of which are shown in Table A below, and a format contained in the
Operational Manual. The report will consist of information and analyses on (a) the performance
of the ESRDF as a whole for the past year compared to (i) previous years; and (ii) the goals of
the previous year's program; and (b) the performance of each regional office (i) compared to
previous years; (ii) compared to the goals of the previous year's program; and (iii) compared to
overall ESRDF performance standards drawn from an analyses of all regional offices.
12.   The report will be made up of the following broad categories: (a) the financial
statement; (b) a presentation of sub-projects at various process stages; (c) an analysis of sub-
project costs compared to both budgets and ESRDF standards, and including details of
community capital investments; (d) the planned and actual disbursement schedules; (e) an
analysis of sub-project processing time against ESRDF standards; (f) a presentation and analysis
on beneficiaries, to include (i) involvement of women; (ii) numbers of beneficiaries reached; and
(iii) impact to date; (g) a summary of technical standards reached drawn from post-completion
reports; (h) an analysis of procurement methods used; (i) a presentation of promotion, training
and other capacity building measures; (j) a presentation on maintenance and recurrent cost



Annex D
Page 4 of 7
arrangements, including (i) community and regional bureau commitments for newly processed
sub-projects; and (ii) community and regional bureau performance for completed sub-projects;
(k) an efficiency analysis at the regional level comparing staffing and other overhead costs to
number of projects processed and program accomplishment; and (I) a problem analysis
describing obstacles experienced by the office and measures or proposals for over-coming them.
13.   Annual Work Program and Budget (AWPB). This will consist of an overall
submission to the Board and to IDA for the ESRDF, together with separate submissions for each
office. The AWPB will be made up of the following details: (a) a program of sub-projects drawn
from the pipeline of community submissions and screened proposals, indicating (i) the
communities involved; (ii) the sector and goals of the sub-project; (iii) an estimate of the
numbers of beneficiaries to be reached [including women]; (iv) the broad timetable for
processing each sub-project; and (iv) sub-project costs, including community contributions;;(b)
indications of agreement by regional sector bureaus to the proposed sub-project program, and
arrangements for collaboration; (c) a disbursement schedule; (d) a procurement schedule; (e) a
sub-project budget; (f) a work load analysis and administrative budget; and (g) a justification
based on previous performance. In addition, each regional office will establish some broad goals
for the year ahead in terms of what it wishes to accomplish, its community outreach, its
collaboration with other facilitators of community development, its capacity building role, its
contribution to environmental conservation and the social and economic progress of women; and
its efforts to stimulate the participation of private contractors.
14.   The Review Process. Each Regional Office will clear its report through its Regional
Steering Committee before submission to the Central Office. The Central Office will review the
consolidated report with IDA and thereafter submit the report to the ESRDF Board. The review
process will always include a review of the Key Performance Indicators presented in the
following table. Targets for these indicators will be specified each year on the basis of the
previous year's performance.
E. Mid-Term Evaluation and Implementation Completion Report
15.   The mid-term evaluation of the ESRDF will take place after 24 months of operation.
The main purpose will be to: (i) determine whether satisfactory progress is being made towards
meeting the original Project objectives; (ii) evaluate the impact of the sub-projects on the
beneficiaries, (iii) assess whether the arrangements agreed for the upkeep and maintenance of the
sub-projects after completion, and recurrent cost financing are being honored; and (iv) to draw
lessons from the experience, enabling the Fund to adapt its methodology for the future. The
mid-term evaluation will include a review of a representative sample of sub-projects within each
main sector. Interviews will take place with implementing agencies, Sub-Project Committee
members/beneficiaries, local governments officials, Regional Steering Committee members,
contractors, and Fund staff and supervisors. The mid-term review will be conducted by external
consultants. The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared within six months
of the end of the ESRDF Project.



Annex D
Page 5 of 7
Key Performance Indicators
(for ESRDF as a whole and for each RO)
Performance Indicator                                      Planned        Actual         *
(to be specified            difference
annually in the
AWPB)
Input Indicators
*  Project disbursement
(a) Percent of total project funds disbursed
(b) Annual disbursement target (Birr)
.  % of requests accepted by type of project
Process indicators
*  % of projects with a 20% cost overrun over appraised
costs, by type of project
*  Average total community investment as percentage of
sub-project costs
*  Project processing time by type of project:
(a) % of projects with 10% time overrun over standard
schedule (Submission to financing agreement )
(b) % of project with 10% time overrun over standard
schedule (financing agreement to implementation)
(c) % of project with 10% time overrun over planned
schedule (implementation to completion)
*  Overhead costs as percentage of project costs
(for ESRDF as a Whole and for each RO)
Output indicators (by type of project)
.   Numbers of sub projects completed
*   Completed sub-projects with "satisfactory" technical
quality ratings by type of project
.   No. of beneficiaries reached
*   ratio of female to male beneficiaries
*   No. of beneficiaries trained
.   Ratio of female trained beneficiaries to male trained
beneficiaries
Outcome Indicators (Post-completion evaluations)'
(by type of project)
*   % of sub-projects with "satisfactory" maintenance
rating
.   % of sub-projects with "satisfactory" utilization rating
.   % of sub-projects with "satisfactory" beneficiary
perception rating
.   % of sub-projects with "satisfactory" IA obligation
rating
*   % of women among beneficiaries reached
*   Women as a % of total community project committee
members
Sub-projects are rated in the course of a post-completion visit by the PO, as follows:
a) Satisfactory
b) Not satisfactory, but corrective actions being taken
c) Not satisfactory, and no corrective actions being taken



Annex D
Page 6 of 7
Key Performance Indicators
(for Welfare Monitoring System)
Performance Indicator                                   Planned          Actual        *
(to be specified              difference
annually in the
AWPB)
Input Indicators
*  Percent of funds disbursed
(a) WMU
(b) CSA
*  Number of studies initiated
*  Total cost of studies initiated
*  Months of technical assistance provided
Process indicators
*  Number of meetings of:
(a) Welfare Steering Committee
(b) Advisory Group
*  WMS: Elapsed time (months) from start of
fieldwork to production of basic report
*  Number of users (outside the CSA) of WMS primary
data
Output Indicators
*   Numbers of copies of "Social Trends" distributed
*   Number of person days of training for MWU and
CSA staff
*   Number of workshops conducted
(a) National
(b) Regional
*   Number of studies/reports produced:
(a) by WMU and CSA
(b) by others (using the study fund)



Aneez D
Page 7 of 7
Table: Monitoring Indicators
No of requests in each sector                        Amount of cash contributed                          Average duration of sub-projects:
No of requests approved (by type of project)         Performancc in maintenance                         - from request to contract
No of sub-projects completed(by type of project)   NGOs and contractors                                  From contract to implementation
No of sub-projects over-schedule: (by type of project)  No of NGOs participating                      Contract costs (by type of contract)
- for less than two months                           IA                                                 Average cost of contracts
- for more than two months                           Trainers                                           No of contracts below US S 10,000
Direct Beneficiaries: (by type of project)           Supervisors                                         No of contracts between US S 10,000 and 50,000
Total Number of Beneficiaries (by type of beneficiary  Financiers                                      No of contracts between USS 50,000 and US$ 100,000
and type of project)                                                                                     No of contracts with LS as method of procurement
Beneficiaries (male/female ratio)                  small-scale (single person or new) community        No of contracts with NCB
Type of lmenhntng Agency (by type ofproject)      contractors doing work below 150,000 Birr             Noeof costs with NCB
Community Committee                                No of training person-days                          Average costs of such contracts
NGO                                                Total amount of contracts                           No of total cost contracts
Bureau                                           Gender Aspects (by type of project)                   No of Labor Contracts
Other                                              No of sub-projects with women as direct
Infrastmuere Created (new and rehabJeilted)        beneficiaries
No of health clinics                               No of sub-projects with more than one women as
No of primary schools                            part of IA committee
Length of road rehabilitation                      No of male/female ratio of persons trained
No of latrines built                             Latre subprojcts
No of drainage schemes                               Latrine    pits
No of irrigation schemes -hectarage                No of Latrine pits
No of Benefjlaies Trained (by type ofprojea)         No of benefiting households
Male/Female Ratio                                  No of households per source
NGOs                                             No of training workdays
Workdays of training delivered                     User fees raised
No of Failitors Trained                             Water Supply (by type of technology)
No of training days                                No of water supply sub-projects
Male/female ratio
Insdiudonal Strengthening                            Average no of water sources for each sub-project
No of Regional Offices                             No of benefiting households
No of professional staff in male/female ratio      No of households per sources
No of person-days of training for Fund staff:      No of male/female ratio of persons trained
No of sub-projects per average PO:                 No of total training work days
No of vehicles per sub-unit                        User fees raised
Conmmnity Contribution (by type ofproiect)         Processing time (By type of project)
No of free workdays of labor provided              Average processing time (by type of project)
Quantity of materials provided






Organizational Structure --Structure of ESRDF Central and Regional Offices                                                Annex E
page I of I
Contrat Ofm"e 
| eneu General agers
Advisory_FuncR                  a S                                              Executive Secretary
Triin devicer Fuc ion ratuue                       Irsrcue&Acut
[Environment                                             gA                                      Pouen &
W   Promotion &                                            Serice        Gen
Trainingnning & Monitoring Service|
|Deputy Gene ral Manager
|  Project Support Dept.  |                                                             | Finance & Administration Dept.|
|Water Supply              SocialSmall-Sc2le  |tr nne&                                                               A     ato
&Sanitto            Infrastructure |           rrigation   ||Acut                                                  eea  vs   
Regional Structurel
LAudiit
Servie *      l  Regional Steering Committee|
Regional Manager             l
| Deputy Regional Manager|
|Promotion &1                    Rural       l       l     Social      ||Administration|
Trainng Srvic  i  |Infrastructure  |          |Infrastruictur                           & Accounts |
ate           Irriatio                                         Accounts   ||Procurement &|
| WatrSpl          Irrgto   I                                         Services   I   General Services|






Annex F
Page I of 3
Implementation Plan
1.    Legal FrameworL The Fund will be established by Proclamation as an autonomous
public agency with its own procedural, financial, and administrative structures, reporting to a
national Board.
2.    Procedures. The Fund will operate on the basis of an Operational Manual, agreed by
IDA and to be approved by the ESRDF Board prior to credit effectiveness. A draft copy of the
Operational Manual is available in the Project Files. The Manual will cover (i) the aims and
objectives of the ESRDF; (ii) organizational structure of the Fund, and the roles of the Board,
Central Office, Regional Committees, and Regional Offices; (iii) community promotion,
management and capacity building; (iv) sub-project appraisal (including criteria and technical
standards), financing; implementation; maintenance, and evaluation; (v) procedures for
accounting, financing, procurement, disbursement, and reimbursement; (vi) procedures for the
Annual Review, and Annual Plan and Budget; and the MIS and reporting system; and (vii)
standard forms. Changes to the Manual will require Board and IDA approval. Handbooks are
being prepared to provide essential technical information and training materials to guide the
design, implementation, supervision, and evaluation of sub-projects in each sector.
3.    Procurement and Disbursement. ESRDF is a demand-based project responding to
community sub-project proposals. The procurement schedule (below) is based on an assessment
of demand and implementation capacity.
4.    Financing Plan. Total project costs have been projected as US$ 242.40 million. IDA
will finance US $ 120 million, the Government and community contribution will be US$ 60.61
million, and UNDP US$ 6 million for capacity building component. US$ 55.79 million will be
met by a number of donors (including the Netherlands, Italy, and Norway) that have made
commitments in principle, and who will be invited to participate in finalizing the financing plan
during negotiations.
5.    ProjectAccounting, Monitoring, andAuditing. The Project Accounting and MIS will
be operational before credit effectiveness. An external audit of project accounts and procurement
will be carried out annually. The ESRDF Board will appoint the independent auditor to report on
the Fund's financial activities no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.
6.    Preparatory Actions Already Taken. The Ethiopian team has taken actions to prepare
for the expanded program, including (a) establishment of all Regional Offices and the structure
for the Central Office; (b) appointment of ESRDF General Manager and Deputy General
Manager; (c) recruitment and orientation of key staff, and secondment of some experienced
ESRF staff to new regions; (d) initial promotional activities and coordination with regional
bureaus; (e) completion of the Operational Manual, agreed with IDA; (f) completion of the first
year's Plan and Budget, agreed with IDA, and to be approved by the ESRDF Board prior to
credit effectiveness; (g) advance procurement of vehicles and essential office equipment; and (h)
launching of the work program to train staff in MIS and accounting procedures, and to prepare
priority handbooks.
7.    Project Launch. The ESRDF with Bank support will organize a Project Launch
Workshop to introduce (i) the Fund's objectives, approaches, project appraisal and approval
procedures, and implementation arrangements; (ii) the Annual Review and Planning cycle and
implementation schedules; (iii) project monitoring and reporting requirements;



Annex F
Page 2 of 3
and (iv) procurement and disbursement procedures. The Project Launch Workshop will also
focus on environmental and gender concerns to ensure that the related processes stated in the
operational manual are understood by all ESRDF staff; and to highlight the importance of
implementing such actions. The workshops will also review the results of the initial assignments
related to handbooks and training for key sectors (see 6 above), and review the capacity building
plan and program.
8.    Bank Supervision Plan. The Bank will organize two supervision missions a year to
assess (i) the effectiveness of ESRDF in attaining project objectives and reaching beneficiaries;
(ii) compliance with financial management, accounting, procurement and disbursement
procedures stated in the Operational Manual; (iii) performance based on work programs and
implementation schedules; (iv) the quality of sub-project processing and results in terms of
impact, beneficiary participation, technical standards, reaching poor women, and satisfying
environmental standards; (v) sub-project sustainability in terms of community management of
maintenance and provision of recurrent costs; (vi) variety and effectiveness of procurement
arrangements; (vii) utilization of MIS data and project results for improved practices and policy
changes; (viii) efficiency and overall effectiveness of the ESRDF project mechanism; and (ix)
progress and results in capacity building. One of the missions will coincide with the Annual
Review, Plan and Budget. Supervision of environmental aspects will be a part of the terms of
reference of all supervision missions, but it will be of particular importance during the first,
third, and mid-term supervision missions. An environmental specialist will be included in these
missions in order to ensure that processes incorporated in the operational manual are being
followed; that they are adequate and appropriate; and to recommend any modifications, if
necessary.
9.     During the first year, the following sector specific activities will be organized. In the
area of rural water supply, supervision will be managed by RWSG-EA team in Nairobi. In the
first year, this team will join the project launch workshop and organize at least one other mission
specifically to assist on capacity building and the review of handbook preparation. In addition,
with the help of local consultants, the team will organize a specialized mission prior to each bi-
annual supervisory mission to prepare a report on how sub-projects comply to the procedures and
standards stipulated in the Operational Manual and RWS Handbook. The RWSG-EA team will
work in close collaboration with the RWS component of the proposed IDA Ethiopia Water
Supply Development and Rehabilitation Project. In the area of small-scale irrigation, the Bank
team specialist will visit the country to support training activities and the production of the SSI
Handbook. This will be supplemented by contracts given to specialized engineering firms to
provide on-site on-the-job training and supervision assistance aimed at ensuring effective
appraisal, sub-project design, implementation, and arrangements for maintenance. In the area of
social infrastructure, the team will work closely with the Bank's human resource development
specialists and on-going IDA-financed basic health and education projects. For the MIS and
Reporting System, a special mission will be needed early in the first year of implementation to
test the effectiveness of the system. For capacity building, the Bank and UNDP will collaborate
on a special mission during the second half of the first year, to review the arrangements and
progress made in implementing the first phase of the program. For the welfare monitoring
component, there will be a need in the first year to review the welfare monitoring data collected
by the CSA, and provide assistance to the Ethiopian team in data analysis. This could involve
two reciprocal missions.



Annex F
Page 3 of 3
10.    Finally, the Bank team in collaboration with ESRDF will organize practical research and
training activities to improve understanding of the ESRDF mechanisms and potential as support
to better implementation. This will include independent, participative beneficiary assessments.
11.    Ethiopian Supervisory Mechanisms. On the Ethiopian side, project supervision will be
carried out at a number of levels. The Regional Steering Committees will supervise the activities
of their Regional Offices through monthly, half-yearly, and annual reports, and up-to-date MIS
data at each meeting to review sub-projects for financing. The Central Office supervise regional
activities through the same monthly and half-yearly reports, periodic MIS updates, the annual
performance review report, and the quarterly submission of documentation to support
replenishment requests. The Central Office will prepare consolidated quarterly reports for the
Board, and the consolidated Annual Review. Staff from the Central Office will visit Regional
Offices periodically, and contract beneficiary assessments.
12.    Capacity Building. The capacity building program will be essentially demand and need
driven. However, in the first year, a number of priorities have been identified and form the basis
for the following program:
Need                         Approach                         Timing
Training ESRDF Staff and Key    (a) Training Core Group from   (a) Already Started
Facilitators in Operational    Each Office to Act as Trainers
Procedures                     (b) Periodic specialized        (b) Throughout first year, with
workshops                      annual refresher programs
Training ESRDF Facilitators    Training of Trainers Approach &   Already started, and throughout
Local Seminars                 first year
Key Sector Technical Training
for ESRDF Staff and Facilitators:
(a) Small-Scale Irrigation     (a) On-site on-the-job training  (a) On-site throughout first year,
from specialist team, to be    workshop planned for early /mid
followed by special workshops    second year
based on first phase experience
(b) Rural Water Supply         (b) Training of Trainers and    (b) Regional Workshops
Regional Workshops             launched by mid first year
Training for Community
Committees:
(a) Project Management         (a) Training of Trainers, and local  (a) Training of Trainers by mid
workshops as part of promotion    first year
(b) Project Design and         (b) Simple practical courses   (b) Key handbooks (SSI, RWS)
Maintenance                    based on handbooks provided as  to be ready by mid first year
part of sub-project preparation






Annex G
Page I of 2
Rural Water Supply Component
I.    Background. About 30 percent of ESRDF sub-project support will go to rural water supply
schemes. In line with Government policy, these will require community contributions to capital costs,
user fees to cover recurrent costs, and selection of simple and low cost technology manageable by
communities. The RWS component complements the National Rural Water Supply Program
(NRWSP) which finance larger schemes for bigger population centers. The Government's Sector
Policy specifies that public agencies will act as promoters, regulators, and financial providers, with
beneficiaries responsible for implementation, operation and maintenance. To support this devolution,
both the ESRDF and the IDA-supported Ethiopia Water Supply Development & Rehabilitation
Project (WSDRP) will contain substantial capacity building components.
2.     Scope and Standards of the ESRDF RWS Sub-Projects. ESRDF will support small
schemes involving hand-dug wells to supply up to 200 beneficiaries, and drilled wells with
handpumps, and spring developments to serve up to 500 beneficiaries (based on a per capita water
consumption of 15 to 20 liters a day). Technology selection will be based on factors like locally
available water sources, cost considerations, community preferences and willingness to pay. The
number of beneficiaries is a major factor. The ESRDF consulting with the Bank, can consider an
untypical solution proposed by a community where the community can justify it in cost-benefit and
social terms, and sustainability. In special situations, the ESRDF could finance options such as
rainwater harvesting, sub-surface dams, and conventional piped schemes, but all of these will be
subject to the same stringent appraisal standards. A community's willingness and capacity to make
additional contributions to both project costs and recurrent expenses can also be taken into account.
Efforts will also be made to exploit beneficial links between RWS sub-projects and other ESRDF
initiatives, for example combining water supply for a school with facilities for community households.
3.     Appraisal. ESRDF appraisal of a community RWS proposal will focus on (i) the
seriousness of the water problem in the community, and the extent to which the proposed scheme can
remedy it; (ii) the community's willingness and ability to contribute to both project and recurrent
costs, and to maintain the scheme; (iii) the appropriateness of the community management structure
for RWS, and the participation of women; (iv) technical capacity and training requirements for
implementation and maintenance; (v) potential for self-sufficiency based on feasible user fees; and
(vi) cost-efficiency of the proposed scheme compared to established investment and recurrent cost
standards and other feasible options. The financial efficiency assessments will recognize the potential
for the scheme to improve health and liberate women's time to be used more productively. To ensure
that communities in sparsely populated areas are not excluded, appraisals will allow for initial
capacity utilization of 50 percent of the maximum number of beneficiaries served by a particular
technology, as long as the community is able to increase its contribution to capital and recurrent costs.
4.    Implementation Structures. The communities will be responsible, through project
committees, for managing implementation. The ESRDF will work in collaboration with the Ministry
of Water Resources Development, and the Regional Water Development Bureaus to ensure that the
ESRDF support meets the policy objectives and standards of the broader RWS program, and to test
community-based approaches. Regional bureaus will provide technical advice to communities, and
assist ESRDF in sub-project appraisal, and the supervision of schemes before and after completion,
including testing water quality. Regional bureaus will need to be satisfied that the typical designs
incorporated in the ESRDF technical RWS handbook are acceptable, and that sub-projects meet these
standards before the sub-projects can be financed.
5.     Maintenance. The regular maintenance of RWS schemes supported by the ESRDF will be
largely self-financing through the collection of user fees. The financing contract signed with the



Annex G
Page 2 of 2
Community Project Committee will estimate user fees and specify community organizational
structures for maintenance and fee collection. Training will be provided for community caretakers,
and the WRD bureau will regularly inspect schemes to ensure they are being maintained. Maintenance
for hand-dug wells and spring development schemes will be simple and cheap over the short and
medium term. For shallow drilled wells, maintenance may be more costly, including periodic cleaning
of the borehole, replacement of hand-pump components due to corrosion or breakage, and repairs to
motorized installations, if included. These repairs will be the responsibility of the WRD bureau in the
short-term as they exceed the capacity of communities. Skilled WDR personnel are located at the
regional and zonal level, and efforts are under way to build resources at the woreda level. Over time,
these may be supplemented or replaced by private contractors beginning to emerge in many areas. To
cover expected maintenance costs, user fees would vary between US$ 2 and 6 per household per year,
the higher range applying to drilled wells, where communities will pay for the costs of spare parts,
which are currently distributed by NGOs, regional bureaus, and international agencies.
6.     Capacity Building. Building up the capacity of regional water development bureaus is a
major Government priority, and is being supported more broadly by the Bank (through the WSRDP)
and by UNDP and UNICEF. ESRDF will contribute to the capacity building program, especially at
the level of community water committees, and in strengthening regional bureaus, NGOs and others to
operate on a participative basis with community schemes. Training will focus on methods of
community-based RWS management and maintenance, the technical and financial characteristics of
technology options, approaches to cost recovery, involvement of community women in RWS, and
crucial links between RWS initiatives and other sub-sector activities. The ESRDF RWS handbook
will be an important part of the capacity building program, containing both technical and managerial
details related to the cost effectiveness and sustainability of community based RWS schemes.
7.     Sub-Project Costs. Based on assessments of community needs, it is anticipated that ESRDF
will finance 13,035 RWS schemes. The Table below is based on actual cost experience in Ethiopia.
Projection of ESRDF Rural Water Supply Sub-Projects
Type of Scheme    Average    Maximum    Minimum     No. of     Cost         Comments
Cost       No. of     Cost Per   Schemes  (US$ mil.)
(US$)    Beneficiaries    Capita
(US$)
Hand-Dug Wells    3,200.00      200         16.00    8913       28.5    US$ 2,400 without
handpump
Spring           4,800.00       500         10.00    1492        7.2    Depends on spring yield
Development                                                             and piping distance
Shallow Drilled  16,000.00      500         32.00    2630       42.0    Allows for some
Wells                                                                   motorized pumps;
handpumps 25% less
8.     Hand-dug wells and spring development schemes will involve substantial community in-kind
contributions, saving between 50 and 100 percent of the quoted typical scheme cost compared to sub-
project implementation contracted out. Shallow drilled wells will involve limited community in-kind
contributions, but the cost-effectiveness of such operations in Ethiopia has improved in recent years.
9.     Collaboration and Data Base. Because of the importance of ESRDF's contribution to RWS
in Ethiopia, ESRDF will work closely with the national and regional RWS authorities in training and
strengthening institutional structures. ESRDF will establish a comprehensive data base on capital and
recurrent costs of various types of schemes in various locations; unit costs in terms of beneficiaries
served; user fee levels; community structures; maintenance performance; and direct and indirect
benefits. This data base will provide an invaluable analytical tool for the ESRDF and sector planners.



Annex H
Page I of 3
Small-Scale Irrigation Component
1.    Objectives of Component. The objective of this component is to help poor farmers
overcome rainfall and water constraints to production by providing a more assured supply of
water for cultivation and livestock, and in this way contributing to strengthening the basis for
subsistence agriculture, providing increased food security to poor communities, providing a
source of household income through the sale of surplus production, and overall, assisting the
increase in domestic food production. Especially in the northern Highlands area, irrigated
agriculture will make an important contribution to improvement in very poor nutrition levels.
The ESRDF will support sub-projects initiated by communities or farmer groups to develop
small-scale irrigation schemes that are simple enough to be managed at the community level, and
can help stabilize food production by supplementing crop moisture during shortfalls in rain and
by supporting the cultivation of vegetables during the dry season. In the dry zones, the sub-
projects will often involve the building of small storage dams which can be used both for
irrigation and animal watering. Supplementary run-off wells can also be constructed to provide
separate safe water for domestic use during extreme droughts.
2.     General Description of the Component. Based on prior assessments of community
needs, it is anticipated that community proposals would result in the development of 18,000 ha
of irrigated land through ESRDF-financed sub-projects. On average, this would consist of small
schemes of between 50 and 200 ha each, distributed throughout the Highlands. Because many of
the potential sites for these schemes are situated on international waterways, the Government
calculated the expected overall abstractions from each of these waterways and it was agreed with
the Bank that these represent the total amounts that the Project will be able to finance.
3.     Two main irrigation systems will be used: diversions from weirs on rivers with sufficient
flow throughout the dry season; and storage dams where the river flow is insufficient to provide
water to the fields. Given the higher cost of the schemes irrigated from storage dams, their areas
would be small and situated mainly in the driest areas, in the Tekeze basin.
4.     Technical Issues. As they are major structures, diversion weirs will be made of good
standard masonry with well-arranged joints and high quality cement mortar. Their crest will be
subject to strong erosive forces and may need to be constructed of quality reinforced concrete.
Because of high rates of evaporation and high sediment transport, most of the reservoir dams
will be no less than 10 to 15 meters high or with storage capacity no less than two million cubic
meters, and care will be taken to ensure necessary safety features. This will require mechanical
construction with carefully designed and zoned embankments. Spillways, customarily consisting
of earth and rock, will be carefully monitored to avoid regressive erosion. For the outlet works,
use will be made of pipes with upstream valves or within culverts. Works will be carried out by
hand-labor, if safe and technically possible, especially for storage dams.
5.     Many schemes are likely to make use of surface water because of their relative
simplicity for community maintenance and low foreign exchange cost. However, appraisal will
be concerned to justify costs, and where it is clear that the development of water sources by
storage or diversion dam would be too costly or unsuitable in a specific situation, pilots will be
run to test the viability of optional efficient modern methods, for example, in parts of the
Highlands, the use of pipeline conveyance rather than canals, and pressure systems with small
sprinklers or drip irrigation.



Annex H
Page 2 of 3
6.     Special attention will be given to the identification of suitable catchments (given that it
is often difficult to estimate run-offs from small catchments) to ensure that those selected are
large enough to fill reservoirs but not so large as to require costly flood disposal. Equally
important will be the estimation of the likely rate of siltation of reservoirs. The ESRDF will
develop a research program to improve the accuracy of such estimates, and to monitor existing
schemes to measure conveyance losses in main canals, and boulder transpiration, including the
impact of these on diversion weirs. In addition, care will be taken to ensure that appropriate
treatment of catchment areas takes place in the right sequence, prior to dam construction.
7.     Critical Appraisal Issues. Small-scale schemes downstream of weirs or dams will be
designed as an integral part of local peasant farming operations, and the appraisal of weirs and
dams will pay close attention to the relationship between the investment cost and the number of
hectares to be irrigated, the number of beneficiary farmers, the fertility and cultivation potential
of the land in the areas to be irrigated, the crop options, and the likely yields and income from
such crops. Careful consideration will also be given to recent and likely drought patterns and the
continuing availability of water, as well as the capacity of community groups to maintain the
schemes, and their ability to meet recurrent costs through income generated by the facilities.
Appraisals will also include a catchment analysis to determine the impact of the sub-project on
both upstream and downstream users. Each scheme will be carefully assessed in terms of its
environmantal impact and the risk that environmental degradation could harm the sustainability
of the scheme itself. Another important factor will be the safety of communities living
downstream of construction in the face of possible construction failure and food. A systematic
checklist of safety factors is included in the Operational Manual. Each appraisal will contain the
necessary technical studies (topography, soil survey, hydrological assessments, and
environmental assessment).
8.     Structure for Implementation and Maintenance. Special community committees
made up of the prime beneficiaries, will take responsibility for construction, organization, and
supervision. The ESRDF will collaborate with the Regional Bureaus of Natural Resources
(BNR) to support the implementation of this component, supplemented by assistance from the
Bureaus of Agriculture in the training of farmers in field irrigation, and provision of advice to
community water user associations. Technical studies associated with sub-project design and
appraisal will be done by private sub-contractors or NGOs, although in areas where no local
expertise exists, the BNR will provide support. Small local contractors will be invited to bid on
construction works, and will be selected and supervised by the community committee. Following
completion of the scheme, the community project committee will be formed into a Water Users'
Association, responsible for the management and maintenance of the facilities, and collection of
user contributions to the recurrent cost fund. The BNR will sign an agreement with the ESRDF
and community associations to monitor maintenance and provide help where major repairs are
beyond the capacity of the associations.
9.     Capacity Building. Training and technical support will be an essential part of the
component. Such training and support will be provided to all those involved in the success of the
sub-projects: (i) ESRDF project staff in technical and appraisal criteria, contracting with experts,
and overall supervision requirements: (ii) farmers in methods of operation and maintenance; and
(iii) designers in the BNR, private contractors, and specialized NGOs in project design and
technical methods. In the early years of the Project, the ESRDF will contract foreign experts to
work alongside local specialists in the design, construction and monitoring of these schemes,
providing a blend of supervision and on-the-job training. Training will also take the form of



Auoex H
Page 3 of 3
short courses and study tours to visit similar schemes. Special efforts will be made to involve
women in this program.
10.   Sub-Project Costs. The costs of the small-scale irrigation schemes will vary between
Birr 15,000 per ha for those without a storage dam, and Birr 30,000 per ha for those with a
storage dam. These costs are in line with GOE data and FAO reports. Studies and supervision
will constitute between 3 and 5 percent of the total costs, and training about 5 percent of the total
costs.






Annex I
Page l of 5
Welfare Monitoring System (WMS)
I.    Objectives of the WMS. The WMS will assist the Government to monitor the social
impact of its economic reform program and their contribution to poverty reduction, helping
decision-making and planning at both national and regional level. The WMS will be built
around an Annual Review of Social Trends and Welfare reflecting changes in the status of
different population groups, and identifying key policy issues for further consideration. The
system will: (i) present a national and regional review of welfare indicators showing their spatial
distribution and movements over time; (ii) identify poor and vulnerable groups that require
targeted assistance; (iii) assess the short and medium term effects of macro-economic and
sectoral policies and programs on the poor; and (iv) monitor changes in status of the poor and
vulnerable population groups.
2.    Institutional Structures and Responsibilities. The WMS will be overseen by a
national Welfare Review Committee (WRC) which will be chaired by the Minister of Economic
Development and Cooperation (MEDAC), and whose members will include the Minister or Vice
Minister from sectoral line ministries (Health, Education, Agriculture, etc.) and RRC, and the
Director General of the Central Statistics Agency (CSA). The WRC will meet not less that twice
annually to review the policy implications of WMS reports and to approve the WMS annual
work program. An Implementation Sub-Committee of the WRC will act as the WMS Steering
Committee and will supervise implementation of the system. The Sub-Committee will include
(among others) the Minister of MEDAC, and the General Manager of the CSA. It will meet no
less than once per quarter, to (i) review the annual work program and budget for the WMS; (ii)
review the annual financial report; (iii) approve Study Fund applications and monitor their
delivery; and (iv) authorize WMS expenditure items and contracts over US$ 10,000.
3.    A Welfare Monitoring Unit (WMU) has been established in MEDAC as the secretariat
for the WRC. The WMU will consist of a Unit Head, two Economist/Planners, one Statistician
with good database management skills, and support staff. The WMU will be responsible to the
Implementation Subcommittee for (i) coordination of the various elements of the system; (ii)
creation and maintenance of the socio-economic database to facilitate the preparation of the
annual Review of Social Trends and Welfare, and to support further analytical work and
evaluation studies; (iii) analysis and policy advice, commissioning position papers for the WRC
on the social impact of Government policies, working with research agencies such as the
Ethiopian Food and Nutrition Institute (EFNI) and the Institute for Development Research
(IDR), as well as private sector consultants; (iv) workshops and seminars at central and regional
levels to disseminate and promote discussion of information generated by the monitoring system,
and including an annual national workshop in June/July each year to review the outputs;
participants will be drawn from government (including representatives from the regional
planning bureaus), university and research establishments, NGOs, and donors; and (v) technical
support to regional planning bureaus, to help build up their technical .competencies through
networking, and through regional seminars held after national workshops.
4.    A small technical multi-agency WMSAdvisory Group will be established and chaired by
the Head WMU, and with members drawn from line ministries, CSA, research institutions,
NGOs and donors. The Advisory Group will meet monthly to help ensure that implementation
of the WMS benefits from a wide range of views and technical experience, and to review the
quality of WMS outputs. The group will (i) contribute to the review of the Annual Review of
Social Trends and the impact of economic and social policies and programs on welfare levels;



Annex I
Page 2 of 5
(ii) contribute to the review of applications for use of the Study Fund and make recommendation
to the Steering Committee; (iii) carry out a technical review of Study Fund outputs; and (iv)
review and comment on questionnaires for household and community surveys implemented as
part of the WMS.
5.    The Central Statistical Authority (CSA) will be represented on the Implementation
Subcommittee and the Advisory Group and will be a major supplier of data for the WMS. It will
carry out an annual Welfare Monitoring Survey, based on a questionnaire reviewed by the
Advisory Group. The CSA will provide additional information for the WMS from its regular
survey program, including an analysis of the incidence and depth of poverty using a poverty line
approach; the analysis of expenditures on social services (health and education) in different
areas, and by households from different socioeconomic groups; and food security analysis by
area and socio-economic group. The analyses will disaggregate gender data. Given the important
role that the CSA is to play, the WMS will support a program of institutional strengthening for
the CSA, which will cover (i) data collection; strengthening the field activities of the CSA
through provision of vehicles and field equipment for carrying out its household survey program;
and (ii) data processing: a phased program to replace CSA's obsolete equipment and train staff
in modem PC-based processing techniques including the use of statistical software; and a phased
program to transfer this capacity to the regions.
6.    Sectoral Ministries and the RRC also undertake data collection and analysis in their own
sectors, and maintain their own information systems. The results of these analytical activities
will be fed into the WMS. The monitoring activities of the RRC in the areas of food supply and
agricultural production provide essential short-term indicators of economic stress. The Ministry
of Health has an extensive information system collected from the community health service,
health stations and hospitals and which may be used to measure the delivery of services to the
poorer and more vulnerable communities. The same applies to the data generated by the annual
schools census administered by the Ministry of Education, providing updates of key indicators
such as enrollment rates and age/grade mismatches. In both these ministries however, resources
have been severely stretched to the extent that their information systems are now very
incomplete and there are major delays in the production of data. While the WMS will not be a
vehicle for financing major structural reforms to these sectoral information systems, use may be
made of the Study Fund to support specific pieces of analysis or to help unblock access to
specific information of importance to the WMS.
7.    University, Research, and Market Research Institutions. The WMS will encourage
stronger links between government agencies and research establishments such as the Ethiopian
Food and Nutritional Institute (EFNI), the Institute of Development Research (IDR) and the
Economics Department of Addis Ababa University (ED/AAU). Representatives from the
academic community will be represented on the Advisory Group, and the Study Fund will help
promote policy-relevant research. For example it may be used to support and extend the
collaborative research project between the ED/AAU and the IDR which has established a panel
survey of households to study the changes in wealth in rural Ethiopia. This study is expected to
provide important insights concerning the impact of macro-economic changes on the welfare of
different population groups. The Study Fund can also be used to complement statistical surveys
with qualitative and participative surveys using group interviews, beneficiary assessments and
other forms of observation.
8.    The main regional institutions for coordinating welfare monitoring activities, will be the
regional planning bureau with which the WMU will form a welfare monitoring network.



Annex I
Page 3 of 5
Initially, the WMU will collaborate with the regional planning bureaus to institute annual
workshops at the regional level, which would closely follow the annual national workshops and
which would be used to assess the regional implications of the WMS results. Over time, the
regional planning bureaus will be assisted to establish units which would replicate the activities
of the WMU. The WMS Study Fund may be used to support feasibility studies on how best to
strengthen regional welfare monitoring capabilities. The CSA is currently relatively centralized
with all data being processed centrally, and given the technical nature of this work, this is likely
to continue for a while. However the WMS will be used as a vehicle to progressively
decentralize CSA activities and build up regional competencies in the area of data entry, editing
and processing. Some capacity is already being created in these areas through the UNICEF-
assisted program to support monitoring and evaluation in 64 woredas.
9.    Management of the WMS Study Fund. The Study Fund will enable the WMU to
contract local and international consultants to carry out studies or surveys on specific issues
relevant to the WMS. The Fund aims to promote and foster the development of in-country
analytical and research skills, both in government agencies and independent research groups and
the private sector. The kind of studies to be supported may include national and regional poverty
profiles to measure levels of poverty and describe the socio-economic characteristics of the poor
by region and socio-economic group; social sector studies and public expenditure reviews to
measure the effectiveness of social sector policies and interventions on the poor and vulnerable;
labor and employment studies, including gender studies, aimed at promoting equal opportunities
and more effective income-generating opportunities for women; and food security assessments,
including reviews of agricultural production. The Study Fund may also be used to organize
seminars and workshops, particularly where they relate to the dissemination and review of WMS
studies. It may also be used to promote methodological innovation (including the application of
beneficiary and participatory poverty assessments), and the development, testing and application
of rapid low cost processes for data collection, entry and processing.
10.   The WMS Advisory Group will carry out technical reviews of all applications to the
Study Fund and make recommendations to the Steering Group for final decision. All contracts
with an estimated value more than US$ 20,000 with individuals and more than US$ 50,000 with
firms will also need prior review by the Bank. The Study Fund will be administered by the
WMU which will be responsible for processing all proposals, signing contracts, supervising
implementation and disbursements, and preparing quarterly progress reports on ongoing studies
for the Steering Committee. Study fund applications may be initiated in two ways. Studies or
activities may be identified by the WRC, Advisory Group, or WMU, and for contracts above US
$ 20,000, terms of reference will be advertised locally, a shortlist of qualified individual or
organizational applicants drawn up, and these invited to submit proposals covering the research
objectives, the methodology to be used, method of managing the study, a schedule of activities
and outputs, and a resource requirement and budget. Applications may also be initiated directly
by individuals or organizations seeking support to carry out research or studies which would be
of direct benefit to the WMS.
11.   WMS Supported Capacity Building. The WMS will help build improved capacity, at
national and regional levels, to use qualitative and quantitative information to develop more
effective programs and policies. WMU staff and other analysts will participate in short courses
both in-country and abroad, in topics such as welfare analysis, database management, social
sector studies, labor and employment studies, food security, and gender studies. An important
element of the capacity building will be the national and regional workshops organized by the
WMU to review the outputs of the WMS. The WMS will help statisticians and data processing



Annex I
Page 4 of 5
specialists to upgrade their skills through short term courses offered in Ethiopia, and seminars
and conferences outside the country. The WMS will also provide specific training of field and
data entry staff of the CSA for the implementation of the Welfare Monitoring Survey and price
collection activities.
12.   Technical Assistance. In addition to employing consultants through the WMS Study
Fund for specific assignments, the Project makes provision for longer-term technical assistance
to build institutional capacity in the key institutions responsible for implementing the WMS.
Technical assistance to the WMU will assist the design, development and maintenance of the
socioeconomic database; and assistance will be provided to the CSA for survey and sample
design, and for data processing and analysis.
13.   Project Implementation. The WMU and CSA will be responsible for preparing Annual
Budget and Work Plans and financial reports for their respective components which will be
consolidated into a single report by the WMU for review and approval by the Steering
Committee and the Bank. Two special accounts for the WMS will be opened and operated by
the CSA and WMU respectively. Co-signatories for the WMU account will be the Chairman of
the Steering Committee (or his appointee) and the Head of the WMU, and for the CSA account,
the Chairman of the Steering Committee (or his appointee) the Director General of the CSA. The
GSA and WMU will be responsible for maintaining accounts which will be audited at the same
time and according to the same auditing procedures as have been established for the ESRDF.
Both organizations will also be responsible for disbursements (under the same rules governing
the ESRDF Project) and for the submission of applications for replenishment/reimbursement of
their respective special accounts.
14.   Implementation Schedule. The work of the WMU and WRC will follow a standard
cycle: each July the WMU will organize a national workshop to review welfare issues based on
the WMU's Annual Review of Social Trends, followed by assistance to regional planning
bureaus to organize regional workshops in the regions. The CSA will play a central role in
providing the WMS with household and community level data at the necessary levels of
disaggregation. In thefirst twelve month phase, the CSA will concentrate on implementing a
number of surveys relevant to the WMS that have already been prepared including an
Agricultural Sample Survey, and a Household Income, Consumption and Expenditure Survey.
For these surveys to make a useful input into the WMS, usable results will have to be made
available within no less than six months of the end of fieldwork. As the CSA cannot achieve this
with its existing resources, the WMS will support the CSA's efforts to help accelerate the
process. These surveys will be supplemented by adding a short Welfare Module to the ICES to
capture additional information to be used in preparing poverty profiles, such as distance to and
use of social services and amenities. In addition to data collection at the household level, the
CSA also collects price data on a continuous basis across the country. These data will also be
important inputs into the WMS, to help develop price deflators for comparing welfare levels over
time and space, and to serve as early indicators of economic stress.
15.   In the secondphase, the WMS will support the CSA's carrying out an annual Welfare
Monitoring Survey, possibly linked to an agricultural production/forecast survey. While details
of the contents of the survey will be worked out (following the analysis of the 1994/5 surveys),
key features will include: a short core questionnaire to be repeated annually, very short turn-
around time between data collection and the presentation of results, and the use of a sample size
large enough to present results at zonal level. The price collection activities will also continue to
provide important inputs into the WMS. The possibility will also be explored of using the



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
revised master sample frame to select a limited number of enumeration areas for use as sentinel
sites for participatory poverty assessments and community-level surveys.
Table: Welfare Monitoring System Implementation Schedule
ACTIVITIES                          Year One          Ysar Two          Year Three        Year Four          Year Five
1st 2nd 13rd |4th 1st 12nd |3rd 14th lst |2nd 13rd 14th 1st |2nd |3rd |4th 1nt 12nd 13rd 14th
NMU end WRC Actvities
Eslablishment of WRC
Establishment of WMS Advisory Group
Preparation of Review of Social Trends
Annual National Welfare Review workshop
Regional Welfare Review Workshops
Review of Social Dimensions of Economic Reform
Ad hoc monilonng and evaluation studies                                 *             *fl*             f                   *flfl
OSA Surveys
Agricultural Sample Survey
Anaiss
llousehold Income and Expenditure
Analysis
Welfare Monitoring Survey
Field
Analysis
16.    Financing Plan. The overall foreign exchange cost for the WMS is estimated at $ 3.8
million of which US $ 2.7 million is to be financed directly by the Norwegian Government.






Annex J
Page I of 5
Environmental Assessment
I.    General. The Transitional Government of Ethiopia is committed to addressing
environmental issues and in ensuring that economic growth in the future will be sustainable.
Since 1990, a process has been underway to develop a National Conservation Strategy (NCS),
which is the Ethiopian Government's equivalent to a National Environmental Action Plan. The
NCS, which articulates a set of policies. strategies, actions and investment programs to address
the main environmental and development issues currently prevailing in the country, is shortly to
be approved by the Council of Ministers. Eventually, each regional Government will be
expected to formulate regional conservation strategies based on the guiding principles and
framework of the National Conservation Strategy. The NCS is comprehensive in scope,
highlighting a range of issues across several sectors including land degradation and loss of tree
cover, insufficient supply and poor quality of water resources, urban degradation, progressive
loss of bio-diversity and inappropriate rangeland management. It is within the context of this
overall strategy that the Government aims to pursue two important environmental objectives
under the ESRDF project. The first is to ensure that each sub-project approved for funding, will
have been reviewed for potential negative environmental impacts and that appropriate mitigating
measures will have been taken for any impacts identified. Projects which are found to have
negative environmental impacts which cannot be adequately mitigated will not be approved for
funding. The second is to use the project as a vehicle for proactively pursuing the Government's
environmental objectives through promoting better environmental practices and increasing the
positive environmental impact of sub-projects.
2.     Environmental Effects of Sub-Projects. In most cases the negative environmental
impact of the individual sub-projects is expected to be localized and limited. Table I lists the
main categories of projects identified by the Government as those most likely to be requested by
communities. Column two of the table briefly highlights the potential negative effects of each
category of project with column three specifying the mitigating measures that may be necessary
to overcome these effects. The only potential area of concern relates to small-scale irrigation
sub-projects. Here, necessary actions will be incorporated at the design stage. For example,
attention will need to be paid to ensure that adequate soil conservation measures are undertaken
in the case of micro-dam construction to stem the effects of high levels of siltation, a common
problem throughout most of Ethiopia. Adequate extension support to farmers in the proper use of
irrigated land will also be important not only to enhance the quality of the project's impact on
agricultural productivity, but also to prevent more serious problems of water logging and
salinization of the soils. Awareness of prevailing land use patterns will also be important. Care
will need to be taken to ensure that irrigation schemes do not displace local populations who
might be using the area for grazing or rain fed farming, that the schemes do not damage the
access to water of downstream communities, and that appropriate measures are taken to prevent
an increased incidence of water borne or water-related diseases as a result of the new dams or
irrigation channels.
3.     The remaining categories of sub-projects to be funded under ESRDF are expected to
have relatively minor negative environmental impacts, though these will still need to be taken
seriously. For instance, poorly managed water supply or sanitation schemes can sometimes
create greater health hazards than those that they were originally designed to address. Health
and education centers, if constructed with wood can contribute to the depletion of forest
resources in the local neighborhood. Medical wastes can also generate a health hazard if they are
not properly disposed of. Micro-enterprises and other income-generating activities can make



Annex J
Page 2 of 5
unsustainable demands on local wood or water supplies if improperly designed. All these
potential impacts can be identified during appraisal process and addressed in project design. For
instance, alternative construction materials to wood could be found. Incinerators for the proper
disposal of waste materials could be constructed at health center sites. Measures to ensure proper
drainage and protection around a water source could be enforced etc.
4.     Building Capacity. The key to ensuring that appropriate measures to safeguard against
negative environmental impacts under the project is to ensure that the ESRDF staff have the
capacity to adequately screen, oversee the design of sub-projects and monitor their
implementation in accordance with environment criteria. The present capacity of ESRDF to
undertake any of these functions is weak. In order to meet its environmental objectives, ESRDF
will need to devote substantial effort and resources to building up the capacity of the ESRDF
staff to carry out its environmental work.
5.    There are three main ways in which this capacity will be strengthened. First of all the
process by which sub-projects are screened, appraised and approved, will be designed in such as
way that potential negative environmental impacts can be identified at an early stage and
adequate mitigating measures incorporated into the project design in consultation with the
community/ies concerned. To this end the ESRDF Operational Manual has been designed to
include an environmental checklist for each of the main categories of project that are likely to be
requested by communities. Where potential problems are identified, ESRDF staff will review
what kind of mitigating measures might be appropriate and who will be responsible for
implementing these. ESRDF will then be responsible for ensuring that these measures are
adhered to in the design and implementation of the project by the communities concerned and
their contractees. Close attention will be paid to modifying or updating the checklists once the
ESRDF staff have had a chance to apply them in practice.
6.     The second way in which ESRDF capacity will be enhanced, is by ensuring
appropriately skilled staff in ESRDF. Given that environmental issues are generally closely
interwoven with sectoral concerns, the appointment of additional staff to deal specifically with
environmental issues will be avoided as far as possible. Rather, the aim will be to train individual
sector specialists to integrate appropriate environmental approaches into their mainstream
activities. To oversee the ESRDF's environmental activities and capacity building efforts, a
broad based technical environmental specialist will be appointed at the Central Office to act as a
catalyst for all issues of environmental concern under the project. This person will have overall
responsibility for providing technical support and back-up to regional offices, organize training,
review and update the sections of the operational manual relating to environmental appraisal and
assessment and ensuring that the project's environmental objectives are being achieved.
7.    At the regional level, one existing staff (not necessarily an environmental specialist) will
be designated as environmental focal point with responsibility for overseeing and coordinating
the implementation of the ESRDF's environmental agenda at the regional level. It is anticipated
that there will be times when additional specific expertise will be required, for instance if there is
a need for a more in-depth environmental assessment of a sub-project or to draw up
environmental check-lists for new categories of projects not already covered by the operational
manual. In such cases the project will draw on locally available expertise on a consultancy basis.
A roster of suitably qualified environmental specialists will be drawn up by the project at an
early stage.



Annex J
Page 3 of 5
8.     The third way in which environmental capacity will be strengthened, is through
providing ESRDF staff, particularly at the regional level, with increased awareness of
environmental issues related to the community based activities implemented under the project,
and with the skills to appraise sub-projects for their possible environmental effect. In addition to
training ESRDF staff, the project will also provide technical training to selected Government
staff and other stakeholders. This training would be aimed at providing the skills to integrate
environmental concerns into sub-project design, and for ensuring that activities under the sub-
projects will be environmentally sustainable. Specific training modules for this purpose will be
devised and included as part of more general technical training that will be implemented under
the ESRDF project. In certain cases training of selective groups of government development
agents will also be undertaken to enhance their skills in training project beneficiaries to make
sub-project activities environmentally sustainable (e.g. appropriate soil and water conservation
practices in connection with small-scale irrigation projects).
9.     Promoting the Government's Environmental Objectives. One important way in
which the Government plans to promote its environmental agenda is to incorporate
environmental perspectives in the ESRDF's community promotion activities. The purpose will
be to inform communities of possible means of addressing some of their more serious
environmental problems such as land degradation (including gulleying), loss of tree cover and
lack of water for agricultural or domestic purposes. Care will be taken not to impose solutions on
communities, but rather to present them with a range of options and inform them of what other
communities have already tried and their successes. In addition to encouraging specific
'environment' sub-projects, ESRDF will also make efforts to encourage environmentally positive
components to be built into the various categories of sub-projects. For instance, the use of
renewable energy such as solar panels, will be explored as a source of energy for health clinics or
for micro-enterprises requiring power, rather than resorting to fuel wood. Tree planting will be
encouraged in the vicinity of schools and health clinics funded under the project. Water
harvesting in the form of roof catchments will be encouraged as part of the design of school
buildings or health facilities. These and similar components will be based on natural community
incentives as well as best local practices observed by the ESRDF in its field work with
communities.
10.   Monitoring. The performance of ESRDF in ensuring that environmental concerns are
appropriately incorporated into the project will be closely monitored particularly during the first
year of project implementation. ESRDF environmental coordinator in the Central Office will
have primary responsibility for maintaining regular contact with regional staff, obtaining feed-
back from them on the fulfillment of their environmental functions and modifying procedures in
accordance with feed-back and recommendations from project staff. A thorough review of the
process of integrating environmental concerns into project activities will be undertaken at the
end of the first year. In addition, environmental indicators have been incorporated into the
project MIS and evaluation systems so that the ESRDF can keep track of whether the appraisal
process is indeed resulting in environmentally sound projects. Each major report on ESRDF
performance will contain chapters on its environmental activities and their achievements.



Annex J
Page 4 of 5
Table: Potential Negative Environmental Effects of Sub-Projects
Category of Sub-Project       Potential Negative Effects               Possible Mitigting Actions
Small-scale Irrigation    Increased risk of water-borne and water-   Construct a drinking water supply system (at a
related diseases including malaria and  safe distance from proposed project site in the
schistosomiasis                       case of groundwater) before proceeding with
dam or diversion weir
Possible contamination of nearby      Ensure proper maintenance of canals so as to
domestic groundwater sources as a result  avoid occurrence of stagnant pools etc.
of infiltration of wastes from animals
drinking micro-dam water;
Rapid siltation of dam as a result of soil   Possible relocation either of drinking water
erosion                               source or proposed dam site, or establish
measures to constrain cattle from drinking water
directly from dam
Disruption of already existing irrigation    Construct terraces and plant vegetation in
schemes downstream causing hardship    catchment area to prevent erosion
to users of such schemes
Deterioration of soil quality as a result of  Scale down micro-project or cancel approval
waterlogging, salinization, leaching of
soil nutrients etc.
Disruption of grazing areas and farm  Provide beneficiary training in appropriate soil
land causing social hardship to some  and water management practices; ensure
community members                     adequate extension support from woreda
following construction of scheme
Prepare plan to accommodate displaced people
(including compensation) in a way that is
satisfactory to all community members.
Rural Water Supply     Health hazards from potential          Construct appropriate protective measures for
contamination through inadequate      water source
protection of well or borehole
surroundings
Degradation of vegetation and soil    Find altemative possibilities for watering
around water points                  livestock
Urban Sanitation       Potential contamination of nearby      Relocate latrines or identify altemative drinking
shallow groundwater resources         water sources
Aggravation of sanitation problems in  Ensure properly functioning arrangements for
other urban vicinities as a result of  disposal of wastes in controlled sites.
unsafe disposal of sludge from septic
tanks or latrines



Annex J
Page 5 of 5
cont.d/
Category of Sub-Project           Potential Problem                    Mitigating Actions Required
Health                  Aggravation of scarcity of local wood  Use alternative construction materials to wood
resources through use of timber and   and alternative energy sources such as solar
charcoal for construction and subsequent  energy if feasible. Plant trees around the health
operations                            compound.
Generation of poorly disposed harmful    Install incinerator or find alternative safe
wastes resulting in serious health hazards  solution to the disposal of wastes.
Education               Aggravation of scarcity of local wood  Use alternative construction materials to wood;
resources through use of timber for   plant tree around the health compound.
construction
Income Generating       Aggravation of water scarcity through  Redesign production process
Activities              excessive use of water for production
processes
Aggravation of scarcity of local wood  Use alternative construction materials to wood
resources through use of timber and   and alternative energy sources such as solar
charcoal for construction and subsequent  energy if feasible. Plant trees in vicinity of IGA
operations
Inappropriate use of land leading to  Make appropriate extension support available to
declining soil fertility              ensure proper soil and water management
practices
Contamination of water supplies or other
health hazards as a result of inadequate    Install incinerator or arrange disposal of waste
disposal of harmful wastes            materials in approved sites; redesign operations;
reprocess wastes






Annex K
Page I of 2
Gender Action Plan
I.    The "National Policy on Ethiopian Women" highlights that although women actively
participate in all walks of life, they do not usually benefit from their labor and are not given an
equal chance to compete with men. The majority work in the informal economic sectors and the
average rural women's work day, with regional and cultural variations, is between 13 to 17 hours,
with very low income. Land is normally registered to the male head of the household and
excludes women. The Policy adds that women spend on an average 5 hours collecting fuel wood
for cooking and carry 28 kilos of wood. Water is carried at least twice a day, on average over a
distance of 3 to 5 km. Only 5 percent of all women are assisted by trained mid-wives. The
maternal mortality rate is one of the highest in the developing world, at 20 per 1000 live births.
Each year, 17,000 women die if child bearing complications. Ethiopia also has a very high
fertility rate of 7.5 children per woman. Ninety-eight percent of Ethiopian women have no
access to family planning services. The Policy also acknowledges that existing legislation assists
in perpetuating a secondary socio-economic status for women.
2.     The Policy encourages the integration of gender issues in the overall development
program of the country to enhance the participation of women, to make them equal beneficiaries
of development programs, and to safeguard their right and equal access to land and property.
3.    In keeping with the stated objectives of the National Policy, the ESRDF has developed a
Gender Action Plan (GAP) to address gender issues in sub-projects financed by the Fund. GAP
has been designed to reinforce the demand-driven approach of the Fund and is summarized in the
attachment. The key elements of GAP include: (i) special promotional activity to encourage
communities to plan and design projects focusing on women's priorities and needs; (ii)
incorporation of measures in all existing processes in a sub-project cycle to ensure identification
of any adverse gender impact; (iii) development of indicators to prioritize the selection of sub-
projects addressing priorities and needs of women; (iv) encouragement to include nutritional
activities that focus on the needs of women and children; (v) encouraging the design of income-
generating activities for women, coupled with savings schemes; (vi) involving NGOs specialized
in women's development to assist ESRDF implementation in ways that benefit women; (vii)
incorporation into training activities, attention to the socio-economic constraints women face,
and opportunities for their advancement; (viii) inclusion of gender indicators in the project MIS
and reporting system; and (ix) inclusion of a specialized staff member in the ESRDF Central
Office to take charge of coordinating women's activities, imparting gender sensitivity training to
all staff of the Fund, and monitoring the impact of ESRDF activities on women. During the
lifetime of the Project, the ESRDF and the Bank project team will carry out participatory
beneficiary impact studies, in which the specific patterns related to women can be identified.



Annex K
Page 2 of 2
Objective                                             Activities
To ensure that ESRDF funances   1. Analyzing the needs of women using guidelines in the ESRDF sectoral handbooks, and
sub-projects that benefit women  encouraging full participation of women during ESRDF promotional and diagnostic
activities.
2. Encouraging and giving priority to sub-projects where greater number of women are
represented on the governing committee would be accorded priority for financing.
3. Close gender monitoring all sub-projects that are either designed and planned by women,
or clearly of significant benefit to women (e.g. provision of potable water, sanitation projects,
health services, grain mills).
4. Special beneficiary impact studies will focus on women, and the Poverty Monitoring
Component is being designed to support the collection of gender disaggregated information.
To ensure that processes used  1. Use of a checklist for appraisers to ensure that no sub-project financed by the Fund has an
for sub-project promotion,   adverse impact on women, and where there is any risk of this that adequate mitigatory
appraisal, monitoring, and   measures are incorporated into the project design.
evaluation do not have any   2. Examination of all operational documents to ensure that gender issues are adequately
adverse impact on women.     considered at all stages of project cycle.
To build women's capacity to    1. In addition to the promotional activities, special training will be designed to assist women
participate in community    to play a full role on Community Project Committees, and in various aspects of the sub-
activities                   project cycle.
2. Every Community Project Committee will be required to have at least two women as
members and sub-projects with larger numbers of women would be given special attention.
To strengthen the commitment   1. All Fund staff, implementing agencies and beneficiaries will be trained in methods of
of ESRDF and its partner     gender analysis, and given guidelines on how to identify benefits and problems of special
agencies towards social and  concern to women.
economic progress of women    2. One staff member in the Central Office of the Fund will be trained and take charge of
coordinating activities for women and will oversee the monitoring and evaluating the gender
impact of Fund sub-projects.



Annex L
page I of 5
Ethiopia - Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund (ESRDF) Project
Procurement Plan
(Procurement Conducted at the Central Level)
Procurement Number                  Description             Implementing Agency
1. CPC/ESRDF/Pi/1996/97    Equipment for sub-projects                  CPC
2. CPC/ESRDF/P2/1996/97    Office equipment and vehicles               CPC
Required Equipment for Phase 1
Type of Equipment             Unit        Qty.
Water Supply
I Drilling Rig                        No.          4
(DTH Rotary Type medium size)
Compressor/Mud Pump                  Set          3
2 Heavy Duty Trucks
Flat Trucks                         No.           3
Mobile Workshop                     No.           4
Irrigation
1. Bulldozer (200 hp)                 No.          4
2. Motor Grader                       No.           4
3. Wheel Loader                       No.           4
4. Compactor                          No.           4
5. Excavator                          No.           4
6. Water Browser                      No.           4
7. Tipper Trucks                      No.           8






Annex L
page 2 of 5
ESRDF
Procurement Plan 1
Procurement No.              CPO/ESRDF/P1/1 996/97                            Procurement Method:         ICB
Expenditure Category:        Equipment for Sub-Projects                       Prior Review Required:    Yes
Items to be Procured:        Equipment for Small-Scale Irrigation             Pre-qualification:          No
Estimated Cost:              US$ 5.98 milLon
Activities         Jan     Feb      Mar      Apr    May    Jun         Jul      Aug          Sept          Oct       Nov      Dec      Daof
______  _______  ______                                        _______            ~~~~ ~~~~~~Days
I   Prepare specification                                    _                                                                                       31
2   Prepare bidding docs.                                                                                                                            30
3   Obtain IDA N/O                                                                                                                                   30
4   Advertise bidding docs.                                             E                                                                             7
5   Issue bidding docs.                                                                                                                              60
6   Receive & Open bids                                                                                                                               0
7   Evaluate bids                                                                                                                                    30
8   Obtain IDA N/O                                                                                                                                   10
9   Notify bid winner                                                                                                                                 2
10  Finalize contract                                                                                                                                 I _   10
I I  Award contract                                                                                                                                   15
12  Open L/C                                                                     .                                                                    15
13  Receipt of goods                                                                                                                                 151
Total                  l       l       l         l                                                                                              391






Annex L
page 3 of 5
ESRDF
Procurement Plan 2
Procurement No.              CPO/ESRDF/Pi/1996/97                            Procurement Method:        ICB
Expenditure Category:       Equipment for Sub-Projects                       Prior Review Required:    Yes
Items to be Procured:       Equipment for Water Supply                       Pre-qualification:         No
Estimated Cost:              US$ 4.11 million
Activities         Jan     Feb     Mar       Apr    May    Jun        Jul      Aug          Sept          Oct       Nov     Dec      Dyof
1  Prepare specification                y_       8                                                                                                31
2   Prepare bidding docs.                                                               _     _               _           _                        30
3   Obtain IDA N/O                                                                                                                                30
4   Advertise bidding docs.                                           v                                                                             7
5   Issue bidding docs.                                                                                                                            60
6   Receive & Open bids                                     _                                                                                       0
7   Evaluate bids                                                                                                                    _             30
8   Obtain IDA N/O                                                                                                                   ____          10
9   Notify bid winner                                                                                                                               2
10  Finalize contract                                                                                                                              10
I i  Award contract                                                                                                                                15
12  Open L/C                                                                                                                                       15
1 3  Receipt of goods                                          ______                                                                              151
Total                                                                                                                                        391






Annex L
page 4 of 5
ESRDF
Procurement Plan 3
Procurement No.             CPO/ESRDF/P2/1998/99                           Procurement Method:       ICB
Expenditure Category:       Office Equipment                               Prior Review Required:    Yes
Items to be Procured:       Computers & Related Items                      Pre-qualification:        No
Estimated Cost:             US$ 1.16 million
Activities        Jan    Feb      Mar       Apr    May    Jun        Jul     Aug          Sept         Oct       Nov    Dec  |    of
I  Prepare specification                      _                                                _                                              31
2   Prepare bidding docs.                                                                                   _                                 30
3   Obtain IDA N/O                                                                                                                            30
4   Advertise bidding docs.                                                            _       .                                               7
5   Issue bidding docs.                                                                                                                       60
6   Receive & Open bids                                                                _                                                       0
7   Evaluate bids                                                                                                                             30
8   Obtain IDA N/O                                                                                                                            10
9   Notify bid winner                                                                                                                          2 _   _  2
10  Finalize contract                                                                                                                          10
11  Award contract                                                                                                                             15
12  Open L/C                                                                          _                                    __15
13  Receipt of goods                                                                                                                         391
Total39






Annex L
page 5 of 5
ESRDF
Procurement Plan 4
Procurement No.              CPO/ESRDF/P2/1998/99                             Procurement Method:         TCB
Expenditure Category:        Vehicles                                         Prior Review Required:    Yes
Items to be Procured:        Vehicles                                         Pre-qualification:          No
Estimated Cost:              US$ 3.76 million
Activities       Jan       Feb      Mar      Apr    May        Jun      Jul     Aug           Sept          Oct      Nov      Dec       a of
______ _____ ___   _ _____ _____   ____ _____D   ay s
I  Prepare specification            .           _         ee                                                                                        31
2   Prepare bidding docs.                                                                                                                           30
3   Obtain IDA NIO                                                                                                                                  30
4   Advertise bidding docs.        _ _                                               _                                                               7
5   Issue bidding docs.                                = _  _                                                                                       60
6   Receive & Open bids                                                                                                                              0
7   Evaluate bids                                                                                                                                   30
8   Obtain IDA N/O                                                                                                                                  10
9   Notify bid winner       ___                                                                                                                      2
i 0  Finalize contract                                                                                                                                10
I I  Award contract                                                                                                                                  15
12  Open L/C                                                                                                          i      ..                      15
13  Receipt of goods                                                               -                                                                151
=  FTotal                    l       l       l         l        l       l        l          l       J               l          l        |       |   391






Annex M
Page 1 of I
Lists of Documents in Project File
I.   Operational Manual
Project Cost Projections: Castro, Rey. October 1995
2.   Draft Proclamation establishing the ESRDF
3.   Evaluations of the ESRF Pilot
4.   Rapid Rural Appraisal Reports on:
(i)    Tigray;
(ii)    Afar;
(iii)    Amhara
(iv)    Oromya;
(v)    Gambella;
(vi)    Benishangul;
(vii)   SEPRA (Region 7-1 1)
5.   Report on Irrigation Component for the ESRDF, Feenstra, Els, Consultant, Preparation
Mission, May/June 1994.
6.   Report on Water Supply and Sanitation Component, Lium, Tore, Consultant,
Preparation Mission, May/June 1994.
7.   Report on Micro-Credit for IGA, Putman, Doreen, Consultant, Preparation Mission,
May/June 1994.
8.   Report on the Education Component, Wort, Michael, Consultant, Preparation Mission,
May/June 1994.
9.   Report on the Micro-Finance Component, Ashe, Jeffrey, Consultant, March 1995
10.  Economic Analysis of Micro-Finance Component, Coolidge, Jacqueline, September,
1995.
11.  Economic Analysis of the ESRDF Project, Garcia, Marito, October, 1995.
12.  World Bank. 1994a. Ethiopia Business Development Survey and Action Plan(Phase 1)
Pilot Assessment of Micro-Business (Draft Report)
13.  Terms of Reference for Sector Handbooks
14.  Report on MIS System Design, Poate, Derick, March 1995
15.  Specifications for the MIS System, De Loittes, September 1995
16.  Capacity Building Program for ESRDF, Picard, Lou, March 1995
17.  UNDP Program Support Document for ESRDF Capacity Building
18.  Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, March 28, 1995
19.  Report on Riparian Issues Related to ESRDF, Rangeley Robert, & Gadelle Fran9ois,
January 1995
20.  ESRDF First Year's Work Program & Budget, February 1996
21.  ESRF Terminal Report, December 1995






MAP SECTION






34                36                38    /            40-               42                44                46                 48
r..r                                                              ETHIOPIA
LOCATIONS OF ESRDF OFFICES
RED
1 6'                                          E RITREA                     SEA                                                                          16 
/   ER~TREA                      SEA                          *     ESRDF Offices
j                                                              0    SELECTED TOWNS
/                                                                *i1    NATIONAL CAPITAL
/j~ ~  j\-s._.                                       - -STATES/REGIONS (Unofficial 1994 boundaries)
j-.J. 54                        \.        \                  *~-~ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SUDAN                                                                                    ThTIG Y  TheState/Region-names are per Artice 47  -  14-
/. ..-.         .-'~    MEKELE                                  of the Constitution of Ethiopia.
._,1  ,  GONDER            '                          \      
It~                                              AFA                                             GULF OF
IT;                          f/ ^_ik,            LAKE 4                        AFAR  A                                          ADEN                        !
/   os           [~~~~~ANA                      ASAYTA .                                                                2 
1    ,'             0  AMHARA                          Q -   e DJIBOUTI
BENkHANGUL -BAHIR DAR    "cF          DESE                     Lake Abe
BEN HAGUL.                                    DESEi                          .           
- > {>  ~ DEBRE
*MARKOS
I  OS     A                                                                        0-r'EJEN  \.                          r'\
j                       TI -ABANEKE  ADDIS     ,.               HARARD
t         i ' R          ~~~~~~~~NEKE61I   ABABA>                       AA    -t.\               *
I--                   \~~/        <t,'    HARAR
! o         BEDELE
0    0/
L J   GAMBELA                              ZIWAY;  ASSELA                       ,                                     .                           8
'-..7AMBELLA          .                      LcAe         -                                                                        /
\.      ;)    -~~~~~IMAO ,0    SB          ,~ Clt '       y r
4-'.       /- --ItAA0   ,'    Sba)p DODOLA                    OROMIA                                                  /
Q QIZAN TEFERI                                  0                                                                       O
*                      ~~~~ ~~~~                      ~~AWSSA  ROBE      SOMALI                        S/ ,NtAALIA
Th boundos,cnlor   \      SEPRA         ARBA         .              R                              SOMALI
dernnunnl,o,,s nSEPRAcMINCH                 Lkn\.(*6
donlnaiis'OpidaI 0n ll~u                             />          
5 olher In|rrnlollol shOwn s  IVtIItI  L.te v z6
on thls mop ds ,,u1  \   _   Abovo                         ~OODE                         
ly, - lhe p-l at                                                                                  (-,OD
Thb Wa,Id Bank G'n.p,
air adic.na an on th egni                      I Lu 
ar n>   r-auiosen,enl                    '--'                     '
o;l        atPlel:eo such   I                                                                                   /  
K LOMETERS   C  5(1 10  150 200 250 300 351J 4(0
.,\^/ ~wo    ' T  K,<ENrYA       *-.                  'I            \...-    ---                  MILES  0    50    CC   150   200   250
16'
UGCANDA. 4                      36     F*    %./0 I4                                                                        4









IMAGING
Report No;       14907 ET
Type: SAR



