                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32321

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
 (PPFI-P9580 IDA-28410 TF-20958 TF-20822 TF-20838 TF-20858 TF-20962 TF-20773 IDA-28411)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 80.80 MILLION (US$120.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
                                                   AND
            ON A SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.5 MILLION
                                  (US$28.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                    GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA

                                                FOR AN

              ETHIOPIAN SOCIAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPMENT FUND




                                              June 24, 2005




Human Development III
Country Department 06
Africa Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective )

                           Currency Unit = Birr (ETB)
                               ETB 8.65 = US$ 1.00
                               US$ 1.00 = ETB 8.65

                                FISCAL YEAR
                                July 1   June 30

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs     Community-based Organizations
CO       Central Office-ESRDF
CPC      Community Project Committee
CSA      Central Statistical Authority
CWIQ     Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DO       Development Objective
ERP      Emergency Recovery Project
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
ERRP     Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Program
ESRDF    Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund
ESRF     Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation Fund
GOE      Government of Ethiopia
HICE     Household Income, Consumption and Expenditure Survey
HS       Health and Sanitation
IGA      Income Generating Activities
ISS      Interim Support Strategy
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
M&O      Maintenance and Operations
MDG      Millennium Development Goals
MIS      Management Information System
MOFED    Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NGOs     Non-Governmental Organizations
NRM      Natural Resource Management
OM       Operational Manual
PCM      Post Completion Monitoring
PVS      Primary Village Schools
QSA      Quality of Supervision Assessment
RWS      Rural Water Supply Schemes
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SDPRP    Sustainable Development Poverty Reduction Paper

SNNPR       Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples Region
SSI         Small-Scale Irrigation Schemes
TA           Technical Assistance
TCB         Training and Capacity Building
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USD         United States Dollar
WCT          Water Catchment Treatment
WDF         Woreda Development Fund
WMU          Welfare Monitoring Unit
WMS          Welfare Monitoring System
WUA         Water Users Association
WUC         Water Users Committee



                            Vice President:     Gobind Nankani
                         Country Director:      Ishac Diwan
                          Sector Manager:       Laura Frigenti
        Task Team Leaders/Task Managers:        Giuseppe Zampaglione/Endeshaw Tadesse

                                             ETHIOPIAN
                  SOCIAL REHABILITATION AND DEVELOPEMENT FUND


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
    6. Sustainability                                                                15
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
    9. Partner Comments                                                              21
    10. Additional Information                                                       21
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34
    Annex 8. ICR Workshop - Addis Ababa - March 7, 2005                              36
    Annex 9. Context Overview                                                        39
    Annex 10. Targeting                                                              40
    Annex 11. ESRDF Contribution                                                     41
    Annex 12. WMU and CSA Contribution                                               52
Map No. IBRD 33405

Project ID: P000771                                                  Project Name: Ethiopia Social Rehabilitation and
                                                                     Development Fund
Team Leader: Endeshaw Tadesse                                        TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 24, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Ethiopia Social Rehabilitation and Development           L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9580; IDA-28410;
                            Fund                                                                     TF-20958; TF-20822;
                                                                                                     TF-20838; TF-20858;
                                                                                                     TF-20962; TF-20773;
                                                                                                     IDA-28411
   Country/Department: ETHIOPIA                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (35%); Health (20%); General education sector
                            (20%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (15%);
                            Irrigation and drainage (10%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (P); Other social protection and risk management (P);
                            Gender (P); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/01/1993                                     Effective: 08/08/1996                08/08/1996
     Appraisal: 02/20/1995                                         MTR: 06/26/1999                  06/29/1999
      Approval: 04/09/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The Government of Ethiopia/ESRDF - WMU - CSA
                      Other Partners:      The Governments of the Netherlands, Italy, Norway, and Belgium and UNDP

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Ishac Diwan                                    James Adams
Sector Manager:                 Laura Frigenti                                 Jacob van Lutsenburg Maas
Team Leader at ICR:             Endeshaw Tadesse                               Lee Roberts
ICR Primary Author:             Giuseppe Zampaglione


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives and design of the Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund (ESRDF) are
discussed here in the context of the overall economic, institutional, and social conditions prevailing in
Ethiopia during the Project life, which spanned July 1996 to December 2004 (see Annex 9).

The Project's objective was to provide to poor, mainly rural communities in Ethiopia, the assets and
services needed to improve their economic and social standards. In particular, ESRDF was to:

   l support community initiatives to construct, rehabilitate, and maintain basic economic and social
         infrastructure and services necessary to improve communities' social services conditions and
         incomes;
   l increase community capacity to identify development priorities, manage Project implementation,
         and maintain ESRDF-financed assets;
   l support measures beneficial to environmental conservation and rehabilitation;
   l respond to the needs of vulnerable groups, especially of poor women;
   l support the establishment of a Welfare Monitoring System (WMS) in Ethiopia to improve the
         collection and analysis of information to guide poverty reduction efforts and track the impact of
         policy measures on the poor.

3.2 Revised Objective:
No formal revisions were made to the project objectives.

3.3 Original Components:
The total project costs were estimated at US$242.40 million equivalent (US$120.00 million IDA credit,
US$61.80 million from donor contributions, US$36.35 million as Government's contribution, and
US$24.25 million from communities). The Project had three main components and several subcomponents.

Component 1. Construction and Rehabilitation of Social and Economic Infrastructure and
Improvement of Related Services, also referred to as ESRDF (US$207.82 million equivalent or 85.7
percent of total base cost). The aim of this component was to support communities in (i) the construction
and rehabilitation of essential local and economic social infrastructure, including basic health care and
primary education facilities, rural water supply and urban sanitation systems, and small scale irrigation
schemes; and (ii) in improved service delivery of primary education and health. This component was to
finance only social and economic infrastructure subprojects that were community initiated and suitable for
community management.

Component 2. Welfare Monitoring System, also referred to as WMS (US$3.13 million equivalent or 1.3
percent of total base cost). This component aimed at assisting the development of poverty reduction
policies and programs, and at improving monitoring of the social consequences of wide-scale development
activities. This component would finance investments to (i) carry out studies and data analysis and (ii) to
build capacity in collection, processing, analysis, and dissemination of data on living conditions.

Component 3. Training and Capacity Building, also referred to as TCB (US$18.3 million equivalent or
7.6 percent of total base cost, inclusive of US$5.16 million for equipment and vehicles). The aims of this
component were to (i) provide ESRDF with the capacity to manage financial resources and to carry out its
Project responsibilities; (ii) provide local community leaders and associations with the skills and knowledge



                                                      - 2 -

required to participate fully in subproject identification and management; (iii) build critical technical
capacity to regional administrations and non-governmental entities involved in the implementation of the
first component.

US$13.15 million equivalent, or 5.4 percent of total base cost, would finance expenditures related to
Project administration, management and operating costs of ESRDF.

3.4 Revised Components:
At the end of 2000, US$17.5 million of Component 1 of the Credit were earmarked to support the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of community infrastructure in the Woredas most affected by the
Ethio-Eritrean conflict of 1998-2000, as part of the Emergency Recovery Project (ERP).

In February 2003, the Bank Board approved a Supplemental credit of US$28.3 million to refinance the
Project (and the DCA was amended accordingly). The Supplemental credit confirmed all Project objectives
and strengthened the emphasis on some subcomponents that up to then had been carried out on a pilot basis
only, in particular Income Generating Activities (IGA) and the Woreda Development Fund (WDF).
Moreover, the Supplemental credit introduced additional outputs under the WMS component (national
poverty map and survey data storage system).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry was moderately satisfactory, but since the ICR format does not give this rating option, it
has been rated as satisfactory.

Consistency with country strategy. ESRDF spans over a period of three Bank Country Assistance
Strategies (CAS) and one Interim Support Strategy (ISS). During this period, the Bank program in
Ethiopia focused on economic growth and poverty reduction by supporting (i) private sector development,
(ii) agricultural productivity, (iii) macro framework stabilization, and (iv) the development of human
capital through the provision of basic social infrastructure and services. The aims of ESRDF were
consistent with these objectives, with the last one in particular, and with the overall priority of improving
gender balance, protecting the environment, and building capacity in the Government.

Project design: ESRDF was established following the positive evaluation of the Ethiopian Social
Rehabilitation Fund (ESRF), a pilot component of the Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project
(ERRP), implemented between 1992 and 1995 in three regions. ESRDF extended ESRF to the entire
country and established a decentralized structure of Regional offices and Regional Steering committees to
support subproject selection, approval, local government endorsement, and implementation. ESRDF was
responsible for appraising subproject proposal received from communities, to ensure their cost
effectiveness, sustainability and environmental soundness. Once the decision was taken to finance a
subproject, communities were to enter into formal agreement with ESRDF to implement subprojects using
standard bidding documents for goods, works and consulting services. All details on subproject
implementation were in the Operational manual and in sector handbooks. ESRDF monitored and
supervised implementation, and ensured the final hand-over to communities. The Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) reveals a remarkable focus on and understanding of the major economic and social problems of
rural Ethiopia, a comprehensive, technically sound and innovative approach to local development issues,
and a very strong coordination and harmonization with major donors. However, the Project suffered from
the following shortcomings:

i) ESRDF allocated funds on the basis of a Government formula which did not take into account
differences in capacity of regions, rather their population and indicators on health and education services



                                                       - 3 -

and on tax collection. Under such a formula, it was inevitable that most regions with low capacity
disbursed very slowly and that most regions with higher capacity performed much better. Despite the fact
that during project design and at appraisal the Bank analyzed the disparities between the regions and
suggested introducing some flexibility in resource allocation for subprojects, the Government did not agree.
Under such circumstances, project design should have envisaged a massive up-front investment in capacity
building activities, especially for the weakest regions.

ii) The Project was too complex, requiring substantial investments in M&E and in supervision with a mix
of sector expertise which was not always available. The QSA highlighted similar problems of Project
design complexity. The indicators listed in the SAR and confirmed by the Supplemental credit, were
mostly process/output indicators, which were not only cumbersome to collect and input in the system but
which gave little information on the long term impact of subprojects. Moreover, the Project went to great
length in calculating the economic rate of return and other financial indicators for all major sectors, which
proved to be of limited relevance during implementation and at completion, while complicating Project
design and its management.

iii) The Project was too ambitious in terms of total number of subprojects to be completed by ESRDF
(13,800), especially on Rural water supply schemes (13,035) and Small scale irrigation schemes (18,175
hectares). The weak country capacity, the difficulty of access to subproject sites and their remoteness, the
significant disparity in geologic and orographic characteristics of potential sites, and other factors such as
the limitation to five regions only for SSI subprojects implementation, should have suggested a reduced
number of subprojects as a target.

Project risk evaluation. The SAR rated the overall risk of the Project as moderate. Three critical risks were
identified (from Outputs to Objective): 1) Lack of institutional capacity in some regions, 2) limited
financing of recurrent costs for facilities created under ESRDF, and 3) constraints in retaining high calibre
staff in ESRDF. Risks 1) and 3) proved to have a negative impact on implementation and their severity
was underestimated at SAR which rated them as modest. The project triggered the following safeguards:
Environment Assessment, Involuntary Resettlement, Safety of Dams, and International Waters.

Project preparedness for implementation. The Project was ready for implementation, especially the first
and third components which were based on the experience gained during the pilot phase. Plans for the
preparation of the Operational manual and of handbooks, and for setting up the MIS were in place at
Project launch. A controversial legal issue about riparian waters and SSI projects in related basins had
been addressed at negotiations and an overall acceptable solution was found. (During project
implementation, ESRDF requested to finance SSI projects in the Wabeishebele and Genale Basin.
However, since SSI subprojects on these rivers designated as international waterways, were explicitly
excluded in the DCA, the request was not accepted). A better integration between the first and second
component, could have benefited the Project by having the WMS provide ESRDF with data and analytical
tools to target poor communities and, on the other hand, by having ESRDF provide inputs to the WMS on
the impact that ESRDF and other development programs were having on communities.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory.

Overall, the Project delivered on its objectives and the assessment for each outcome indicator is as
discussed in the next paragraphs (see also Annex 1). However, beyond its successes in supporting the



                                                      - 4 -

completion of a large number of subprojects, ESRDF has created an important although intangible asset in
Ethiopia: i.e. a culture and practice of local development based on a) empowering local communities to
make decisions on their own needs and priorities; b) the devolution of responsibilities to local authorities
(the Woredas) through the transfer of block grants; and (c) the creation of a sense of interdependence
between local and central authorities, and across sectors and line agencies. This has improved the
efficiency of the project, and has strengthened community cohesion and social accountability. The
assessment by specific outcome and achievement of objective is as follow:

Support the provision of social infrastructure and services. Roughly 20 million people benefited from
ESRDF subprojects, more than 2.5 times the number of beneficiaries estimated at SAR and 83% of those
at Supplemental credit. At ICR, the number of subprojects completed or under completion was 5,679.
This figure is lower than the SAR target of 13,800 subprojects, as the number of Rural water supply
schemes (RWS) completed was significantly lower than the SAR target. The ESRDF delivered above
estimates on Education and Health subprojects. In terms of services, the Project contributed to the
improvement of service provision in all sectors, as discussed in each subcomponent impact section (4.2).
Satisfactory.

Increase community capacity. ESRDF was a "demand based program financing only
community-initiated subprojects suitable for community management" (SAR). To this end the project
financed training of members of communities and of Community project committees (CPC), facilitators,
and staff of NGOs, regional sector bureaus, private firms and of ESRDF. Training was on subprojects
identification, preparation, appraisal and implementation, with an emphasis on community participation.
The Project has financed 854 training and capacity building (TCB) activities, of which 402 were targeting
community members or 90% of all beneficiaries (315,000 people). Despite these achievements, follow up
activities on community capacity building, on M&O especially, remained limited. Moreover, in supporting
regional capacity the project should have adopted a phased approach whereby regions with weaker capacity
would be targeted first and with more resources. Moderately satisfactory.

Support measures beneficial to the environment. ESRDF was designed to approach environmental
preservation goals at two levels: (1) making sure that subprojects were appraised using environmental
criteria, that potentially negative environmental consequences were early detected, and that measures to
mitigate them were adopted; and (2) using ESRDF as a vehicle to pursue the GOE's objective of promoting
better conservation practices. On balance the two goals were attained. Potentially negative consequences of
ESRDF subprojects were treated preventively (e.g. small incinerators for waste treatment at health centers)
and to a greater extent than in non-ESRDF financed subprojects. This was one of the findings of the 2002
Beneficiary and impact assessment (GBA Consultancy Ltd. Impact Assessment of ESRDF Financed
Subprojects). On the second goal, the Project financed the rehabilitation of watershed treatment systems
(52,305 hectares) mitigating the process of soil degradation and financed 126 Natural resources
management subprojects (as indicated in the ESRDF contibution to the ICR, see Annex 11). Satisfactory.

Respond to the needs of vulnerable groups, of poor women especially. Most subprojects were
implemented in regions with the highest number of people living in extreme poverty, i.e. Oromiya, Amhara,
Tigray, SNNPR (Annex 10). As highlighted in the 2002 Beneficiary and impact assessment, ESRDF
subprojects were mostly in rural areas and far from main roads or centres (average distance was more than
50km). As part of the GOE's strategy to improve women conditions in Ethiopia, ESRDF was to focus
especially on poor women. Accordingly, ESRDF developed a Plan to (i) encourage women participation in
subprojects' selection and implementation, (ii) include gender indicators in the MIS, and (iii) encourage the
design of activities and subprojects in which women had a greater chance to participate in and benefit from.
At ICR, the estimate is that 49.6% of beneficiaries were women, with a positive impact on their overall


                                                      - 5 -

conditions (increase in primary education enrolment of girls, reduced time to collect water, improved access
to health facilities). However, these achievements flow from ESRDF financing of services and
infrastructures essential for the entire population and yet delivered by women (water) or with strong
women's participation (health services for the family), rather then from a sustained effort to promote gender
equity. Women participation in project or users committees was rarely over the 20-30% ratio and few
chairpersons were women. Moderately satisfactory.

Support the establishment of a Welfare Monitoring System. Despite some serious delays in analyzing
poverty data and in preparing studies, especially during the period 1996-2000, the Project delivered on its
objectives to: (i) strengthen capacity to collect and analyze data related to causes, patterns and incidence of
poverty in Ethiopia; and (ii) improve the basis for developing poverty reduction strategies. Moderately
satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Construction and Rehabilitation of Social and Economic Infrastructure and
Improvement in Related Services. Satisfactory.

This component financed goods and works, consultant services, TA, equipment, vehicles and materials for
subprojects identified, implemented, and operated by communities, through a representative CPC.
Communities were to finance 10% of total cost (in cash, labour or materials).

The ESRDF process was demand driven, but the SAR anticipated that most demand would be in Rural
Water Supply (RWS: 94% of number of subprojects). The rest was anticipated to be in health (2.5%),
education (2.4%), and Small scale irrigation schemes (SSI), and sanitation. At ICR, 43% of total
subprojects were in RWS, 23% in education, 20% in health and sanitation, and 2.8% in SSI.

                                     Table 1: ESRDF subprojects by Region and Sector
        Region                                              Sector                                  Total
                            Educ.   HS        RWS     SSI   Agr    NRM     IGA     TCB      Others
                                                            .
        Addis Ababa            117       66        1     0     0        0       1      39         0    224
        Afar                    65       34       33     0     8        1       0      38         0    179
        Amhara                 224      174     1008    56    68       34     19      118       26   1727
        B&G                     45       55      163     0     9        2       3      32         4    313
        D.D                     49      282       19     6     9       15       7      74         0    461
        Gambela                 26       15       49     0     0        0       8      20         0    118
        Harare                  26       46       35     0     1        5       7      38         2    160
        Oromiya                360      218      405    34   114       46     41      126         0  1344
        SNNPR                  191       71      188    24    20       17     15       69         5    600
        Somali                  94       87       60     0    12        0       6      27         0    286
        Tigray                 114      111      531    43    36        6       5     120         2    968
        Central Office           0        0        0     0     0        0       0     153         0    153
        Total                 1311     1159     2492   163   277      126    112      854       39   6533
        Subprojects in %        20     17.7       38   2.5   4.2      1.9     1.7      13       0.5    100
        In % excl. TCB          23     20.5     43.8   2.8   4.8      2.2     1.9        -      0.7    100
        Expenditures in %       33       22       15    10      -       -     0.2       7      13*     100
        In % excl. TCB        35.5     23.4     16.5  10.6      -     0.2       -        -   13.8**    100

     *Includes WDF (3%) and ERP (7%) financing. **Includes WDF (3.3%) and ERP (7.2%) financing.
      Sources: ESRDF ­ ICR contribution. February 2005



The SAR anticipated that RWS (36%) and SSI (36%) would absorb most of this component's resources.



                                                       - 6 -

Instead, at completion, the credit supported Education and Health to more than 55% of total ESRDF
disbursements, and RWS accounted for only 15% and SSI for 10%. Factors explaining why the number of
subprojects in Education and Health was higher than anticipated include strong community demand, low
community contribution to recurrent costs in education subprojects, and government national policy
encouraging education and health infrastructure. Under others, the project financed community subprojects,
small roads, and other local infrastructure (3%), the WDF scheme (3%) and ERP operation (7%). The
allocation of ERP and WDF expenditures by sector shows a bias in favour of RWS and of agricultural
activities.

As a direct result of ESRDF capacity building and sensitization activities, out of 10,465 applications
submitted to ESRDF, 78% were initiated by communities, 10% by Government bureaus, 6% by civic
organizations, 5% by NGOs and 1% by local administrations. To finance subprojects, communities
mobilized resources (in cash and in kind) equivalent on average to 8.5% of total costs. In the case of the
WDF, community contributions were on average 15% and in some cases up to 40% of total cost. In
subproject implementation, the level of participation of the CPCs and of communities ranged from full
responsibility in the implementation of all subproject phases (more than 50%), to monitoring and
supervision of the implementation when the subproject was managed by an NGO or a Regional bureau.
This is consistent with the SAR, which emphasized that implementation arrangements were to be kept
flexible to reflect very different conditions among regions in terms of availability of services, markets, local
contractors, and community capacity. Most of the subprojects (64%) were of satisfactory technical
quality. What follows is a discussion of the ouputs and impact of major subcomponents.

Basic Health and Sanitation. This subcomponent financed (i) the rehabilitation, expansion and construction
of primary health care facilities, using accepted Government standards, (ii) training on public health issues
(basic health practices, disease prevention, good nutrition practices, and family planning methods), and (iii)
urban sanitation subprojects, such as latrines and drainage systems. 50% of associated recurrent costs
were the responsibility of the government, while the other 50% was to be financed by communities. Overall
rating of this subcomponent is satisfactory.

Outputs: The SAR estimated that US$28.85 million would finance 357 primary health facilities, benefiting
over 3 million people, and US$2.18 million would finance sanitation subprojects (45 latrines and 23
drainage schemes). At ICR, US$39.87 million had been disbursed to finance 1,159 subprojects of which
535 health facilities (85 health centres, 28 health stations, and 422 health posts) and the rest in health
services and in sanitation subprojects. This increase is explained by the higher than expected demand for
health infrastructure and services by communities. Quality of health infrastructures was rated as good by
the 2002 Beneficiary and impact assessment, by Bank supervision missions, and by ICR field visits. The
number of beneficiaries has skyrocketed from the SAR estimate of 3,147,000 to 11,348,487, also because
many more health centres were built than initially foreseen.

Impact: By 2003, ESRDF facilities accounted for more than 25% of the health centres and 30% of the
health posts in Ethiopia. Outpatients services have also increased significantly since health infrastructures
have been completed: at the Andasa Health Post (Amhara), patients indicated that they doubled their visits
to the doctor since the new post was inaugurated. At Selam Health Centre in Gugele (Addis Ababa),
203,000 citizens are the potential beneficiaries of the new health centre, and 17,500 patients received
services during the first six months. With four doctors in the centre at five working days, this is an average
of 30 patients a day per doctor, which compares very favorably with averages in the region, ranging from 5
to 15 visits per doctor. Although there is no tangible evidence showing a reduction of illness episodes and
disability as a result of ESRDF investments, the response of 80% of those interviewed by the 2002
Beneficiary and impact assessment, confirmed that because of ESRDF-financed health subprojects, malaria


                                                      - 7 -

had been significantly reduced, while 50% mentioned tuberculosis and 30% pneumonia. While the impact
of sanitation subprojects is less positive, it does not affect the overall rating of this subcomponent. At ICR,
most of the latrine facilities visited was unclean, mainly because of lack of water supply, and when clean it
was because they were not used, confirming a general trend in village latrines subprojects in most
developing countries. Often, the potentially positive impact on public health conditions of urban drainage
subprojects visited by the ICR team was limited by design problems and by the fact that the resources
available were not sufficient to address some broader technical issues, typically downstream of the
subproject.

Primary Education. This subcomponent supported (i) the rehabilitation, expansion, or construction and
equipping of primary schools, based on accepted Government standards and using simple technologies, and
(ii) adult training (literacy, business, etc.). Most of the associated recurrent costs (96%) were the
responsibility of the government. Overall rating of this subcomponent is satisfactory.

Outputs: The SAR estimated that US$26.80 million would finance 340 schools of which 238 were Primary
village schools (PVS). At ICR, ESRDF had disbursed US$60.49 million to finance 850 schools (510 PVS,
140 complete primary schools, and 200 other educational infrastructures) and 461 subprojects for training
and literacy services (total of 1,311 education subprojects). At SAR, new facilities were estimated to add
each year 108,000 children to educational enrolment, i.e. about 5 percent of the primary school population.
At Supplemental credit the total number of children benefiting from ESRDF schools was reassessed at
2,233,569. At ICR, this figure was of 2,058,353 (92% of the target at supplemental), supporting access
to primary education to more than 157,000 annually (45% more than SAR estimates).

Impact: From 1996/97 to 2001/02, the total number of Ethiopian primary education establishments
increased of 1,690 units, of which 850 were financed by ESRDF, about 50% of new establishments.
ESRDF investments in education contributed to the increase in Ethiopian primary enrolment ratio, which
rose from 35% in 1996/97 to 62% in 2001/02 (compared to a target of 50% set for the period). ESRDF
has also contributed to the national goal of increasing the share of girls in primary schools to 45% by
2001/02. While this target has not been reached, the percentage of girls has increased from 36% in
1996/97 to 41.2% in 2002/03. ESRDF contributed substantially to this increase: the 2002 Beneficiary and
impact assessment estimated that 47.9% of students in ESRDF schools were girls, while the national
average at that time was 38.5%.

Rural Water Supply. ERSDF financed water-supply subprojects to raise the health standards of rural
communities and reduce the burden on the population in fetching water. RWS subprojects were to promote
the use of low-cost and simple-to-maintain technologies. Recurrent costs related to the provision of
water-supply scheme were to be financed by user fees collected and invested by community Water users
associations. Overall rating of this subcomponent is moderately satisfactory, mainly because the initial
target was not reached and maintenance arrangements were not always fully satisfactory.

Outputs: The SAR anticipated that ESRDF would invest US$75.04 million to finance 13,035 Rural water
supply schemes, of which 8,913 hand-dug wells (68.4%), 1,492 spring developments (11.4%), and 2,630
shallow boreholes (20.1%), providing safe water to 3,381,500 people (15 litres a day per person). At ICR,
US$28.11 million had been disbursed to finance 2,492 subprojects, benefiting 3,056,158 people. Out of a
sample of 2,286 subprojects (91% of RWS completed), 38.7% were hand-dug wells, 23.3% were spring
developments, 19.6% were shallow boreholes, 6.8% were drilled boreholes and distribution, 6.0% were
other subprojects, and 5.3% were the schemes abandoned because of wrong site selection, subsequent lack
of water and in some cases failed design (percentage is within international standards). The significant
shift in number and type of RWS subprojects can be explained by (i) technology choices, as hydro


                                                       - 8 -

geological conditions proved to be more challenging than expected, not allowing simple technologies such
as hand-dug wells, (ii) a higher than expected demand of communities for relatively sophisticated
technologies, even when conditions allowed for simpler technologies, (iii) low capacity in implementing and
utilizing more complex schemes such as motorized boreholes powered by diesel generators and with a
distribution system, and (iv) ESRDF limited success to contract out to local partners RWS subprojects, to
NGOs especially, despite several attempts to reach and sensitize NGOs. At Supplemental credit, the
number of RWS to be completed by end of Project was reassessed at 1,713, indeed a more realistic figure,
with 3,924,726 beneficiaries. Quality of simple RWS was satisfactory, but with increased complexity the
quality of execution and of maintenance suffered.

Impact: The impact of new RWS has been remarkable, especially in reducing workload to collect water and
in improving the quality of drinking water with a positive impact on general health conditions of
beneficiaries. According to a 2000 ESRDF report, the average time saved to collect water from ESRDF
financed RWS, was of 1.5 hour per day (ESRDF, An Impact Assessment of Social Infrastructure and
Rural Water Supply, Nek International Consultancy, July 2000). 80% of the women interviewed by the
2002 Beneficiary impact assessment had improved considerably their employment opportunities because of
time saved after the new RWS was operating. According to the same report, more than 60% of
beneficiaries confirmed that the new RWS had significantly reduced water-borne diseases in the
community.

Small Scale Irrigation (SSI) - Water Catchment Treatment (WCT). This subcomponent was to help poor
farmers overcome water constraints to production by securing a sufficient supply of water for cultivation
and livestock, hence improving food security. The initial focus was on schemes promoting the use of
traditional technologies suited to local management. Overtime, ESRDF was to introduce and adapt modern
technologies. This subcomponent also financed WCT as part of a broader strategy to address issues of
water scarcity and soil degradation. Safeguards on riparian waters, limited the number of regions eligible
for SSI investments to five (Tigray, Amhara, SNNPR, Oromiya and Dire Dawa). Overall rating of this
subcomponent is moderately satisfactory.

Outputs: The SAR anticipated that US$74.95 million would finance earth dams and river diversion
schemes providing irrigation to 18,715 hectares of arable land, with related additional production and
income for 87,844 households or 439,220 people. At ICR, this subcomponent had disbursed little more
than US$18.06 million on 163 subprojects (120 SSI subprojects with distinct command area and 43
subprojects in SSI-related study, design and capacity building subprojects and on other activities). SSI
subprojects provided irrigation to 9,355 hectares of arable land (6,331 hectares with new schemes and
3,024 through the upgrading of existing ones), benefiting around 40,000 households or 165,000 people.
This shortfall is due to (i) the limited outsourcing of design and construction to the private sector, mainly
because of its structural weakness, (ii) the capacity limitation of public agencies when later they became
the implementing agencies of SSI schemes, (iii) the lack of heavy duty machinery when needed, and (iv) an
overall bias (both supply and demand driven) which encouraged relatively complex schemes instead of
traditional ones, which were on balance easier to design, implement and maintain. Water catchment
treatment subprojects supported 52,305 hectares. The SAR had no specific target for WCT subprojects.

Impact: A 100% increase in farmers' revenues is a conservative estimate of the impact of SSI on economic
conditions of beneficiaries. In all SSI schemes (i) cropping seasons are now two (in some cases three); (ii)
preference is given to high cash crops such as onions, garlic, lentils and tomatoes; and (iii) productivity per
hectare and per season has increased considerably (in some cases of 40%). As a result, families have
improved their social conditions: they have bought water pumps, milk cows, radio and TV set, they have
sent regularly their children to school, have opened bank accounts and made investments in grain mills,


                                                      - 9 -

shops, in cattle or in a pair of oxen to intensify land use. Scheme design, civil works and hardware
investments are on balance of good quality. Concerns expressed with regards to a potential increase of
malaria prevalence as a result of potential mosquitoes' breeding grounds created by new SSI schemes, were
addressed by ESRDF through awareness campaigns. The rare cases requiring a focus on resettlement
issues, such as the Tebi Dam in Amhara, were handled in ways that met the Bank safeguards standards.
The economic impact of WCT was also relevant and helped to reduce soil degradation and increase water
availability for irrigation.

Income Generating Activities (IGA). During Project implementation, with the support of the Bank,
ESRDF launched a pilot to support village level microfinance organizations that would serve communities
as a source of microcredit. The IGA scheme was based on the following principles: i) targeting beneficiary
groups with good relationships with ESRDF, (ii) counterpart financing from beneficiaries of at least 10%
of the micro loan, (iii) repayment of the loan and initial grant to be capitalized in a newly established
Savings and Credit Association; and (iv) targeting communities where no MFI services were being
provided. The first phase of this subcomponent is rated unsatisfactory. while the second one is still under
implementation and rating is not available.

Outputs: A total of 112 income-generating subprojects were approved for implementation, most in
agriculture and petty trade. Total financing was approximately US$340,000.

Impact: The program went through two phases: during the first one, only 15% of the principal and interests
was paid back by beneficiary groups, mainly because of poor compliance with IGA principles and low
capacity to run the schemes; a second phase was started in July 2004 (and is still on-going) based on the
experience of the first one and with greater support by ESRDF. Although it is too early to make an
assessment of the second phase, there is field evidence that i) repayments are on schedule and between
70-90%, (ii) IGA are having a positive impact on the economic conditions of beneficiaries: after
repayments, the margins at Edget Betiret ­ Amhara cattle fattening scheme were of 10-30% per animal; the
15 IGA in Oromiya generated Birr 330,000 as additional income after repaying Birr 708,000 (72% of the
loan); women at the Ashebaka sheep rearing scheme (Oromiya) had been able to pay back their loans, buy
more sheep, repay other loans, purchase fertilizers and food even during droughts; at the Agiudom poultry
IG scheme (Tigray), margins on loan after repayment were estimated at 500% a year.

Woreda Development Fund (WDF). Under the WDF, Woredas submitted to the ESRDF Regional Office
(RO) annual work plans and budgets of subprojects identified in a participatory manner. ESRDF RO
would then transfer a block grant (up to Birr 1.5 million) to the Woreda Council which would then transfer
it to communities to finance subprojects. The beneficiary communities would manage the entire subproject
cycle. The scheme included capacity building activities at Woreda and community levels. Overall rating of
this subcomponent is highly satisfactory.

Outputs: Birr 49.03 million (US$5.62 million at the exchange rate of 8.65 Birr per US$), were disbursed
under this subcomponent. The WDF was started in 1999 as a pilot in four Woredas. It was then expanded
to 56 Woredas selected from all regions but Afar and financed 824 subprojects. WDF has financed
subprojects in education (25% of a sample of 362), Health and sanitation (19%), RWS (28%), Agriculture
activities (17%) and other activities (11%). The WDF piloted activities such as non-formal basic education,
community health services run by agents, small-scale community nurseries, community libraries and
farmers training centers.

Impact: The general conclusions on impact under the regular ESRDF apply to WDF. However, WDF
subprojects were smaller in size, less expensive, and cofinanced by community at a level of 15% (against


                                                      - 10 -

8.5% in regular ESRDF operations). These factors have improved community ownership, subproject
quality, their level of maintenance, and ultimately their social and economic impact. The institutional
impact of WDF is significant because of its overall consistency and synergy with the Government
decentralization program.

ESRDF-Emergency Recovery Project (ERP). ESRDF was given the responsibility to implement the
reconstruction of some components of another Bank project, the ERP, in the areas affected by the
1998-2000 Ethio-Eritrea conflict. Financing was provided for the reconstruction of community
infrastructure in the Tigray and Afar regions, and in support of returning displaced people and refugees in
the Afar region. Overall rating of this subcomponent is moderately satisfactory.

Outputs: Out of the ESRDF-ERP allocation of Birr 150.2 million, Birr 101.26 million were either
disbursed or transferred to regional ESRDF offices for disbursement (67.5%), approximately US$12
million. A total of 523 applications were approved and transferred for implementation, 458 in Tigray and
38 in Afar. At ICR, 400 subprojects were under completion, well above the 280 subprojects identified at
appraisal, and 123 were transferred to other agencies for completion or had been terminated, mainly in the
RWS sector (for reasons such as well drying up or unfavourable geological conditions). In Tigray, out of
the 370 subprojects under completion, 47 were primary schools, 56 in Health and Sanitation and 261 in
RWS. ESRDF-ERP also supported the clearing of debris at the severely destroyed town of Zalambessa. In
Afar, out of 30 subprojects, 14 were primary schools, 9 were in health and sanitation, and the rest in
agriculture and in other sectors. In Afar, ESRDF-ERP also assisted IDPs with agricultural/income
generation support and household rehabilitation.

Impact: Expectations are that the PDO of the ERP project will be achieved by closing date (December 31,
2005). Despite some delays in this subcomponent, as of March 2005, 90% of the displaced persons have
returned to their homes and farms. The reconstruction of homes, businesses and community infrastructures
in Zalambessa is underway, but still far from completion. In ERP there was no requirement for cash or in
kind contributions by communities and this has limited their level of participation, ownership, and the
quality of M&O which was on balance lower than under regular ESRDF.

Other subprojects. The SAR, also envisaged subprojects in areas such as rural and feeder roads, grain
storage facilities, other agricultural subprojects and natural resources management, depending on the needs
expressed by communities. 3% of total expenditures, US$5.6 million, financed subprojects in these
sectors. The limited field evidence available on the impact of these subprojects, shows an increase of
farmers' incomes and improvements in environmental conditions, as a result of cash for work
implementation subprojects, of schemes to cut, carry and deliver wood for domestic uses, and of soil
conservation and afforestation investments . The limited availability of data on this subcomponent hinders
our ability to rate it.

Component 2. Welfare Monitoring System (WMS). Moderately Satisfactory.

Activities financed under this component were grouped under two main categories: (a) Supply of relevant
data to be collected by the Central Statistical Authority (CSA); (b) coordination of the overall poverty
analysis and preparation and dissemination of relevant reports, carried out by the Welfare Monitoring Unit
(WMU). At appraisal the cost estimate of this component was of US$3.13 million, with significant support
by the Norwegian cooperation. At ICR disbursement was of US$3.49 million.

a) Data collection. Satisfactory.




                                                      - 11 -

Under this subcomponent, CSA carried out all the envisaged data collection activities and also carried out
an additional Household Income, Consumption and Expenditure (HICE) survey and a Core Welfare
Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) pilot survey. Overall, since 1996, the CSA has carried out two HICE
surveys and four Welfare Monitoring surveys. Quality of data is good and significant improvements have
been achieved throughout the program's life-cycle, especially in terms of reduced time gap between data
collection activities and the release of survey reports. Furthermore, although there is room for
improvement, especially in terms of integration of different data sets, the consistency in data collection
approaches during Project life allows for comparisons over time of key indicators. On the other hand,
availability of a database system as part of a broader data dissemination policy is an area in need of
improvement.

b) Coordination of poverty analysis, preparation and dissemination of reports. Moderately Satisfactory.

Between 1996 and 2000, Project performance under this subcomponent was unsatisfactory, affecting the
overall rating of the component. During this period the only noticeable contribution was the preparation of
the `Poverty Situation Report' (1999) based on the 1995/96 HICE and WM surveys. The Sustainable
Development Poverty Reduction Paper (SDPRP) process, launched in 2000, has been managed by the
WMU, which since then has produced many more reports and has significantly improved teh performance
of this subcomponent. However, this subcomponent did not prepare a national poverty map, as required
under the Supplemental credit and the number of national and regional workshops to disseminate existing
information on poverty organized during the Project life was below expectations (only four in 9 years: one
in the period 1996-2000, and three in the period 2001-2004). Despite these shortcomings, the rating of this
subcomponent is Moderately satisfactory, as the WMU showed during its second phase a strong
commitment to improve its performance, has delivered on main outputs, and has re-established the role and
status of the WMS after a very weak first phase.

                                       Table 2: Reports after 2002 - WMU

    Date                   Report
    March 2002             Development and Poverty Profile of Ethiopia
    April 2002             Patter of Growth and Inequality in Ethiopia. Which Way for a Pro-poor Growth?
    2002                   SDPRP ­ Design of the SDPRP ,matrix and updates
    July 2002              SDPRP ­ Coordination and final report
    July 2003              SDPRP- Progress Report 2002/03
    July 2004              SDPRP ­ Progress Report 2003/04
    2004                   Participatory Poverty Assessment ­ Study Proposal
    2004                   Sectoral MDG Assessment Studies ­ Coordination
    Sources: WMU ­ 2005

Component 3. Capacity Building, Training and Research. Moderately Satisfactory.

This component was designed to support community members, CPC, facilitators, local agencies and the
ESRDF in subproject selection, implementation and management, operations and maintenance of completed
subprojects (such as training of water caretakers and pump operators), basic procurement and accounting
skills, and training on specific subjects such as environmental protection.

Outputs: At appraisal the cost estimate of this component was of US$18.3 million, and at ICR it was of
US$20.06 million, of which US$12.00 million for training programs and US$8.06 million for vehicles.
Since 1996, largely with the support and collaboration of UNDP, ESRDF has financed 854 activities on
TCB. This compares favorably with the target of 275 TCB subprojects as discussed in the Supplemental



                                                     - 12 -

credit and less favorably with the number of total beneficiaries to be targeted by the component (314,179
against 2,010,200). Out of the total, 402 activities were targeting communities, 161 were ESRDF staff
training events, 87 were studies, manuals, surveys, and action oriented research initiatives, under a specific
Study fund allocation. Finally, under this component, the Project financed ESRDF and partner institutions
in purchasing office/IT and field equipment, furnishing, surveying instruments, vehicles and in some cases
laboratories and related materials.

Impact: ESRDF made a significant contribution in building capacity at the national and regional level, and
in supporting the diffusion of a Community Driven Development culture. With ESRDF, a significant
number of managers were trained and got direct exposure to field work. Two shortcomings can be
mentioned.

(i) Despite the significant role that ESRDF had in improving community sensitization and in training
caretakers of completed subprojects, Bank supervision continuously and systematically emphasized the
need to (a) undertake training of water caretakers, water users, and users of other infrastructure well before
the completion of the subproject; (b) carry out periodic reviews of performances of trained CPC members;
and (c) upgrade the skills of CPC/WUA members, water caretakers and other operators. On these
recommendations, follow-up activities were limited and their impact is hard to detect.

(ii) TCB activities were unable to balance the level of capacity of the various Regional offices and more
broadly the capacity of local public and private partners in subproject implementation. During Project
implementation, this has affected the disbursement performance of ESRDF, especially its balance among
regions. It was at Project completion only that ESRDF managed to disburse almost in full the Credit
resources.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Although the SAR calculated the ERR and the Project NPV for subprojects in five sectors (basic health,
basic education, rural water supply, urban sanitation, and small scale irrigation), the Supplemental credit
dropped both ERR and NPV requirements. But also before then, soon after implementation started, Bank
supervision concurred on the futility of some of these calculations, especially in health and education. The
ICR does not attempt to recalculate the ERR for the following additional reasons: i) lack of data on direct
returns generated by subprojects, for example in terms of reduced number of sick days per patient; ii) lack
or irrelevance of data on regional shadow wages and other monetary indicators, as communities are based
on predominantly non-monetary economies; and iii) methodological constraints in aggregating regional
indicators at the national level. Under Annex 3, this ICR has a cost-benefit analysis which comes to the
following conclusions:

l Operational costs of ESRDF are within acceptable limits in relation to similar bank-financed
     subprojects (roughly 10% of total costs);
l ESRDF subprojects were more cost-effective than non-ESRDF subprojects (cost per m2, quality,
     completion time, and targeting of remote communities);
l SSI and RWS were cost-effective. However, in SSI this was especially the case of simple upgrading of
     existing schemes. In RWS, cost-effectiveness is reduced by overexploitation and limited water
     availability;
l Costs per unit were in line with similar subprojects in other countries.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The SAR approaches the issue of Project financial savings under a section on cost savings for the
Government, which at completion were projected to be in the order of US$46 million. At ICR they were of



                                                    - 13 -

US$33 million, 28% less than SAR estimates. However, savings as a percentage of total costs are 22%
both at appraisal and completion, although as a result of different cost savings by sector and of lower
resources disbursed by the Project.

                                        Table 3: ESRDF Savings - Estimates
                                     SAR                                          ICR
    Sector       Cost      Es. Cost    Community    Savings     Cost    Es. Cost   Community       Savings
                US$m       saving %      cont. %     US$m      US$m     saving%       cont. %      US$m
    Educ.        27.0         10           10        5.40       56.2      4.5           8.5         7.3
    Health S     31.2         10           10        6.02       37.5      4.5           8.5         4.8
    SSI          75.0         15           10        18.75      17.0      23.5          11          5.8
    RWS          75.0         12           10        16.50      25.5      43.1          8.5         13.1
    Total        208.2                               46.67     136.2                                 31
    Note: On calculations see Annex 3.



4.5 Institutional development impact:
Considering the significant amount of resources that were invested in capacity and institutional building,
the institutional impact of ESRDF was modest.

The Project created two new institutions: ESRDF, under the direct responsibility of the Prime Minister;
and the Welfare Monitoring Unit (WMU) under the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
(MOFED). Well into Project implementation, oversight of ESRDF was transferred to the Vice-Prime
Minister and Minister of Agriculture. This latter arrangement did not seem to work that effectively, and
ERSDF lost its previously high status within the public administration. Especially during the first years of
Project implementation, this status had allowed ESRDF to have easy access to and timely feedback from all
ministries and agencies.

Under ESRDF, the Project established and equipped 15 offices in the country (11 regional offices, 3
sub-regional offices and one at federal level). Under such a decentralized structure (with Regional Steering
Committees and regional technical and administrative offices), ESRDF worked in coordination with
regional offices, regional technical bureaus, and representatives of line ministries, thus strengthening local
institutions. ESRDF also strengthened the private sector, although to a limited extent.

The Project impact on Ethiopia statistical institutions and capacity was relevant. The CSA was
strengthened by the Project, which also inspired a new law strengthening the overall institutional framework
of statistical activities in Ethiopia. The WMU is now fully in charge of the SDPRP process.

ESRDF established and strengthened grassroots organizations such as CPC (approximately 4,000 were
established), Water Users Committees (2,000), Water Users Associations (120) and Saving and Credit
Associations. However, the extent to which such institutions are still operational and effective is unclear.
In some cases, these institutions were actively engaged in submitting new subproject proposals and in
supporting their implementation. In other cases their efficiency is questionable as they were unable to
continue the work initiated with the support of ESRDF, often because of the departure of key members of
the Committee, lack of follow-up on capacity building, economic and legal limitations in the collection of
funds, and other external factors such as displacement or droughts.

ESRDF also had a role in supporting the decentralization process in Ethiopia, whereby regions and
Woredas have played an important role in prioritizing local economic and social priorities, and in
implementing and financing subprojects. With the Woreda Development Fund, ESRDF supported the



                                                     - 14 -

decentralization, and prepared operational manuals and guidelines to be used at the local level to plan and
finance community development. While other World Bank financed projects have internalized these
approaches, the systemic impact of such process is modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1     Factors outside the control of government and implementing agency:
l The Project had to operate in a context of very scarce capacity, especially in some regions. Private
    contractors were few and with limited equipment.
l The donor community responded extremely well to the need of coordinating efforts and cofinance the
    Project.
l Outside factors such as droughts and the deterioration of terms of trade, affected the overall economic
    context and reduced the impact of the Project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
l Government's policy on decentralization supported the overall ESRDF approach to community
    development.
l The SDPRP provided a framework to WMS to put its experience and resources at best use.
l Lack of action on recommendations to: (a) reallocate funds among regions, once it was clear that some
    of them were not able to disburse while other regions had fully used their allocations; (b) prepare,
    discuss, share and agree on a clear exit strategy for ESRDF and to best use its experience, know-how,
    and assets.
l Slow and limited action to increase ESRDF salary levels and to address the issue of professionals
    quitting or not joining the institution.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
l Delays in implementation, especially during the first two years, also due to the fact that ESRDF was
    unable to attract and retain qualified staff.
l Limited emphasis in capacity building activities in regions with weaker overall capacity such as
    Somali, Dire Dawa, Harari and SNNPR.
l Limited action in strengthening inside capacity to implement gender strategies.
l Very slow start up of the WMU, also as a result of lack of adequate management commitment.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At SAR, estimates of total Project costs were of US$242.40 million of which US$120.00 million from the
credit, US$61.80 million from donors, US$36.35 million as Government's contribution, and US$24.25
million as communities' contributions.

During Project life the following events and decisions had a direct impact on funds availability:

l Due to the depreciation of the SDR to the US$, the Project suffered substantial exchange rate losses,
    which as of April 30, 2002 totalled US$13.4 million.
l On December 31, 2001, IDA cancelled US$11.5 million of the credit proceeds, because of overall low
    disbursement of regions with weak capacity in particular.
l At the end of 2000, US$17.5 million from the ESRDF credit were earmarked to finance recovery needs
    of war affected Woredas in Tigray and Afar (ERP).
l On February 19, 2004, the Board approved a Supplemental credit of US$28.3 million to finance about
    840 ongoing subprojects, retention fees for about 860 completed subprojects, and the completion of
    activities under the WMS component. The Supplemental credit replenished the Bank's support to the



                                                     - 15 -

    Project at its original level of US$120 million.

As of March 2005, Donor cofinancing of the first and third components was of US$50.10 million (The
Netherlands US$22.76 million, Italy US$9.54 million, Belgium US$5.46 million, UNDP/NORAD
US$10.24 million, and Norway US$2.59 million) mainly to finance civil works, equipment, capacity
building and technical assistance. A Norwegian contribution co-financed the Welfare Monitoring System in
the amount of US$2.1 million. Donor resources were channeled through six trust funds and by direct
contributions to the project (UNDP). Government contribution was US40.08 million, 60% higher than
SAR estimates and was provided in a timely manner. Community contributions (US$14.50 million) were
on average 8.5% of total cost (see Table 3, Annex 3) and were 60% lower than SAR estimates although, in
many cases, the amount contributed was far more than the required percentage. (For example, to allow
trucks to reach the subproject site, some communities built the entire access road which was then not
accounted for. Contributions were undervalued because there was no systematic method for assessing the
value of community contributions.).

At the time of ICR preparation -- March 2005 -- of the US$120 million Bank support to the Project
(original and supplemental credit), US$ 111.2 million had been disbursed, i.e. 92.6%.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The SAR discusses sustainability of (i) the ESRDF mechanism and (ii) ESRDF financed subprojects.

i) The SAR strategy was to rely on the decentralization of the ESRDF mechanism to regional management
and mainstream it into regular operations. To some extent this has happened, through the implementation
of the WDF and the collaboration among ESRDF, Regional districts, and regional technical bureaus.
However, this was more the result of ESRDF commitment, than of a clear strategy on the side of the
Government to mainstream the resources and experience of ESRDF. Moreover, achievements under the
WDF were limited to 3% of total resources.

ii) At the subproject level, sustainability was to be reached by:
    l Community ownership. This was significant, although the percentage of subprojects initiated by
         communities was 78%. In some areas, such as SSI, subprojects were originated by regional
         bureaus more than by communities, and this was reflected in design which was often too
         complicated for community M&O. Only in little more than 50% of subprojects, implementation
         was managed directly by communities.
    l Community contributions. At ICR, contributions by communities were 8.5% of total costs, below
         10% although under the WDF they were up to 15% (but 0% in ERP).
    l Screening at appraisal. The documentation reviewed by the ICR team reveals compliance with
         appraisal and sustainability criteria (number of beneficiaries, user fees arrangements, sustainability
         analysis of SSI and RWS subprojects). Technical quality was good as assessed by the 2002
         Beneficiary and impact assessment, supervision (64% of subprojects) and at ICR (majority of
         approximately 90 subprojects visited).
    l Provisions for maintenance. Subprojects were approved by the Regional steering committee,
         made also of main sector heads who endorsed the recurrent cost implications for their ministries.
         Although not always efficient, handing-over agreements were signed and local committees in
         charge of M&O (and of collection of fees) were in place.

From these findings, the rating on sustainability for both i) and ii) remains uncertain. In fact, under i) a



                                                      - 16 -

valid argument can be made that ESRDF has indeed formed the nucleus for a more efficient local
development process. However, it is uncertain how this nucleus can be sustained and nurtured over time,
since the Government is unlikely to continue the ESRDF mechanism or to mainstream it in a systematic
way in local institutions. Sustainability of achievements under ii) is also uncertain. In fact, beside the
mixed picture as described above, the single most serious challenge to subproject long-term sustainability
remains the weak follow-up given to community capacity building activities on M&O, especially of RWS
and of community infrastructure in which the involvement of communities is key for long-term
sustainability (Health and Sanitation, SSI). Most likely, subprojects will suffer from limited technical
training update and follow-up, from insufficient support to the creation of a culture of preventive
maintenance, and by limited if no legal right for CPC to collect fees to finance M&O.

In fact, capacity building is where sustainability of the ESRDF mechanism rejoins the discussion on
sustainability of subprojects. By mainstreaming the ESRDF approach at the regional level (and/or by
transforming ESRDF in a TA-TCB agency), local governments and technical departments could have had a
tool to address the issue of capacity for subproject sustainability in an efficient, targeted and systematic
way. But this has not happened. Moreover, because of the different sector mix of subprojects, total
recurrent costs for the Government are estimated to be at least 34% higher than SAR estimate, in
Education 47% higher, and in health 33%. (Annex 3).

While sustainability of achievements under component 1 and 3 are uncertain, sustainability of achievements
of the second component (WMS) is likely, as they will be consolidated beyond Project life. Despite the
unsatisfactory performance in implementing its mandate during initial years, the WMU is now fully
committed to deliver on its mandate through Participatory poverty assessments (PPA), field work, selection
and training of researchers, preparation of annual progress reports and of sectoral MDG Needs
Assessments. The CSA has been strengthened considerably by the Project in terms of analytical tools,
skilled and better trained human resources (a study tour to other statistical agencies in Africa was financed
by the Project), and equipment. The Project has also improved CSA approaches to data collection and
dissemination. These achievements will stay with CSA, and will actually be reinforced by the new
Statistics Act, approved by Parliament in March 2005, which has confirmed the role of CSA in data
collection and dissemination and has reinforced its institutional framework by introducing a federal
Statistics Council. The WMU and the CSA have jointly prepared a five-year strategy which has received
the full support of the GOE and a Project agreement was signed between MOFED and the Development
Assistance Group covering the period 2004-2009.

Because of the preponderant importance of subcomponents 1 and 3 over subcomponent 2, the overall
assessment of the Project sustainability remains uncertain. However, such rating is not listed as an option
in the ICR guideline and the ICR team has concluded to rate sustainability as unlikely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No specific transition arrangements are foreseen for the ESRDF component of the Project. The WDF is
having a positive impact on how resources are allocated and spent at the Woreda level. However, the WDF
has operated in 56 Woredas only and has invested 3% of total ESRDF resources.

Specific transition arrangements for the WMS component are in place: current and future operations of the
WMU are part of the overall strategy of the MOFED which is committed to support it financially, in terms
of capacity, and providing appropriate visibility and leverage. CSA is a well established institution, to
which international experts often refer to as one of the best statistical offices in Africa. CSA has fully
absorbed the analytical tools developed or introduced by the Project, in particular the Household Income,
Consumption and Expenditure Survey, the Welfare Monitoring Survey, and other survey instruments.



                                                      - 17 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Lending: Satisfactory.
The Bank dialogue with the Government has been fruitful, has leveraged on the experience gained with
ESRF, but was often hijacked by considerations of a political nature such as balancing resource allocations
among regions. At Project design, a full subcomponent on microcredit was designed, but was then dropped
because of significant differences between the Borrower and the Bank on issues such as interest rates and
repayment policies. An IGA subcomponent was later financed under a pilot scheme. Outreach to the donor
community was remarkable and helped involve donors in all phases of Project design and implementation.
The Bank team provided critical inputs to the borrower, and addressed complex legal issues such as those
related to the use of international water resources. On the number of subprojects to be implemented, the
Project was too ambitious, considering the very weak capacity in the country, the novelty of the approach
in some regions, and the extreme diversity among them. These considerations should have suggested a
more flexible approach in project design. However, the Project team was under considerable pressure to
support the completion of project preparation according to the indications and needs of the Government,
also to the sacrifice of greater Project flexibility and simpler design. To a great extent such pressure was
the result of a growing interest on Ethiopia, of realistic prospects of a strong reengagement in the country
by the international community in general and by the Bank in particular, and by the huge development
challenge which was (and is) Ethiopia; one of the largest, most populous, and poorest countries in Africa.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision: satisfactory.
During Project life - especially from effectiveness to MTR ­ the supervision missions were frequent, well
organized, and with an adequate skill mix, although they were made difficult by the Project complexity and
by the high geographical dispersion of subprojects. The dialogue during implementation was on balance
fluid although at times it became tense, as when the Bank recommended increasing salaries and benefits of
ESRDF staff to address the issue of staff retention. Other issues such as compensation of all resettled
people from the Tebi Dam were timely identified and solved, in compliance with Bank safeguards.

On balance, Bank resources were adequate with a good mix of expertise and a good balance between staff
from HQ and from the resident mission. AMs and PSRs (23) were accurate and consistent. However, on
two instances, rating could have been more accurate: PSRs should have rated as high, or at least
substantial, the critical risks of Retaining high calibre staff in ESRDF, instead of modest; and all PSRs, but
the last one, have rated as Satisfactory the Safeguards Management and Compliance, although since the
first PSRs, Bank staff signalled the need to complete the Safety dam and Resettlement audits. The Safety
dam audit was delivered only at the very end of the Project while the Resettlement audit was never
delivered.

MTR was well prepared, all partners and donors were involved, documentation was accurate and most
studies and assessments requested were available and of good quality. The MTR mission devoted
considerable time and effort to addressing procurement, disbursement and MIS issues.

Issues of sustainability of ESRDF mechanism and of M&O capacity building activities at the community
level were detected early on in Project implementation and were also raised by the QSA in September 2000.
Gender focus of the Project and of subprojects did not receive similar attention during supervision and
monitoring on progress of this issue could hardly be found in supervision Project documents. With the
benefit of hindsight, oversight of capacity building activities in weak regions should have been


                                                       - 18 -

strengthened.

Supervision of the WMS was satisfactory. This component has been correctly rated unsatisfactory until
June 2001, because of slow delivery of the agreed outputs under the WMU managed subcomponent and the
unsatisfactory level of capacity that it built. It was after the end of 2000 that the subcomponent started
making significant progress, since the WMU was staffed at a more appropriate level and the WMU was
designated as focal point for the SDPRP process and from that point onwards the Bank team upgraded the
rating of this component to satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory.

The Project benefited from strong borrower's ownership at the highest levels of Government. Technical
staff of the Ministries of Finance and Economic Development, Agriculture, Water Resources, of other
ministries, and of donor agencies and other partners was actively involved in Project preparation. In this
context, the experience gained under the pilot ESRF program was of great help. Major differences of
opinions between the Government team and the Bank on IGA and on related interest rates policy led to drop
this component. Different legal interpretations of the International water safeguards, led to extensive
negotiations between the Bank, the GOE, and some neighboring countries, which delayed project approval.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Moderately Satisfactory.

The borrower regularly provided counterpart funds and showed strong commitment to the ESRDF
component. However, the Government was repeatedly asked to revise the reallocation formula of
ESRDF's funds and to commensurate the transfers to regions to their absorptive capacity. But results of
the Bank and of donors' efforts on this score were limited. Moreover, the Government did not offer any
clear and formal indication on the future of ESRDF, leading to a deterioration of the overall working
environment in ESRDF and making many staff leave ESRDF well before completion, especially the most
competent and experienced one. During the final phase of the Project, relations between ESRDF
management and the supervising Government authority ­ the Ministry of Agriculture ­ were not always
that conducive in finalizing a strategy to utilize at best the capacity and expertise of ESRDF after Project
closing.

The commitment of the Government on the WMS was weak during the first period of the Project. It was
only after 2000, as the SDPRP agenda picked up, that the Government ­ through MOFED -- provided the
adequate support to WMS. The new context which emerged from the launching of the SDPRP, improved
the status of the WMS and was a contributing factor in enhancing its capacity to provide timely analysis
for policy decision-making.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory.

ESRDF showed strong commitment throughout Project implementation, with dedicated staff and
management. On balance, reports were prepared on time, with the exception of some audits, specifically



                                                      - 19 -

the Dam safety audit and the Resettlement audit. Moreover, while most regions delivered good and on time
reports, others were behind schedule or unable to provide them, for example on procurement (Somali).
The MIS provided information on process and output indicators, but less than 50% of the post-completion
reports were inputted in the system. Possibly, a stronger focus on gender issues, also by reinforcing the
unit responsible for such activities would have helped mainstreaming on a more systematic and strategic
way gender issues into subprojects. Similarly, on capacity building, ESRDF could have taken more
measures to ensure high quality of community management of the entire Project cycle. (Such as simplifying
technical and cost standards, breaking down subproject components for easier management, using local
techniques, updating of skills of care-takers, strengthening users associations on M&O, etc.). ESRDF
Central Office could have played a more active role in encouraging innovations from the field, support field
staff to test new ideas, and encourage more learning between regions.

Despite these shortcomings, the performance of the implementing agency of components 1 and 3 is rated as
satisfactory, considering the complexity of the Project, the limited capacity, and how ambitious the Project
objectives were, especially in terms of number of subprojects under subcomponents RWS and SSI.

The performance of the WMS was moderately satisfactory. While CSA performed at a satisfactory level,
supporting the program in all its aspects, the performance of the WMU was less satisfactory, especially
during its first period from effectiveness till 2000. Lack of commitment in delivering the outputs as agreed
in Project documents, very weak capacity, and lack of commitment in strengthening it have hampered the
WMU's work especially during its initial years.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Following are some of the many lessons one can draw from the Project.

Project targets must be realistic and design must be simple and flexible. Social Funds should set
realistic targets in terms of total number of subprojects to be completed by end of Project. Moreover, their
design must be as simple as possible and should not be overburdened by too many indicators. MIS should
place less emphasis on quantitative/process aspects and more on information on quality/impact also to
capture the views of beneficiaries. SF should have the flexibility to link fund allocations to capacity and
performance of regions, especially in decentralized and highly diversified country contexts such as
Ethiopia.

Timely and appropriate capacity building support is key to subprojects implementation and
sustainability. Capacity building should anticipate all phases of subproject implementation, should be both
demand and supply driven, should have a strong focus on maintenance and operations, and should be
updated regularly. Investments in regional public and private capacity should come prior to investments in
subprojects and should be relatively higher in weakest regions. Moreover, capacity development should
build on indigenous strengths and local dynamics, paying attention to informal institutions as well.

Gender promotion requires strategic and sustained approaches. In contexts where cultural beliefs and
attitudes are a significant impediment to the promotion of women, particularly at village level, gender
approaches need to be realistic, gradual and strategic, and be continuously supported by dedicated units
within the implementing agency ­ both at the Central and regional levels -- focusing specifically on gender
issues.



                                                      - 20 -

Income generating activities are fundamentally different from social sector activities and require
different approaches. Income generating activities, such as SSI or Microcredit activities, are
fundamentally different from social infrastructure subprojects and their implementation requires a shift of
emphasis from a "beneficiary culture" to a "business culture". SSI and Microcredit activities should be
governed by business agreements between partners (Water bureaus with Water user associations or
ESRDF with Microcredit associations) rather than by an agency-beneficiary partnership relationship, as in
the case of health and education subprojects. This requires a different approach by the implementing
agency and suggests that SSI and microcredit activities should be kept as a separate component in SF or be
a separate project all together.

Timely dissemination of economic and data analysis is essential. The WMS component, shows that
although difficult, it is possible to create a good information and monitoring system on welfare and poverty
in a country with limited capacity. However, data access and dissemination should be given strong
attention. Increased access to and usage of data by a broader audience can avoid duplication of efforts,
lead to effective demand-driven data collection and analysis, and increase capacity to use data in
policy-making.

Parallel structures are efficient, but transitional in nature. Parallel governmental structures such as
ESRDF, are efficient mechanisms to finance and implement local projects and to foster community
participation in local development. Compared to line ministries and to local government authorities, the
raison d' être of such parallel structures lies in their strong capacity, their overall high efficiency, on a
different set of staff incentives, and on their ability to introduce new and successful approaches to
development. However, their nature is transitional. The context in which they operate is one of emergency,
when statuary institutions are fragile and the country needs are unprecedentedly high. When successful,
social funds are able to mainstream their experience in regular institutions, and to phase out their activities
in planned and efficient ways.

Exit strategies require careful preparation and overall agreement between partners. Mainstreaming
in local administration and transformation in Capacity Building/TA agency are two viable options. Both
require extensive preparation, definition of criteria and parameters, flexibility in approaches and
coordinated and coherent action on the side of all donors and partners.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower has submitted two completion reports which are presented in slightly edited versions, as
Annex 11 and Annex 12. One is a report prepared by ESRDF on the first and third components. The other
one is a joint report prepared by the WMU of MOFED and the CSA on the second component.

The overall assessment of the first and third components is consistent with the ICR. The report states that
the Project has created access and improved quality of infrastructures/services, it has build and
strengthened grassroots capacity through support to the implementation of TCB activities, and has played
an influential rule in disseminating participatory development approaches among the general public. The
ESRDF's report cites a number of challenges faced by the project, including: slow progress in accepting
and internalizing ESRDF's procedure and approaches; low capacity at all levels; and shortage of funds and
lack of capacity in ESRDF to respond to and process all funding requests received. The report has a
section on lessons learned emphasizing the advantage of subprojects initiated by communities (strong
ownership, reduced costs, high sustainability); the importance of local selection of member of CPC; the fact



                                                       - 21 -

that CDD approaches can reach remote areas more efficiently than other approaches; the importance of
community level capacity building; the need to addressing community problems in an integrated approach,
and the importance of introducing participatory review and evaluation processes that can generate feedback
on design of other subprojects.

The second report describes the activities financed by the Project under the second component, the
establishment of the Welfare Monitoring System, through the Welfare Monitoring Unit and the Central
Statistical Authority. On WMU, the report acknowledges that until 1999 generating standard indicators of
poverty and welfare of national scope has not been possible. It was only after 1999/2000 that the WMU
started delivering on some of the main outputs, such as the "Poverty Situation Report" (March 1999) and
more importantly the activities after 2002 linked to the SDPRP. The report does not mention that on
selected outputs such as a Poverty map or more frequent activities for dissemination of data and reports,
this component has delivered in part only.

The report also describes the activities of the CSA and how Project resources have been used to increase
the number, quality, and coverage of the Household Income, Consumption and Expenditure Surveys, and
the Welfare Monitoring Surveys. In conclusion the report makes the judgment that this component has
been a success.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Cofinanciers have actively participated in all phases of the ICR and share its main conclusions.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

None




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




                                        - 23 -

                                                  SAR             Supplemental           ICR
(i) Number of subprojects                             13,800                3,650          5,6791
Rural Water Supply                                    13,035                1,713           2,492
Education                                                 340                 909           1,311
Health and                                                357                 702           1,159
sanitation                                                  68
Small scale irrigation                                    NA                  114             163
(Hectares)                                           (18,715)               (NA)          (9,355)
Other2                                                    NA                  212             554
(ii) Completed subprojects with                           NA                  NA             64%
satisfactory technical quality rating
(iii) Number of beneficiaries reached              7,075,720          23,031,531     19,167,884
(approved subprojects)
Rural Water Supply                                 3,381,500           3,924,726      3,056,158
Education                                            108,000           2,233,569      2,058,353
Health and                                         3,000,000          13,474,552     11,348,487
sanitation                                           147,000
Small scale irrigation                              439,2203             231,342       164,4104
Other5                                                    NA           3,167,342      2,540,476
(iv) % of female beneficiaries                          51%6                45%7           49.6%
(v) Average total community                                 10                 6.7            8.58
investment as percentage of sub-
project costs
(vi) Number of TCB subprojects                            NA                  275             854
(vii) Number of beneficiaries trained                     NA           2,010,200         314,179
(viii) % of female trained to total                       NA                41.14             NA

Sources: SAR ­ From the Staff Appraisal Report; Supplemental -From Schedule F of the
Supplemental Credit document; ICR - From ESRDF Contribution to the ICR ­ February 2005




1Total number of subprojects completed or under completion (transferred to implementation). The number of
subprojects completed as of February 2005 was 5,212.
2Subprojects in Natural resources conservation, agriculture, income generating and other sectors.
387,844 households, with an estimate of 5 people per household.
4Approximately 40,000 households, with an estimate of 4.1 people per household.
5See note 2.
6Based on the SAR objective that subprojects were to benefit women especially.
7Based on an estimated number of female beneficiaries of 10,382,487. Ratios by sector were as follow: RWS 55%,
Education 50%, Health and Sanitation 50%, SSI 10%, Others 10%.
8Based on disbursements as of March 3, 2005: Communities' contributions of US$14.50 million on a total of
US$170.4 million for Social and Economic Infrastructure and Services. The ESRDF contribution to the ICR, indicates
a percentage of 10% although total expenditures by sector (excluding TCB, IGA, ERP and the community contribution)
were of Birr 1,189.54 million, while community contributions were Birr 102.34 million, i.e. 8.6%, of total costs, which
is consistent with the calculation in US$ terms.



                                                            - 24 -

- 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Rural Water Supply                                          75.04          28.11             37.5
Small-Scale Irrigation                                      74.95          18.06             24.2
Health and Sanitation                                       31.03          39.87            138.2
Education                                                   26.80          60.49            225.7
TA/Training and study fund                                  13.14          12.00             91.3
Welfare Monitoring                                           3.13            3.49           111.5
Equipment/Vehicles                                           5.16            8.06           156.2
Operating Costs                                             13.15          21.92            166.6
Woreda Development Fund                                      0.00            5.62               0
Emergency Recovery Project                                   0.00          12.26                0
Income Generating Activities                                 0.00            0.30               0
Others                                                       0.00            5.62               0

Total Baseline Cost                                        242.40         215.80
                        Total Project Costs                242.40         215.80
                  Total Financing Required                 242.40         215.80


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             84.20        66.29         0.00         150.49
                                  (0.00)          (51.67)      (21.00)        (0.00)      (72.67)
2. Goods                          11.58            19.67        16.74         0.00         47.99
                                 (11.58)          (10.00)      (15.00)        (0.00)      (36.58)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00        25.61         0.00         25.61
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (5.59)         (0.00)       (5.59)
4. Miscellaneous                  5.16              0.00         0.00         0.00          5.16
Office Equipment/Vehicles         (5.16)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (5.16)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         13.15        13.15
 Operational Costs                (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00                       0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          16.74           103.87       108.64         13.15        242.40
                                 (16.74)          (61.67)      (41.59)        (0.00)      (120.00)




                                                - 26 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                         1
                                                               Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                   ICB                 NCB                    2           N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                                    Other
   1. Works                                     0.00               93.58             38.73              0.00              132.31
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
   2. Goods                                     0.00                6.05              5.27              0.00              11.32
                                                 ()                (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
   3. Services                                  0.00                1.10              2.81              0.00               3.91
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
   4. Miscellaneous                             0.00                0.00              0.00              0.00               0.00
   Office Equipment/Vehicles                   (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                             0.00                0.00              0.00              0.00               0.00
    Operational Costs                          (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                                                                                                        0.00
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
       Total                                    0.00               100.73            46.81              0.00              147.54
                                               (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)

    1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
       3/ The table does not include operating costs and vehicles. The exchange rate applied to contracts varies significantly
       from the time the project was commenced until it was completed. According to ESRDF, the exchange rate varied from
       7.00 to 8.66 Birr for one US dollar. Discrepancies between disbursement figures and the figures in this table are due
       mainly to such fluctuations.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                             Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                      Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   IDA          Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.        CoF.        IDA      Govt.   CoF.
Social and Economic              102.30         16.58       73.05        105.70        12.79        52.00      103.3      77.1   71.2
Infrastructure and Services
Capacity Building                 16.50         6.50        10.20         2.47          7.09        10.50       15.0     109.1  102.9
Welfare Monitoring                 1.20         0.12         2.80         1.19          0.11         2.10       99.2      91.7   75.0
System
Operating costs                    0.00         13.15        0.00         1.84         20.09         0.00        0.0     152.8   0.0
Total                            120.00         36.35       86.05        111.20        40.08        64.60       92.7     110.3   75.1

   The latest estimate of cofinancing by communities of the first component is of US$14.5 million (US$24.25 million appraisal),
   while donors cofinancing was of US$37.50 million. Cofinancing of remaining components was entirely by donors ( US$12.60
   million) bringing total donor cofinancing to US$50.10 million.




                                                               - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

This Annex is divided into three sections. Section 1 addresses some cost-efficiency issues; Section 2 has
some estimates on cost savings for the Government as a result of ESRDF; and Section 3 estimates the
impact of subprojects on recurrent costs.

1. Subprojects cost-efficiency issues

The ICR has a broad assessment of the ESRDF cost-effectiveness.

- Operational costs at appraisal. One way in which cost-effectiveness is measured is by analysing the ratio
between operational costs and total expenditures. The SAR estimated operational costs at 5.4%, a
percentage which was at the low end of the experience in operating costs of large Social funds. At Mid term
review, the average operational costs were estimated at 10.29% of total costs, but with major variations
among regions (Beninshanghul-Gomez was at 20.4%, Dire Dawa 19.73%, Harari at 19.72%, Afar at
19.13%; at the other extreme, Amhara had operational costs of 4%, Oromiya 5.27%, and Tigray 6.08%).
Operating costs ended up at US$21.92 million which on a reduced total disbursement of US$215.88 is
equivalent to 10.15%. This performance is within acceptable limits in relation to similar Bank-financed
subprojects.

- Comparison with non-ESRDF financed subprojects (Health and Education). The 2002 Beneficiary and
impact assessment analyzed costs issues and compared ERSDF subprojects with non-ESRDF subprojects
(schools and health centers). According to that study, direct costs per square meter of ESRDF financed
social infrastructure subprojects were 4.5 % lower than those of non-ESRDF financed subprojects (Birr
1,124 /m2 against 1,174/m2). Cost-effectiveness was also assessed on the shorter completion time of
ESRDF subprojects (10 months compared to 13 months for non-ESRDF subprojects) and quality of
subprojects, which was rated as good for ERSDF subprojects and fair for non-ESRDF subprojects. These
findings are even more relevant considering that the average distance from the main road or center of
ESRDF subprojects sampled by the report was of more than 50 km against 10km of non-ESRDF
subprojects.

- SSI and RWS. All three types of irrigation system financed under the SSI (upgraded schemes, new
schemes, rehabilitation of "modern" schemes) are cost effective, while upgrading seems to top the other two
because investment is less and yields are likely to be higher during the first few years after subproject
completion. Most of RWS schemes are used by a much higher number of beneficiaries than originally
planned, at times up to four times, such as in some RWS visited in the Tigray region. Although from a
pure cost-benefit point of view, this can be seen as a positive development ­ in Tigray, on a sample of 101
shallow drilled boreholes and hand pumps cost per beneficiary was 8.95US$ against 22.04US$ at appraisal
-- a much higher number of beneficiaries raises issues of overexploitation of water resources and of
reduced water availability per person (from 15 liters to 6 liters a day).

                            No.      Beneficiaries Beneficiaires/ Cost/Benefic. Cost/Benefic.       Litres
                          Compl.                       Project         Birr           US$           avail.
                                                                                                   /Benefic.
 Actual/                        101        87,233             864          75.92             8.95         6.0
 Appraisal/Design               101        35,350             350        187.35             22.04        15.0
 Sources: ICR ­ AM ­ Annex 10. Exchange rate Birr 8.48/1US$




                                                     - 28 -

- International comparison. At ICR, costs per unit were in line with similar subprojects in other countries.
For example, in Tigray the average cost for a primary village school (1 building four classrooms, 1
administrative building with pedagogic center, latrines, fence, flag pole) was Birr 421,000, US$48.000 at
1US$/8.6Birr rate, which compares well with costs of similar structures in other countries. International
experience indicates that for simple RWS facilities costs should be at US$25 pr user. In the case of
ESRDF, cost per user per RWS varied significantly, from US$8.95US$ to US$22.04, hence below or in
line with experiences in countries such as Tanzania or Ghana. In the case of SSI, there is a lot of variation
depending on the technology used.

SSI Technologies          Total Hectare         Total Households       Cost/Hectare         Cost/Household
                                                                            US$                  US$
Upgrading tradional            4,079                  14,575                864                  242
SSI
New Construction                2437                   8605                2,151                 609
Rehabilitation of              1,680                  5,330                 198                  62
modern SSI
Sources: ICR AM ­ Annex 5. Figures are averages for the five regions: Tigray, Amhara, SNPPR, Oromiya and
Dire Dawa.

ESRDF cost per hectare in the upgrading of traditional SSI was at US$864 (US$242 per household), in the
case of rehabilitation of modern schemes the cost per hectare was of US$198 (US$62 per household), and
in the case of new construction the cost was of US$2,151 per hectare (US$609 per household). All these
costs are fully acceptable, internationally speaking,

2. Government cost savings estimates

In section 4.4 of this report there is the following table:

                                      Table 3: ESRDF Savings - Estimates

                               SAR                                               ICR
     Sector      Cost     Es. Cost     Community     Savings    Cost     Es. Cost  Community     Savings
                US$m       saving        cont. %      US$m     US$m      saving%      cont. %     US$m
                              %
    Educ.        27.0         10           10          5.40     56.2        4.5        8.5         7.3
    Health       31.2         10           10          6.02     37.5        4.5        8.5         4.8
    SSI          75.0         15           10         18.75     17.0       23.5         11         5.8
    RWS          75.0         12           10         16.50     25.5       43.1        8.5         13.1
    Total        208.2                                46.67    136.2                                31




Table 3 ICR figures are calculated as follows:

l SSI Community contributions are based on SSI average total costs and community contributions for
    implementation of SSI subprojects during four years 1997-2001.
l Community contributions for other sectors are average contributions as calculated at ICR.
l Cost savings on schools and health centres/posts are based on 2002 Beneficiary and impact




                                                      - 29 -

    assessment.
l Cost savings for RWS were calculated considering that a realistic number of beneficiaries of RWS was
    in the order of 40% of the total number of recorded beneficiaries, and that the cost per beneficiary was
    on average (for the three technologies, Hand-dug wells, Spring development and Shallow drilled wells)
    of US$14 per beneficiary (compared to an estimated cost at appraisal of non-ESRDF financed RWS of
    US$24.64).
l Estimates on SSI cost savings are based on comparisons of average costs of most simple schemes
    (15,000 Birr at SAR and 10,166 at ICR, and the more complex ones 30,000 Birr at SAR and 25,305
    Birr at ICR. In the first case the average saving is 32%, in the second is 15% with a median value of
    23.5%).

3. Recurrent costs

Because of the different sector mix of subprojects, the recurrent costs for the Government are estimated to
be at least 34% higher than those calculated at SAR, 47% in the Education sector, 33% in health. These
ratios are underestimations as: i) they do not take into account salary increases from 2000 to 2005, ii) in
SSI and RWS, the bias has been towards design and technologies requiring more intensive financing from
the government than from communities; iii) they assume that the recurrent cost to infrastructure ratio has
remained unchanged during almost ten years, while quality standards have improved and now require
higher recurrent expenditures.

                             Table 4: Impact on recurrent costs (in US$ million)

                              SAR                                                  ICR
                Subp.       Gover.      Comm.      Total      Subp.       Gover.     Comm.      Total
    Education   340         2.99        0.11       3.1        650         5.7        0.21       5.91
    Health      357         1.53        1.59       3.12       535         2.29       2.38       4.67
    Irrigation  Ha          0.77        1.56       2.33       Ha 9,355    0.38       0.77       1.15
                18715
    RWS         13,035      0.22        2.63       2.85       2,492       0.04       0.50       0.54
    Total                   5.51        5.89       11.4                   8.41       3.86       12.27

    Sources: SAR and AM-ICR




                                                     - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/23/1994              NA


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/15/1996              NA


 Supervision

              07/17/1996                5    Health Specialist (RM) (1);         S               S
                                             Accounting & Auditing Spec (1);
                                             Proc. & Disb. Officer (1);
                                             Sr. Loan Officer (1);
                                             HR Impl. Spec (1);

              11/07/1996                7    Social Sector Spec (1);             S               S
                                             Task Team Leader (1);
                                             Acctg & Auditing Spec (1);
                                             Procur. Spec./Anthropo. (1);
                                             Disbursement Officer (1);
                                              Irrigation Specialist (1);
                                             Monitoring Specialist (1)

              01/27/1997                8    Social Sector Spec. (1);            S               S
                                             Task Team Leader (1);
                                             Economist (1);
                                              Irrigation Specialist (1);
                                             Disbursement Officer (1);
                                             Environmental Spec (1);
                                             Monitoring Specialist (1);
                                              Water Supply Spec (1)
              05/02/1997                3    Agricultural Spec (1);              S               S
                                             TTL/Impl. Spec (1);
                                             Program Officer (1)

              10/20/1997               10    Economist/General (1);              S               S
                                             Operations Analyst (1);
                                             Environmental Spec (1);
                                             Social Fund Expert (1);
                                             Agricultural Spec (1);
                                             TTL/Implem. Spec (1);
                                             Water Supply Spec (1);
                                             Irrigation Engineer (2);
                                             Health Specialist (1)




                                              - 31 -

05/02/1998    16 Reg. Proc. Adviser (1);          S    S
                 TTL/Implem. Spec (1);
                 Agricultural Spec (1);
                 Water Supply Spec (1);
                 Environmental Spec (1);
                 Health Specialist (1);
                 Disbursement/Procurement (1);
                 Information Specialist (1);
                 Operations Analyst (1);
                 Economist (1);
                 Irrigation Engineer (2);
                 Gender & Comm. Part (1);
                 Rural Water Supply Eng. (1);
                 Financial Management (1);
                 Statistician (1)

11/17/1998    12 TTL/Operations Spec (1);         S    S
                 Agric/Irrig Team Leader (1);
                 Operations (1);
                 Education (1);
                 Water Supply (1);
                 Training (1);
                 Health Specialist (1);
                 Gender/Community (1);
                 Statistician (1);
                 Financial Specialist (1);
                 Irrigation Engineer (1);
                 SSI Engineer (1)

12/01/5999    9  Mission Leader (1);              S    S
                 Rural Water Supply Eng (1);
                 Irrigation Engineer (1);
                 Informatics Spec. (1);
                 Communication Spec (1);
                 Operations Officer (2);
                 Gender Specialsit (1);
                 Principal HD Spec (1)

04/26/2000    6  Operations Officer (1);          S    S
                 Financial Officer (1);
                 Procurement Officer (1);
                 Health Specialist (1);
                 Lead Specialist (1);
                 Principal Statistician (1)

06/30/2000    9  Mission Leader (1);              S    S
                 Rural Water (1);
                 Informatics (1);
                 Procurement (1);
                 Consultant Rural Water (1);
                 Mission Ldr., Irrigation (1);
                 Consultant Dams (1);



                 - 32 -

                       Consultant Bio Resources
                       Engineer (1);
                       Sr. Advisor Income-Gen (1)

      12/22/2000    11 Team Leader (1);                 S    S
                       Sr. Operations Officer (1);
                       RWSS Team Leader (1);
                       Sr. Health Specialist (1);
                       Lead Statistician (1);
                       Financial Management (1);
                       Consultant WMS (1);
                       Connsultant RWSS (1);
                       SSI Team Leader (1);
                       Consultant DAMS (1);
                       MIS/Informatics (1)

      12/22/2000     9 Team Leader (1);                 S    S
                       Sr. Operations Officer (1);
                       RWSS Team Leader (1);
                       Health (1);
                       Lead Statistician (1);
                       Financial Management (1);
                       RWSS Consultant (1);
                       Poverty Monitoring Cons. (1);
                       Small Scale Management (1)

      06/01/2002    11 Team Leader (1);                 S    S
                       Sr. Operations Officer (1);
                       Small Scale Irrigation (1);
                       Rural Water Supply (2);
                       ERP/Welfare Monitoring (1);
                       Consultant (1);
                       Financial Management (1);
                       Operations Officer (1);
                       DAM Specialist (1);
                       Environmental Spec (1)


ICR
      02/22/2005    12 Sr. Oper. Officer/TTL (1)        S    S
                       Operations Officer/TTL (1)
                       Sr. Operations Officer (1)
                       Sr. Social Protection (1)
                       Sr. Finan. Magmt. Spec. (1)
                       Procurement Specialist (1)
                       Sr. Health Specialist (1)
                       Sr. RWS specialist (1- CTF)
                       Sr. SSI specialist (1-CTF)
                       Sr. Economist (2 - Donors)
                       Sr. Gender specialist
                       (1-CTF)




                       - 33 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             NA                      122,449.19
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  NA                      759,107.28
  Supervision                            NA                    1,103,502.40
  ICR                                      12                        75,000
  Total                                  NA                       2,060,005




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
Lending: Moderately Satisfactory

6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
Government implementation performance: Moderately Satisfactory




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bank preparation documents

- Pre-Appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoire and Back to Office report. World Bank
- Appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoire and Back to Office report, World Bank
- Staff Appraisal Report, World Bank. March 1996
- Proposed Supplemental Credit, Report P7505-ET, November 22, 2002

Bank project implementation documents

- 23 Project Status Reports (PSR). World Bank. 1996-2004
- Aide-Memoires of Supervision missions. World Bank
- Mid-Term Review
- Relevant Letters from World Bank to ERSDF or Ministries

Other project implementation documents

- Operational Manual
- Handbooks
- Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
- Amendments to the DCA
- Project notes

Main documents prepared by the borrower during implementation

- Annual reports of ESRDF, various years, ESRDF
- Construction quality and O&M evaluation of Rural Water Supply Sub-projects financed by ESRDF,
Continental Consultants, March 15, 1999
- Evaluation of construction quality and cost effectiveness of Social Infrastructure Sub-projects of ESRDF,
GBA Consulting Engineers, April 26, 1999
- Revising the existing organization structure and job description of each post, Vision Consultancy,
November 17, 1998
- Environmental impact assessment on projects funded by ESRDF, Ethio-Forest Agricultural Consulting
Service Centre, June 7, 1999
- Reviewing the existing MIS and prepare a plan for information system and networking structure of
ESRDF, Vision Information and computer service, December 14, 1998 starting date
- Assess and monitor the need for micro finance in Ethiopia to prepare a handbook for implementation of
the micro finance program and prepare a training material and conduct training for trainers, African
Business and Development Consultants, July 10, 1997
- Preparation of water supply handbook, Carl Bro International, December 10, 1996
- Training need identification analysis of ESRDF, Progress Management Consultants Crown Agents,
February 1997
- Preliminary assessment and needs analysis of ESRDF training and capacity building component, Progress
Management Consultants, June 1996
- Preparation of operational manual (handbook) for Health and education sub-projects of ESRDF, Ethio
Education Consultants, December 1997
- Evaluation of ESRDF's TCB performance and impact assessment, Tropics Consulting Engineers, 75
days October 1999


                                                    - 37 -

- Maintenance service of computers and networking, Micro Sun & solution consultants, December 31,
1998
- Impact assessment (social) of projects financed by ESRDF, NEK International Consultancy, April 1999
- Environmental impact assessment on projects funded by ESRRDF, Ethio-Forest Consultancy, August
1999
- Assessment of procurement activities (procurement Audit), Partners information consultancy
- Review of Financial Manual and procedure of ESRDF, Excellent Management and Accounting
Consultancy, February 2000 (completion)
- Impact assessment of the ESRDF, GBA Consultancy ltd., June 2002
- Evaluation of ESRF pilot phase project and assessment of impact on beneficiaries and sustainability of
assets created with ESRF support, Metaferia Consulting Engineers, April 1998 (completion)
- ESRDF's SSI projects (gravity) technical handbook preparation, Continental consultants plc in
association with consulting Engineers Service Plc., November 1997
- Preparation of W.D.F. Guidelines, Afri-Tech PLC & Excellent Management, July 2003
- Assessment of Community Capacity created through ESRDF's subproject, B&M Development
Consultants PLC, December 2004
- Assessment of Model Water Projects Financed by ESRDF, Iyob Management Consultant, November
2004

Other documents

- Ethiopia: Toward Poverty Alleviation and a Social Action Program. World Bank, 1993
- Country Assistance Strategy, Various years, World Bank
- SDPRP, Government of Ethiopia, 2001




                                                   - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. ICR - Workshop - Addis Ababa - March 7, 2005

Program

8:30 - 9:00               Registration
9:00 - 9:10               Welcome
9:10 - 9:30               ESRDF Presentation on performance
9:30 - 10:00              ICR objectives - Some thoughts on the overall context - ICR process
10:00 - 10:30             Gender issues and questions
10:30 - 11:00             Break
11:00 - 11:30             Health and Education
11:30 - 12:00             Discussion
12:00 - 12:30             Rural Water Supply and questions
12:30 - 13:30             Lunch
13:30 - 14:00             Welfare Monitoring System presentation and questions
14:00 - 14:30             Small Scale Irrigation systems and questions
14:30 - 15:00             Income Generating activities and questions
15:00 - 15:30             Lessons learned and questions
15:30 - 16:00             Concluding remarks

Workshop conclusions

On March 7, 2005, ESRDF organized a workshop to discuss the main findings from the ICR mission led
by the World Bank. The Workshop was chaired by Dr. Aseffa, General Manager of ESRDF.
Representatives of the donor community (the Netherlands, Italy, Norway, and China), NGOs, line
ministries and ESRDF regional and central staff attended. More than 60 participants discussed the main
findings of the World Bank mission, in particular on the following issues: Targeting, Gender, Impact,
Community participation, Sustainability, Compliance with safeguards, Capacity building. The focus was
also on Health, Education, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation, Small Scale Irrigation Systems and
Environment, Income Generating activities. One session discussed the Welfare Monitoring System
component. The main conclusions of the workshop are as follow:

        1. ESRDF achieved remarkable results, with an impressive economic and social impact on the lives
of millions of Ethiopian. Moreover, the project has successfully introduced the notion of community
participation as a viable and efficient approach to social and economic development. On balance ESRDF,
CSA, and ­ during its second phase only ­ WMU have performed satisfactorily and at an acceptable level
of efficacy.

        2. Specific findings of the Workshop were:

1. Targeting and Economic and social impact were seen as satisfactory, also considering the lack of
    specific targeting tools and delays in building up capacity.
2. Gender and capacity building issues were thought to be areas in which improvements could have
    benefited the project, essentially by making these issues more visible and strategic (gender) and more
    sustainable and targeted to regional needs (capacity building).
3. On community participation and sub-projects sustainability, the workshop felt that significant
    progresses were made under ESRDF, but that sustainability of subprojects' arrangements was linked to
    the extent to which ESRDF community approaches were mainstreamed in regular regional activities, in



                                                     - 39 -

       new projects, and as part of the overall capacity building approach. From this perspective, findings
       differed widely from region to region.

            3. ESRDF has built significant capacity at both the regional and national level, by developing
  technical and managerial expertise, networks and procedures and by operationalizing them in community
  development, although with some differences between regions, and with limited impact on the private
  sector. Considering that (i) in Ethiopia capacity is limited, that (ii) new projects for poverty reduction are
  being launched by the Ethiopian government (with support from donors and international institutions), and
  (iii) that such projects are in many cases based on community participatory approaches, the workshop and
  all donor representatives concluded that ESRDF expertise should not be lost and should be used efficiently
  in on-going and future development projects.

            List of Participants



Sr.            Name                 Region              Organization                Position
No.
1          A. Mohammed               Harar                 ESRDF                  R. Manager
   2      Abebaw Kebede             Amhara                 ESRDF               SSI Team Leader
   3 Afework G/Egziabher          Central Office           ESRDF                      DGM
   4       Amsalu Asfaw             SNNPR                  ESRDF                     A/Head
   5      Andria Senatori                           Italian Cooperation               Head
   6        Aragaw Haile            Somali                 ESRDF                  RWS Expert
   7      Arif Abdlahafiz          Dire Dawa               ESRDF                       RM
   8      Aster Stephanos         Addis Ababa             MOARD                     H. PDD
   9       Bent Kjellerup                                World Bank                Consultant
   10      Berhanu Tusho          Addis Ababa            ESRDF-CO                       SE
   11        Betseu Elias           SNNPR                  ESRDF                       PO
   12       Biresaw Sime           Dire Dawa                                        Manager
   13      Biruk Regassa          Central Office           ESRDF               Adm. & Gen./Sec
   14 Camilla Valmarana                             Italian Cooperation            Consultant
   15    Endeshaw Tadesse                                World Bank            Operations Officer
   16     Ephrem Legesse          Addis Ababa      Ministry of Water R.            Geologist
   17      EspenVillanger                                WB mission
   18       Fikru Dibissa         Addis Ababa                CSA                   Head, Dep.
   19        G. Nicolay                                    Helvels                  Director
   20    Gebeyehu Bizuneh         Central Office           ESRDF               SSI Team Leader
   21       G. Okubagzhi                                 World Bank           Sr. Health Specialist
   22       Geert Diemer                                 World Bank                Consultant
   23     Geremew Sahilu          Central Office           ESRDF                     Advisor
   24     Getachew Adem                                   MOFED                   Head, WMU
   25     Getahun Gebru           Addis Ababa            World Bank             Sr. Op. Officer
   26    Getahun W/Meskel         Addis Ababa              ESRDF                   S. Expert
   27      Girma Shegute            Federal                ESRDF              WDF-IG T. Leader
   28         Girma TS            Central Office           ESRDF                     Expert



                                                        - 40 -

29 Giuseppe Zampaglione                   World Bank       Sr. Op. Officer
30 Hans Raadschilders                   Netherlands Emb.   First Secretary
31     Kedir Gelchu       Oromia            ESRDF            Head, SRO
32   Kendie Bizuneh     Addis Ababa         ESDD               Manager
33    Legesse Geda        Oromia            ESRDF                RM
34      Likezhen                        Chinese Embassy     3rd Secretary
35     Mack Omud        Addis Ababa         ESRDF              Gambella
36    Melka Beyene      Addis Ababa      Water Action        PO-Officer
37    Merid Atnafu      Central Office      ESRDF           RWS Expert
38    Mesfin Assefa     Central Office      ESRDF             Sea Expert
39 Meskele Berhan M.      Federal           ESRDF                FE
40    Mulugeta Itilaf   Central Office      ESRDF             PPS Head
41   Negussie Bekele    Addis Ababa         ESRDF              Manager
42   Nurehi Abidulahi     Harrari           ESRDF               SCR-
43    Pim de Keizer                       NL MOFA            Ss Pol Adv.
44   Rahel Wegayehu                         UNDP                P.A.
45  Samantha de Silva                     World Bank       Sr. SP Specialist
46    Samuel Eshetu     Central Office      ESRDF          SI Senior Expert
47   Shewadeg Molla     Central Office      ESRDF             MIS-Head
48   Solomon Kebede     Central Office      ESRDF               FATL
49  Tarekegn Anteneh    Central Office      ESRDF            MIS Expert
50    Tenaye Assefa     Addis Ababa          MOE                Expert
51    Tesfaye Desta     Central Office      ESRDF               DGM
52    Teshome Nebi          Afar            ESRDF                PO
53   Teshome Zegaye       Amhara            ESRDF            Office Head
54    Tizita Jemberu    Addis Ababa          MFA                Expert
55   Tsegaye Berhane    Addis Ababa    Member of House R. Rural Development
56 Vibeke Munk Petersen                  World Bank.          Consultant
57 Wondwessen Taffera   Central Office      ESRDF           Team Leader
58 Yazachew H/Mariam      Federal           FMOH                Expert
59     Yifred Kassa      B. Gumuz       ESRDF B/G Ro       Head - SI Dept




                                         - 41 -

Additional Annex 9. Context Overview

The objectives and design of the Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund (ESRDF) are
discussed here in the context of the overall economic, institutional, and social conditions prevailing in
Ethiopia during the Project life, which spanned from July 1996 till December 2004. In broad terms, the
period covered by the Project can be divided into three phases:

1996-1997. During this phase, the Government pursued the reform agenda launched in 1991, after the
Ethiopia Peoples' Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) assumed power. The focus was on the
reform of the agricultural sector, on opening up to the private sector and to its increased role in the
economy, on liberalization of most prices and trade, and on a massive cutting back of defence expenditures
which benefited social sectors and other pro-poor expenditures. During such period, the fiscal deficit fell
from 8.5% of GDP in 1991-92 to about 2% in 1997-98. To a large extent, the ESRF and the ESRDF were
a direct result of the strong commitment of the Government on a renewed and progressive structural reform
agenda.

1998-2000. The momentum of reforms was interrupted by the outbreak of the border conflict with Eritrea
in May 1998, which strained public finances, reduced donor support, and reduced capital expenditures and
transfers to the regions for anti-poverty programs. Military expenditures rose from the 1996-97 level of
2.5% of GDP, to 8.7% in 1998-99, and 13.3% in 1999-00. Consequently, capital expenditures slipped
from 10.4% of GDP in 1996-97 to 6.7% in 1999-00. The economic, humanitarian and social impact of
the conflict on the two most affected regions, Tigray and Afar, was devastating. The total number of IDPs
in the two regions was 364,000 and 110,000 Ethiopians returned from Eritrea. 36,000 Ethiopian war
casualties were bread winners, and about 144,000 people were directly relying on their incomes. An
estimated US$200 million of public infrastructure has been destroyed and damaged by the conflict.

2001-2004. Soon after the end of the war with Eritrea, the Government put in place a demobilization,
emergency humanitarian needs and reconstruction plan. And resumed its economic reform program,
strengthened its commitment to poverty reduction, and embarked on a program of rapid devolution to
regional districts, and subsequently to woredas. In July 2002, the Government finalized its Sustainable
Development and Poverty Reduction Program (SDPRP) centred on a three-pronged strategy: build a free
market system; reduce food aid dependence, and step up the pace towards reaching the MDGs.

During Project life, there were two years of unforgiving drought (1997 and 2002) which created severe
food shortfalls. In addition to the conflict with Eritrea, the deterioration in international terms of trade
(which can be summarized in falling prices of Ethiopia's main export, coffee, and rising bill of imports
such as oil), and the AIDS epidemic (with a 6% prevalence in 2002) had a cumulative negative impact on
the economic and social situation of Ethiopia.

ESRDF was one of the largest social funds projects financed by the World Bank in Africa, and came at a
time when the discussion on the impact and economic benefits of SF was particularly lively among
development experts and practitioners. The discussion benefited from lessons learned from a first
generation of Social funds, and Project design was challanged by traditional approaches to social service
delivery and infrastructure financing through line ministries, which also challenged the validity of
community approaches on the basis of economic and financial indicators. To a great extent this explains
why the Project had rather detailed estimates on some economic and financial indicators, although during
project preparation it was clear that calculating a full economic rate of return would not be possible given
the demand-based nature of the project and due to problems in aggregating data from different regions.



                                                      - 42 -

Additional Annex 10. Targeting

The correlation between distribution of subprojects by region and poverty levels, is significant. According
to the combined Household Income, Consumption and Expenditure (HICE) and Welfare Monitoring survey
(WM) results, in 1999/2000, in Tigray, 61% of the people were living in absolute poverty, 56% in Afar
and 54% in Benshangul-Gumuz. Harare region had the lowest poverty incidence followed by Dire Dawa
and Addis Ababa (25.8%, 33.1% and 36.1% respectively). However, if total population is considered, then
the regions with the highest number of poor are Oromiya and Amhara, followed by SNNPR and Tigray.
Gambella and Harare are the regions with the lowest number of poor. The table hereby compares the
ranking of the regions by number of poor and by number of ESRDF subprojects. There is consistency at
the two extremes: among very poor regions (Oromiya, Amhara, Tigray and SNNPR) and among less poor
regions (Harare and Gambela).



     Region          Head Count         N. of poor       Ranking by     Subprojects by        Ranking by
                        Index            (in 000)      Number of Poor        Region              Number
                     1999/2000                                                 (%)             Subproject
Tigray                  61.4              2,459               4               15.1                 3
Afar                    56.0               728                7                2.8                 9
Amhara                  41.8              7,385               2               27.0                 1
Oromiya                 39.9              9,733               1               21.0                 2
Somali                  37.9              1,516               5                4.4                 7
Benis. G.               54.0               313                8                4.9                 6
SNNPR                   50.9              6.966               3                9.4                 4
Gambela                 50..5              115               10                1.9                11
Harare                  25.8               45                11                2.5                10
Addis Ababa             36.1               983                6                3.5                 8
Dire Dawa               33.1               118                9                7.2                 5
Sources: ESRDF, 2005 and SDPRP 2002




                                                   - 43 -

Additional Annex 11. ESRDF Contribution

1. BACKGROUND

The Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund (ESRDF) is one of the institutions established
on February 1996 (Proclamation No. 19/1996) to implement community-based poverty reduction programs
throughout the country. The ESRDF is as an expansion (to all regions of Ethiopia) of the pilot Ethiopian
Social Rehabilitation Fund (ESRDF) implemented in three regions (Addis Ababa, Tigray and South) from
1992-1995 as component of the Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Program (ERRP). A program
financed by the World Bank and other donors was under implementation since July 1996. This program,
as per the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) is closed on December 31, 2004. In the past years of its
operation, the ESRDF has provided financial, technical and capacity building support to the construction,
rehabilitation and upgrading of several community-based projects that addressed priority needs of mainly
the rural poor. It has successfully contributed to poverty reduction effort in Ethiopia. This is, therefore, an
implementation completion report prepared to meet World Bank's requirement. The report is comprised of
10 sections that review ESRDF's performance against its development objectives of ESRDF, design and
other success parameters as indicated in the SAR and in the OM.

2. DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN OF ESRDF

2.1 Development Objectives: The overall development objective (DO) of the ESRDF is to provide the
poor, mainly rural communities the assests and services needed to improve their economic and social
standards (SAR 1996). In order to attain this overall DO, ESRDF was assigned specific development
objectives (Operational Manual of ESRDF-June 1996). An OM describing ESRDF's operational policies,
its working mechanism/standard procedures and the project cycle was developed for the ESRDF before
operation started. The OM is part of the establishment operation. All involved including implementing
agencies are expected to strictly adhere to and apply it uniformly. Generally, the ESRDF is compatible
with most policies and strategies formulated even long after its commencement and its experience has been
useful in their design (example is the water policy and sector program). It is considered as one of the
response mechanisms to vulnerability at both household and community level in the Sustainable
Development Poverty Reduction Program (SDPRP). As a rural focused program and as it strives to build
grassroots and institutional capacity the ESRDF is fully in harmony with the rural developmentand
capacity building strategies. It does not only conform, but serves as alternative means to implement several
government reform measures and programs i.e. sector, decentralization and food security programs.

2.2 Design (Operational Modality) of ESRDF: The ESRDF is designed to operate as a Social
Investment Fund (SIF) in all regions of the country considering existing government structure. Its mission
is to provide mainly funding support to poor communities (rural poor and women) for the construction,
expansion and up-grading of basic social and economic infrastructure/services in which they are willing to
invest. Intervention areas focusing on basic-services were identified and selected as a start-up menu i.e.
small-scale irrigatrion, rural water supply, primary health, basic education and training and capacity
building. With the demand of communities, agriculture, natural resource management, income
generation and other types of projects were also added to the list. As a funding agency, ESRDF promotes
and applies bottom-up and participatory approach. Support from ESRDF is given up-on request/demand
for sustainable and cost effective development initiatives. Besides, ESRDF promotes integration and
partnership among stakeholders in addressing needs of the poor. In light of this, ESRDF does not involve
itself int he identification of project ideas and does not prescribe projects from top. Unless it is necessaqry
and delegated, ESRDF does not act as implementing agency. ESRDF's responsibility revolves mainly
around promotion, appraisal, financing and monitoring implementation of funding requests it receives from


                                                       - 44 -

the beneficiary communities themselves and/or their development partners. In order to increase
participation of communities and reduce the capacity gap ESRDF is also expected to provide technical
assistance and capacity building support.

An organizational structure with a decentralized management system and functional/sector arrangement
was introduced to facilitate speedy provision of technical support to needy communities and regions with
weak capacity. As per the operational manual, the ESRDF has a National Board (NB) and Regional
Steering Comittees (RSC) to oversee implementation of the ESRDF and administer its operations at federal
and regional level, respectively. At the grassroots level community project committees (CPCs) are
organized to ensure representation of beneficiary communities. In the process of accomplishing its mission,
the ESRDF is expected to operate with Low administrative and operational cost ranging between 10-15%
of the total program budget.

3. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS

During the past eight years, ESRDF has attempted to fulfill the DOs assigned to it. The ESRDF has
provided financial and technical support for the implementation of 5,679 community initiated projects.
With these projects, it has created access to and improved the quality of infrastructure/services. Moreover,
it has build and strengthened grassroots capacity thorugh support to the implementation of 854 training and
capacity building interventions. ESRDF has played an influential role in disseminnating and instilling
participatory development and importance of cost sharing among the general public. In general, the
ESRDF has performed well in glimmering hope to the poverty ridden and miserable life of millions of poor
people by providing basic infrastructure and services. As stated by GBA in the impact assessment,"...,
ESRDF's physical performace can be judged as more satisfactory....". Contribution of ESRDF's
intervention has been considerable in improving access to basic-infrastructure/services and changing
quality of life of poor people. This was confirmed by the beneficiary communities in their response to
B&M Development Consultants who conducted capacity assessment"... 91.1% of the total respondents
stated that they have got now better access to basic- services as a result of ESRDF's intervention in their
locality."

3.1 Access to Basic Social Services: About 13,406,840 people (appraisal estimate) are expected to
benefit from 1,311 education, 1,159 health and sanitation projects. This is higher by 386% and 270% from
the estimated target in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) i.e. 425 health and 340 Education. Major reasons
for the increase are high community demand, availability of standard design and relatively better
presence/capacity of contractors. Since the education facilities are focusing mainly on primary schools and
the rural set-up, they have given to multitude deprived school aged children the chance to attend modern
education. Construction of the facilities around the villages or inthe vicinity encouraged many families to
send their children and in particular girls to school. Thus, contributing towards increase in primary
enrollmetn ratio and reducing drop-out rates. The GER in Ethiopia increased from 41.8% in 1997/98 to
64.4 % in 2002/2003 (Ministry of Education). With regard to the health projects, in addiition to
community education, many people now are able to access basic health services without traveling very
long distance. As a result of which health problems of communities such as malaria have been reduced. In
most cases, it is women and children who use the services better (GBA). Sanitation wise, ESRDF projects
have had significant role in improving cleanliness of cities like Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa, which are
considered a health hazard few years ago. Some parts of Addis Ababa are now easily accessible because
of the access roads implemented by ESRDF.

As a step to increase quality of services, many existing social amenities were rehabilitated and up-graded.
Moreover, provision was made to purchase and supply furniture, books and equipment to both ESRDF and


                                                      - 45 -

non-ESRDF financed infrastructure. The ESRDF has also played an effective role in rehabilitating and
addressing needs for basic services of people residing in areas affected by the Ethio-Eritrea border conflict.
ESRDF was assigned to implement community infrastructure component of the Emergency and Recovery
Program in Tigray and Afar regions. A total of 523 projects were implemented in the two war affected
regions. SAR estimate for RWSS- 13,035 schemes- was not realistic seen in terms of capacity,
technologymix and source viability. However, the construction of 2,492 water supply projects is really
substantial in Ethiopia where less than 30% fetch water from safe sources. Beneficiaries interviewed by
GBA have indicated that "....there have been significant improvements in the prevalence of water born
dieseases because of the new schemes." Reduction on workload, distance and time spent to fetch water are
some of the additional benefits registered from water supply schemes. About 72% and 70% of respondents
to GBA impact assessment expressed that distance and time traveled have been reduced, respectively. The
major beneficiaries of the rural water supply intervention are mainly women.

3.2. Income Generation and Access to Economic Services: Although less in number, ESRDF financed
economic infrastructure projects are producing positive impact in improving the livelihood of poor people.
Poor farmers, specially have benefited from the creation of employment opportunity, increased agricultural
production and raised income. These are critical elements to possess asset by farmers and other crisis
prone 140 schemes (implemented in five regions only). The actual irrigated farm land (9,355 ha.) and
number of families benefiting (40,000) in small scale-irrigation (SSI) is quite small as compared to the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimates - 18,715 ha and 87,844 households. Like in the RTWSS, the SAR
estimates for SSI were very ambitious. In addition tolow capacity, restriction of financing projects int he
Wabi-Shebele basin was a cause for low performance. With the implementation of the SSI projects the
ESRDF has created awareness on the importance of irrigation and the possibility of harvesting more than
two times. As observations made by the ESRDF, farmers working on irrigable land are food self
sufficient and therefore, are no more thinking of food shortage or food aid. Farmers have acquired some
type of asset and have source of income, which is an important condition to absorb natural as well as man
made shocks. Although market is a critical challenge to most of irrigation beneficiaries, there is no doubt
that farmers are getting some benefit. Changing the cropping pattern to high value crop is being practiced
in some schemes as a strategy to win markets and high price for their produce.

Extent of damage that could be caused on the environment is one the appraisal criteria used to select
projects for ESRDF finnancing. This is particulary true for SSI and RWSS projects, which has greater
implication on the environment. In addition, the ESRDF initiated implementation of natural resource
conservation and utilization related projects (126) after the mid-term review. Apart from protecting the
fragile soil from erosion and restore its natrual vegetation, these activities, conceived in an integrated way,
have contricuted to reducing impacts (silting, rain storm, etc.) on dams and appurtenant structures. As
most of these projects were implemented in cash-for-work modalityk they served as safety net that
transferred money to the needy. Such a measure coupled with tree planting allowed farmers to collect
fodder for their animals and fuel wood without damaging forests and steep slopes. Construction of
veterinary clinics, particularly in pastoralist areas, is an important step in improving livestock health.
Availability of animal health service in turn, enables increase production, improve breeds and access
international market, which are critical factors to raise income.

Another area where encouraging result is observed is in income generation related activies (112). ESDRF
avails finance, which is critically needed to start small production or service giving venture for self
employment or generating additional income. Most of the income generation projects are engaged in
agriculture and petty trade. Through these projects poor people (farmers, women and unemplyed youth)
generate new/additional income and acquire assets. It is also necessary to mention here that ESRDF
financed activities have created employment opportunity for many Ethiopians in both rural and urban


                                                      - 46 -

areas. Some of them are employed as permanent staff in the institution such as schools and health centers.
Others are hired as skilled or unskilled labor in the construction or supply business.

3.3 Capacity Building: Capacity limitation was considered in the SAR as "...major implementation
challenge for the ESRDF". About 854 training and capacity building projects (excluding WDF) have been
implemented by ESRDF so as to fill the capacity gap. As an effort to strenghthen technical and managerial
capacity of communities, 601 community outreach trainings were conducted. In total 314,179 people from
different walks of life benefited from the ESRDF support. One of the major achievements of ESRDF is
creation of public awareness and change of attitude on communituy-based development and participation.
According to B&M consultants "...97.6% of sample beneficiary respondents indicate that they are aware of
the importance of community participation in the development process." Another important achievement of
ESRDF financed training activities is transfer of skill and knowledge to poor people. Such type fo
trainings, as confirmed by B&M facilitated presence of people with some technical skills in rural areas.
Moreover, the trainings contributed to increased participation, high contribution and effective
implementation of project, which are important signs of strengthened grassroots capacity and confidence
. This situation motivated communithy members to contribute more and implement additional projects that
address their problems. As indicated in the B&M assessment". ... 97.9% of sample beneficiary respondents
expressed their willingness to make further contribution ... to similar subprojects...". In addition to the 161
staff trainings, support (Birr 15.6 million) has also been given to different partner institutions in the form of
material purchase such as laboratory, office and field equipment, surveying instruments, etc. These
supports are believed to strengthen their working capacity and subsequently have enhanced efficiency and
effectiveness in implementing development interventions. Furthermore, ESRDF has implemented or/and
financed 87 studies, manual production and pilot interventions so as to increase the effectiveness of ESRDF
financed projects and learn lessons for improvement of future similar interventions.

3.4. Institutional Development: ESRDF has been organizing community project committees (CPCs) in
order to empower communities, facilitate proactive and increased participation and proper representation of
beneficiaries. More thatn 4000 CPCs, about 100 water users associations and 2000 water users
committees have been established. ESRDF has also supporte the formation of different types of
cooperatives, particulary saving and credit associations/cooperatives to ensure sustainability of income
generation projects. Some of the institutions are registered and have got official certification, which is a
necessary condition to operate legally and access bank credit. Thus, they have proved essential to
empower grassroots communities, increase confidence and ensure sustainability of projects. Institutional
sustainability is strong in SSI and RWSS projects, whereby CPC s are evolved to WUAs/WUCs. On the
other hand, CPCs formed for health projects cease to operate formally after project handover. In the case
of education parents and teachers associatlion (PTA) continue to function.

Building its own capacity was an essential activity and a great institutional accomplishment for ESRDF.
Institutionally, ESRDF has become a strong and dependable national capacity in community-based and
participatory development. ESRDF was able to develop a system that has been refined and amended on the
basis of experience. As a consolidation of the OM, operational guidelines for WDF and IGP were
produced. Several sector manuals and technical handbooks (education, health, water supply and
sanitation, small-scale irrigation, community training, community facilitators, finance) were prepared to
facilitate implementation and increase effectiveness of ESRDF and other community-based projects. A
computerized financial/accounting system and customized management information system were developed
to record financial transactions and capture history of each project financed. These activities have been
instrumental in directing and streamlining community-based and participatory development interventions of
ESRDF. Having a workable good system was the salient reason for ESRDF's success and quick response
to community requests. Recocognizing this fact, many institutions and community-based alike programs


                                                      - 47 -

(example: Women's Development Fund, Energy Fund, Water and Sanitation, etc.) have adopted or
replicated the ESRDF modality and working mechanism.

One of the major constraints of rural people is lack of access to credit. ESRDF has played a significant
part in the establishment of micro finance institutions in Ethiopia and strengthened their operational
capacity. It has supported staff training, client conferences and financed the purchase of office and field
equipment. Currently, micro financing institutions are operating in many regions and they proovide
financial support to the needy people. It may not be the only factor, but ESRDF's operation in general has
had some influence in the development of the private sector. Number of civil work contractors has grown
steadily as a result of financing construction of large number of infrastructure. The same is true with the
suppliers of construction materials, furniture and equipment.

3.5 Enhancing Decentralization: After the mid-term review and on the basis of lessons learned from a
visit to Brazil, the ESRDF started implementing a new component-Wereda Development Fund (WDF) as a
pilot. Initially it was implemented in a very limited scale in four weredas of Amhara. In order to facilitate
expansion and guide implementation systematically an operational guideline is prepared assessing domestic
experience. The objectives of the WDF are to enhance the decentralization process, to increase
empowerment of communities and to strengthen capacity of local administration and grassroots. Annual
block-grant of Birr 1.5 million is allocated for each wereda for the implementation of community initiated
projects. According to the guideline, the block-grant would be utilized for investment (88%), training and
capacity building (7%) and monitoring and supervision (5%) activities. Besides, at least 15% of the
resource must be utilized for projects addressing women's problems. Furthermore, the WDF encourages
plan based and integrated approach ot local development. A negative list was also given to avoid
implementatioon of complex projects, which discourage community participation. Currently, the WDF
pilot is expanded to 56 weredas in all regions, except Afar. A total of 824 projects have been financed
under the pilot WEF. Of this 787 (96%) were completed in only one year in the pilot weredas. Review
wrokshops have been conducted at region level in the presence of all stakeholders. Accordinly, WDF's
performace is satisfactory and quite positive. Capacity of local administration to plan, implement and
monitor has been enhanced through the wereda development fund pilot of ESRDF. For some of the pilot
weredas, the WDF is their first opportunity in managing resources and implementing investment projects.
With the WDF, some weredas have already started to think strategically and as a result they have prepared
medium and long-term integrated development plan for their wereda. The WDF approach resulted in high
community participation and contributioon raging up to 40% of project cost. It has also demonstrated that
large number of projects can be implemented in a short time with a limited budget. WDF proved to be a
quick response mechanism to address community priority needs.

3.6. Community Participation and Empowerment: The aim of ESRDF is not merely helping poor
people have access to basic social and economic infrastructure/services. To empower poor communities in
decision making process and to deliver basic services that they have prioritized and in which they are
willing to participate and invest is a primary goal. For this reason, ESRDF has been advocating about the
importance of community-based development and facilitating and ecnouraging active community
participation and contribution. As a mechanism to enhance community participation, ESRDF's
intervention focused mainly on small, cost effective and sustainable projects i.e. simple to implement and
operate and maintain with their limited capacity grassroots communities. The promotional activities
coupled with quick response of the ESRDF encouraged communities to come with their
applications/requests. From observation and information gathered druing field visits, community's
contribution has been increasing and some communities have come with upfront contributions. Recording
and valuation was a major problem with community contribution. A change in attitude is being observed
as a result of ESRDF's effort to disseminate participatory development and its encouragement for direct


                                                     - 48 -

involvement of communities in the overall process. Beneficiary ability to enjoy benefits from the services
of the projects in a short period is another factor for a change in public attitude. This change has resulted
in growing sense of ownership, self-reliance and willingness to participate in other development effort.

3. Target Beneficiaries and Coverage

Although ESRDF has broader target groups, as per the OM poor communities mainly the rural poor and
women are major beneficiaries. The projects financed under ESRDF are expected to benefit more than 20
million citizens (appraisal estimate), mainly poor people residing in rural parts of Ethiopia. Women
account for 49.6% of total beneficiaries. Health and sanitation is the sector with highest number of
beneficiaries (11,348,487 or 58.6%), because health facilities serve more users within and outside the
targeted community due too shortage. The ESRDF approach has proved to be important in reaching the
underserved and marginalized communities. Impact assessment conducted by GBA indicated that ESRDF
financed projects are on average 90 Kms far from centers. Some of these areas have never had any type of
infrastructure prior to ESRDF intervention (example: Dima in Gambela, Teru in Afar, Kurax in SNNP,
Mekane Birhan in Amhara). In terms of regional distribution, ESRDF has established branch offices in all
the nine regional states and two city administrations. Three sub-offices have also been organized in the
three large regions (Amhara, Oromiya and SNNP) with vast geographic coverage. The number of projects
implemented in a region is dependant on the number of eligible projects, capacity of the region and regional
budget allocation. As can be seen from the table below out the the total 5,697 projects financed by
ESRDF, 783 (14%) were implemented in the four backward/emerging regions: Somali, Afar,
Benishangul-Gumuz and Gambela. Further more, these regions implemented 113 (14%) training and
capacity building projects to enhance grassroots and institutional capacity. As indicated by GBA, "In
general the impact of ESRDF financed subprojects in these regions (emerging regions) was significant. As
proposed in the SAR, special attention was given to these regions in terms of technical assistance from
ESRDF CO. As for the other regions, Amhara and Oromiya implemented large number of projects
followed by Tigray and SNNP. In Amhara, Tigray and Behishangul Gumez regions, water supply schemes
accounted for about 62%, 61% and 58%, respectively. Overall "the results recorded in the regions" as
described by GBA "witness that ESRDF's performance has been good by any standard." Sector wise (see
table below) the rural water supply component accounted for 38% of ESRDF supported projects. The
other components with higher share are education, health and sanitation and TCB with 20%, 18% and
13%, respectively. Remaining components all together have about 23% share, i.e. small-scale irrigation
(2%), agriculture (4%), natural resource management (2%) and income generation and other types (2%).

                         Table 1: ESRDF Support Projects by Sector and Region




                                                      - 49 -

 Region                                                Sector                                          Total
             Educ      HS       RWSS      SSI        Agr.      NRM        IGP       TCB       Others
 A.A         117       66       1         0          0         0          1         39        0        224
 Afar        65        34       33        0          8         1          0         38        0        179
 Amhara      224       174      1008      56         68        34         19        118       26       1727
 B&G         45        55       163       0          9         2          3         32        4        313
 D.D         49        282      19        6          9         15         7         74        0        461
 Gambela     26        15       49        0          0         0          8         20        0        118
 Harari      26        46       35        0          1         5          7         38        2        160
 Oromiya     360       218      405       34         114       46         41        126       0        1344
 SNNP        191       71       1881      24         20        17         15        69        5        600
 Somali      94        `87      60        0          12        0          6         27        0        286
 Tigray      114       111      531       43         36        6          5         120       2        968
 Central     0         0        0         0          0         0          0         153       0        153
 Office
 Total       1311      1159     2492      163        277       126        112       854       39       6533




The data in this table is congruent with the structure of funding requests and a good demonstration of
ESRDF's responsiveness to community demand. Out of the total 10,465 applications (ESRDF regular),
34% was for rural water supply followed by education (29%) and health and sanitation (22%). While
education and health projects are implemented using standard government designs. For other projects
specific designs (based on studies as necessary) are prepared for each project and approved by concerned
office, if technically accepted. Comprehensive appraisal report that assessed social, technical, economic
and other aspects of the project is prepared, as well for each project.

5. PROMOTING PARTNERSHIP

ESRDF encouraged the involvement of all stakeholders, fosters partnership among all those involved and
promotes integrated approach in community-based development and poverty reduction. Several meetings
were organized in collaboration with the World Bank to bring in more NGOs. However, NGOs
participation was not as expected. Including civil societies, their share in application and implementation
was 6% and 12%, respectively (for regular ESRDF). On the other hand, sector offices and local
administration, including regional governments have been involved in implementing and monitoring the
ESRDF program. Out of the 10,465 applicaitons for regular ESRDF 1059 came from sector offices, while
641 originated from local administration. With regard to implementation, their contribution was 25% for
sector offices and 7% for local administration. Besides, sector offices were assisting communities
technically in preparing proposals, implementing and supervising projects. Sector offices were an
important partner of ESRDF in promotion, providing technical information, technically assessing viability
of projects and experience sharing.

As for the relationship with donors, it was smooth and based on partnership. Except for some fund flow
and procurement related delays, donors were assisting the ESRDF technically and in program managemetn
aspects. Donor supervision missions, which were in most cases done by World Bank staff, were useful and
have had significant contribution to the success of ESRDF. The effort to jointly resolve some problems (at
time by assigning professional consultants) with clear understand of the issue was really to be appreciated.
Collaboration, commitment, team work of donor staff with a feeling of belongingness was remarkable and
has helped ESRDF to attain its targets. Donors agreement and acceptance (except UNDP) to use the
procedures in the ESRDF operational manual was an important decision that avoided confusion, collusion
and unnecessary workload. Such an action was a factor in expediting implementation.




                                                     - 50 -

6. HANDLING OF THE PROJECT CYCLE

The ESRDF OM clearly shows stages of the project cycle and all the steps to go through with the
requirements that should be met at each stage. Attempt has been made to adhere to the OM in a
transparent and efficient manner. In the past nine years of operation, ESRDF through its regular
intervention was able to support the implementation of 4,331 community-based projects in all parts of the
country. In addition, through the pilot WDF 824 community initiated projects were implemented in 56
selected weredas of 10 regions. Another 50 projects were implemented under the pilot IG. The ERP, on its
part, has financed 523 projects in the two regions (Tigray and Afar) affected by the Ethio-Eritrea border
war. As it can be observed from the the table below, a total of 12,068 funding requests were processed in
the 11 regional offices. However, the ESRDF was capable to appraise only 7519 (62%). Major reasons
for low appraisal are capacity limitation, geographic dispersion of sites and fund shortage.

                            Table 2: Number of Projects Processed by ESRDF

  Project Cycle    ESRDF Regular            WDF                IGP              ERP               Total
Applications            10,465               865                90              648              12,068
Received
Appraised                6,046               855                74              544               7,519
Approved by              4649                855                62              523               6089
RSC/wereda
Transferred to           4,331               824                51              523               5,729
Implementation
Completed                4,028               787                47              400               5,262
Terminated/interr         303                37                  4              123               467
.

ESRDF however, was more effective and efficient in transferring approved projects in to the
implementation stage (94%) and subsequently completing staqrted projects (92%). In the process of
implementation, 412 projects were abandoned/terminated due to lack of water, site change, budget shortage
and financed by others. Only 55 projects were interrupted because of the closing period and these projects
have been handed over to other institutions to carry out remaining activities.

7. FUND MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT

As per the SAR the esmimated fund requireemnt to implement the ESRDF was USD 242 million. Until
December 31, 2004, a total of USD 237 million was pledged from the different sources (including ERP
USD 17.5 million). Thus, the ESRDF was able to raise about 98% of its fund requirement. However, it is
very low seen against community demand/request received in ESRDF. Government on its part has shown
its commitment to the implementation of the ESRDF covering mainly administrative costs in cash and in
kind. Its contribution is high if tax and other costs are included. Government has also facilitated
communication with donors and provided quick response to ESRDF's financial requests. Additional fund
(Birr 3.66 million) was also mobilized from an NGO known by the name Helvetas (Swiss Association for
International Cooperation) for implementing community-based interventions in two weredas of Amhara. A
Chinese NGO (USD 48,000) has also financed the implementation of one primary school in Oromiya
region.

Any project to be financed by ESRDF must be approved by the regional steering committee. The next



                                                      - 51 -

important step is signing of financing agreement between the beneficiary community, implementing agency
and ESRDF. The financing agreeement clearly states activity to be financed, location, role of stakeholders,
contributions made, etc. Subsequrently, preconstruction activities, i.e. site handover, procurement, etc. are
executed. As of December 31, 2004, ESRDF has transferred Birr1.63 billion for the implementation of
different community based-initiatives, training and capacity building and administrative activities. Out of
these, Birr 86.24 million is utilized for ERP projects in Tigray and Afar regions, while Birr 103.83 million
is expended for training and capacity building activities. In relation to the administrative cost, Birr 166.15
million is expended for all components including ERP. This is 10% of the total project cost and is within
acceptable level for a social investment fund. ESRDF's performance and financial transaction is audited
annually and has been audited until Sene 30, 1996 E.C (July 7, 2004).

                          Table 3: Source and Amount of Fund (in million USD)
Source of Fund                     SAR Estimate                  Pledged                       in %
IDA Credit                              120.0                    135.92                        113
Grant from Other                        61.80                     52.10                         84
Donors/UNDP
Government of Ethiopia                  36.35                     36.00                         99
Community Contribution                  24.25                     13.00                         54
Total                                  242.40                    237.02                         98

Fund allocation to components depends on the incoming request/demand of communities. Regional
allocation, on the other hand was determined by allocation criteria of the Council of Federation. In terms of
expenditure, Birr 822.69 million (%) went for social infrastructure projects (health, education and
sanitation), while Birr 231.77 million (%) and 148.83 million (%) is utilized for RWSS and SSI schemes.
Seen against the SAR the expenditure reflects the demand-driven nature of ESRDF. The decentralized
fund management system introduced under the WDF is expected to utilize about Birr 82.5 million (total
transfer as of 31/12/04 is Birr 58.22 million) in less than one year. The WDF approach in addition to
empowering local administration has helped them to expose themselves to and experience project fund
management, procurement, etc.

8. GENDER PERSPECTIVE OF ESRDF

All basic documents of ESRDF (SAR, OM) indicate that women are a target group given emphasis. Thus,
relevance of a project in addressing gender issues and in particular problems of women is included as one
major checklist of appraisal for ESRDF financed projects. Projects implemented with financial suppport of
ESRDF are expected to benefit more than 22 million people. Women constitute 49.6% of the total
beneficiaries. Although all projects are benefiting women as members of the community, they were major
beneficiaries of health and water supply projects. The projects are believed to reduce hardship and
workload in traveling long distance to fetch water. Health facilities have enabled women get maternal
and other health services in the vicinity. Moreover, construction of schools around their villages,
provision of separate toilet's and furniture are considered as major factors contributing to the increase in
girrls' enrollment ratio in primary school. Women specific projects were also supported through income
generation, training (22) and WDF (13) interventions. These projects have created an opportunity for
women to develop skills, get job and generate income. For some of the projects women groups or
associations were the initiators of funding requests. They are also closely involved in implementing
women specific projects and running them. Women have been participating actively and in the different
stages of the project cycle. As per the observation of B&M "women have played greater role in the
identification and the setting up of priority among the problems that affected their lives." They were



                                                     - 52 -

attending equally community meetings organized to discuss and decide on problemm identification, priority
setting, contribution, selecting CPC members, etc. Most CPC's had one or more women as members, thus,
their role during implementation of projects was encouraging. They were also equally contributing labor
and local material to the projcet in their locality. Most important contribution of women was observed in
water users association, in which they are the major actors.

9. FUNCTIONALITY AND SUSTAINABILITY

The ultimate objective of ESRDF's effort is to enable poor communities get the services (quality service)
through the infrastructure created. Thus, ensuring proper operation and sutainability of facilities is an
important step in fulfilling community demand. In order to facilitate this, the ESRDF has introduced
several mechanisms. Projects are appraised with pre-designed criteria, which include communtiy ability to
operate it, maintenance and sustainability. Endorsement from relevant sector offices, their commitment and
signing of financing agreement are hedges against non-functioonality. Participation of community in
decision making and cost sharing are effective mechanism to instill sense of ownership and belongingness.
Practice has demonstrated that such a condition guarantees sustainable use of facilities created. To train
beneficiary community and streghthen their managerial and technical capacity is an indispensable element
of sustainability. In light of this, ESRDF has provided training with the aim of strengthening grassroots
and institutional capacity to operate and maintain projects. Examples are trainings for water care takers,
pump attendants, irrigation users, water user's committee/association, primary health workers, teachers,
etc. Furthermore, provisioons of working tools to beneficiaries are also to be mentioned. Another
important mechanism related to proper functioning and sustainability is handing over of projects and
transfer of ownership to communities and concerned authorities with a handover agreement signed.

All these steps have produced encouruaging results and as per our field visit observations, beneficiary
communities have serious concerns and are doing what they can towards protecting, operating and
maintaining facilities. From the Post Completion Monitoring (PCM) conducted in the regions, we can see
that most ESRDF financed projects are operational. However, the rate of malfunction or non-functionality
is higher for water supply projects, which have critical operation and maintenance problems: For example
in Gambela and Harari 50% of the water suppply schemes are not working. While in Amhara, where
ESRDF financed about 40% of RWSS projects, the rate of functionality is 84%.

10. CONCLUSION, LESSONS LEARNED

During the past nine years, ESRDF's operation was facing different challanges and bottlenecks. Some of
them were surmounted through coordinated efforts and gradually in time. Others, however, persisted
affecting its pace and success. ESRDF's experience has enabled generate several lessons in
community-based and participatory development. Some of them are quite relevant for others in the design
and implementatioon of future iinterventions. Attempts have been made by the ESRDF, through website,
review workshops, books and reports to transfer its experience and lessons learned. Among others the
following are considered very relevant:

   l Projects initiated by the community and addressing priority demand have advantages such as: are
         implemented quickly and at less cost, communitities participate actively and willinngly and high
         contribution (up-front). If given the chance, proper guidance and assisted technically, even those
         with weak capacity can perform well and do a lot of things. Interventions that truly empower both
         the community and local administration (ex. WDF) are instrumental to expand basic infrastructure
         to rural communities and raise service coverage in a short period of time. Besides, it is possible to
         implement large numbe of small projects with limited budget;


                                                     - 53 -

   l Organizing communities in some sort of CBO like CPCs and if leaders are selected by the
         communities themselves, it is much simpler to call community meetings, identify priority needs and
         mobilize resources;
   l Commmunity-based development approaches like ESRDF enable to reach remote and inaccessible
         areas. Communities that WERE considered very diifficult to work with can be easily reached and
         enabled to participate in the implementation of projects;
   l To provide focused and need oriented training and other capacity building support addressing
         mainly grassroots communities and wereda/kebele strurctures. The capacity at this level still is
         weak and, therefore, extensive effort is quite necessary to strengthen working capacity, which is
         critical to improve confidence, increase participation and enhance work efficiency;
   l Implementing a single project might reduce a specific problem of certain communtiy. But, to apply
         an integrated planned development approach helps to see problems in comprehensive and
         interrelated manner, with a long-term development perspective and reflects local reality. Thus
         support is given in a package form that brings some change in the community/wereda;
   l To introduce participatory review and evaluation mechanism gives opportunity to get feedbak on
         program/project performance, achievements, weakness and strengths, lessons learnd, etc. Such
         feedback is used as an input to improve systems and procedures applied and think of possible
         corrective measures for some drawbacks observed.

Overcoming all the problems and constraints in its course, ESRDF has effectively achieved the
development objectives for which it is established. Apart from the expansion of basic economic and social
infrastructure and services, the most significant achievement of ESRDF is that it has widely promoted
participatory, demand-driven and community-based approach. It has shown that fast development is
possible only with true empowerment of communities. If supported, communities can really play their
leading role in development. At the time of design and launch of ESRDF the capacity at all levels and in
particular at community level was so weak. Currently the situatioon has much improved and the
contribution of ESRDF in strengthening community capacity has been remarkable. However, it would be
appropriate for the government to facilitate transfer of lessons learned from ESRDF to other institutions
and arrange a mechanism that would ensure sustainability of ESRDF created facilities. On the other hand,
ESRDF has now become a strong national capacity to implement community-based development and
poverty reduction programs. Through long years (more than 12 years) of investment, it has developed
matured institutional capacity. ESRDF has a tested system, has got experience, owns sufficient office
equipment, has established wide network in the society that reach up to the grassroots level, has built
trust/respectability and acceptability, its system allows to recruit competent and committted staff. Thus,
for the Government, it would be prudent to assess the capacity of the ESRDF and utilize it in future
development endeavors.




                                                      - 54 -

Additional Annex 12. WMU and CSA Contribution

I.       Background and Overview

Poverty reduction and its ultimate eradication have been and still is the overriding agenda of the
Government even before the advent of the PRSP. Following the assumption of power by the Transitional
Government of Ethiopia in July 1991 and subsequent issuance of the Transitional Economic Policy, the
Government of Ethiopia launched a package of reform programs in the economic domain (first generation
reforms). The Welfare Monitoring System Program (WMSP) has been introduced to monitor the
socio-economic impact of the Government's economic reform program and its contribution to decision
making and planning. The WMSP has been established around 1995. The establishment of the WMSP has
been primarily aimed at assessing the impact of the economic reform programs on household welfare
particularly the poor and vulnerable groups, establish follow-up procedures on the various programs and
activities targeted towards poverty reduction, conduct regular statistical surveys to assess changes at
different levels and establishing an information system that provides built-in mechanisms to monitoring the
status of poverty in the country on a continuous basis.

The Central Statistical Authority (CSA) and Welfare Monitoring Unit (WMU) of the then Ministry of
Economic Development and Cooperation (MEDaC) now the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (MOFED) have been the key actors of the WMSP. The CSA has been primarily responsible
for generating basic household level data that have been used as crucial inputs to the monitoring system. In
this regard, the CSA has included in its Statistical Priority Program Periodic surveys like the Household
Income Consumption and Expenditure Survey (HICES) and Welfare Monitoring Survey (WMS) that
provide basic data on the poverty situation of the country. These surveys have been undertaken since
1995/96. The outputs of these surveys has enabled assess the level and profile of poverty at all-country and
regional levels. The Welfare Monitoring Unit (WMU) was established to oversee the implementation of the
WMSP. The WMU has been primarily responsible for undertaking in depth analysis of the HICES and
WMS data sets as provided by the CSA. Besides, the WMU has also been responsible for coordinating the
overall implementation of the Program and for ensuring that outputs are generated from the system in the
form of timely and relevant reports to inform policy makers and planners on the state of poverty in Ethiopia
and on the impact on welfare of policies and poverty-oriented programs implemented by the
Government.The core task of WMU is to ensure that all the existing data are fully utilized for poverty
monitoring and those findings are disseminated and used to inform public policy. Its activities have been
central to ensuring that there is transparent and broad-based monitoring and evaluation of SDPRP
implementation based on high quality data that feeds in to the poverty/welfare analysis conducted by the
WMU of MOFED. The feedbacks from analysis works of the WMU has also helped improve the
household level data collected by the CSA through HICES and WMS. The Welfare Monitoring System
Program (WMSP) which was established in 1996(at the same time that the Ethiopia Social Rehabilitation
and development fund ­ESRDF was established) has been financially supported by a grant from the
Government of Norway, valued at approximately $2.4 million and a $ 1.1million IDA credit. The sections
below describe in detail the activities carried out and major outputs produced by the WMU of MOFED and
the CSA with in the framework of the WMSP.

II.      The WMU Component

2.1. Objectives. The Welfare Monitoring System is built around an annual Review of social trends and
Welfare reflecting changes in the status of different population groups and identifying key policy issues for
further consideration. The WMSP has been designed to: Present a national and regional review of welfare



                                                     - 55 -

indicators showing their spatial distribution and movements overtime; Identifying the poor and vulnerable
groups that require targeted assistance; Assess the short and medium term effects of macro economic and
sect oral policies and programs on the poor;Monitor changes in status of the poor and vulnerable groups.

2.2. Major Activities and Accomplishments of the WMU since 1996. The scope of responsibilities of
the WMU has broadened following the commencement of the PRSP process in Ethiopia, the preparation of
the Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program ­ SDPRP. Based on existing welfare
monitoring system structures, besides undertaking poverty/Welfare analysis based on the HICES and
WMS survey data sets supplied by the CSA, the role of the WMU has broadened by incorporating
activities related to SDPRP formulation and follow up of its implementation. This includes design of
SDPRP policy matrix and its refinement over time. Its activities also include coordination in the process of
monitoring and evaluation of SDPRP implementation. The WMU is also currently involved in the
coordination of MDG needs assessment exercise in collaboration with the Millennium Project, the UN
Country Team and the World Bank. The poverty reduction effort has already taken a longer-term
perspective. The WMU is currently at the center of the overall coordination of monitoring and evaluation of
SDPRP implementation as well as the MDGs in the context of Ethiopia

2.2.1. Major Activities of the WMU Since 1996. The major areas of activities of the WMU since 1996
include he following, among others:         The conduct of the preparatory work for the launching of the
analysis of the 1999/2000 HICES and WMS data sets (January 2001 to July 2001);           The conduct of the
analysis of the 1999/2000 HICES and WMS data sets (August 2001 to December 2001);             The conduct of
Growth-Poverty Linkages study as an input into the preparation of Ethiopia's first PRSP (the SDPRP);
Coordination of the consultation process (September 2001 to March 2002); The formulation of the
Full-fledged SDPRP Document (February 2002 ­ July 2002); The preparation of the Annual Progress
report for 2002/03; Preparation of the PPA Study Proposal and Technical Design including organization of
overall logistics and field operation; Preparation of the PPA field Operation Manual; The preparation of
the Interim Annual Progress Report (I-APR 2003/04); The preparation of the 2003/04 APR (in progress);
Launching of the PPA field operation (Third Week of November 2004).

2.2.2. Major Outputs of WMU Activities. Generating standard indicators of poverty/welfare of national
scope had not been possible up until 1999. The 1995/96 HICE and WM surveys have helped establish
baseline indicators of national scope on poverty/ welfare. In this regard, the WMU of MOFED issued the
1995/96 HICE and WM surveys-based "Poverty Situation Report" in March 1999. The second HICE and
WM surveys were conducted in 1999 and the second study t Report on poverty/welfare entitled the
"Development and Poverty Profile of Ethiopia" was issued in March 2002. This study Report was based
on the 1999/2000 HICE and WM surveys data sets. Significant improvement was witnessed in this second
report in contrast to the first Poverty Situation Report of March 1999. This time a great deal of
improvement has been achieved in terms of clearly articulating methodologies adopted, making utmost use
of the available data sets, handling the data and undertaking the analysis work and issuing the results with
in the time frame set in the Analysis Plan. This Report served as an important input in the preparation of
Ethiopia's first PRSP entitled the Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program (SDPRP)
issued in July 2002 and immediately submitted to the World Bank and IMF 2002. The SDPRP
(2002/03-2004/05) served as a framework for development cooperation between the Government of
Ethiopia and Development partners.

2.2.3. Ongoing Activities of the WMU. One major activity of the WMU during the second half of
2003/04 and almost the whole of 2004/05 is the conduct of the Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA)
field operation. The PPA is designed to shed new light on the understanding of poverty in Ethiopia and to
ensure that the perceptions and voices of poor people themselves are brought to fore with the use of


                                                     - 56 -

participatory research methodologies. The overall goal of the Ethiopian PPA 2004/05 is to assist the
poverty reduction strategy process (the Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program-SDPRP)
to achieve its objectives, with outcomes of reducing poverty in its many different manifestations throughout
Ethiopia. The WMU of MOFED is currently busy with the finalization of the Annual Progress Report on
the second year of SDPRP implementation (2003/04). It is also coordinating the sect oral MDG Needs
Assessment studies (which are being finalized) and the synthesis work, which would the basis for the
formulation of the upcoming Ethiopia's second PRSP (SDPRP II), which covers the five-year period
2005/06-2009/10.

2.3. Staffing and Capacity Building. The WMU is now being mainstreamed in the Development
Planning and Research Department (DPRD) of MOFED. Some 11 professionals of different levels of
qualification and specializing in either economics and/or statistics are required for the WMU according to
the new man power structure of the WMU. Some 50 percent of the requirement is already met. The
professional staff of the WMU has been exposed to a number of short-term skill upgrading training
programs, workshops, seminars, conferences both locally and abroad. More important of all, all the WMU
professional staff passed through on-the job training during the conduct of the analysis of the 1999/2000
HICE and WM surveys data sets from July 2001 to March 2002. A two weeks intensive hands-on training
was conducted in June 2001 by way of launching the analysis of the 1999/2000 HICE and WM surveys
data sets. The 2 members of the WMU who have been fully acquainted with the analysis have now left for
postgraduate studies in the USA. We are currently working on a training program for the four professional
staff of the WMU by way of preparing them for the analysis of the 2004/05 HICE and WM surveys data
sets expected to be ready for analysis by June 2005. The PPA training and field supervision has already
given them some insight in to the upcoming activities of the WMU.

2.4. Financial Performance(WMU Component). The disbursement amount were of USD 359,809.14
and were made from cash advance to our account only. This does not include direct payments advanced by
the World Bank. As the PPA field, operation is currently in progress the disbursement figures and hence the
balance is going to be firmed up subsequently. The financial activities of the project have been under
regular audit by external auditors (Audit Service Corporation). Slight discrepancies may be observed
because of currency fluctuation as well as the fact that the entries are not taken from audit reports. The
remaining balance (if available) also is not indicated owing to lack of adequate information at present.

2.5. What has been achieved so far by the WMU? The Way Forward. The WMU is currently in a far
better shape than it used to be 4 years a go in 2001. It was a one-man Unit with even no internal capacity to
run the routine activities of the WMU. Now, for one thing it is mainstreamed in a bigger Department. For
another, it has got the necessary focus and attention given the broadening of its scope of responsibilities in
the context of SDPRP implementation and the MDGs. Currently a staff expansion program is under way,
and some recruitment has recently taken place. The WMU acknowledges that it urgently needs several
highly qualified professional staff for analytical, management, coordination and dissemination activities.
The partnership established with higher education and research institutions both locally and abroad
(especially with the Economics Department of Addis Ababa University) in the course of undertaking the
analysis of the 1999/2000 HICE and WM survey data sets in 2001 has helped augment and strengthen the
in-house technical capacity of the WMU and MOFED at large since 2001. The partnership with the
Department of Economics of Addis Ababa University in conducting the 1999/2000 HICE and WM surveys
data sets and the subsequent issuance of the Report entitled the Development and Poverty Profile of
Ethiopia and the Growth Poverty-Linkage Study that both fed in to the SDPRP, the on-going PPA Study
are worth mentioning in this regard. The main goal of the WMU of MOFED for the coming period is to
contribute to a better and broad-based monitoring and evaluation of welfare based on high quality data and
analytical framework through further strengthening and broadening the base for in-house analytical


                                                     - 57 -

capacity. Given the on-going further devolution and the role of woredas as centers of socio-economic
development, this will help create necessary evidence, both qualitatively and quantitatively at low levels of
aggregations (sub-national level particularly woreda level) on welfare outcomes and inputs, via new data
collection, integration of existing data and advanced analysis of all available data. Looking forward in line
with requirements of monitoring and evaluation of the SDPRP and MDGs, the WMU of MOFED and the
CSA have jointly prepared a five-year Project Proposal entitled Strengthening Data Collection, Analysis
and Dissemination on Poverty Monitoring and the Millennium Development Goals to the Development
Assistance Group (DAG) covering the period 2004/05 to 2008/09. The Project agreement was signed in
July 2004 between the MOFED and the DAG and is currently under implementation. The WMU of
MOFED and the CSA have articulated their joint action plans for the coming five years taking in to
consideration the complementarities of their activities/roles. The WMU of MOFED is currently preparing
the groundwork for the launching of the analysis of the upcoming 2004/05 HICE and WM surveys data
sets. The 2004/05 PPA as already indicated and the APR for the second year of SDPRP implementation
and the preparation of the second SDPRP based on the on-going MDG Needs Assessment exercise are the
major activities of the WMU during the whole of 2004/05.

III.     The CSA Component

This is a brief report on the activities carried out by the Central Statistical Authority (CSA) since the
commencement of the Welfare Monitoring System in 1995/96 in Ethiopia. The major activities carried out
include survey activities, capacity building in terms of manpower, and equipment and supplies.

3.1. Survey Activities. The survey activities of the CSA include the Household Income, Consumption and
Expenditure Survey (HICES) and Welfare Monitoring Survey (WMS) articulated to reflect the income and
non-income aspects of poverty, respectively. The two surveys are inseparable and provide basic data that
reflect the standard of living of households, individuals, and the society as a whole. The HICE and WMS
surveys have been utilized as crucial inputs in designing and monitoring and evaluation of the country's
poverty reduction strategy: Ethiopia: Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program
(SDPRP), the various socioeconomic policies and programs and hence monitor and evaluate the progress
towards meeting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). As mentioned above, the Household
Income, Consumption and expenditure Survey basically provides data/result that reflect income dimension
of poverty. Thus the main objectives of HICES are to provide income, expenditure and consumption
statistics useful for assessment of the economic well being of households and individuals. Specific
objectives are: To provide data used to determine poverty line; To assess income/expenditure levels, pattern
and distribution; To estimate calorie intake based on consumption data; Determination of basket of goods
and services and expenditure weights for the construction of Consumer Price Indices (CPI); Estimation of
consumption expenditure in National Accounts Statistics; and Helps to formulate, monitor and evaluate
economic policies and thereby assess the impact of these policies on households'/individuals' living
standard. HICES provides indicators on level, pattern and distribution household income, consumption and
expenditure. In addition to the statistics on level and distribution of income and expenditure, several
indicators such as poverty head count index, poverty gap index, household economic & demographic
characteristics, etc can also be obtained. WMS aims at providing statistical data that reflect the non-income
dimension of poverty, which include Health, Education, Nutrition, access to and utilization and satisfaction
of basic facilities/services and other related non-income dimension of poverty. Specific objectives are to:
Assess the level and distribution of non-income dimensions of poverty; Help assess the quality of life of
households/individuals; Design, monitor and evaluate the impact of socioeconomic policies and programs
on households/individuals living standard; and Provide indicators on households' and individuals' living
standard with respect to basic needs such as education, health, child nutrition, access and utilization of
basic facilities/services, water and sanitation, energy, housing etc.


                                                      - 58 -

The HICE is conducted every five years, as usually is the case in many countries, and have been conducted
in 1995/96 and 1999/2000. The WMS has been conducted together with the HICES and had also been
carried out in 1997 and 1998. The Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) pilot survey has also
been carried out in four Woredas to test for the methodological approach, assess budgetary requirements
and data processing mechanisms. Several reports have been produced based on these surveys including the
statistical reports produced by the CSA: report on the 1995/96 HICES and WMS, report on the 1999/2000
HICES and WMS, summary reports for the 1999/2000 HICE and WMS and report on the 1998 WMS
survey as well as the two in-depth analytical reports on poverty situation of the country produced by
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED). The two surveys cover all sedentary
population of the country. The report for household income, consumption and expenditure survey can be
obtained at country level and for all regions, disaggregated by rural-urban residence. In addition, the survey
design also allows reporting for regional capitals and few other towns. The reporting level for WMS is the
same as for HICES except that the WMS results additionally are available at zonal level for rural areas of
all regions. Gender desegregation is also considered in all possible cases. The project has shown
progressive improvements. Substantive developments have been made with survey instruments as well as
with the scope and coverage of the two surveys over the past 10 years through accumulated experience that
has also been supplemented by consultations made with subject matter specialists from international
organizations including the World Bank, ILO and others. Inputs have also been received from users
consultation seminars and dissemination seminars, which constitute the main data users WMU of MoFED,
the World Bank, Universities, other governmental and non-governmental stakeholders (DAG, etc.). The
sizes of the sample households have also been increased through time. The sample household covered in
WMS has increased from about 11, 600 1995/96 to 25, 928 households in year 2000. The corresponding
HICES sample households have increased from 11,600 in 1995/96 to 17,332 in 1999/2000. The ongoing
survey of 2004/05 covers more than 36,000 households for WMS survey and more than 21,000 households
for HICE survey.

3.2. Capacity Building. In terms of capacity building a lot of work has also been put in place since
1995/96. Long term trainings at Masters level was given to four of the CSA professional staff members,
two has taken short term training and not less than 15 have participated in different study tours, training
workshops and seminars that had been arranged in different countries (Africa, America, Europe). Two of
the CSA staff members have also participated, together with the WMU of MOFED, in the analytical work
of the 1995/96 survey that had been organized by the Bank in Washington DC. Capacity building has also
been materialized in terms of logistics, material and equipment. Procurement of 14 field vehicles, three
automobiles, several computers and accessories, anthropometrical measurement scales, printing equipment
and survey expendable equipment, etc. has also been put in place through the support from the Bank.

3.3. Ongoing Activities. Currently, the first round of the 2004/05 HICES and WMS has been completed
and data processing activities are underway. Preparatory activities for the second round HICE survey that
will be carried out during December-January 2004/05 are also going on. Training of trainers for the second
round will be held at the CSA's Head Office from 25 November to 9 December 2004 as part of the
preparatory activity for the training of the field staff that will take place from 13-31 December 2004. Data
collection will then be carried out from January 2005 until the first week of February 2005.

3.4. Financial Aspects. The financial activities of the project have been under regular audit that has been
done annually by external auditors. The following ammounts were utilized: US$192,182.95 (IDA Cr.
2841-0), Birr 7,078,156.54 (IDA Cr. 2841-1); US$894,642.01; JPY 42,368,189.25; and Birr
11,497,429.56 (Norwegian Trust Fund). Slight discrepancies may be observed because of currency
fluctuation as well as the fact that the entries are not taken from audit reports.


                                                      - 59 -

IV.      Conclusion

In conclusion, judged against what has been planned when the Project was initiated in 1996, both the
activities and corresponding outputs of both the WMU of MOFED and the CSA show that the Project has
been a success. Both the WMU of MOFED and the CSA would like to express their deep appreciations for
the continued support the Bank has been providing since the establishment of the Welfare Monitoring
System Program in Ethiopia. We would like to emphasize that in line with the growing need for monitoring
and evaluation of the ongoing poverty reduction program and the MDGs further strengthening of both the
WMU of MOFED and the CSA is crucial. We, there fore, would like to emphasize once again that it is in
the interest of both institutions (and MOFED at large) to continue working with the Bank to produce and
disseminate reliable and timely statistical data and results over the coming years.




                                                     - 60 -

                 32°E                                         36°E                                                        40°E                               42°E                        44°E

                                                                                        ERITREA                To
                                                                                                               To                                                                                                          ETHIOPIA
                                                                                                              Keren                                 R
                                                                                                                                                           e                         REP.
                                                                                                                                                             d                         OF                                           SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                       ETHIOPIA                          To
                                                         To                                                         Adigrat                                      S               YEMEN                                              PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                        Gedaref               Humera
              14°N                                                                      Tekeze         Axum                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                 T I G R AY
                                                                                                                     Mekele                                                                                                         RIVERS
                                                                                                    Ras Dashen
                                                                                                    Terara (4620 m)                                                                                                                 MAIN ROADS
                                                                       Atbara                                              D e n a k i l                           e                         14°N
                                                                                                                                                                     a



                                                                                                                                         D                                                                                          RAILROADS

                                                                                       Gonder
                                                                                       A M H A R A                                                                                                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                            Lake                                            A F A R
                                                            Dinder                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                            Tana
              12°N                                                                             Debra
                                                                                               Tabor        Weldiya                       e sert                                             12°N
                                                                                                                                                                 DJIB
                                                                                                                                                                 DJIBOUTI
                                                                            Bahir Dar

                                                    Aba                                  Blue                                             Asayita                                                                              46°E                     48°E
                                                                                             Nile                                                                                                                                                n
                                                                                                                 Dese                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                                                                                                         u   l f      o    f      A     d
                                                      y                                                                                                                                           G
                        SUDAN
                                              BENSHANGUL
                                              Asosa                   Hanger            Debre
                                                                                        Markos                                 Awash
                                                                                                 E t h i o p i a n
              10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10°N
                                                                Didesa                             P l a t e a u                             DIRE DAWA
                                                                                                                                                             Dire Dawa                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                Harer                  Hargeysa

                                                       Gimbi             Nekemte     ADDIS ABABA           ADDIS                                HARAR                 Jijiga
                                                                                                           ABABA              Awash                                                                                                       SOMALIA

                                                                                                                  Nazret
                                    Baro                                                    Welkite               O R O M I YA                    Ramis                                         Aware
                                                          Gore                                                                                                            Degeh Bur

              8°N                        Gambela
                              G A M B E L A                                                                        y                                                                                                                       Domo                8°N
                                                                                                         Asela   e
                                    Akobo                                      Jima          Hosaina          ll         Shebele

                                                                        Bonga                                a     Wabe                                                                                 O g a d e n
                                                                                                        Shashemene
                                                                                                           V                                                                   S O M A L I
                                                                                     Sodo   Awasa                           Goba
                                                                                                        t     Dodola                                                                                                   Warder
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kebri Dehar
                                                  SOUTHERN NATIONS,                         Wendo      f
                                                                                                     i                                                            Imi
                                                        NATIONALITES                                R

              6°N                                        AND PEOPLES                                                                            Wabe Ges tro
                                                                                                  t                                                                      Wabe                                                                                  6°N
                                                                                                 a                                                                             Shebele
                    0  50  100 150 200 Kilometers                                             r e                          Genale
                                                                                                              Negele
                    0    50     100      150 Miles                                           G                                                                                                                    FerferToTo
                                                                                                  Yavello             Dawa                                                                                           Mogadishu


                                                                                                                                                                Dolo
NOVEMBER                                                                                                                                                        Odo               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                       Lake                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
              4°N                                                                                   Mega                                                                                                                                                           IBRD
                                                  Turkana                                                                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                4°N
                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                       INDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OCEAN            33405
        2004          UGANDA                                                 KENYA                            Moyale
                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                     To                               To
                                                                                                                                                                      To
                 32°E              34°E                       36°E                          38°E       To
                                                                                                       To                           Wajir
                                                                                                    Marsabit              40°E                               42°E  Mogadishu             44°E                                  46°E                     48°E

