Page  1
                                                      CONFORMED COPY
                                              CREDIT NUMBER 2841 ET
                      Development Credit Agreement
      (Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund Project)
                                 between
               THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated May 15, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2841 ET
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1996, between THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
Page  2
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
            supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
            any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
            Charter of the United Nations.".
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Beneficiary" means a community group to whom, or for whose
benefit, a grant is made, or proposed to be made;
      (b)   "Birr" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (c)   "ESRDF" means the "Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and
Development Fund" established by the Borrower pursuant to Proclamation
No. 19, of Yekatit 5, 1988 (February 13, 1996);
      (d)   "Financing Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into
between ESRDF and an Implementing Agency for the purposes of carrying
out a Subproject;
      (e)   "Grant" means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by
ESRDF to finance a Subproject;
      (f)   "Implementing Agency" means a village committee or
association, or other entity, responsible for the implementation of a
Subproject for, or on behalf of, a Beneficiary;
      (g)   "Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in
Section 7.01 (a) of this Agreement and setting out, inter alia,
criteria, procedures, and guidelines for the administration, promotion,
appraisal, and supervision of Subprojects, to be followed by ESRDF in
carrying out Parts A and B of the Project;
      (h)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated February 13, 1996 and February 26, 1996
between the Borrower and the Association;
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (j)   "Subproject" means a specific development project financed,
or proposed to be financed, through Grants extended under Part A of the
Project;
      (k)   "Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement between
the Borrower and ESRDF referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement, as the same shall be amended from time to time;
      (l)   "WMU" means the Welfare Monitoring Unit within the
Borrower's Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation;
      (m)   "CSA" means the Borrower's Central Statistical Authority;
      (n)   "WRC" means the Welfare Review Committee established
pursuant to the Borrower's Directive of Ginbot 4, 1987 (May 12,
1995); and
      (o)   "Project Year" means the twelve-month period beginning
from the Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter (the
First Project Year), and any twelve-month period beginning at the end
of the First Project Year, or the end of subsequent Project Years.
                                ARTICLE II
Page  3
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 80,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A and B of the
Project, open and maintain in US dollars a special deposit account
(Special Account A), for the purposes of Part C.1 of the Project open
and maintain in US dollars a special deposit account (Special Account
B), and for the purposes of Part C.2 of the Project open and maintain
in US dollars a special deposit account (Special Account C), all in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against setoff, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of each Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Page  4
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1,
2006 and ending January 1, 2036. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Association shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Association
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                              ARTICLE III
                       Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end:
            (i)   shall cause ESRDF to carry out Parts A and B of the
                  Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
                  conformity with appropriate administrative, economic,
                  financial, technical and environmental practices,
                  shall take, or cause to be taken, all action,
                  including the provision of funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources necessary, or
                  appropriate, to enable ESRDF to carry out Parts A
                  and B of the Project in accordance with the
                  Operational Manual, and shall not take, or permit
                  to be taken, any action which would prevent, or
                  interfere with, the carrying out of Parts A and B of
                  the Project by ESRDF; and
            (ii)  shall carry out Part C of the Project with due
                  diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                  appropriate administrative and financial practices,
                  and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                  facilities, services and other resources required
                  for Part C of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause ESRDF to carry out Parts A
and B of the Project, and shall carry out Part C, all in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Page  5
      (c)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated for Parts A and B of the Project available to ESRDF on a
grant basis under a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ESRDF, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association and which shall include
a provision granting the amounts from time to time allocated to
Categories (1), (2) (a), (3) (a) and (3) (b)  of the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Grant Agreement in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   cause ESRDF to open, and maintain for the duration of the
Project implementation, an account (the ESRDF Project Account) in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Association and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association;
      (b)   deposit into the ESRDF Project Account an initial amount
equivalent to the Borrower's estimated share of counterpart funds
required for Project implementation during the first year, as shall be
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association at the beginning
of each year (the Initial Deposit), and thereafter, at annual intervals,
deposit into the ESDRF Project Account such amounts as shall be agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association; and
      (c)   ensure that funds deposited into the ESRDF Project Account
in accordance with paragraph (b) above shall be used exclusively to
finance the Borrower's share of  expenditures under the Project other
than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, in respect of
Part C of the Project, and cause ESRDF to maintain, in respect of
Parts A and B of the Project, records and accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project, and
Parts A and B of the Project, respectively.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause ESRDF, to:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
Page  6
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six (6) months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                  payment out of the Special Accounts was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their preparation, can
                  be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                               Other Covenants
      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause ESRDF:
      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice;
      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers; and
      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its facilities,
equipment and other property, and from to time, promptly as needed,
to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound technical and financial practices.
                              ARTICLE VI
                      Remedies of the Association
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Borrower's Proclamation No.19 of Yekatit 5, 1988
(February 13, 1996) shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
Page  7
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of ESRDF to perform any of its obligations under the
Subsidiary Grant Agreement;
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that ESRDF will be able to carry out Parts A
and B of the Project; and
      (c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ESDRF or the suspension of its operations.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely
that the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                             ARTICLE VII
                      Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   The Board of ESRDF has: (i) adopted an operational manual,
acceptable to the Association, setting out, inter alia, procedures and
guidelines, for the administration, promotion, appraisal, and
supervision of Subprojects to be followed by ESRDF in carrying out
Parts A and B of the Project; and (ii) approved ESRDF's work program
and budget for the first year of the Project implementation;
      (b)   The Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly executed by
the Borrower and ESRDF;
      (c)   (i) the ESRDF Project Account referred to in Section 3.04
(a) of this Agreement, has been opened, and (ii) the Borrower has made
the Initial Deposit referred to in  Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
      (d)   the Borrower has established accounting and management
systems for Project implementation, acceptable to the Association; and
      (e)   standard bidding documents for procurement under the
Project, which are acceptable to the Association, have been finalized.
      Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Association, namely that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ESRDF and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and ESRDF in accordance with its terms.
      Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VIII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Finance
            P.O Box: 1905
Page  8
            Addis Ababa
            Ethiopia
                                      Telex:
                                      21147
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:            Telex:
                   INDEVAS            248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.    82987 (FTCC)
                                       64145 (WUI) or
                                      197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                   By /s/ Berhane Gebre-Christos
                                           Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ James W. Adams
                                        Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                Africa
                             SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the Credit
                         Allocated (Expressed     % of Expenditures
           Categories     in SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Goods and Works for     56,230,000          100% of foreign
      Subprojects under                           expenditures and 90%
      Part A of the Project                       of local expenditures
(2)   Consultants' services,                     100%
      Technical Assistance
      and Training
      (a) under Parts A and    3,230,000
          B of the Project
Page  9
      (b) under Part C.1         350,000
          of the Project
      (c) under Part C.2         200,000
          of the Project
(3)   Equipment,                                 100% of foreign
      Vehicles, Furniture                        expenditures and 90%
      and Materials                              of local expenditures
      (a) under Part B.3       7,800,000
          of the Project
      (b) under Parts A, B.1,  3,320,000
          and B.2 of the Project
      (c) under Part C.1 of       80,000
         of the Project
      (d) under Part C.2 of       90,000
          the Project
(4)   Refunding of Project       670,000         Amounts due pursuant
      Preparation                                to Section 2.02 (c) of
      Advance                                    of this Agreement
(5)   Unallocated              8,830,000
                               _________
      TOTAL                   80,800,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of
which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures".
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
      (b)   expenditures under Category (1) in respect of: (i) Sub-
projects involving water abstractions from the rivers specified in
paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement which shall have not been
approved by the Association pursuant to the provisions of said
paragraph; (ii) Subprojects involving water abstractions from the
rivers specified in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, after
the aggregate of the water abstractions from each of said rivers shall
have reached the limits indicated in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and (iii) Subprojects involving water abstractions from
the Wabi-Schebele-Genale (Juba) rivers.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for goods and works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent,
and for services: (i) for firms under contracts not exceeding $50,000,
and (ii) for individuals under contracts not exceeding $25,000
equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  10
                              SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) help alleviate poverty
and support community development through provision of financial and
technical resources to support community initiated projects; and (b)
strengthen the Borrower's capacity for welfare analysis and monitoring.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Social and Economic Infrastructure and Services
      Promotion, appraisal, designing, supervision, and evaluation of
community initiated projects, and provision of Grants for the
financing thereof, for: (a) the construction and rehabilitation of
essential local economic and social infrastructure, including, inter
alia, projects relating to: (i) basic health care and primary education
facilities, (ii) rural water supply and urban sanitation systems, and
(iii) small-scale irrigation schemes; and (b) improved service delivery
of primary education and health.
Part B:      Capacity Building
1.    Provision of training, technical advisory services, equipment,
furniture, material and vehicles to: (a) build the capacity of ESRDF
to select, monitor and supervise Subprojects; (b) provide local
community leaders, community groups, and associations with skills and
knowledge required to carry out their responsibilities in Subprojects
identification, preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation;
and (c) build critical technical capacity of regional administrations
and non-governmental entities involved in the implementation of Part
A of the Project.
2.    Carrying out of a program of studies and surveys to assess the
impact on living standards of poor people of the activities financed
under the Project.
3.    Provision of equipment to strengthen the capacity of local
contractors to carry out Subproject in selected areas of the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:      Welfare Monitoring System
1.    Carrying out of studies and data analysis on living conditions,
including an annual review of social trends and welfare levels.
2.    Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower in collection,
processing, analysis, and dissemination of data on living conditions,
through provision of training, and equipment, and assistance in the
carrying out of surveys.
                                * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 2001.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Association in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Page  11
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5
of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower and to be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      (a)   Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; and (b)
works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $51,670,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of para-
graphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guideline.
2.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $14,000,000 equi-
valent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    Procurement of Small Works
      Works estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract,
and not to exceed $15,000,000 in the aggregate, shall be procured under
lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work
and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the
contract.
4.    Community Participation
      Works for Subprojects estimated to cost $50,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent, and goods
for Subprojects estimated to cost less than $10,000, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, shall be procured
in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to
Page  12
the Guidelines shall apply to: (i) each contract for works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) the
first five contracts for Subprojects in each of the Borrower's
regions, regardless of their estimated cost.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank on Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Association in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Association, with such modi-
fications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall
be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each, or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $25,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $25,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
A.    Overall Project Implementation
1.    The Borrower shall cause ESRDF to implement Parts A and B of the
Project in close collaboration with the Borrower's central and regional
administrations.
2.    Except as the Association  shall otherwise agree, for the purposes
of Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) cause ESRDF to
apply the criteria, policies, procedures and guidelines set out in the
Operational Manual; and (ii) not amend, or abrogate, or permit to be
amended or abrogated, the Operational Manual, or any provision thereof,
in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and
adversely affect the implementation of Parts A and B of the Project.
3.    The Borrower shall ensure that the positions of General Manager,
Deputy General Manager and Regional Managers of ESRDF shall, at all
times during the execution of the Project, be kept filled by persons
having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
4.    The Welfare Monitoring Unit (WMU) of the Borrower's Ministry of
Economic Development and Cooperation shall be responsible for the
implementation of Part C.1 of the Project, and the Borrower's Central
Statistical Authority shall be responsible for the implementation of
Part C.2 thereof, all under the overall supervision of the Welfare
Review Committee.
5.    The Borrower shall:
Page  13
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
      (b)   not later than April 30 of each year, commencing on April
30, 1997 undertake, in conjunction with the Association and ESRDF, a
joint annual review on all matters relating to the progress of the
Project and, in particular the progress achieved by the Borrower and
ESRDF during the current fiscal year, having regard to the monitoring
indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph;
      (c)   not later than one month prior to each annual review,
shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report in such
detail as  the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress
of the Project;
      (d)   following each annual review, act promptly and diligently
in order to take, or assist ESRDF in taking, any corrective action
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement, or assist ESRDF in
implementing, such measures as may have been agreed upon between the
parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project; and
      (e)   promptly after the Effective Date, take all measures
necessary on its part to organize, in conjunction with the Association
and ESRDF, a workshop for the launching of the Project implementation
which shall cover, inter alia, disbursement and procurement procedures
and detailed timetables for the implementation of the Project.
6.    The Borrower shall: (a) not later than eighteen months after the
Effective Date, cause ESRDF to carry out, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, an assessment of procurement under the
Project, with a view to evaluate the effectiveness of the various
procurement activities under the Project, identify  problems, and make
recommendations accordingly; and
      (b)   based on the assessment, and in consultation with the
Association, take all measures as may be deemed necessary or desirable
to expedite procurement actions and to ensure that the objectives of
the Project are achieved with due diligence and efficiency.
7.    Midterm Review
      (a)   On or about thirty months after the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Association and ESRDF a
midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project
(hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).
      The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things:
            (i)   a review of the Subprojects financed under the
                  Project, including the geographical distribution,
            (ii)  a discussion of the options for ensuring the long-
                  term sustainability of ESRDF, and
            (iii) a review of arrangements for meeting recurrent costs.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Mid-
term Review, furnish to the Association a separate report describing
the status of implementation of each component of the Project and a
summary report of Project implementation generally.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the
Midterm Review, prepare an action program, acceptable to the Associa-
tion, for the further implementation of the Project having regard to
the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such
action program.
B.    Part A of the Project
Page  14
8.    Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
      Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 2 above, no
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit unless ESRDF has determined, on the basis of an appraisal
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the
Operational Manual, that the Subproject satisfies the eligibility
criteria specified below and in more detail in the Operational Manual,
which shall include, inter alia, the following:
      (a)   the Subproject shall be for social and economic infra-
structure and services;
      (b)   the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary;
      (c)   the Subproject shall be economically, financially and
technically viable, and environmentally sound, in accordance with the
standards specified in the Operational Manual;
      (d)   the Beneficiary shall provide at least 10% of the
estimated Subproject costs in the form of cash, materials, labor or
other services;
      (e)   the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards
set forth in the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower
relating to health, safety and environmental protection;
      (f)   Subprojects involving water abstractions from the Wabi-
Shebele-Genale (Juba) rivers shall not be eligible for financing
under the Project; and
      (g)   Subprojects involving involuntary resettlement of popu-
lation shall not be eligible for financing under the Project, unless
an action plan for the resettlement of the affected population,
satisfactory to the Association, has been agreed upon with the
concerned population.
9.    (a)   The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure
that the aggregate water abstractions from each of the following rivers
in respect of Subprojects shall not exceed the following limits:
      Rivers                        Maximum water abstractions
                                     (Million cubic meters)
      Baro                                  3.7
      Abay                                 48.2
      Tekeze                               40.2
      Awash                                13.4
      Omo                                  30.1
      (b)   To this end, the Borrower shall cause ESRDF to furnish to
the Association:
            (i)   as part of its annual work program to be submitted                  
to the Association for its approval pursuant to
                  subparagraph 11 (a) of this Schedule, all proposals
                  of Subprojects involving water abstractions from the
                  rivers specified in paragraph (a) above for the
                  concerned Project Year, along with the estimates of
                  water abstractions for each such Subprojects; and
            (ii)  at the end of each Project Year, for its review, a
                  report in such detail as the Association shall
                  reasonably request, including, inter alia, the
                  aggregate amounts abstracted from said rivers for
                  Subprojects financed out of the proceeds of the
                  Credit during the previous Project Year, or Project
                  Years.
      (c)   Not later than four (4) weeks prior to the Midterm Review
referred to in paragraph 7 of this Schedule 4, the Borrower shall
Page  15
furnish to the Association a report in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, including, inter alia, data relating to
Subprojects approved and financed or to be financed under the Project
and indicating the aggregate amount of water abstractions under such
Subprojects for each river specified in paragraph (a) above.
10.   Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Subprojects
      Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Financing Agreements,
to be concluded between ESRDF and the Implementing Agency, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, shall
include the following:
      (a)   financing to be on a grant basis;
      (b)   the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance
with the Operational Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound environmental, technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
      (c)   the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to
be financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
      (d)   the right of ESRDF to inspect, by itself, or jointly with
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works
sites, plants and construction included in the Subproject, the
operations thereof and any relevant records and documents;
      (e)   the right of ESRDF to obtain all information as ESRDF or
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration,
operations and financial conditions of the Subproject; and
      (f)   the right of the ESRDF to suspend or terminate the right
of the Implementing Agency to use the proceeds of the Credit for the
Subproject upon failure by the Implementing Agency to perform any of
its obligations under its Financing Agreement.
11.   The Borrower shall cause ESRDF to submit to the Association, for
its review or approval, as the case may be:
      (a)   before the beginning of each Project Year, a proposed
annual work program, including a proposed budget and financing plan,
for the forthcoming fiscal year; and
      (b)   semiannual and annual progress reports on the status of
Parts A and B of the Project, including regular beneficiary assessment
and beneficiary feedback reports and Subprojects completion reports.
12.   (a)   not later than eighteen months after the Effective Date,
the Borrower shall cause ESRDF to carry out, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, an assessment of the technical
quality of any infrastructure constructed under Subprojects; and
      (b)   based on the assessment, the Borrower shall, in consultation
with the Association, take all measures as may be deemed necessary or
desirable to expedite and improve the technical quality of said
infrastructure.
13.   Equipment and materials required for the execution of irrigation
and water Subprojects in remote areas of the territory of the Borrower,
as shall be specified by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, may be procured directly by the ESRDF, in accordance with
the provisions of Part B of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and leased
to contractors employed by Implementing Agencies for the execution of
such Subprojects, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association.
Page  16
                             SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
(a), (3) (a), and (3) (b) with respect to Special Account A, Categories
(2) (b), and (3) (c) with respect to Special Account B, and Categories
(2) (c) and (3) (d) with respect to Special Account C set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $9,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for Parts A and
B of the Project (Special Account A), an amount equivalent to
$100,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part C.1 thereof
(Special Account B), and an amount equivalent to $100,000 in respect
of the Special Account for Part C.2 thereof (Special Account C), to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$5,000,000 in respect of Special Account A, until the aggregate amount
of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to Categories (1),
(2) (a), (3) (a), and (3) (b) plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A and B of the
Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 10,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits into the respective Special Account of an amount which do
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the respective Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                  for deposits into the respective Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify; and
            (ii)  Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
                  draw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                  respective Special Account such amount as the
                  Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                  been shown by said documents and other evidence to
                  have been paid out of the respective Special Account
                  for eligible expenditures.
Page  17
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
any Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus
the total amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
Page  18
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
