                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34612




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (SCL-44770 IDA-32220 TF-25677 TF-51385)

                                              ON A LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                            AND A CREDIT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 36.9 MILLION (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                FOR THE

             SECOND LOESS PLATEAU WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                           December 22, 2005




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2005)

                   Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB) Yuan (Y)
                            Y1.0 = US$ 0.125
                         US$ 1.0 = Y8.0

                         FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 - December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CPMO                Central Project Management Office
DFID                Department for International Development
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FRR                 Financial Rate of Return
GIS                 Geographical Information System
ha                  Hectare
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDA                 International Development Association
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
LP I                (first) Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
M&E                 Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                 Management Information System
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
MWR                 Ministry of Water Resources
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NPV                 Net Present Value
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PLG                 Project Leading Group
PMO                 Project Management Office
PRC                 People's Republic of China
R&D                 Research and Development
SARS                Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
TA                  Technical Assistance
WTO                 World Trade Organization
YRCC                Yellow River Conservancy Commission




                  Vice President:     Jeffrey Gutman (acting)
       Country Manager/Director:      David Dollar, EACCF
        Sector Manager/Director:      Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Achim Fock, EASRD

                                            CHINA

      SECOND LOESS PLATEAU WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT


                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT




                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR Summary                                                  31
Annex 9. Photographs                                                             32

Project ID: P056216                                                  Project Name: Second Loess Plateau Watershed
                                                                     Rehabilitation Project
Team Leader: Achim Fock                                              TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation            L/C/TF Number: SCL-44770; IDA-32220;
                            Project                                                                  TF-25677; TF-51385
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (60%); Forestry (16%); Crops (16%);
                            Animal production (4%); Agricultural extension and research (4%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Land administration and
                            management (P); Other rural development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/10/1998                                     Effective: 09/17/1999                09/17/1999
     Appraisal: 01/08/1999                                         MTR: 09/20/2002                  09/20/2002
      Approval: 05/25/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          People's Republic of China/Ministry of Water Resources
                      Other Partners:      Gansu, Shaanxi and Shanxi Provinces, and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey Gutman (acting)                        Jean-Michael Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Yukon Huang
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader at ICR:             Achim Fock                                     Juergen Voegele
ICR Primary Author:             Josef Ernstberger; Anis Wan


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective of the project was to help achieve sustainable development in the Loess Plateau by increasing
agricultural production and incomes and improving ecological conditions in the tributary watersheds of the
Yellow River through: (a) the introduction of more efficient and sustainable use of land and water
resources; and (b) the reduction of erosion and sediment flows into the Yellow River.

The project combined sustainable soil and water conservation with gains in farm incomes. Key elements of
the project included: (a) the construction of terraces to create high-yielding leveled farmland for field crops
and orchards on slopes of less than 20 degrees, thereby permitting the replacement of some of the areas
devoted to crops on erodible slopelands; (b) the protection of slopelands from grazing and partial planting
with a range of trees, shrubs and grasses to reduce soil loss and to produce fuel, timber and fodder; and (c)
the provision of support to farmers in a range of income-generating farming activities, including livestock
development in pens, dairy cattle, fruit and nut trees, and irrigated agricultural production, to provide
sustainable income alternatives to destructive slopeland grazing.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original project objectives remained highly relevant and valid throughout project implementation, and
were unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had three components. The total project cost at appraisal was US$252.4 million. The
component costs shown here include a contingency provision of about eight percent but exclude the costs of
interest during construction, fees and an "unallocated fund" which were a total of US$24.54 million.

1. Crop-land Improvement (US$118.97 million), with three sub-components: (a) terracing; (b) sediment
control structures; and (c) irrigation. The component was designed to create wide, level terraces from
slopelands and old irregular terraces to enable sustainable agriculture with improved yields to be practiced.
Sediment control structures were designed to control flooding, create usable land and store water for
irrigation and village water supply. Irrigation works included the construction of small water cisterns to
catch run-off (mainly from roads), small surface-water diversion structures and small-sized irrigation
schemes.

2. Slopeland Protection (US$83.29 million), with three sub-components: (a) afforestation and vegetative
cover; (b) grass and livestock development; and (c) horticulture. The main purpose of the component was
to increase the vegetation cover and improve the erosion control capacity in the watershed areas covered by
the project through the planting of trees, shrubs and grass, thereby allowing farmers simultaneously to
reduce erosion and water loss and to diversify their production systems and increase their income.

3. Support Services and Training (US$25.61 million). The purpose of the component was to finance
research and extension; training and study tours; monitoring and evaluation activities; survey and design
work; vehicles, office equipment and building up-grades; and project operation and management costs.

The three components were well selected and designed to achieve the objectives of the project and were well
within the capacity of the institutions responsible for project implementation. The selection and design of



                                                      - 2 -

the components were directly linked to the experience gained in the First Loess Plateau Watershed
Rehabilitation Project and contained no untested activities.

3.4 Revised Components:

The original components remained unchanged throughout the implementation of the project. However, the
relative emphasis of components and activities shifted and were adjusted during the mid-term review
(MTR): (a) as a result of the dynamic changes in the markets for livestock, this sub-component received
more importance than planned at appraisal, while fruit and nut orchards were slightly reduced; (b)
experience gained with closing and protecting degraded slopeland proved that regrowth of natural
vegetation was more cost effective and, consequently, shrub planting under the project was reduced; and (c)
a national program of check dam and key dam construction launched during project implementation
allowed shifting some of the funds allocated for dam construction under the project to other activities.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project's Quality at Entry is rated as having been satisfactory. The project objectives were consistent
with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for China and contributed to all three of its strategic
outcomes which were: (a) to support China's transition to a market economy (providing international
management and supervision support in the area of soil and water conservation); (b) to support the lagging
regions and help to alleviate poverty; and (c) to support sustainable development and natural resources
management. The design and preparation phase was short and cost effective, and was based on the very
successful model developed under the (first) Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project (LP I).
Building on the experiences and the proven success of LP I, broadening and deepening its impact guided the
concept and design. An environmental impact assessment was carried out. Additional safeguard studies
were not considered to be necessary, since the expected social and environmental implications of the project
were well known and effective mitigation measures had already been tested during LP I.

The dual objectives of income generation and environmental improvements was complex and challenging.
Finding the right balance between the two closely linked objectives was a continuous challenge for the
project designers and implementers. With hindsight, the project can be seen to have significantly benefited
from this dualism of objectives. For example, the frequent and continuing discussions about the
appropriate combination of "bottom-up" participation with "top-down" planning of the appropriate soil and
water conservation works has yielded valuable experience and lessons for similar projects.

The decision not to include additional development activities, such as support for product marketing,
promotion of producer associations, or research and extension, was a good one, in view of the need to keep
the focus on project objectives while ensuring a manageable scope for the implementing agencies.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The outcome of the project in achieving the objectives is considered to have been highly satisfactory. The
overall risk to the development outcome is rated as negligible.

When the project was completed on June 30, 2005, most physical targets had been met or exceeded. The
achievement of the interlinked project objectives of income generation and soil and water conservation



                                                     - 3 -

exceeded the optimistic appraisal expectations. The project has substantially raised agricultural
productivity, increased and diversified farm incomes, improved the environment and created conditions for
sustainable soil and water conservation. Some 1.9 million people benefited from the project, of whom
about 1.5 million (80 percent) were directly involved in project activities. From 1999 to 2004, the average
annual per capita incomes of project households increased from RMB783 to RMB1,624 (134 percent of
the appraisal target of RMB1,214). This compares to an income increase from RMB794 to RMB1,318 in
the adjacent non-project areas (which themselves might have benefited from the project through spill-over
effects). Notably, most of the income from trees and some other activities is still building up. Average
annual per capita grain production increased from 365 kg to 591 kg (110 percent of the appraisal target of
537 kg) and compares to an increase from 397 kg to 504 kg in the non-project areas. The accumulated
sediment retention caused by the project has reached an estimated total of 53.4 million tons (103 percent of
the appraisal target of 51.7 million tons). Forest trees, grass and shrub planting, and fruit orchard
development on about 357,000 ha have directly increased the vegetation cover in the project area from 17.3
percent to 33.5 percent. A grazing ban introduced through the project and implemented in most of the
Loess Plateau has dramatically changed the landscape of a whole region in China.

The project has significantly contributed to the restructuring of the agricultural sector and the adjustment to
a market-oriented economic environment, and was thus well-placed within the context of China's
macro-level economic adjustment. Terraces have significantly reduced labor inputs and, together with road
access to the terraced fields, have allowed for mechanization. The resulting labor savings have permitted
many farmers to pursue new income-earning activities, such as off-farm jobs, livestock production and
high-value fruit and nut tree production. Increased income and the prospect of a sustainable natural
resource base have allowed farmers to invest in a wide range of enterprises and social programs which have
benefited the communities as a whole. Agricultural production has changed from generating a narrow
range of food and low-value grain commodities to high-value products. The concurrent improvement in
communications has reduced regional marketing constraints and provided farmers with country-wide
marketing channels. New technology and management practices have further expanded production options
and raised yields, and have allowed farmers to capture benefits by moving up on the product value-chain.
Farmers learned to respond well to the opening of the markets and to new market opportunities.

The project was instrumental in implementing a grazing ban. It was initially enforced in project areas,
where it led to a spectacular increase in the vegetation cover. The spill-over effect of this grazing ban into
a much larger area is unprecedented. Realizing the success achieved by the grazing ban under the project,
political leadership at various levels has responded by adopting a grazing ban throughout most of the Loess
Plateau area. This has dramatically changed the landscape in an area of over 500,000 km², more than 25
times as large as the original project areas. The grazing ban not only permitted the success of the new
afforestations with tree and shrub species and the establishment of grassland but also led to a strong return
of natural vegetation, demonstrating the success of this cost-effective measure; it has been critical for
introducing modern cut-and-carry based livestock production systems, resulting in an unexpected boost for
the livestock sector. Today, more animals with a much higher productivity are being raised in the Loess
Plateau than ever before.

The project had a significant impact on the management and effectiveness of public spending under a
number of national-level large-scale land and forestry development programs. A simple and effective
monitoring and management system had been developed under LP I and was further pursued under the
project. This system is built on a transparent reporting and recording framework with maps and tables
showing all project works, combined with strict internal supervision system and random checks from higher
levels. The funds flow follows the reimbursement principle, where funds are provided against physical
progress as checked and certified by the different project units. The outstanding effectiveness of this


                                                      - 4 -

management system has convinced the government to introduce the same system under a number of
large-scale, country-wide national programs.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Crop Land Improvement (Actual cost US$114.91 million, 97 percent of the appraisal
estimate). The component as a whole is rated highly satisfactory with individual sub-components evaluated
below:

(a) Terracing. Terrace construction to convert slopeland to leveled fields that retain moisture and resist soil
erosion was a key component of this project; terraces permit the achievement of higher crop yields and
allow more diversified cropping. Usually soil fertility is affected for the first 2-3 years after construction
and is restored thereafter, allowing crop yields which are generally some 50-100 percent higher than on the
previously sloped land. Roads that are built by bulldozer operators to reach the areas enhance the benefits
of the terraces by allowing easy access for farm equipment and vehicles to convey the inputs and outputs.
Some 80,832 ha of terraces (91 percent of the appraisal target) were constructed. Most of the terraces
were constructed by local bulldozer operators, with some manual labor for shaping the riser and terrace
lips. The standard of terrace construction was very high. The success of terrace construction in the project
areas is documented by the multitude of annual and perennial crops produced on terraces, including food
grains, vegetables, fodder crops (e.g., maize and legumes) and fruit trees.

(b) Sediment Control Structures. Three types of sediment control structures were built under the project.
Key dams are the largest of these structures and they control catchment areas of 10-15 km² each. They are
homogeneous earth-fill dams of 15-30 meters in height. Warping dams are about 5 meters high and are
built in the lower reaches of a gully. They intercept sediment and thereby create arable land. They are
sited several hundred meters apart in the wider parts of a gully downstream of a key dam. Check dams are
small, 1-2 meters high, and are built of rock or brushwood. Their purpose is to slow the flow of water in
the steep tributary gullies and prevent undercutting of the gully sides. In the tributaries and the main
stream of the Yellow River, sediment inflow causes the river beds to rise and flood embankments have to be
raised periodically as a result. In addition, the storage capacities of the reservoirs are depleted by sediment.
Therefore, sediment control has considerable downstream benefits. Local benefits in the case of key dams
are water supply for irrigation and villages, and both key dams and warping dams create new arable land
on the sediment deposits.

Under the project, 115 key dams, 239 warping dams and 1,763 check dams were built or upgraded,
representing 88, 80 and 94 percent, respectively, of the targets at appraisal. The sediment reduction
capacity created by the various project works is estimated to be about 25 million tons per year, of which
some 45 percent is retained by the dams and the remainder is retained by the terraces and the various
vegetative measures. The total number of dams envisaged in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was
somewhat reduced at the mid-term review (MTR) when it became clear that the government would launch a
program for the construction of sediment control structures; some of the dams originally proposed to be
built under the project were ultimately financed under the new national program.

In Shanxi Province, 1,830 ha (99 percent of the PAD target) of low-lying infertile alkaline land (bankland)
have been improved by putting a 30 cm layer of loess soil on top of the alkaline soil combined with a
drainage system. Virtually unproductive land was thus transferred into valuable crop land and was
allocated to farmers formerly cropping on nearby steep slopes.




                                                       - 5 -

(c) Irrigation. Some 5,321 ha of irrigated land (110 percent of the PAD target) have been developed. The
development of irrigation systems has resulted in crop diversification and increased yields. Most
investments in irrigation were made in Inner Mongolia where the extremely low rainfall means that
terracing alone would not sufficiently raise yields to bring about a sustainable agricultural system.

Along with the terracing of slopeland, some 24,000 water cisterns have been constructed (79 percent of the
appraisal target). Water cisterns are covered underground cellars located near the fields to catch run-off
mainly from the access roads. They each hold about 30 m³ of water, which is used as an emergency water
supply during droughts or for the watering of early spring plantings of young seedlings. While these
cisterns cannot provide full-scale irrigation, they have proved to be successful at mitigating the severest
damage caused by frequent periods of droughts. Given the great success of these water cisterns, national
programs have also started to provide funding in the project areas and it was decided during the MTR to
reduce the original target of about 30,000 to 22,500. This revised target was exceeded at project
completion.

Component 2: Slopeland Protection (Actual cost US$94.0 million, 113 percent of the appraisal
estimate). The component as a whole is rated as highly satisfactory, with individual sub-components
evaluated below:

(a) Afforestation and Vegetation Cover. This sub-component established 109,000 ha of forest trees, 121
percent of the appraisal target. So-called "arbor trees", mainly black locust, Chinese pine and, to a lesser
extent, spruce, poplar, arbor vitae and willows have been planted in contour trenches or fish-scale pits on
wastelands. In areas less suitable for trees, some 71,000 ha (78 percent of the appraisal target) of
drought-tolerant shrubs (such as seabuckthorn, caragana and sand willows) have been planted. Land
preparation was usually carried out by farm families employed and supervised by specialized teams,
organized at township work stations and trained by the county forestry specialists. In most areas,
specialized teams did the planting. Severe droughts in 2000 and 2001 caused low survival rates. However,
replanting was done in most cases and the current survival rates are estimated to be over 80 percent.

Some 57,000 ha of slopeland were closed and protected for the purpose of natural regrowth of vegetation.
This closed area was more than twice the estimated appraisal target. As a result of the effectiveness of the
natural regrowth in the closed areas, and later during the project in all areas protected by a grazing ban, the
county authorities saw less justification for planting shrubs for erosion control (except in desert areas).
Some of the areas originally intended to be planted with shrubs were simply closed, which was more
cost-effective than planting shrubs, or they were closed and planted with trees, which promised higher
returns than shrubs.

The arrangements for taking up contracts on the arbor tree and shrub plantations by households varied
from county to county. In some counties, the land was contracted before plantation and the farmers were
involved in tree establishment. In others, the Project Management Offices (PMOs) undertook planting and
also kept control for a few years. Households have often been motivated to take up contracts for tree
plantations from a sense of pride of ownership and participation in what they see as sound environmental
practice, even though the timber-bearing trees will yield no financial return for many years.

The project provided funds to farmers for the establishment of some 57,000 ha of forage, mainly astragalus
and alfalfa. This activity served a dual purpose: (a) it provided fodder for pen-fed animals in order to
reduce the pressure from unsustainable grazing on slopes; and (b) the perennial grass cover on slopes forms
an effective means of soil protection. After the widespread adoption of grazing bans, the growing of forage
was successfully practiced on a large scale in most project areas. The attractiveness of fodder production


                                                      - 6 -

is very high and some farmers also use terraces for planting grasses using their own funds.

LP I made a significant contribution to the understanding of the severe damage caused by free grazing of
animals, particularly goats, on the vegetation in the Loess Plateau. It was clear that any vegetative
protection of the watersheds had to go along with a radical change in grazing management. Experience
gained by closing areas for animals showed the striking effect of vegetation recovery. An important
impetus came initially through the arbor tree and shrub-planting activities and the closing of areas protected
under the project, where grazing bans were first introduced to protect the plantations. As livestock were
banned from the planted areas, natural regeneration occurred, providing a visual demonstration of the
dramatic effect that the bans could have. Building on this recognition and experience, the PMOs
persistently worked towards grazing restrictions in the project and adjoining areas. The project has
successfully extended the experiences and impact of the grazing ban well beyond the project areas. All
project counties have now adopted and enforce grazing bans, and the provincial authorities have extended
this practice to most other counties in the four project provinces. By now, most of the Loess Plateau is
strikingly greener and the difference between project areas and non-project areas in terms of vegetation
cover is fading away. Only a comparison with the situation in the 1990s allows a full understanding of this
historic achievement. The erosion control benefits from this single measure are substantial.

(b) Grass and Livestock Development. Along with the grazing ban, the project provided investment in
livestock production to help farmers to cope with the effects of the ban, support the transition into
sustainable production systems and make full use of incremental fodder and crop residues produced by
other activities. The project supported households with animal sheds and pen construction and with the
purchase of animals that are more suitable for pen-feeding (such as cows or small-tailed sheep). Over
300,000 m² (262 percent of appraisal target) of sheds have been built and some 40,000 head of livestock
(358 percent of appraisal target) have been provided. The introduction of new breeds of sheep and goats
suitable for pen-feeding, such as Cashmere and Boer goats and Shandong small-tailed sheep, rapidly
replaced local breeds and their improved productivity made livestock production a major contributor to
household incomes. The cashmere industry has reported a high satisfaction with the increased amounts of
much better quality raw material from pen-fed animals as compared to the traditional grazing system.
Half-way through the project, dairy cattle became an increasingly attractive alternative to traditional sheep
and goat raising and the project responded by including dairy cattle in the menu of livestock options.

Farmers' interest in livestock was significantly higher than expected and the project responded by enlarging
this activity. However, the project limited support for livestock to small units (e.g., not more than two
cattle per household) in order to maintain a clear linkage and integration with soil and water conservation.
Attempts to develop larger-scale livestock enterprise were rejected. The support was well targeted to those
households particularly affected by grazing restrictions or changes in slopeland cultivation, and the
individual risk of the investments was kept small. By now, most households have used the initial project
investment to expand their herds. Targeting small units and spreading the benefits widely also greatly
supported the overall acceptance of other watershed management measures, such as the grazing bans and
restrictions on cultivation of slopeland. The ICR mission recognized a great level of support expressed by
the interviewed farmers for the project and a full understanding and acceptance of the grazing bans and
other soil conservation measures. Many farmers were provided with the option for livestock, and thus
productivity and incomes rose sharply as farmers moved to more intensive production systems.

(c) Horticulture. Almost 63,000 ha of "economic trees" and orchards were planted under the project (87
percent of the appraisal target of 72,000 ha). These trees included a wide variety of species including
kernel apricot (19,900 ha), walnuts (9,300 ha), persimmon (8,900 ha), apples (8,800 ha), Chinese dates
(3,800 ha), prickly ash - a Chinese spice - (3,800 ha), and about a dozen other species in smaller quantities.


                                                      - 7 -

The planting was mainly done on the land already contracted to farmers before plantation, and the farmers
used the early years to inter-crop with food crops, vegetables or fodder crops while the trees were young.
Given the booming success of the livestock sector, farmers' interest in fruit and other economic trees was
lower than anticipated. It also appears that the target was set very high, probably a reaction to experiences
under LP I where a target of 27,000 ha turned out to be far too low. However, not least because of the
continuously improving communications (roads network and information access) most of these plantations
have already started to generate attractive financial returns on domestic and export markets. The obvious
comparative advantage for temperate fruit production offers good market prospects for high quality fruit.
The component was significantly supported by training and extension, and farmers interviewed by the ICR
mission appeared to be highly knowledgeable on technical as well as managerial and marketing aspects.

To cope with seasonal price variations and to allow farmers to capture additional benefits from selling
off-season (in particular during the Chinese spring festival when prices are traditionally high), the project
supported the construction of farmer fruit storage facilities. Some 1,139 fruit stores have been built (103
percent of the target). They are simple underground storage cellars or caves using a natural ventilation
system which allows keeping fruit (mainly apples) fresh during most of the winter without artificial cooling
equipment.

Component 3: Support Services and Training (Actual cost US$18.25 million, 71 percent of the
appraised estimate)

The component as a whole is rated as satisfactory. Under this component, the project financed the project
management costs, including: (a) local and overseas training and study tours, research and the services of
external experts; (b) vehicles and equipment for extension services and project management; and (c)
hardware, software and related training for a Geographical Information System (GIS) and a project
management information system.

This component has ensured the strong and project management work necessary and substantially
strengthened the institutional capacity of the PMOs at various levels in terms of project management,
integrated watershed management design, monitoring and evaluation, participatory planning, and extension
of new technologies. Far-reaching impacts have been achieved on institutional development (see Section
4.5).

At the same time, the component also contributed to the improvement of the research & development
(R&D) capacity of the existing research institutions in the areas of dryland farming techniques, grassland
improvement, orchard and livestock management, and impact monitoring and evaluation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The recalculation of the economic returns of the project investment shows an overall Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) of 21 percent, which is almost the same as the appraisal estimate. However, several
individual components show significant differences. The rate of return for fruit and nut trees is estimated
at 21 percent, compared to 29 percent appraisal. This is mainly the result of the slower then expected start
and the set-back caused by the serious droughts in 2000 and 2001. The same problem (albeit less
prominent) can be seen for the arbor trees. Terraces have a slightly higher rate of return because of the
positive price prospects for grain and food crops. The largest difference as compared to the appraisal
expectations is a significantly higher return on livestock and livestock-related project activities such as
grass, shrub and fodder production (27 percent as compared to 18 percent at appraisal), which relates to
both positive project-internal factors (e.g., higher fodder production, more livestock and higher than



                                                       - 8 -

expected productivity) and project-external factors such as a stronger than expected market demand. In
terms of methodology, the re-estimation of the ERR closely followed the PAD calculation (see Annex 3).

                                                   ERR Comparison
                                                   PAD                                        ICR
                                    without                  with sediment    without                 with sediment
                                   sediment       with       reduction and    sediment      with      reduction and
                                 reduction and sediment         carbon      reduction and sediment       carbon
                                     global     reduction    sequestration     global     reduction   sequestration
                                    benefits     benefits      benefits       benefits    benefits      benefits
   Terraces                           21.6         22.5             22.5         23.5        25.2            25.2
   Dam structures                       1.7        16.0             16.0           2.0       16.1            16.1
   Fruit & Nut trees                  28.5         29.0             29.0         20.1        20.7            20.7
   Arbor trees                        15.3         15.7             17.8         14.1        14.8            16.0
   Livestock including
   supporting activities              14.1         17.1             18.3         22.9        25.8            27.0
   Total Project                      19.0         20.5             20.9         18.5        20.6            21.0




4.4 Financial rate of return:

A calculation of a financial rate of return for the project as a whole is not considered applicable. The
financial impact on individual farms and households was directly measured in field surveys which showed a
significant increase in per capita income (see Annex 1).

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project broadened and consolidated the institutional development impact of LP I. Both projects were
strongly built on the existing institutions in the government and public administration. This not only
ensured sustainability but facilitated the replication of good project experiences. The institutional
development impact is substantial and far-reaching. The project management system not only called for an
unprecedented level of accountability and discipline in the use of project funds and recording of project
activities and achievements but also allowed evaluation of public sector institutions, PMOs and individuals
according to their performance and efficiency. This has been practiced widely and has introduced a
completely new level of screening and control of government and public administration. Offices and
individuals performing well have been awarded incentives or have been promoted; others have been faced
with stricter controls. In most project areas, the political leaders at various levels have taken personal
responsibility for the project, exercising a tight system of control and self-evaluation. Two principles of
project management practices, the recording and monitoring system and the reimbursement principle based
on physical progress, have been widely adopted in other national programs, indicating how strongly those
methods have been internalized in the government system.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Severe droughts, especially in 2000 and 2001, made the establishment of trees and shrubs difficult. They
caused low survival rates which required replanting. The droughts also caused crop failures in some



                                                        - 9 -

project areas. In addition, the outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2003 negatively
affected project implementation; the spring/early summer construction season was largely lost. Project
implementers worked hard to make up for these set-backs, but a six-month extension of the project
implementation period became necessary.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The project was affected by overall economic and market changes. In particular, through China's
accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) world market effects were felt even in remote areas.
The world-wide depression in agricultural commodity prices during the first half of project implementation
affected the enthusiasm of farmers for grain production, resulting in slightly reduced targets for terrace
construction and a shift of emphasis towards livestock. However, recently prices have recovered to a level
higher than expected at appraisal making terraces highly attractive. Project design and beneficiaries
responded well to the signals from an opening of the markets and took advantage of new opportunities.

During project implementation, a number of national projects and programs came into place which
influenced project implementation. The major programs included the `Returning Slopeland to Forest', the
`Returning Slopeland to Grassland', the `Ecological Reconstruction' and the `Sandstorm Prevention'
programs. These programs often supported activities similar to those included in the project. However,
most of these interventions focused primarily on resource conservation with little emphasis on the
integration of activities and on developing long-term income opportunities for farmers. While the outcome
of the project appears not to be much affected by the existence of these programs, implementation was
sometimes difficult at the local level causing confusion among project beneficiaries.

The late effectiveness of the Loan and Credit resulting from the national approval process delayed the
procurement of vehicles and equipment; this posed constraints to the county-level PMOs in watershed-level
planning during early project implementation.

Under the leadership of the Ministry of Water Resources (MWR), the project enjoyed strong high-level
support by all relevant government line departments and offices. This had a considerable positive impact
on the project performance at all levels, including the mobilization of appropriate counterpart funds, the
secondment of highly-qualified staff to the PMOs, the adoption of an effective project management system,
and the rigorous project monitoring and evaluation process.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Project Management: The management of the project was highly effective and was the cornerstone of
successful project implementation. The outstanding performance of project management at all levels can
only be fully appreciated if one keeps in mind the enormous size and diversity of the project which covers
an area of 19,500 km² spread over 37 counties with distances of over 1,000 km between some of the
project areas, making the project one of the largest of its kind. The areas of terraces, trees, grasses and
shrub plantings add up to almost 400,000 ha (equivalent to a 100 m wide strip around the globe). Every
plot under this project is recorded and can be traced in a transparent and accountable project management
and recording system. This system enforced discipline in the use of project funds, guaranteed the effective
monitoring and evaluation of project activities and achievements, and ensured beneficiary involvement in
the project management. The project was not dependent on modern project management tools, such as an
MIS, a GIS, or other computer-based planning and recording systems, but these tools were used widely and
improved project management efficiency.




                                                     - 10 -

Procurement and Disbursement: Following procedures established under LP I, the project used a mix of
community participation and traditional procurement procedures for the vast majority of project works.
Most terracing works were carried out by private bulldozer operators according to designs prepared by the
County PMOs. The villages on whose land the terraces were built were responsible for supervision and
quality control. The adopted approach had the advantages that it exploited local skills and resources,
ensured competitive pricing, and placed quality control in the hands of the beneficiaries who would largely
be responsible for repayment. Vehicles were procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB),
and computers and office equipment through National Competitive Bidding (NCB). However, the process
was slow because of the numerous levels of approval needed for such procurement and project
implementation was affected at the early stage. Disbursement was against prior agreed unit prices per ha
for the various components. Before disbursement claims were forwarded to provincial PMOs, a detailed
field check of the physical quantities was made by the provincial, prefecture and county PMOs. Bank
missions made spot checks to ensure that the process was being followed. This procedure worked well
since there was a close link between disbursements and verified physical progress. At the same time, the
system came at the expense of a sometimes slower than desired rate of disbursement.



Quality Control and Physical Checking: Developed under LP I, the project applied the same tight system
of quality control and physical checking with clearly assigned responsibilities within the PMOs
management structure. Standards were set for all works, such as plant densities of trees and shrubs,
survival rates in relation to planting time, size and depth of water harvesting pits, height and width of
terrace lips, and maximum slope eligibility. Frequent and well-recorded checking systems which also
carried the names of the responsible officers were defined for each management level, and each
disbursement was subject to those rules having been followed.

Cost Recovery: The repayment obligations for the Bank Loan and Credit proportion of the investment
transferred to farmers are handled by the project counties in response to the nature of different project
investment activities. At the same time, the project did not provide investments for specific stand-alone
activities but demanded various kinds of obligations such as significant restrictions on farmers' production
practices in return (e.g., stopping free grazing or cropping on slopes). In recognition of this "package"
nature of the project, counties tried to balance cost-recovery obligations between private beneficiaries and
the public sector. For terraces, bankland, irrigation, grass and livestock, and for economic trees the
principal of the loan/credit plus an interest rate of between 4 and 6 percent is generally recovered in a
time-frame oriented on the financial returns from this investment. For other activities such as arbor trees
and shrubs, often only "use and management" contracts were signed without repayment obligations.
Repayment in these cases is done by the counties, who also took over the repayment for dams. It should be
noted that a significant change in policy that occurred during project implementation aimed to lower the
burden on farmers. For instance, most fees and levies and agricultural taxes were abolished. In addition, a
number of national programs also started to provide funding for similar activities (tree and grass planting
on slopes, water cisterns, small-scale irrigation) fully in the form of grants aimed to support disadvantaged
rural areas.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The PAD estimated total project financing needs at US$252 million with an IDA contribution of SDR36.9
million (US$50.0 million equivalent) and an IBRD loan of US$100 million. The actual project financing
was about 95 percent of the total PAD estimates (US$240.2 million), mainly because of lower-than-
expected "Interest During Construction" costs. Of the total project costs, IDA and IBRD disbursements
amounted to SDR36.9 million and US$99.9 million, respectively, while the government counterpart funds



                                                       - 11 -

and farmers' contribution totaled US$90.23 million. Detailed project costs and financing are contained in
the Annex 2.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the project is rated as highly likely for the following reasons:

(a) From a beneficiaries' financial profitability point of view: the financial profitability of the project
interventions have created strong incentives to all farmers involved. The project put emphasis on long-term
land contracts to generate private investment incentives. In the counties visited by the ICR mission, the
second round of land contracting by the government preceded the project and farmers had already received
contracts with 30-50 years of use rights. The government policy that emphasized no future reallocation of
the lands already contracted to individual households has given a high degree of security over land tenure.
Farmers have a good sense of ownership over their investment under the project and benefits accruing from
it. This works strongly towards sustainable management of the project interventions. The project has
invested in a broad range of diversified income-generating activities and the livelihoods of farmers have
been substantially improved. In many places, the investment process initiated by the project is continuing;
livestock-raising households are growing in number, small irrigation facilities are being put into orchards
and additional fruit trees are being planted using farmers' own resources.

(b) From a beneficiaries acceptance point of view: The needs and advantages of involving the beneficiaries
from the planning stage to achieve better outcomes and sustainability of the project interventions were
recognized among the project staff at all levels. Accordingly, the planning and implementation process was
carried out with close interactions between county PMO staff and village leaders and the farmers. The ICR
mission found the farmers to be well informed about the activity options to choose from in any given
sub-watershed area and were aware of the economic benefits as well as the financial repayment obligations.
In many cases, packaging of options from a technical view-point of sub-watershed management was
necessary, such as stopping slopeland cropping or implementing grazing bans and receiving livestock or
fruit trees in return. In such cases, county PMO staff made good efforts and succeeded in convincing the
farmers of the overall benefits. Farmers received appropriate training and the beneficiaries'
responsibilities, especially the management of the treated plots and financial obligations, were explained to
them at the beginning of the planning stage, usually in the form of village-level meetings, and clearly
spelled out in the written contracts which were signed by the individual beneficiaries. Beneficiaries were
well aware that labor contributions for the civil works was also an integral part of their responsibilities
under the project and jointly carried out the activity at the village level as coordinated under the village
leadership.

(c) From a natural resource use and resources protection point of view: The project, by its nature,
introduced resource-use-friendly production methods and stopped destructive land-use practices which have
been degrading the soils over centuries. This was done not at the expense of income but by generating
more income from a non-destructive and more efficient use of soil and water resources. The overall
bio-mass significantly increased on a large scale, and restored a better micro-climate and improved
bio-diversity within the area. In the project area, this will contribute to reduced vulnerability of farmers to
droughts and it will continue to have a profound effect on the sustainability of the farming systems. In the
down-stream areas, the project has reduced the risks of floods and has the potential significantly to reduce
dust pollution in northern China.



                                                      - 12 -

(d) From an institutional point of view: The new institutional arrangements created by the project and the
regulatory and policy support provided by government have contributed and will continue to contribute to
project sustainability. The project activities and interventions are backed by strong policy reforms and are
well integrated in the social, legal and administrative system of the country. A clear manifestation of the
sustainability is the fact that the project's management methodologies have already been introduced in other
national programs. The highly-successful grazing ban has also become a cornerstone in the Chinese
strategy to reverse soil degradation in the Loess Plateau areas and to re-establish natural vegetation.
Furthermore, the accountability of delivering public services and the human capacity built under the project
will continue to extend its impact in many development activities in the area.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There was no need for specific transition arrangement to regular operation for almost all project activities.
Operation and maintenance responsibilities for the dams and other sediment control structures were
predetermined and responsibilities were transferred to the relevant authorities upon completion. Most
project activities were contracted out and implemented by farmers, and therefore do not require any specific
transitional arrangement. Repayment of project investments by farmers has started, in particular for
activities with early returns on investments such as livestock and terraces.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in identification, assistance in preparation and appraisal is rated as having been
highly satisfactory.

The project was consistent with the strategies of the government and the Bank to develop
environmentally-sustainable agriculture, increase labor productivity and income, and help alleviate poverty.
The project was built on the experiences of the LP I and integrated lessons and experience gained there.
The intention was to broaden and deepen the positive experience and impact of LP I. The preparation
process was participatory and the Borrower took the lead in this process. The Bank's inputs in terms of
staffing and skills-mix were adequate for the preparation. The project preparation process was short and
cost-effective, comprising three missions: identification in May 1998, pre-appraisal in October 1998, and
appraisal in January 1999. Each mission was composed of a multi-disciplinary team including technical,
economic, fiduciary and safeguard expertise led by the same task team leader who was also managing LP I.
Technically, no new activities were included. The institutional, safeguard and fiduciary aspects were well
understood from LP I. Improved monitoring and evaluation arrangements was a key area of attention
during appraisal. The Bank's team appraised, among other aspects of project design, the government's
commitment (including counterpart funding) and the implementing agencies' capacity in terms of financial
management, project risks and mitigation measures, the incentives for stakeholders to sustain the project,
fiduciary issues (procurement and financial management), and dam safety. A well-conceived PAD with a
clear logical framework provided specific guidance for project implementation.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank supervision of the project is rated as having been highly satisfactory. The supervision strategy
was based on lessons learnt from LP I. It allowed the project to focus on priority issues, such as the
Borrower's engagement in and ownership of the project and issues of uneven performances among different



                                                     - 13 -

counties. The Borrower was an active partner in supervision and provided well-designed inputs and
follow-ups to the supervision missions. The PMOs conducted appropriate internal supervision and
prepared field maps and tables on implementation progress prior the arrival of the Bank supervision teams.
To cope with the large distances, the supervision missions operated in two separate field teams
communicating by mobile 'phone. A first briefing, together with the provision of maps and progress tables,
was already received at the road-side when the Bank teams arrived at a county border. This procedure
permitted effective planning of the field work and random spot-checks of works. The supervision teams put
equal emphasis on technical aspects and processes. Regular attention was also given to assess institutions
and agencies involved in the project. Problems were jointly identified, and solutions were discussed and
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower. Detailed aide-memoires with clear action plans were prepared
by each mission. These action plans were closely implemented by the Borrower. Although the frequency
of supervision missions was on the low side, with only one supervision mission per year, the strong
partnership between the Bank and the Borrower allowed effective supervision.

The task team recognized that, given the increasing implementation capacity and changing policy
environment, further improvement could be made in the areas of monitoring and evaluation and stakeholder
participation and initiated a partnership with the United Kingdom's Department for International
Development (DFID) to help upgrade these aspects through parallel financing.

Continuity of task management and maintaining a core supervision team composed of a broad mix of
international and local professionals throughout the project's life greatly helped to develop and maintain a
healthy and trustful cooperation between the Bank and the Borrower. This continuity and trust allowed
true sharing of supervision responsibility and problem solving in a consistent and persistent way.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance is rated as having been highly satisfactory, given the above-mentioned
lending and supervision performance. This rating is consistent with the recently-conducted QSA6
assessment.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Project preparation by the Borrower was satisfactory. Based on the successful experience of LP I, the
Borrower had strong ownership and initiative during the project preparation. Due to the high level of
support from MWR/Yellow River Conservancy Commission (YRCC) and the provinces, sufficient
financial and human resources were put in place. A strong national preparation team was formed of
experienced project staff and external experts on agriculture, water resources management, forestry, and
institutional and social development. The project preparation was successfully completed within one year.
The Central Project Management Office (CPMO) and PMOs at various levels drew lessons and
experiences from the three years of implementation and the MTR of LP I. Extensive feed-back from
various stakeholders on technical design, project management, participation, and suitability to local
conditions was integrated into the preparation of the project. Better integration with domestic projects,
resources and policies were promoted to maximize impact. At the same time, new development dynamics
were reflected in the project interventions, including the expansion of livestock development, the increase of
the closed area (for natural regrowth of vegetation), and greenhouse construction, to achieve the dual
objective of income increase and environmental protection.

Based on these, each county's PMO prepared a sub-watershed plan with modules of integrated packages.



                                                     - 14 -

The sub-watershed communities discussed the plans and decided upon sequencing, payment and
implementation procedures. Maps were prepared on a 1:10,000 scale showing existing and planned land
use. The project preparation work, adopting a fully participatory approach, covered major technical,
institutional, economic and environmental aspects of the project design, and the views of all stakeholders at
central, provincial and local level were reflected in the process.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The government implementation performance is rated as having been highly satisfactory. Throughout
implementation, the government at all levels demonstrated strong leadership and provided significant policy
and operational support. The extensive promotion and enforcement of grazing bans and long-term land-use
contracts have significantly contributed to the achievement of project objectives. In addition to timely
counterpart funding, the government took initiatives to combine resources from domestic programs with the
project to achieve synergy. Maintaining continuity of institutional arrangements and staff was also
important. High priority was given to the project by administration and management at various levels.
Cross-sectoral coordination through Project Leading Groups (PLG) greatly facilitated implementation
progress. Strong ownership, strong political support, and a constructive and open attitude are recognized
to have played a key role in successful implementation. All legal covenants have been complied with.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency is rated as having been highly satisfactory. The PMOs at
various levels maintained continuity of experienced staff working on LP I. Due to the great success of LP
I, they have taken pride and ownership in their work. At the same time, their technical and managerial
capacity has been further strengthened. They continued strict project management and due diligence
including fiduciary responsibilities and safeguards. In addition, project management pursued innovations
of technologies and took initiatives to develop a computerized MIS system, to carry out in-depth M&E and
to adopt new agricultural technologies. These continuous efforts have ensured a high quality of work and
good implementation results.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall Borrower's performance is rated as highly satisfactory, based on the strong government
commitment to the project, in terms of leadership and policy support, and the excellent performance of the
implementing agencies.


8. Lessons Learned

On the basis of the above review and assessments of the project, the following lessons can be drawn:

(a) Projects that replicate successful models in a flexible manner can be highly successful at relatively
low risk. The project built on the experience of the successful LP I; it adjusted the design in accordance
with the changing socioeconomic and political environment and further strengthened management in a
number of selected areas. It ensured that the Bank stayed actively and substantially engaged in watershed
rehabilitation and management on the Loess Plateau over more than a decade. Given LP I, the risk that the
project would not achieve its development objectives was very low. However, through this approach the
project was instrumental in ensuring that the project design and concept were utilized far beyond the project
areas itself. Key elements of success, such as the adoption of grazing bans and other policies throughout
the Loess Plateau, and the adoption of management practices in many national development projects was


                                                      - 15 -

only possible through the substantial engagement over a wide area and a long period.

(b) The focus of project design on development objectives facilitates outcome-oriented project
implementation. The project implementers were facing many attempts to address additional development
challenges in project areas, such as marketing, farmers' organizations, agricultural extension services, and
targeted poverty programs. Without neglecting the importance of these issues, the continuous discussions of
the dual project objectives of increasing income and improving the environment kept the focus on how to
achieve these most effectively, given the institutional and other constraints.

(c) Project supervision strategy should be clear and transparent and should promote a strong
internal project supervision effort by the Borrower. Despite its large and scattered nature, the project
remained well-managed and supervised. The supervision strategy was built on: (i) using the Borrower's
internal capacity and institutions; (ii) applying simple but strict and transparent rules for procurement and
disbursement, with a substantial degree of beneficiaries self-control; and (iii) imposing a strong and
transparent monitoring system which allowed efficient and cost-effective internal and external control. The
Bank should support and control the supervision process (e.g., by random spot-checks.) but should not take
over responsibility from the Borrower.

(d) Building a strong Bank-Borrower partnership needs consistency in task management and in the
composition of the task team. The mutual trust and shared responsibility in the implementation and
supervision of the project was possible through the maintenance of a consistent task team throughout the
implementation of the project. The fact that the project was task-managed from the field office facilitated
Bank-Borrower cooperation and partnership.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

We believe the assessment on the project outcomes in the ICR has basically reflected project realities. For
this we would like to express our gratitude to the staff of central and local PMOs for their efforts during
project development and the efforts of all the members of the ICR preparation group. What needs to be
stressed in particular is as follows:

1)       Project implementation has achieved the desired objectives and at the same time highly satisfactory
ecological, economic and social benefits, and has been highly appraised by relevant national departments
and various-level local governments;

2)       The important elements leading to the success of the project have been: (i) prominence being
extended to design priorities; (ii) scientific and detailed project preparatory work; and (iii) feasible planning
proposals. The success of project implementation has been ensured because project design has been built on
developmental watershed management, various management measures have been comprehensive and the
sustainable development watershed management philosophy has been adhered to;

3)       Great success has been achieved in project management work due to the close collaboration
between the project agencies and the World Bank. With the support and collaboration from the Bank the
Project has provided various technical assistance to staff at various levels and farmers (including women),
which has achieved very good results. To some degree, the far-reaching significance of such assistance
even exceeds that of pure economic support;



                                                      - 16 -

4)      In the process of planning and implementation the project has introduced the participatory work
philosophy to mobilize farmers to actively participate in the whole process of project planning, construction
implementation and management, enabling the close integration of farmers' needs for poverty elimination
and income generation with project objectives, which is another important element for project success;

5)      Project implementation has received great support from Chinese governments at all levels,
especially policy and goods support from provincial, municipal and county governments, for example, a
series of policies and regulations on banning grazing and land contracting, as well as the provision of
counterpart funds for the Project;

After the successful implementation of Loess I, the World Bank has developed outstanding cooperation
with various-level Chinese governments and project agencies, which has contributed to the successful
implementation of the project.      Furthermore, the two sides are awaiting longer and more extensive
cooperation in the future.

(b) Cofinanciers:

    There were no co-financiers involve in the project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



10. Additional Information




                                                   - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

  Outcome / Impact Indicators
                                                       Baseline     Projected at    Actual/   % of PAD
                                                                     appraisal       Latest
                                                                                    Estimate
   Per capita income (RMB/year)
         Project areas                                   793          1,214         1,624         134
        Non-project areas                                794            --           1,318
   Per capita grain production (kg/year)
         Project areas                                   365           537           591          110
        Non-project areas                                397            --            504
   Total grain production (million tons/year)           0.726           --          1.265


   Accumulated sediment retention (million tons)          0            51.7          53.4         103


  Output Indicators:
                                             Unit     Projected in PAD     Actual/Latest     % of PAD
                                                                             Estimate
  I. Crop land Improvement                 US$ mill.        118.97            114.91            97
      Terraces                                ha            88,937            80,832            91
      Bankland                                ha            1,850              1,830            99
      Key Dams                               no.             130                115             88
      Warping Dams                           no.             290                232             80
      Check Dams                             no.             1,880             1,763            94
      Irrigated Land                          ha             4,848             5,321           110
      Water Cellars                          no.            29,966            23,585            79
  II. Slopeland Protection                 US$ mill.         83.29             94.00           113
      Arbor Trees                             ha            89,934           108,935           121
      Shrubs                                  ha           91,370             71,219            78
      Closed Areas                            ha           28,200             56,627           201
      Grass                                   ha           56,032             57,047           102
      Animal Pens                            sq.m         115,885             303,732          262
      Livestock                              no.           10,597             37,934           358
      Fruit and Nut Orchards                  ha            72,049            62,834           87
      Fruit Storage                          no.             1,103             1,139           103
      Seedling Nurseries                      ha               382              324             85
  III. Support Services & Training         US$ mill.         25.61             18.25            71




                                                - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Crop Land Improvement                                      118.97         114.91               97
Slopeland Protection                                        83.29          94.00              113
Support Services & Training                                 25.61          18.25               71
Unallocated                                                  1.94
IDC and fees                                                22.60          13.08               58

Total Baseline Cost                                        252.41         240.24
                        Total Project Costs                252.41         240.24
                  Total Financing Required                 252.41         240.24


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             20.77       183.75         0.00         204.52
                                  (0.00)          (14.55)     (124.58)        (0.00)      (139.13)
2. Goods                          3.05              1.23         0.42         0.00          4.70
                                  (2.78)           (0.20)      (0.42)         (0.00)       (3.40)
3. Services                       0.00              0.42        18.16         0.00         18.58
                                  (0.00)           (0.42)      (2.20)         (0.00)       (2.62)
4. Other                          0.00              0.00        24.60         0.00         24.60
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.58)         (0.00)       (4.58)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          3.05             22.42       226.93         0.00         252.40
                                  (2.78)          (15.17)     (131.78)        (0.00)      (149.73)




                                                - 19 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00              20.68            195.09             0.00             215.77
                                          (0.00)            (14.30)          (128.93)            (0.00)          (143.23)
   2. Goods                                0.88               0.64              1.94             0.00              3.46
                                          (0.88)             (0.20)            (1.42)            (0.00)           (2.50)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.42             11.80             0.00             12.22
                                          (0.00)             (0.42)            (1.83)            (0.00)           (2.25)
   4. Other                                0.00               0.00              8.76             0.00              8.76
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.02)            (0.00)           (2.02)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.88              21.74            217.59             0.00             240.21
                                          (0.88)            (14.92)          (134.20)            (0.00)          (150.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Crop Land Improvement         81.41        17.62        11.67       73.85         26.26     16.45       90.7     149.0    141.0
Slopeland Protection          56.21        16.33        20.29       65.90         18.44     14.53       117.2    112.9     71.6
Support Services &             7.43        12.88         2.63        6.13         10.31                 82.5      80.0      0.0
Training
Total Cost                    145.05       46.83        34.60       145.88        55.01     30.98       100.6    117.5     89.5
Unallocated                    1.31                                                                      0.0
Total Project Costs           146.36       46.83        34.60       145.88        55.01     30.98       99.7     117.5     89.5
IDC and fees                   3.46        18.57                     4.12         4.24                  119.1     22.8
Total Financing Required      150.00       65.40        34.60       150.00        59.25     30.98       100.0     90.6     89.5




                                                          - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

A recalculation of the Economic Rate of Return for the project was done following closely the method used
in the PAD and for the evaluation of LP I. Prices and physical input output: parameters have been adjusted
using the project reporting and monitoring data. The following provides a description of the key project
benefits and highlights the major determinants of the economic success of the project.

Project Benefits

The project's major benefits occurred in form of: (a) substantive increases in farm incomes and living
standards on-site within the project area; (b) improvements in the river regime downstream in the Yellow
River; (c) global or regional ecological improvements beyond the project areas and the Yellow River Basin;
and (d) significant efficiency gains in public administration and public spending under similar national and
international investment projects:

(A)On-site Benefits within the Project Area
The majority of project benefits occurred within the project area, where about 1.9 million people benefit
from the project. The project areas belong to the poorest in China and the project has already raised
average per capita net incomes from RMB783 to RMB1,624 per year with a significant potential to
increase further once the income from fruit trees materializes. The project components contribute to the
reduction of poverty in different ways:
l Direct Income Increase. Terracing of loess soils usually allowed double cropping yields with only
    marginally higher input costs, and will therefore lead to an almost immediate rise in incomes. In some
    of the drier areas and where sufficient surface or groundwater can be secured, terracing was combined
    with irrigation which allowed the achievement of optimal yields since soil quality, temperature and
    sunshine hours make the Loess Plateau one of the most fertile areas in the world. The new terraces and
    access roads to the terraces gave farmers the opportunity to grow a wider range of crops with higher
    yields than is possible on unimproved slopes or old inaccessible terraces. Temperate fruit and nut trees
    grow particularly well and have a more medium and longer term but very significant impact on
    agricultural incomes.
l Employment and Labor Productivity. Labor saving in crop production and the diversification of
    agriculture and livestock production allowed engagement in new employment and income opportunities.
    This includes both on-farm and off-farm employment. While some of the farmers used the opportunity
    to have more time available for outside employment, others entered into new farming activities
    particularly in livestock or fruit production. Employment of women and their labor productivity has
    particularly benefited from new or expanded livestock activities.
l Food Security and Risk Reduction. Farmers in the Loess Plateau face the threat of severe droughts.
    In dry years, crops on slopes often failed completely and the government had to supply the farmers with
    food. Terracing lowered the variability of yields significantly, as proven during years of severe drought
    during project implementation, but in years with average rainfall grain yields on terraces reached two
    to three times those on slope-lands. Since farmers typically store grain over years, the high yields in the
    good years provide insurance for the drought years. The diversification of production as supported by
    the project reduced the variability of income. Livestock and tree crops provide a buffer in difficult
    times. Irrigation, although a small part of the project, also provides drought protection.
l Natural Resource Protection and Securing of Long-term Income Opportunities. Large areas in the
    project area were severely degraded and past agricultural practices were clearly unsustainable, with
    uncontrolled grazing, gathering for fuel, and cropping on slopes that were too steep for sustainable
    farming. The project succeeded taking a large proportion of these areas entirely out of production for
    natural vegetarian regeneration and turning unsustainable use of slopes into sustainable use by planting



                                                     - 21 -

    trees and shrubs, which protect soils and provide financial returns. This practice secured long-term
    productivity of those areas and raised incomes for the local people.

(B)Downstream Benefits
In addition to increasing production and incomes within the project areas, the project provided significant
benefits to the downstream areas:
l Reduced Sediment Loads in Rivers. The project reduced sediment inflow to the Yellow River and its
    tributaries with several benefits. First, irrigation systems suffer less from large inflows of sediment that
    choke the canals and often make it necessary to stop diversion of river water when sediment loads are
    high. Second, river channels are more stable and maintenance costs for river training works are
    reduced. Third, sediment build-up in downstream reservoirs is slowed. Fourth, the rise of the river bed
    in the Yellow River will be slowed and the cost of raising the flood embankments can be deferred.
l Lower variability in water flows and reduced flood risk. Retaining rainfall water on terraces, behind
    key dams and check dams and in millions of small water-harvesting pits around each tree lower the
    peak run-off. This reduces the severity of down-stream floods, reduces flood damage, and lowers the
    cost of flood protection works. Due to the difficulty in quantification the effect is not included in the
    analysis.

(C)Regional and Global Benefits
Global and regional environmental benefits of the project are also likely to occur in the long run, although it
is difficult to specify the magnitude and time-horizon.
l Reduction of Greenhouse Gases and Carbon Sequestration. Vegetation and soils are widely
    recognized as carbon storage sinks. Sequestration of carbon in terrestrial ecosystems offers a low-cost
    means of reducing carbon emissions. The `Kyoto Protocol' makes provision for direct human-induced
    land use change and vegetation recovering activities to be considered in relation to each country's
    Greenhouse Gases reduction target. The project will result in a significant incremental sequestration of
    carbon in sub-surface and surface biomass in an estimated range between 20 and 100 tons per hectare
    Values for every ton of carbon are currently discussed at a range of US$5-10/ton. These numbers are
                                                                                           1


    based on a recent assessment in a Carbon Finance Document: `Facilitating Afforestation for Watershed
    Management in Pearl River Basin of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China, 2005'. A value of
    US$5/ ton is used in the economic analysis.
l Biodiversity. Almost as a collateral benefit resulting from the re-vegetation of large formerly barren
    areas the project contributed to a restoration of biodiversity and restored the habitat for plants and
    wildlife. The impact is already noticeable, but its full magnitude is difficult to assess.
l Long-term Impact on Climate and Rainfall. A dense vegetative cover in the Loess Plateau is also
    expected to have a positive impact on the climate in the region, particularly regarding increased and
    more evenly distributed rainfall and more moderate temperatures. While the trend is very likely to be
    positive, this effect is difficult to quantify and is not included in the analysis.

(D)Efficiency Gains in Public Administration and Public Spending
The project's impact on institutional development and accountability of public services has significant
economic benefits. Monitoring and supervision tools developed under the project have been introduced in
large-scale national programs. Even if the project had resulted in only marginal efficiency gains under these
programs the overall benefits would be substantive due to the large-scale national investments.
Quantification is, however, difficult and beyond the scope of the ICR work.




                                                        - 22 -

Economic Analysis

Multiple Benefits and Interdependence of Components. The project addresses watershed development in
a holistic way with an integrated set of interventions, with activities being mutually re-enforcing. Most of
the project measures will have substantial benefits in different areas and of a different nature. Terraces, for
example, significantly increase productivity and income; they reduce the production risks and mitigate the
effects of droughts; and they effectively retain sediments. Most components are furthermore not
independent but need to be assessed in the context of other project interventions. For example, addressing
soil and water conservation on slopeland and the severe over-grazing problem effectively and sustainably
requires substantive changes in the way livestock is raised. This will be achieved with a package of
mutually beneficial measures which include forage grass production, crop residue processing and the
introduction of improved cattle in replacement of sheep and goats. Moving from uncontrolled grazing
towards stall-feeding allows collecting manure for horticulture and crop production. At the same time,
residues from field crops can be better used as fodder. The economic benefits of these and most other
measures can not be assessed individually but only in the context of the overall farming system in a
comprehensive farm or area analysis.




________________________
These numbers are based on a recent assessment in a Carbon Finance Document: 'Facilitating Afforestation for Watershed Management in Pearl River
Basin of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, China, 2005'.




                                                                    - 23 -

Overview of Major Benefits by Components and Major Linkages among Components

 Component,         Major direct Economic Benefits by           Major linkages with other Components               Quantification Method/Module in
     Sub-                  Category1 (by decreasing                 and indirect benefits (grouped in                         Area Analysis
 Component                       importance)                         `dependent on' and `mutually
                   Cat.                                                  supported/supportive')
Terraces           A      Increased crop yields,              Dependent on: none, terracing is one of            Standard crop models valuing
                   A      Reduction of risk,                  the few components, which could be                 inputs and outputs at economic
                   B      Reduction (elimination) of          implemented independently of other                 prices and comparing `with' and
                          water run-off (flood protection     components.2                                       `without' project situation;
                   B      benefit)                            Mutually supported/supportive:                     by-products such as crop residues
                          Full sediment retention             ·     Livestock raising provides draft             and non-traded inputs such as
                                                                 power and manure for cropping;                  animal draft and manure are not
                                                              · Increased crop production on terraces            valued in a comprehensive area
                                                                provides feed and crop residues                  analysis, since they are only
                                                                facilitate changes in grazing pattern;           intermediate products;
                                                              · Terraces extend the lifetime of gully            (sediment retention see next line)
                                                                structures.
Silt Retention     B      Sediment retention                  Dependent on:                                      For sediment retention the
and Warping        B      Balancing of water run-off          · Gully structures are usually built as a          methodology of Loess I project is
Land               A      Income through agricultural           system of structures, where key dams             followed, which uses the
Structures                production by creation of new         depend on check dams above, warping              embankment raising cost in the
(check dams,              crop land                             land development is inter-linked with            lower reach of the Yellow River as
key dams,                                                       dam structures, or protection works in           the major reference value.
warping dams,                                                   the gully bed, etc.                              Delaying such embankment raising
and protection                                                Mutually supportive:                               will safe costs equivalent to RMB2
works in gully                                                · Irrigation, many irrigation systems              per ton of sediment retained.
bottom)                                                         under the project take surface water             Incremental agricultural
                                                                directly from gully structures;                  production on new land is assessed
                                                              · most groundwater systems depend in the           by standard crop models
                                                                long-run on water infiltration from
                                                                gully structures, terracing and other
                                                                contour measures implemented under
                                                                various components
Irrigation         A      Increased agricultural              Dependent on:                                      Crop models
                          production and output through       · many irrigation systems are combined
                          increased yields and production       with gully structures
                          of higher value crops,              Mutually supportive:
                   A      Reduction of risk                   · terracing, particularly in very dry areas
                                                                terracing without irrigation does not
                                                                secure sufficient yield increase to make
                                                                it economically viable




1   A - on-site benefits, B ­ downstream benefits, and C ­ regional and global benefits.
2   Only in very dry areas, such as most places in Inner Mongolia, terracing alone will not result in sufficient yield increases and needs to be combined
    with irrigation.




                                                              - 24 -

     Water storage  A  Reduction of risk              Mutually supported:                         The benefit from such `emergency
     tanks          A  Reduction of losses            · terracing often provides road surface     water' goes far beyond normal
                                                        areas, which are suitable water           irrigation water use, quantification
                                                        collection areas for storage tanks        according to marginal benefits
     Arbor trees    A  Income                         Dependent on:                               Crop models for the income from
                    B  Sediment retention             · Livestock component as changing           timber;
                    B  Balancing of water runoff        grazing pattern are essential for         Fodder from trees enter livestock
                    C  Climatic benefits                protecting new plantations                models as sub-model;
                                                      Mutually supportive:                        Global benefits are valued at US$
                                                      · Trees provide fodder for livestock,       10 per ton of fixed carbon,
                                                      · Incremental fuel wood releases crop       assuming that a carbon sink of up
                                                        residues for use as fodder                to 50 tons per ha would be built up
                                                                                                  over 50 years.1
     Shrubs         B  Sediment retention             Dependent on:                               The fodder from shrubs is not
                    A  Income mostly indirect through · Livestock component as changing           valued, crop models for shrubs are
                       forage for animals or            grazing pattern are essential for         used as sub-models in the animal
                       fuel wood                        protecting new plantations                production models.
                    C  Limited climatic benefits      Mutually supportive:
                                                      · Shrubs provide fodder for livestock
                                                      · Incremental fuel wood releases crop
                                                        residues for use as fodder
     Artificial        No direct economic benefit in  Dependent on and mutually supportive:       Crop models for grass production
     Grassland         the A category, however, a     This component is closely linked to the     are used as sub-models in the
     (plantation of    chain of benefits through      objective to change of livestock raising    animal production models.
     alfalfa,          changing pattern in livestock  from natural grazing to stall-feeding
     astragalus and    raising with again indirect
     other grass)      benefits on trees, shrubs and
                       natural grassland development.
     Natural        B  Sediment retention             Dependent on:                               Sediment retention at RMB2 per
     Grassland      B  Limited water run-off          · Livestock component and acceptance of     ton
     protection     C  reduction Limited climatic       farmers to change grazing pattern and
     (closing of       benefits                         close natural grassland areas from
     areas)                                             grazing
     Livestock      A  Income                         Dependent on:                               Livestock cash flow models with
     Development                                      · Artificial grassland development, shrub   several sub-models for grass and
     (animal pens,                                      and tree production, and crop residues as shrub production and fodder from
     breeding                                           alternative fodder source                 trees.
     cows, fodder                                     · Crop residues from incremental crop
     processing                                         production on terraces
     equipment)                                       Mutually supportive:
                                                      · Terraces and horticulture by providing
                                                        manure and draft power
     Horticulture   A  Income                         Dependent on:                               Crop models
     (fruit         B  Sediment retention             · Terracing to free up currently cropped
     orchards, date B  Limited water run-off            slopeland for orchards
     and nut trees, C  reduction                      · Crop residues from incremental crop
     top-working       Climatic benefits                production on terraces
     of existing                                      Mutually supportive:
     orchards)                                        · Livestock provides manure
     Fruit Storage  A  Income                         Mutually supportive:                        Cash flow analysis comparing with
                                                      · Horticulture component                    and without situation
     Nursery           No direct economic benefits,   Mutually supportive:                        Economic prices for seedlings are
     Development       nurseries produce an           · Arbor tree                                used in the production models
                       intermediate product, which is · Shrub
                       costed at economic prices in   · Horticulture component
                       the production models




Major Assumptions
Prices. Contrary to the PAD analysis, for the ICR analysis up-dated financial prices have been used for all
inputs and outputs except for unskilled labor. Given the current status of market liberalization in the
country no major bias can be observed for the key inputs and outputs of the project which would require



                                                      - 25 -

the calculation of world market reference prices. For farm labor and unskilled labor the wage rate has been
adjusted from RMB8 (PAD) to RMB12 per day and a conversion factor of 0.8 for the summer months
(May to October) and 0.5 for the winter months (November to April) is applied to this rate. This is
considered to reflect the different economic opportunity cost of labor in different seasons.

Cropping Pattern and Land Use. The project improved about 400,000 ha of slopeland, of which 220,000
ha were previously cropped and 180,000 ha are mostly extensively grazed slopes. About 80,832 ha of the
previously cropped land were turned into terraces. The remaining land was brought under permanent
vegetative cover, such as fruit and nut trees (62,834 ha), arbor trees (108,935 ha), shrubs (71,219 ha), and
forage grassland (57,047 ha). About 2,800 ha of high-value new cropland will be created behind key dams
or in form or warping land.

Phasing. The economic analysis was done for a period of 25 years. The yield increases on terraces are
expected to build up over a period of three years after terracing with the exception of potatoes where the
increased yields can mostly be observed in the first year. The first dam land is expected to be usable 6
years after construction; until the total amount of 2,800 ha is useable is expected to take 13 years. The
sediment retention impact from dams and terraces will occur immediately after construction. The sediment
retention from vegetative measures, such as trees, shrubs or natural regeneration is expected to build up
over a period of 6 to 10 years. The carbon storage benefit is expected to accrue over a period of 40 years.

Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The overall ERR of the project is 21. The ERR without down-stream
and global benefits is 18.5%.

FARMOD software is used for the data compilation.




                                                   - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                         No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                             (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year     Count               Specialty                         Progress        Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               09/1997                          7     A, 2AG, 2ES, WRS, F
               10/1998                          6     AG, E, M, WRS, H, F

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               01/1999                          6     AG, E, M, WRS, H, F


 Supervision

               11/1999                          6     ES, OP, M, WRS, FM, AG                 S              S
               09/2000                          9     AG, 2E, 2M, ESD, FM, 2F                S              S
               09/2001                          4     AG, E, WRS, F, PA                      S              S
               09/2002                          4     AG, E, WRS, F, PA                      S              S
               09/2003                          4     AG, E, F, OA                           S              S
               08/2004                          4     AG, E, F, OA                           S              S

 ICR
               09/2005                          3     E, OA, S                             HS               HS

    Note: A = Agronomist; AG = Agriculturist, E = Economist; ES = Environmental Specialist, ESD = Engineer
    for the Safety of Dams, F = Forestry Specialist, FM = Financial Management Specialist; H = Horticultural
    Specialist; M = Monitoring Specialist, OA= Operations Analyst, OP = Operation Officer, PA = Program
    Assistant, P = Procurement Specialist, S = Social Specialist, WRS = Water Resources Specialist

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                  55,008
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                      115,534
  Supervision                                                                363,214
  ICR                                                                         13,516
  Total                                                                      547,273




                                                      - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  Supervision Aide Memoires
  Detailed ERR Calculations (Farmod and Spreadsheet Files)
  Borrower's ICR
  Borrower's Monitoring and Evaluation Report




                                        - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR Summary

With the support from the World Bank and from China's relevant ministries and commissions, through
efforts of the farmers in project areas, the project was successfully carried out with gains in economic
benefits, social benefits, ecological environmental benefits and substantial development in the local society
and economy. Through 6-year implementation, the project has completed comprehensive controlled area
446,000 hm2 by taking 102.4% of the project plan, project investment 2,013,930,000 RMBs by taking
96.1% of the project plan. Most project components are completed as the project had proposed either in
construction or in disbursement. The total production of grain in project areas increased from 726,000 tons
a year to 1,265,000 tons per year, per capita from 365 kg to 591 kg; Total output of agriculture increased
from 309,000 RMBs to 768,000 RMBs, and the farmers' net income per capita increased from 585 RMBs
to 1624 RMBs. The people's living conditions were greatly improved and their life standard was raised up
to a higher level. Through building basic farmland, more slopeland used for crops was replaced by grass
and forest and the ground regained its vegetation cover, which hold water and soil effectively and reduced
the sediment transport into Yellow River. After the project was put into effect, agricultural productive
conditions and rural infrastructure in the project areas were improved and the production structure was
adjusted. The economy in the countryside increased continuously on a stable step. The project's
implementation pushed forward the development of environment construction in northwest and whole
China.

The Loess II has introduced advanced management methods and administrative conceptions from overseas,
established a high efficiency and complete management organization and support system, constituted a
series of regulations and rules, which have ensured the project objectives to be realized according to the
plan. Because of its practical objectives, elaborate preparation and strict management, the project has
created a lot of models of high quality and good benefit, and has been high praised by local governments
and farmers. The new technologies introduced into project have made the soil and water conservation on the
Loess Plateau goes a far step ahead in high quality, high efficiency, standardized and scientific
management. The regulations applied in Loess II, such as reimbursement, bidding system, auditing,
inspection etc, have been expanded to Loess Plateau and other soil and water conservation project, playing
a role of demonstration and motivator. The farmer's benefit was put at a critical position in the loess
Implementation. The project paid much attention to the rational combination of the farmer's earning and
the ecological benefits. The project's implementation received good results in reforming the ecosystem,
controlling the water and soil losses, and at the same time it found ways for the farmers' living and
improved their living conditions. Considering economic benefits the motive power for social and ecological
benefits and raising the farmers' enthusiasm into the project has gained the project fluent progress in
implementation. The astonishing achievements and further impacts in and out of China mean too much to
soil and water conservation programs throughout the country.




                                                    - 31 -

Additional Annex 9. Photographs




  Picture 1: Typical Loess Plateau site prior to the Project: predominantly slopeland cropping with severe soil
  erosion, very poor natural vegetation, and gullies heavily grazed by goats ...




  Picture 2: ... and Project site after treatment: moderate slopes are terraced providing good yields due to water
  conservation, steep slopes are planted with shrubs or trees using contour trenches, and the entire watershed is
  protected from grazing allowing grass and other vegetation to return.



                                                     - 32 -

Picture 3: Project site in 1999: comprehensive site preparation mainly for tree planting, water harvesting pits
are designed and spaced to catch run-off, and protection ridges along gullies prevent further cutting ...




Picture 4: ... and similar site in the same watershed in 2004: water harvesting pits disappear in grass
vegetation.




                                                   - 33 -

Picture 5: Project site in 1999: pits for tree planting on the top of the hills are protected by stone preventing
soil erosion ...




Picture 6: ... and a similar site 5 years later.




                                                     - 34 -

Picture 7: Contour planting of black locust trees at early  Picture 8: ... and the same location in 2004.
project implementation stage ...




Picture 9: Comprehensive watershed treatment in 1999...     Picture 10: ... and the same location in 2004.




Picture 11: Large-scale Chinese pine plantation in northern Picture 12: ... and the same location in 2004 (notable
Shanxi in 1999 ...                                          strong grass vegetation returns after grazing ban).




                                                  - 35 -

Picture 13 and 14: Young persimmon orchard intercropped with
fodder crop (cut-and-carry system). Strong shrub vegetation on
gully slopes in the background possible only under a rigorous
grazing ban. First persimmon fruits on the picture to the right.
(Pictures taken by ICR mission)




                                                    - 36 -

- 37 -

