Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 18958
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$100 MILLION AND
A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 36.9 MILLION (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
SECOND LOESS PLATEAU WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 30, 1999
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1, 1999)
Currency Unit         Renminbi (RMB), Yuan(Y)
$1.00    =    Y 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
Government   =    January 1-December 31
World Bank    =    July 1-June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)   =   0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)    =   10,000 sq. meters, 2.47 acres, 15 mu
I ton (t)    =   1,000 kg
I kilogram (kg)        2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         -    Country Assistance Strategy
CPMO        -    Central Project Management Office
EIRR        -    Economic Internal Rate of Return
GIS         -    Geographic Information Systems
FIRR        -    Financial Internal Rate of Return
FMS         -    Financial Management System
GOC         -    Govermment of China
ICB         -    International Competitive Bidding
IRR         -    Internal Rate of Return
MOF         -    Ministry of Finance
MWR         -    Ministry of Water Resources
NPV         -    Net Present Value
NVP         -    Net Value of Production
PLG         -    Project Leading Group
PMO         -    Project Management Office
SOE         -    Statement of Expenditure
UMRB        -    Upper Middle Reaches Bureau
YRCC        -    Yellow River Conservancy Commission
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director: Yukon Huang
Sector Manager: Geoffrey B. Fox
Task Team Leader: Juergen Voegele



China
Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Table of Contents
Project Financing Data ......................................................1
A. Project Development Objectives ......................................................2
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators .....................2
B. Strategic Context ......................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .............................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .....................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ....................                    3
C. Project Description Summary ......................................................3
1. The project areas ......................................................3
2. Project components ......................................................4
3. Cost summary ......................................................6
4. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .............                        .............6
5. Benefits aind target population ......................................................7
6. Institutional and irmplementation arrangements .................................................7
D. Project Rationale .....................................................9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........ ..........................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other agencies .                             ..................... 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ......................................... 10
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership .......................                      ............... 11
5. Value added of Bank Group support .....................................................                    11
E. Summary Project Analyses .....................................................                                      12
1. Economic ...............................................                                                  12
2. Financial ................................................                                                12
3. Technical ................................................                                                12
4. Institutional ...............................................                                             13
5. Social ................................................                                                   13
6. Environmental ................................................                                            13
7. Participatory approach ................................................                                   14



F. Sustainability and Risks ............................                         14
1. Sustainability ......................                                 14
2. Critical Risks ......................                                  15
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................                  15
G. Main Loan Conditions ............................                             16
1. Effectiveness conditions ......................                        16
2. Other conditions ......................                                16
H. Readiness for Implementation ............................                     16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ............................                    17
Annexes
Annex 1            Project Design Summary .18
Annex 2            Project Description and Background .24
Annex 3            Project Cost Estimates .31
Annex 4            Economic and Financial Analysis .34
Annex 5            Financial Summary .60
Annex 6            Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .61
Table A.           Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .65
Table B.           Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review.        66
Table C.           Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds .67
Table D.           Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds (Shaanxi Province) .68
Table E.           Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds (Shanxi Province) .69
Table F.           Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds (Gansu Province).    70
Table G.           Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds (Inner Mongolia
Autonomous Region) .71
Annex 7            Project Processing Budget and Schedule .72
Annex 8            Financial Management .73
Annex 9            Guota Small Watershed Analysis .78
Annex 10           Documents in the Project File .84
Annex 11           Statement of Loans and Credits .85
Annex 12    China at a Glance .88
Map Nos. IBRD 30158-30162



China
Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
Date: April 30, 1999                           Task Team Leader: Juergen Voegele
Country Director: Yukon Huang                   Sector Manager: Geoffrey Fox
Project ID: CN-PE-56215   Sector: Agriculture   Program Obj. Category: Environmentally Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan    Program of Targeted Intervention:         [ ] Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data                 [x] Loan         [x] Credit       [  Guarantee       [] Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: (US$M/SDRM): Loan of 100 / Credit of SDR 36.9 (US$50M equivalent)
Proposed terms:                             [ ]  Multicurrency     [x] Single currency, specify USD
Grace period (years): 5 Loan/10 Credit   [ ]  Standard Variable  [ I   Fixed     [xl   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20 Loan/35 Credit
Commitment fee: 0.75% Loan/ 0.50% Credit
Service charge: 0.0% Loan/0.75 % Credit
Front-end Fee 1.00% of Loan
Financing plan (US$m):
.Source                                 Local              Foreign             Total
Government                                       102                                    102
Of which:
Central Government                                2
Provincial Government                            28
Prefecture Government                            12
County Government                                21
Farmers                                          39
IBRD                                              82                   18               100
IDA                                               43                    7                50
Total         227                   25               252
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Responsible agency: Ministry of Water Resources, and Shanxi Province, Shaanxi Province, Gansu Province and the
Autonomous Region of Inner Mongolia
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):      2000         2001        2002        2003         2004
Annual      20          35          40           35          20
Cumulative     20          55          95          130         150
Project implementation period: 1999-2003
Expected effectiveness date: September, 1999                    Expected closing date: December 31,2004
Implementing agency: Ministry of Water Resources
Contact person: Qi Jianhua
Address: 2 Lane 2, Baiguang Road, Beijing, China
Tel: (86-10) 63203593



2
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators:
The objective of the project is to help achieve sustainable development in the Loess Plateau by increasing
agricultural production and incomes, and improving ecological conditions in tributary watersheds of the
Yellow River, through: (a) the introduction of more efficient and sustainable uses of land and water
resources; and (b) reducing erosion and sediment flow into the Yellow River. The feasibility of the
proposed project's components, the institutional arrangements, and the participatory process have been
confirmed by the highly successful implementation of the first Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation
Project (Cr.3540-CHA) over the last five years.
The project will be monitored through a set of indicators that take into account the four key elements of a
sustainable development strategy: productivity, stability, resilience and equity. Specifically, project staff
monitor impact on crop yields, household production and incomes, grazing policies and practices, long-
term land use rights, and integrated watershed planning.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project:
CASDocument, 16321-CHA, February, 1997.
CAS Progress Report, R98-107, May 1998.
The CAS objectives for the agriculture sector in China call for assistance to promote better utilization of
marginal land through sustainable techniques, and to develop new income-generation programs in poorer
provinces. Environment objectives of the CAS include promotion of soil and water conservation. The
project will support these goals.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
China's Ninth Five-Year Plan (1995-2000) places sustained and stable growth in agriculture and the rural
economy at the top of its agenda, and its ambitious goals include major increases in grain production and
farmers incomes. An important component of this strategy is to improve productivity in rainfed areas,
particularly in the arid and semi-arid zones accounting for 30 percent of the total arable land. While
productivity of China's irrigated areas is now among the highest in the world, progress in dryland
agriculture has lagged behind, particularly in several rainfed regions in Northwest and Southwest China.
These are characterized by high population pressures and unsustainable agricultural practices. In
Northwest China, the Loess Plateau is one of the poorest areas in China. However, beginning in the
1980s, much progress has been made in developing viable strategies to raise productivity and reduce
poverty in this region.
Early efforts to treat the Loess Plateau included campaigns to terrace slopes, plant trees and shrubs, and
build dams in the gullies to intercept sediment runoff. The aim was primarily to combat soil erosion and,
in this, these efforts were broadly successful. However, these interventions were not integrated with
efforts to raise agricultural productivity and farm incomes. But in the late 1980s experiments with
comprehensive development of small watersheds proved promising in both treating soil erosion and
raising farm incomes. This led to a change in the Government's development strategy for the Loess



3
Plateau, which now emphasizes the comprehensive and integrated planning of small individual
watersheds in close consultation with the beneficiaries. Planners and farmers now realize that land
conservation is compatible with sustainable and productive agriculture and that they are mutually
reinforcing. This approach has been implemented with considerable success on over 700,000 ha of land
in the ongoing first Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project (Loess I). The Government's
recently issued National Ecological Environment Development Plan specifically recommends this
strategy for development of the Loess Plateau.
Recent flooding on the Yangtze River has heightened the Governments concern to address the causes of
the flooding, deforestation and erosion, caused by decades of unsustainable land-use practices. Integrated
watershed development is effective, but has not yet been promoted on a large scale in China.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will support the government's development strategy for the Loess Plateau by financing
integrated planning and treatment of small watersheds. The challenge here is to further develop and
refine an integrated model of small watershed management to turn the existing unsustainable practices
into a sustainable approach. The project will (a) create high-yielding, level farmland for sustainable
production of field crops and orchards and thereby replace the areas devoted to crops on erodible
slopelands, and (b) plant the slopelands to a range of trees, shrubs and grasses for the production of fuel,
timber and fodder. This will greatly increase the per hectare productivity on the improved farmland and
raise overall output. The watershed is the basic physical unit, but the village is the basic social unit.
Therefore, the success of this strategy depends on close consultation with village leaders and farmers.
The integrated nature of the project necessitates public sector involvement in planning and
implementation.  Small watershed development involves integration of forestry, soil and water
conservation, agriculture, and livestock sectors, and effective planning requires involvement of
technicians familiar with these sectors who are, for the most part, associated with public institutions.
Moreover, the private sector has been unwilling to provide financing for these types of investments,
particularly in the poorer areas targeted by the project.
C: Project Description Summary
1. The project areas:
Location. The project covers nearly 2 million ha in 12 river basins of the Loess Plateau (see Annex 2) in
37 counties in Shanxi, Shaanxi, and Gansu Provinces, and the Autonomous Region of Inner Mongolia.
The Loess Plateau covers an area of some 640,000 sq. km in the upper and middle parts of the drainage
basin of the Yellow River.
Counties and small watersheds were selected for inclusion in the project based on a variety of criteria.
These included severity of soil erosion, poverty level, experience with soil and water conservation works,
development potential and repayment capacity, strong leadership and commitment at the local
government level and proximity to science and research organizations involved in soil and water
conservation. Also, the intent is to establish activities in a range of different but typical areas of the Loess
Plateau. The large number of counties included in the project is a reflection of strong demand from
county governments to participate. This will help disseminate the project models over a wide area.



4
Topography, Land Use, and Climate. Within the project area there are several distinct types of
topography. In Gansu the "gullied plateau" landform is common, where a flat plain with large tracts of
level farmland is intersected by deep gullies of 200-300 meters. In Shanxi, Shaanxi, and parts of Inner
Mongolia the "gullied hill" landform is common where rounded hills several hundred meters high are
bounded by deep gullies. In a typical loess gully, slopes on the sides of the gullies are moderate at the top
near the plateau, but become much steeper towards the bed of the gully. Field crops are grown on the
plateaus and the upper slopes of the gullies and the rounded hills. The steeper slopes are uncultivated
except where there has been some afforestation. More than half of the project area in Inner Mongolia is
open steppe. For the project as a whole, severely degraded and barren land is 40% of the total area, and
cropland, mostly on low productivity slopeland, takes up 34 %(See Annex 2). Average annual
precipitation, mostly rain, ranges from 250 mm in Inner Mongolia to 550 mm in Gansu. The loess soil has
good agricultural properties, but drought is a major constraint in crop production. The rain tends to come
in intense storns that result in almost immediate water loss off the steep cropped areas. Broad flat
terraces for crops and narrow terraces for trees and shrubs are essential for profitable use of lands in the
project areas. Finally, slopelands in the Loess Plateau produce extremely high levels of sediment runoff
per unit of area; in places runoff from a square kilometer can exceed 20,000 tons per annum.
2. Project components:
Cropland Improvement ($119 million)
Terracing. Slopelands and old, irregular terraces on about 88,900 ha will be converted to wide, level
terraces. Terrace widths range from 5 to 15 meters depending on slope. Access roads are built as a part
of terrace construction. Terraced land retains water and resists soil erosion. The improved soil and water
regime, and better access for inputs and outputs, give farmers the opportunity to plant a wider range of
crops with much higher yields than on slopeland. In a year of average rainfall, grain yields on terraces
can reach two to three times those on slopelands. The high yields in the good years provide insurance for
the drought years. This security in staple grains allows farmers to take most steep slopeland out of grain
production and put it into more sustainable use such as tree and shrub plantations. Farmers report that
level terraces with good road access require less family labor, and that this gives family members time for
off-farm employment, as well as cultivation of cash crops.
Sediment control structures. Sediment control dams will be built to retain sediment, control flooding,
create land for crop production, and store water for irrigation and village water supply. The creation of
land by the deposition of sediment is called warping.
Some 130 key dams will be constructed and 20 existing dams will be rehabilitated to control sediment
runoff and floods from drainage basins of 3 to 5 sq. km. Some 290 warping dams, about 3-10 m in
height, with generally much smaller catchment areas, will be built in the gullies with the main purposeof
intercepting sediment and creating land. The area to be formed by key dams will be about 1,500 ha and
land formed by warping dams is expected to reach about 935 ha. It takes about three years for land to be
ready for farming behind warping dams and 8-10 years for key dams. In addition, the project will protect
already existing warping land through low level embankments. It will stabilize gullies through building
small check dams of rock or brushwood that slow down the flow in the gullies and prevent undercutting
of the gully sides and by building low dikes and planting shrubs at the heads of gullies.
Irrigation. Irrigation works will consist of small water cistems (about 30,000) that will be located to
catch run off from roads, small surface water diversions serving about 750 ha, and small-scale irrigation
schemes mostly in Inner Mongolia serving about 4,100 ha.



5
Slopeland Protection ($83.3 million). The main objective of this component is to increase the vegetation
cover and erosion control capacity in the project watersheds through planting and protecting trees, shrubs
and grass on about 337,000 ha. At present, slopeland is cultivated with crops and large expanses of
wasteland remain untreated. The slopeland conservation component will both diversify and raise farmer
incomes, and reduce soil and water loss from untreated areas. It will provide farmers with an important
cash alternative to raising sheep and goats. Overgrazing by sheep and goats on slopeland seriously
damages the vegetation cover and causes major soil erosion throughout the project area. Decrease in the
number of grazing sheep and goats, (and increase in pen feeding) may be the single most important factor
in permanently restoring vegetation cover in the project area. Accordingly, the component includes some
investment in livestock, which will serve as incentive to switch from goat to cow raising, and will
encourage the farmers to plant and maintain grass.
Afforestation and Vegetative Cover. Trees of various species ( mainly pine, poplar, and black locust) will
be planted on narrow terraces or pits on about 90,000 ha of slopeland. The tree species that have been
selected are all income-producing and can be selectively harvested for their poles in ten to 15 years.
Shrubs (caragana, seabuckthorn) will be planted on about 91,000 ha of land too steep for trees. In
suitable areas, trees and shrubs will be interplanted. A variety of pasture grasses will be planted on about
56,000 ha, mostly degraded waste land. These will be harvested to feed pen-reared animals or used for
controlled grazing. About 28,000 ha of degraded and over-grazed slopeland will be protected to allow
natural revegetation.
Horticulture. Fruit and nut-bearing trees will be planted on 72,000 ha of slopeland in narrow benches and
small pits. Marketing of fruit produced under the project will be enhanced by investmnents in fruit storage
to be owned and operated by individuals or farmer groups. Existing seedling nurseries will be improved
and new ones will be set up to provide high quality planting material.
Project Support Services ($25.6 million). The support services component of the project will fund
research and extension, training and study tours, monitoring and evaluation, survey and design, vehicles,
office equipment and upgrading of county PMO buildings, and operations and project management costs.
Research conducted under the project and applied in project areas includes topics in dryland farming
techniques, grassland improvement, and forage and grazing management. Training is both international
and domestic, and covers project management, agriculture and forestry techniques, water-saving
irrigation, computers, nursery management, grassland management, etc. Training is given to project
managers, technicians and farmers. The project funds small watershed land use surveys and plans, and
technical designs for fruit storage, and irrigation and sediment retention structures. Project management
costs, and some vehicles and office equipment necessary are also included in this component.



6
3. Cost summary (US$M):
Component                   Category     Indicative Cost   % of Total    Bank-     % of Bank-
financing    financing
1. Crop Land Improvement
Terrace                                   Physical                 84.18     33.3%        67.34          80%
Silt retention structures                 Physical                 17.30      6.9%         10.38         60%
Irrigation                                Physical
Small itrigation works                  Physical                 10.19      4.0%          8.15         80%
Water cistems                           Physical                  7.31      2.9%          4.39         60%
Subtotal                                                          118.97      46.9%        90.26         76%
II. Slopeland Protection
Afforestation & vegetation cover
Arbor tree                              Physical                 19.68       7.8%        11.81         60%
Shrub                                   Physical                 12.10      4.8%          7.26         60%
Artificial grassland                    Physical                  5.05       2.0%         3.03         60%
Natural revegetation                    Physical                  1.68       0.7%         1.01         60%
Livestock                               Physical                  4.99       5.9%         3.99         80%
Horticulture
Fruit orchard                           Physical                 15.39       6.1%         9.23         60%
Date and nut tree                       Physical                 16.46       6.5%         9.88         60%
Fruit storage                           Physical                  4.49      3.6%          2.69         60%
Nursery                                   Physical                  3.45       1.4%         2.07         60%
Subtotal                                                           83.29      33.0%        50.97         61%
Ill. Project Support Costs
Research, raining, study tours          Institutional               5.21       6.2%         2.80         54%
Monitoring & evaluation                  Institutional              2.34       0.9%
Survey & design                         Institutional               2.32      0.9%
Operation & Management                   Institutional              7.86       3.1%
Equipment and vehicles                    Physical                  4.70       1.9%         3.14         67%
Office and training buildings             Physical                  3.18       1.3%         1.90         60%
Subtotal                                                           25.61      10.1%         7.84         31%
Front-end Fee                                                        0.92       0.4%         0.92         100%
IDC and Fees                                                        21.68       8.6%
Unallocated fund                                                      1.94      0.8%                        9%
Total                                     252.41    100.0%        150.00         59%
4. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key reforms to be promoted under the project are long-term land use contracts, comprehensive
watershed planning, and grazing management. During Loess I implementation, national and provincial
policy on land contracting, watershed management and grazing management evolved considerably.
Loess II will benefit from a more complete legal and policy framework in these areas, and at the same
time will demonstrate applications of these policies on a large scale. Recently, the State Council
mandated that farmers should receive 30 year long- term land use contracts for farmland and 50 year
contracts for barren land. However, implementation at the grass roots level is uneven. The Loess I
project required the issuance of such contracts for land invested in by the project. Under Loess II, county
chiefs provide written commitments to issuing these contracts. Loess II will explicitly integrate livestock
and grazing issues into watershed plans, including complete closure of some areas, which will ensure
more effective soil and water conservation.



7
5. Benefits and target population:
The primary beneficiaries of the project are poor people living in remote villages of the Loess Plateau.
Generally the poorer counties are selected for the project. Of the 37 counties in the project, 19 are
classified by the government as amongst the poorest in China. This includes two counties in Shanxi,
eight in Shaanxi, five in Gansu and four in Inner Mongolia.
Within a county, small watersheds are selected for the project based on the severity of the natural
conditions. These areas, with high levels of erosion, and low vegetation cover, tend to also be the poorer
areas in the county. Within a small watershed, a large portion of arable land with slope below 25 degrees
will be terraced. Consequently, almost all farmers in the area receive terraced land under the project.
Because the poorest farmers have the highest proportion of sloped (as opposed to flat) land, the project
automatically targets them. Other components are allocated to farmers based on the types of land they
own, and their willingness to take on project loans, and labor availability.In practice, most farmers have
suitable land for timber, fruit and nut, and these investments are generally spread relatively evenly among
villagers. Particularly in villages with limited land area, a very equitable distribution of improved land,
based on labor capacity, is practiced. In villages with large areas of wasteland individuals are allowed to
contract larger tracts of land. (See also E5. Social)
6. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over a period of 5 years.
Organizational SPructure. The organizational structure described below is in place for Loess I and will
be extended to areas included in the new project.
The Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) is the central government agency with overall responsibility
for the project. MWR's mandate includes stewardship of the land and water resources of China's major
basins. It exercises this responsibility through seven river basin conservancy commissions. The lead
agencies in MWR for the proposed project are the Yellow River Conservancy Commission (YRCC),
based in Zhengzhou, Henan Province, and its Upper and Middle Reaches Bureau (UMRB), based in
Xian, Shaanxi Province. YRCC is the principal administrative, advisory and coordinating agency within
the Yellow River Basin. It manages centrally financed or joint central-provincial water resource
construction works and soil and water conservation programs within the basin.
The Project's management structure includes Project Leading Groups (PLGs) and Project Management
Offices (PMOs). Project Leading Groups (PLGs) were established for the ongoing project at the central,
provincial, prefecture, and county levels and will be retained for this project; they have played an
instrumental role in the preparation of Loess II. The Central PLG is headed by a vice minister of MWR
and composed of representatives from MOF and SDPC, one vice governor from each of the four project
provinces, several directors of YRCC, MWR's Foreign Affairs, Planning, Water and Soil Conservation,
Water Resources, and Finance bureaus and four provincial PMOs. The Central PLG formulates project-
related policies and plans, provides guidance for the project's overall design, reviews and resolves major
issues related to the project, and coordinates efforts among the four project provinces and other
government agencies. Provincial PLGs are headed by a vice governor in charge of agriculture and
assisted by representatives from the Planning Commission, Departments of Finance, Agriculture, Water
Conservancy, Forestry, Animal Husbandry, Water and Soil Conservation Bureau and the Agricultural
Bank of China. The main responsibilities of the provincial PLGs are to work out detailed measure§ for



8
implementing the policies and plans formulated by the Central PLG, approve project feasibility studies,
organize counterpart funds, decide the distribution and repayment of proceeds of the Loan /Credit, and
enlist the support of other relevant agencies. The Provincial PLGs will meet as needed to review
progress, coordinate the activities of other agencies, approve annual work programs and budget, and
provide guidance and supervision to the Provincial-level PMOs. PLGs at prefecture, and county levels
will have a similar structure and responsibilities.
A Central Project Management Office (CPMO) has been established at YRCC, which together with
UMRB and the governments of Shanxi, Inner Mongolia, Shaanxi and Gansu provinces, will be
responsible for overall project implementation. UMRB headquarters in Xian will provide technical
oversight and interprovincial coordination during project implementation. Main responsibilities of the
CPMO will be to supervise the project in the provinces; prepare progress reports including the project
completion report; arrange combined procurement under ICB contracts; coordinate institutional
development aspects, particularly overseas training, study tours and technical assistance; receivecopies
of the provincial applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan/Credit and conduct regular field
checks on physical quantities and quality.
Provincial PMOs are responsible for project implementation. They are operatedunder the guidance of the
PLGs and are located in Water Conservation Bureaus, and are supported by the Finance Bureaus. The
work of a Provincial PMO is to (a) draw up annual project work programs and budgets; (b) review and
approve lower level PMO designs and work plans; (c) undertake procurement and distribute procured
materials; (d) monitor quantity and quality of physical progress (e) verify disbursement applications from
the lower level PMOs and combine them into periodic applications to the provincial finance bureaus; (f)
prepare project accounts, audits and progress reports, and (g) organize research, local training, and
project supervision. PMOs at the prefecture and county levels have been established with similar
structures and responsibilities. All these PMOs have been involved in the detailed preparation of the
project and will be responsible for all aspects of implementation. The county PMOs have been working
closely with the villagers through the village committees in developing project proposals. They will
continue to play a key role in project implementation through organizing the collective effort at the
village level that is crucial to the success of the project.
Onlending Arrangements
The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be onlent by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to the provinces at
standard IDA terms. Repayment will be over 17 years with 5 years of grace. The onlending terms for the
Bank loan will be at the same terms as those that apply between the Bank and the Borrower. Gansu,
Inner Mongolia, and Shaanxi have indicated they will lend the funds to the prefectures and counties on
the same terms as they receive from MOF and the foreign exchange risk would be passed to the
prefectures/counties. Shanxi will shorten the maturities by two years and bear the foreign exchange risk.
Cost recovery from farmers will be based on the estimated incremental net income from investments
under each component. Payment will not begin before income is realized, and in most cases will not
exceed 50% of the annual incremental net income resulting from the investment. Repayment terms will
vary between areas to take into account different income streams resulting from variations in climatic
conditions.



9
Financial Management System
The financial management system will be similar to thatunder Loess I. It is designed to be compatible
with a project involving thousands of widely scattered operations. A review by a financial management
specialist concluded that the system in place for Loess I, and proposed for Loess II meets Bank minimum
requirements as stipulated by OP/BP 10.02. The Project has in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the
status of the Project in the reporting format agreed with the PMO and as required by the Bank/IDA. In
terms of disbursement procedures, the Project is being deemed Ineligible for Project Management
Report-Based Disbursements and will be utilizing traditional disbursement techniques, in accordance with
the agreement reached between the Bank and the Ministry of Finance. (See Annex 8 for a full assessment
of the Financial Management System).
Monitoring and Supervision
The project will monitor physical progress, household economic benefits, plot production, soil and water
quality and sediment flow. Physical progress will be reported and the results recorded in the GIS. Initial
measurement is done for all areas by county PMOs, and the results are checked by the prefecture and the
province. Checking takes place over a one year period to gauge tree survival rates.
The impact of the project on the beneficiary's income and production, on soil and water quality andon
sediment flow will be measured through both quantitative surveys and qualitative means. To improve the
accuracy of household production monitoring, yields on plots are measured separately and integrated with
the household monitoring effort. The project contracts relevant scientific research organizations and line
bureaus to monitor soil and water quality. Sediment runoff is monitored in one small watershed in each
county.
Monitoring indicators provide a framework for analyzing the ecological and socio-economic dimension
of sustainability at the watershed level. (See Annex 1, attachment 1)
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The basic strategy for development of the Loess Plateau, described in B.2, has proven to be a sound
approach to income generation, productive and sustainable land use, and effective soil and water
conservation. While this strategy remains valid, experience with implementation of project components
in the Loess Plateau I project has now been reflected in the design of the proposed project. (See D3).
A broader mix of components, including rural roads, drinking water supply, and social sector investments
was considered and rejected. Such an approach might be called for in areas where the depth of poverty
and poor resource endowments cannot be tackled solely by investments in land development. But this is
not the case in the project areas, where the experience in Loess I shows that integrated land development
is sufficient to raise incomes and bring families out of poverty. Furthermore, the success ofLoess I is in
part due to its simple design, and it was felt that adding components would complicate the project and
impose unnecessary burdens on the PMOs. A specific component to build rural roads was deemed to be
unnecessary because access roads have, in any case, to be built in order to reach the sites of the new
terraces. Local governments have also been investing in drinking water systems in the project areas. -



10
2. Major related projects fmanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Sector Issue                         Project               Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-Financed
Poverty reduction and natural resource  China: Loess Plateau Watershed         S                  S
management                           Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2616)
China: Shanxi Poverty Alleviation        S                  S
Project
China: Gansu Agricultural                s                  S
Development Project
Turkey: Eastern Anatolia Watershed       S                  S
Rehabilitation Project
Indonesia: Watershed Conservation        U                 HU
Other Development Agencies
Poverty reduction and natural resource  People's Republic of China
management                           Demonstration projects sponsored by
the central and provincial
governments in the project provinces.
FAO/WFP
Large scale demonstration projects in
Yanan Prefecture 1985-1993.
IFAD, GTZ and other bilateral donors
have supported smaller soil and water
conservation projects with good
results.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Loess I, now in its fourth year, has proved the validity of the development strategy described in B.3.
Project implementation and the impact of the various components exceed expectations in most respects.
Terraces, built on over 60,000 ha in four working seasons, have been of a high standard and are generally
more productive than originally anticipated. Villagers have a preference for wider terraces and this has
been reflected in the design of Loess II. The rapid progress and high quality of work has confirmed the
validity of a procurement strategy that relies on the joint efforts of the villagers and local bulldozer
operators under the supervision of county technicians.
Survival rates of the tree and shrub plantings have generally been high except in some drought-affected
areas where replanting was necessary. Overall seedling quality was a problem in the first years of the
project, but has improved through enhanced cooperation with the Forestry Bureau. Loess II will include
technical training of nursery personnel earlier in the project. Under the first project, farmers in some areas
have shown limited interest in planting shrubs because of low returns. In Loess II, sites for shrub
planting are selected with greater attention to specific social and natural conditions in the watersheds.



11
It has also become apparent that planting of grasses is only attractive to farmers when combined with
improved livestock management. The proposed project will better integrate control of unsustainable
grazing by goats and sheep. In particular, all small watershed plans will explicitly address livestock
management issues. Villages participating in the project will be required to implement a livestock
management plan acceptable to, and monitored by, the county authorities.
Key dams have an important role in intercepting sediment outflow from the watersheds. But direct
benefits to farmers are slow to be realized, and this limits the scope for cost recovery from villagers.The
financing plans for the key dams in the first project have been adjusted to allow for lower farmer
contributions. In the proposed project, the county, province, and central government will bear a higher
proportion of the costs of sediment control structures.
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership:
In the fall of 1997, representatives of the State Council visited areas that have benefited from the first
Loess Project. Their impression of the positive impact of the project on the environment and the lives of
the rural population led to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Water Resources request for Bank
Group financing for early implementation of a follow-up project. In addition to the commitment at the
central government level, all of the parties involved in Loess I, from the provinces through the
prefectures, counties, townships, villages and individual households are strongly committed to the
project. New counties competed strongly to be included in the Loess II. There is every reason to believe
that this commitment will continue.
5. Value added of Bank Group support:
China is currently developing a master plan for treatment of large areas of the Loess Plateau area. The
plan is based on years of research and trials on appropriate soil and water conservation techniques, and
most recently experience with Loess I. A second project will build on the experience gained in the first
project to refine the techniques and practices that are proving successful, and point the way for their
application to large areas of the Loess Plateau.
In particular, Loess Plateau II will help to strengthen the integrated and sustainable approach to watershed
planning and development that is necessary for wide-scale replication of the project. China can point to
remarkable advances in agricultural development and rural infrastructure, but most of these efforts are
implemented within individual counties, and seldom cross provincial boundaries. Bank supported
projects in general are on a larger scale and transcend provincial boundaries. Their identification,
preparation, and appraisal draws on the experience of a wide range of experts, and this leads to a
thorough review of all social, environmental, and agro-economic aspects of land development and
conservation.  This integrated approach, which continues through  implementation, promotes the
development of institutional capacity at all levels. Management of a World Bank supported project also
requires stricter implementation procedures, monitoring and targeting than is typical of domestic projects.
Loess II will expand and solidify the institutional arrangements needed to apply this integrated approach
over large areas of the Loess Plateau.
In the past, domestic investments for watershed rehabilitation, which bring high economic returns over
the long-term, required heavy government subsidies at the outset. Many of the investments in Loess
Plateau I have demonstrated financial viability of this integrated approach in addition to soil and water
conservation benefits. Lending on IBRD terms for Loess II will demonstrate on a large scale-the



12
financial profitability of many of the activities, where commercial banks have been reluctant to lend.
This should help forge a more sustainable model for future development of the Loess Plateau, and one
that is less of a drain on fiscal resources.
The Government has already expressed an interest in applying the principles of this approach in other
major watersheds in China.
E: Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic:
Economic evaluation methodology:  [x ] Cost benefit,  [ ] Cost effectiveness, [x] Other (qualitative
assessments of environmental impacts)
The overall EIRR of the project is estimated at 21%, including downstream and global benefits. When
only on-site benefits are included, the EIRR is estimated at 19%.
The main economic benefits of the project will arise from an increase in the net value of production as a
result of a more efficient use of land, water and livestock resources. To capture the mutual benefits and
costs of different project measures, area analysis is used to quantify the on-site benefits of the project and
a net value of production is estimated for an entire watershed.
The project also results in significant off-site benefits. Downstream benefits include reduction of
sediment inflow to the Yellow River, and lower variability in water flows and reduced flood risk. Global
and regional benefits are also likely to occur in the long run from reduced green house effects and the
project's long-term positive impact on the microclimate. Quantification methods are detailed in Annex 4.
2. Financial:
The provinces will recover from the prefectures all funds disbursed from the proceeds of the Loan/Credit
that in total amounts to about 60 percent of the project cost. The village committees will collect funds
from farmers, and these funds will be channeled through the townships and counties to the prefectures.
The fees established for cost recovery have been determined based on the farmer's capacity to pay. The
terms vary among components and to some extent between prefectures. For terraces, a typical case
would be a household with 0.3 ha of new terrace and the annual charge would be about Y 120 for 15
years after a grace period of three years. For tree plantations a typical holding would be one hectare and
the annual charge would be about Y 45 for ten years after a grace period of three years.
3. Technical:
The Loess I project has demonstrated the technical and agricultural feasibility of the various components;
a capacity for planning, design and rapid implementation of high quality components at the county,
township and village levels; and strong incentives for farm households to realize the benefits of the
project's land improvements.



13
4. Institutional:
An effective project organization in the four provinces has been established for Loess I and will be
adapted and expanded for the proposed project. (See C6)
5. Social:
The project has been planned and designed in close consultation with villagers in the small watersheds
that form a part of the project. Higher production as a result of the project will more than double farm
incomes at full development. Thus, the project has a significant impact in terms of poverty alleviation.
All land developed under the project will be contracted out to farmer households. New land contracts will
be signed between farmers and local governments to explicitly state the terms, land use right and
obligations under which farmers' interests will be legally protected. All farmers participating in the
project will receive properly signed, sealed and registered contracts, copies of such contracts will be held
in the township or county registries and will be available for inspection. The current terms for land
contracts vary between 10 years and 30 years and are in practice still frequently adjusted. This insecurity
of land tenure is the single most important disincentive for any long-term improvement to the land.
Under the proposed project, land contracts applied in all areas covered by the project will be for a
minimum of 30 years. (See also C4)
6. Environmental:
Environmental issues
The project will have a positive environmental impact because the vegetative cover in the project area
will be significantly increased. The project will preserve the agricultural land resource, and increase
productivity in an environmentally sustainable manner. The land under forest and other vegetative cover
will increase from 330,000 ha to 670,000 ha. There will be an increase in the area of grassland, but much
of the existing grassland will be improved to allow for higher livestock carrying capacities, and will be
managed by individual farmers or farmer groups. The key dams and warping dams will intercept
virtually all of the sediment from the areas they control, and this will have significant downstream
benefits; the dams will eliminate destructive flash floods, provide water for irrigation and other uses, and
the sediment deposited upstream of the dams will form high quality farm land.
The project will not convert natural forests or wetlands in the project areas and thus will have little impact
on wildlife. The project will, however, increase forest cover, and evidence from recently developed areas
suggests that this will lead to a higher and more diverse population of birds and small mammals. The
higher standards of crop management will lead to a reduction in the runoff of fertilizers since most of the
cropland will be terraced. At present herbicides and insecticides are seldom used in field crops in these
poor areas. The expansion of orchards may lead to some increase in pesticide use and the project will
ensure training includes courses for safer and more efficient use of chemical controls and IPM
technology.



14
Environmental category:    [      A      [x]    B      I ]    C
Justification/Rationale for category rating: see above
Proposed actions: The project supports integrated and participatory watershed planning which will take
into account enviromnental concerns. Supervision missions will evaluate the quality of these plans.
Status of any other environmental studies: A comprehensive environmental impact assessment has been
completed.
Local groups and NGOs consulted: Extensive discussions were held with local leaders and farmers.
Resettlement: Loess I involved no land acquisition or involuntary resettlement. Similarly, no acquisition
of land or property or resettlement is expected to take place under Loess II. The sediment control dams
will be sited in uninhabited gullies and, therefore, no relocation of population will be necessary in the
submergence areas. The topography of the watersheds allows considerable flexibility in siting the dams,
and all will be located at sites remote from existing or potential settlements. Design and construction
procedures for the dams are conservative, but in the unlikely event of failure there would be no danger to
life and limited damage to property. All other project investments (terracing, afforestation, orchards) will
be made on either existing crop land or on barren land, all of which is currently uninhabited. Planning
within each watershed is done on a participatory basis, and the exact location of each project investment
will not be known until this process is complete for every watershed. In the unlikely event that
resettlement becomes necessary, the relevant PMO would prepare a resettlement action plan, on the basis
of pre-approved policies, planning principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria acceptable to
the Bank. If more than 200 people would be affected by the works, the prior approval by the Bank of the
resettlement action plan would be required before the work could commence.
Borrower permission to release EA:   [x] Yes  [] No   []N/A
7. Participatory approach:
The project's basic development unit is a small watershed that typically covers several hundred hectares
and a number of villages. The townships, villages and households are closely involved in the planning,
design and implementation of the project. Present land use is delineated on 1/10,000 scale topographic
maps. This forms the base for a watershed development plan that is prepared by county and township
officials and then reviewed with the village leaders and households. The agreed plan becomes the basis
for project implementation. This is an iterative process that continues throughout implementation.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is designed to create conditions for sustainable land use. The Project aims to accomplish this
through addressing four dimensions of sustainability at the watershed and household level: productivity,
stability, resilience, and equity. Project interventions will increase both per hectare productivity and
overall production in the watershed and at the household level. The project leads to greater stability by
reducing variability in production (e.g., yields on terraces and irrigated orchards show less variability in
the face of normal weather fluctuations than do crop yields on the slope) and in income (household
economic activities diversify under the project, which should have an income smoothing affect).
Resilience to extreme shock (severe drought and violent storms) will increase in a number of ways.
Farmers will plant the slopes to trees and shrubs, protect them by closing areas to grazing and



15
encouraging the shift to pen fed animals, and raise tree survival rates by emphasizing nursery
management. This will increase the vegetative cover and make it more resistant to extreme drought
which in turn will reduce erosion. Households will increase their resistance to extreme shock by higher
grain production and by labor saving which will allow greater access to off-farm jobs. The project will
also promote equity, as most households will gain access to capital farm land and investments in orchards
and tree crops, and tenure on these investments will be secure. Most of the components are expected to
have high cost recovery. There is minimal need for government budgetary support beyond the
implementation and investment phase.
2. Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, "from Outputs to Objectives"
Prolonged drought.                                 S        Higher output from new terraces will
increase fanners' grain reserves. Water
cisterns will be built in some areas for
orchard irrigation.
Markets for fruit products weaken.                 S        Project emphasizes quality plantings
and supports development of a fruit
marketing system. Investments in fruit
storage increase the value of apple
production.
Annex 1, "from Components to Outputs",
Poor seedling quality                              M        Investments in nurseries with particular
attention to nursery management and
technician training.
Households not given long-term land use contracts.  N       Careful monitoring and supervision of
contracts. County government pledges
adherence before investments begin.
Communities resist decrease in open grazing.       S        Project offers incentives (in the form of
project investments) to townships
reducing grazing.
Counterpart funding inadequate                     M        Preparation sought assurance that
counterpart funding pledges were
realistic.
Overall Risk Rating      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible)
3. Possible controversial aspects:
The mid-term review of Loess I confirmed that the project had no controversial aspects. The proposed
project has no new components that would change this finding. The project includes a number of dams
with the primary purpose of sediment control. As in the case of the ongoing project, these will be built in
uninhabited gullies and will be designed according to standards that have been reviewed and approved by
the Bank. For dams over 10 meters in height, design and implementation will be subject to an
independent review.



16
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions:
Standard
2. Other conditions:
(a)    The Project Provinces will maintain project leading groups to formulate project related policies,
coordinate among relevant agencies, and provide overall guidance on implementation and project
management offices at provincial, prefectural, and county levels to organize, coordinate and
implement project activities at the provincial level.
(b)    The CPMO will forward a work plan and annual budget to the Bank before December 31 of each
year.
(c)    Each Project Province shall carry out the training and study tours in accordance with a training
and study tour program acceptable to the Bank. Annual implementation plans for training and
study tours will be submitted to the Bank before December 31, of each year.
(d)    The Project Provinces will undertake periodic reviews of the design of and works on all dams
constructed or upgraded under the Project and after completion of the works, periodic inspections
in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies which may endanger their safety. In
addition, an operation and maintenance plan and an emergency preparedness plan for each dam
(a) which will either exceed 10 m in height or create a reservoir with a gross storage volume of
more than 2,500,000 cubic meters or (b) which presents special design complexities will be
prepared within 6 months after commencement of works on each such dam. To assist in
undertaking the reviews and inspections, the Project Provinces will employ independent experts
with terms of reference, qualifications, and experience acceptable to the Bank.
(e)    Land investments financed under the project will be leased to households under written lease
agreements for at least 30 years.
(f)    Small watershed development plans developed under the project will include provisions for
sustainable grazing management.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[x] The design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[x ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[]The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



17
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Juergen Voegele
Sector Manager: Geoffrey B. Fox



18
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
China: Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Narrative Summary           Key Performance              Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Supervision
Sector Related CAS
Objectives
Promote better utilization of   Expansion of areas under  Government and provincial    No large external shocks
marginal lands through     high-production agriculture.   data.                    affecting terms of trade,
introducing sustainable                                                            current account balance or
techniques.                Increased grain yields.                                 foreign exchange risks.
Government maintains
budgetary allocations for
food security and poverty
alleviation programs.
Project Development                                                                (Development Objectives to
Objectives                                                                         CAS Objective)
Help achieve sustainable   Per capita income           Monitoring of household
development in the Loess   Per capita grain consumption  incomes and production with
Plateau by increasing      Crop yields                 and without project.
agricultural production and    Levels of sediment flow.  Sediment monitoring in one
incomes and improving                                  watershed per county.
ecological conditions in
tributary watersheds of the
Yellow River.
Project Output                                                                     (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
Cropping on slopeland      Area of slopeland (i)       Household surveys/plot
declines                   converted to terraces and (ii)  production data
planted with
orchards/forests/grassland
Household grain production    Grain yields per hectare  Household surveys/plot     Natural disasters are not
increases                                              production data             unduly severe.
Household production       Share of household income    Household surveys          Adequate fruit storage,
diversifies                from grain crops, cash crops,                           processing available.
orchard products, forest                               Markets for orchard, forest,
products, livestock                                    livestock product markets do
not collapse.
Grazing management         Pen-fed sheep and goats per   Household surveys /County    Techniques/resources for
practices improve          household                   agricultural statistics     pen-feeding adequate.
Open range grazing sheep
and goats per household
More Secure Land-use       Percentage of land developed  Project monitoring data   In high population density
Rights                     under the project contracted                            areas, land is distributed
to project households with                             equitably.
long-term land use rights.



19
Annex 1: Project Design Summary (2)
Narrative Summary            Key Performance             Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Supervision
Project Components/                  Inputs                                        (Components to outputs)
Subcomponents                        (Costs )
Cropland Development                 US $M              (For all components)
Terracing                              84.13           Implementation of project   Slopeland Protection
Silt retention structures              17.3            components monitored        Survival rate of tree and
Irrigation                             17.5            regularly by borrower       Shrub plantings is adequate
Slopeland Protection                                                               Communities resist
Arbor trees                            19.68           Semi-annual physical        Decrease in open grazing
Shrubs                                 12.10           progress reports
Artificial grassland                    5.05           summarize the status of     All components
Natural revegetation                     1.68          physical implementation and   Households issued long-term
Livestock                               4.99           disbursement.               land use contracts
Horticulture                                           Bank will dispatch 1-2
Fruit Orchard                          15.39           supervision missions per    Adequate and timely
Date and nut trees                     16.46           year                        provision of counterpart
Fruit storage                           4.49           to review implementation    funds
Nursery                                 3.45           issues and exchange views
Project Support                        25.61           with borrower



20
Annex 1 - Attachment 1
SUSTAINABILITY MONITORING INDICATORS (OVERVIEW)
ECOLOGICAL DIMENSION                SOCIO-ECONOMIC DIMENSION
PRODUCTIVITY   Area of capital farm land                   Contract price of project land
Area of orchard land                   Grain production per capita
Area of economic forest                Farm income per capita
Area of forest land                    Off-farm income per capita
Area of artificial grassland           Orchard income per capita
Fertilizer application
Fertilizer balance
Crop yields
High value orchard production
STABILITY          Variability of crop yields              Variability in farm income
Capital farmland as a share of total   Diversification of farm activities
farmland
Irrigated orchard land
New plantings in mixed culture
RESILIENCE         Area protected from sheep and goats     Household grain reserves
Grazed sheep and goats                 Households access to off-farm income
Slopeland under crop cultivation
Survival rates of trees, shrubs, and grasses
Slope and barren land planted with trees,
shrubs, grasses
Wasteland contracted to individuals
Sediment amount
EQUITY                                                     Project households holdings of capital
farm land
Households access to project investments
in orchards and trees
Project households with long-terrn land
use contracts for land invested under the
project
.___________________________________   Gini coefficient for land holdings



SUSTAINABILITY MONITORING INDICATORS
A. PRODUCTIITY                                 |
ECOLOGICAL DIMENSION                                                                  SOCIO-ECONOMIC DIMENSION
Indicator/Definition                             Timing             Source               Indicator                                        Timing              Source
Area of capital farm land                                                               Contract price per mu of project land
Area of tefraces built (ha)                      Annual             Physical progress   Contract price per mu of terraced land.           Annual              Survey/
________________________________________________________   __________________ reports                                                                statistics
Area of warping land created (ha)                Annual             Physical progress   Contract price per mu of orchard land.            Annual              Survey/
reports                                                                                   statistics
Area of irrigated land built (ha)                Annual             Physical progress    Average grain production per capita (kg)         Annual              household
reports                                                                                   monitoring
Area of bank land built (ha)                     Annual             Physical progress   Average on-farm income per capita(yuan)           Annual              Household
reports                                                                                   monitoring
Area of orchard land                                                                    Average off-farm income per capita (yuan)         Annual              Household
monitoring
Area of apples planted (ha)                      Annual             Physical progress   Average income from orchards per capita (yuan)  Annual                Household
reports                                                                                   monitoring
Area of pears planted (ha)                       Annual             Physical progress
reports
Area of economic forest
Area of dates and nuts planted (ha)              Annual            Physical progress
reports
Area of forest land
Area of arbor trees planted (ha)                 Annual             Physical progress
reports
Area of shrubs planted (ha)                      Annual             Physical progress
reports
Area of artificial grass land
Area of artificial grass land planted (ha)       Annual             Physical progress
reports
Fertilizer application
Chemical fertilizer applied per hectare (kg/ha)  Annual             Farm plot
.________ ________ _________ ________ ________   _____________ m onitoring
Nitrogen applied per hectare (ha)                Annual             Farm plot
monitoring
Phosphorous applied per hectare (ha)             Annual             Farm plot                      .
Potassium applied per hectare (ha)               Annual             Farm plot
monitoring             .
Manure applied per hectare (ha)                  Annual             Farm plot
monitoring
Crop yields
Corn yield on terraces, darnland, irrigated land,  Annual           Farm plot
bank land per hectare (kg/ha)                                       monitoring
Wheat yield on terraces, damiand, irrigated land,  Annual           Farm plot
bank land per hectare (kg/ha)                                       monitoring



ECOLOGICAL DIMENSION                                                              SOCIO-ECONOMIC DIMENSION
Potato yield on terraces, damiand, irrigated land,  Annual      Farm plot
bank land per hectare (kg/ha)                                   monitoring
Millet yield on terraces, damiand, irrigated land,  Annual      Farm plot
bank land per hectare (kg/ha)                                   monitoring
High value orchard production
Area of new variety of apples planted (ha)    Annual            Physical progress
reports
Yield of new varieties per hectare (kg/ha)    Annual            Farm plot
monitoring
B. STABILITY
Indicator/Dcfinition                          Timing            Source              Indicator                                      Timing             Source
Variability of crop yields                                                          Variability in farm income declincs
Standard deviation of crop yields (corn, wheat,  Annual         Farm plot           Standard deviation in household incomes        Annual             Household
millet, potatoes) on terraces and on slope                      monitoring                                                                            monitoring
nX   x 2 -          x                      n>3                                     in       x   - (I    r                       n>3
n (n -   )                                                                         n(n -1)
Where x = year to year change in crop yields, n=                                    Where x = year to year change in household
number of years                                                                    incomes, n=number of years
Capital farmland as a share of total farmland                                       Diversification of Farm activities
Percent of terraced land, warping land, dammed  Annual          Physical progress    Farm activities per household / number of     Annual             Household
land, irrigated land and bank land of total cropped             report              households                                                        monitoring
land                                                                                (include only activities that comprise > 10 % of
household income)
Percent of orchard land irrigated             Annual            Physical progress    Household grain reserves
_____________________________________________report
Percent of new plantings in mixed culture     Annual            Physical progress    Average years of grain reserves per household  Annual            Household
_____________________________________________I_report               (years).                                                           monitoring
Households access to off-farm income
Number of labor days spent working off farm (days)  Annual        Household
monitoring



C. RESILIENCE                                I                I                                                                                     l
ECOLOGICAL DIMENSION                                                              SOCIO-ECONOMIC DIMENSION
Area protected from sheep and goats (ha)      Annual            Survey/             Household grain reserves
statistics
Area under rotational grazing schemes (ha)    Annual            Survey/             Average years of grain reserves per household  Annual             Household
statistics         (years).                                                           monitoring
Number of grazing sheep and goats             Annual            Survey/             Households access to off-farm income
statistics
Total number of sheep and goats               Annual            Survey/             Number of labor days spent working off farm (days)  Annual        Household
statistics                                                                            monitoring
Slopeland under crop cultivation
Slopeland cultivated with crops (ha)          Annual            Physical progress
reports
Total cropping land (ha)                      Annual            Physical progress
reports
Survival rate after 6 months (for major tree  Annual            Physical progress
species and grass)                                              reports
Slope and barren land planted with trees,
shrubs, grasses
Area of tree, shrub and grassland plantings (ha)  Annual        Physical progress
reports
Barren land and slopeland (ha)                Annual            Physical progress
reports
Contracted wasteland (ha)/total wasteland (ha)                  Survey/
statistics
Sediment yield                                Annual            Sediment
monitoring
D. EQUITY                                         l_l
Indicator/Definition                          Timing            Source              Indicator                                      Timing             Source
Capital farmland/project household
Number of households with >2 mu capital farmland   Annual         Survey/
per capita                                                        statistics
Total project households                       Annual             Physical Progress
_____ _____ _____ reports
Households access to project investments in
orchards and trees
Number of households with investments in orchards  Annual         Survey/
and # with investments in trees                                   statistics
Project households issued with long-term land  Annual             Survey/
use contracts for land invested under the project.                statistics
Gini coefficient for land holdings             Annual             Survey/
statistics



24
Annex 2: Project Description and Background
China: Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
The Loess Plateau covers an area of some 640,000 sq. km in the upper and middle parts of the drainage
basin of the Yellow River. It takes its name from the Gertnan word loess that is used to describe soils
deposited by wind action. Geologicallythe Loess Plateau is recent, with the older deposits dating back to
the Pleistocene Epoch, about 2.4 million years ago, and the newer deposits having been laid down
between 100,000 to 10,000 years ago. Deposits range in depth and reach up to 300 m. Severe erosion is
a characteristic of the Loess Plateau and produces the vast quantity of sediment carried by the Yellow
River. The Plateau was heavily forested about 2,000 years ago, but now only 20 percent has a forest
cover. The causes of deforestation are complex. The Plateau was the scene of vast population
movements and conflicts as well as climatic cycles marked by decades of severe droughts. Unsustainable
agricultural practices have accelerated erosion and deforestation and the people living in the more remote
parts of the plateau are caught in a poverty trap.
Within the project area there are several distinct types of topography. In Gansu the "gullied plateau"
landform is common, where a flat plain with large tracts of level farmland is intersected by deep gullies
of 200-300 m. In Shanxi, Shaanxi, and parts of Inner Mongolia the "gullied hill" landform is common
where rounded hills several hundred meters high are bounded by deep gullies. In a typical loess gully,
slopes on the sides of the gullies are moderate at the top near the plateau, but become much steeper
towards the bed of the gully. Field crops are grown on the plateaus and the upper slopes of the gullies
and the rounded hills. The steeper slopes are uncultivated except where there has been some
afforestation. More than half of the project area in Inner Mongolia is open steppe. For the project as a
whole, severely degraded and barren land is 40% of the total area, and cropland, mostly on low
productivity slopeland, takes up 34 %. (See below) The loess soil has good agricultural properties, but
drought is a major constraint in crop production. Broad flat terraces for crops and narrow terraces for
trees and shrubs are essential for profitable use of lands in the project areas.
Annual precipitation, mostly in the form of rain, ranges from 250 mm in the north to 550 mm in the
south. There are significant variations in the rates of erosion observed on the Loess Plateau. The highest
rates of erosion are found in areas where the rainfall is on the order of 400 mm per annum; these areas
also have the highest proportion of the coarse sediment that creates problems in the Yellow River and its
tributaries. Both low and high rainfall areas are relatively less prone to erosion, in the latter case because
there is sufficient rain to promote a protective vegetative cover. Sediment runoff from an area is
expressed as the sediment modulus (tons/sq. km/year) and is averaged over a number of years because
there is a wide variation in soil erosion from year to year. The parts of the plateau with the highest
sediment runoff have a modulus of about 20,000. Researchers have found that in the gullied hilly loess,
about half of the soil loss is from the gullies and the rest from the surrounding land.
The project area covers 1,950,000 ha in 12 major watersheds of the Loess Plateau in 37 counties in
Shanxi, Shaanxi, and Gansu Provinces, and the autonomous region of Inner Mongolia.
Watershed Planning and Changes in Land Use
The project area contains about 1,100 small watersheds with areas ranging from 1,000 ha to 3,000 ha.
Typically, a watershed includes several villages. A watershed plan defines in detail the changes in land
use to be realized as a result of the project. The first step in making a plan is to prepare a map of present



25
land use. This is done by taking a 1/10,000 topographic map into the field and marking it up to show the
main categories of land use such as cultivated slopeland, terraces, forest, shrubs, wasteland, villages,
roads, etc. A team made up of technicians from the County PMO and leaders and farmers from the
villages and townships does the mapping. The result is a present land use map and an inventory of
present land use. The next step is to produce a preliminary plan of land use with the project. In most
cases the plan reduces the area used for crop cultivation and compensates for this by new high-quality
terraces. The plan also specifies which areas are suited to trees, shrubs and grasses and also determines
which varieties are appropriate for the different locations. It takes into account grazing management
issues including: (i) existing grazing areas; (ii) ownership and numbers of livestock and their fodder
demands. This plan is then reviewed in detail with the township and village committees and villagers.
An amended plan is then agreed and this is portrayed on a project land use map at a scale of 1/10,000.
This is an iterative process that continues throughout implementation.  During planning and
implementation, the maps are digitized and Geographic Information System (GIS) software is used.
Land use changes for the project as a whole are shown below:
Land Use Changes ('000 ha)
Present    Change    With Project  Remarks on Change in Area
Cropland      661        -116           545       The decrease in cropland is mostly due to
conversion to orchards and grasslands.
Orchards        54          72          126
Forest and     219         181          400       90,000 ha or trees, and 91,000 ha of shrubs
Shrubs                                            are added
Grasslands      64          84          147       56,000 ha of grassland is planted and 28,000
ha is protected to allow regeneration.
Water           27           0           27
Unused         795       -220           575
Other          129           0          129
TOTAL         1949           0         1949
Project Components
Crop Land Development ($119 million)
Terracing ($84.2 million). Slopelands and old, irregular terraces on about 88,900 ha will be converted to
wide, level terraces. Terrace widths range from 5 to 15 meters depending on slope. Small access roads
are built as a part of terrace construction. Terraced land retains rainfall and resists soil erosion. The
improved soil and water regime, and better access for inputs and outputs, give farmers the opportunity to
plant a wider range of crops with much higher yields than on slopeland. In a year of average rainfall,
grain yields on terraces can reach two to three times those on slopelands. Since farmers typically store
several years of grain, the high yields in the good years provide insurance for the drought years. This
security in staple grains allows farmers to take steep slopeland out of grain production and put it into
more sustainable use such as tree plantations. Farmers report that level terraces with good road access
require less family labor, and that this gives family members time for off-farm employment. Over most
of the Loess Plateau the soil is deep and well suited to terracing, and the topsoil is often set aside and then
replaced upon completion of the terraces. The construction cost ranges from Y 6,000/ha to Y 8,500/ha
depending on the slope.



26
Sediment Control Structures ($17.3 million.). There are two types of sediment control dams: key dams
and warping dams. Key dams are located close to the outlet of watersheds with areas of 3-5 km2. The
initial gross storage capacity of a key dam is generally between 0.5 million cubic meters (mcm) and
I mcm, but it can be as much as 5 mcm. Key dams are earth dams 10-15 m in height. Warping dams,
3-10 m in height are located on smaller tributary watersheds and their initial gross storage capacities are
generally less than 0.5 mcm. "Warping" is a term used to denote the formation of land by the
accumulation of river-borne silt. It can consist of trapping silt in a reservoir or the diversion of river
water into an offstream settling area.
Key dams serve several functions: sediment retention, flood control, and storage of water for irrigation
and village water supply. The purpose of warping dams is to intercept sediment and thereby create land.
There are many sites in the project area where good quality crop land has been created through this
process. A system of key dams and warping dams in a watershed provides 100 percent control of the
coarse sediment runoff. About 130 key dams and 290 warping dams will be constructed and about 20
key dams will be rehabilitated. The area to be formed by key dams will be about 1,500 ha and land
formed by warping dams is expected to reach about 935 ha. It takes about three years for land to be ready
for farming behind warping dams and 8-10 years for key dams.
Design and construction standards for sediment control dams have been improved considerably following
some dam failures in 1977 when exceptionally intense storms hit the Loess Plateau. The dams are
homogenous earth-fill embankments built in the deeply incised gullies of the loess plateau. The areas
submerged by the dams consist of eroded slopes and gully beds and are uninhabited.
A notable feature of sediment control dams is that most of them are built without spillways. At most sites
it is cheaper to size the dam and the reservoir to store the entire volume of the design flood than to
provide a spillway. The design standards call for key dams to be designed for a 30-year flood and
checked for a 200-year flood. A 30-year flood is in fact the volume resulting from a 30-year storm. This
volume has to be contained without exceeding a reservoir level 3 m below the dam crest. The flood from
a 200-year storm has to be contained with a reservoir level 0.5 m below the crest. A 30-year, 24-hour
storm in the loess plateau depends on location and ranges between 100 and 160 mm and a 200-year storm
ranges between 200 mm and 350 mm. This design approach is conservative since the significant flood-
reducing effect of dams that have been built, or may be built, upstream is ignored in the design of the key
dams. Thus failure of upstream warping dams would not endanger a key dam. The active storage
capacity for the dams is defined as the gross capacity less the volume of sediment estimated to be stored
in 15 years. Thus, in the years when the sediment is building up in the reservoir the actual capacity of the
reservoir exceeds the required design capacity, and it is during this period that the upstream catchment is
further controlled by additional sediment control dams.
For most key dams, the bulk of the active storage volume is in the top 5 m and, when sedimentation
begins to infringe on the flood storage capacity, the option is available at most sites to increase the height
of the dam. This can be done at a fraction of the initial cost since it involves a low embankment placed
on the sediment behind the dam. At many sites, raising could be carried out a number of times since a
dam typically occupies a small part of the total height of a gully. Each dam has an outlet conduit with an
intake structure designed to accommodate future raising of the dam.
The topography of the watersheds allows considerable flexibility in siting the dams. Site selection criteria
for the dams include a requirement that they should be located at sites remote from existing or potential
settlements. All the dams proposed for the project satisfy that criterion. Therefore, in the unlikely event
of failure there would be no danger to life and limited damage to property.



27
Key dams and warping dams are designed by the water resource bureaus in the provinces according to
standards developed by the Ministry of Water Resources in 1986 ("Technical Standard for Major Gully
Control Structures," SD175-86). These standards have been endorsed by the Planning Academy of
MWR as well as the Ministry of Energy. These specify all aspects of design and construction including
planning procedures, site selection, dam body layout, calculation of hydrologic design parameters,
foundation design, choice of construction materials, construction techniques, hydrologic and hydraulic
design.
The procedures require multilevel technical reviews and approval of design and construction of sediment
control dams. Preliminary designs are carried out by county water and soil conservation bureaus. Initial
review and approval of structural design and siting will be carried out by provincial water and soil
conservation authorities who will, in turn, submit construction applications to the Upper and Middle
Reach Bureau (UMRB) for final review and approval. The ultimate responsibility for ensuring
compliance with design procedures and technical specifications rests with the UMRB. These procedures
are applied to structures over 10 m height.
The project protects already existing warping land through low level embankments. It will stabilize
gullies through building small check dams of rock or brushwood that slow down the flow in the gullies
and prevent undercutting of the gully sides. Low dikes and shrubs planted at the heads of gullies stabilize
the gully head.
Irrigation and Water Storage (SI 7.7 million)
A recent development in the Loess Plateau has been the introduction of new types of water cisterns.
These are about 10 m deep, 2 m in diameter and concrete lined. They hold about 30 cubic meters of
water compared to the much smaller cisterns that villagers have used in the past. Water-cisterns are
located to catch runoff from rural roads. Roads built as part of the terraces are sometimes provided with
lined drains that discharge into the cisterns. The cisterns fill two or three time a year and yield 60 to 90
cubic meters of water. These provide an insurance during periods of prolonged drought. The cisterns are
often used to supply small header tanks that feed subsoil or drip irrigation systems for orchards. The plan
is to build 30,000 cisterns mainly in Shanxi and Gansu.
Small surface water diversions schemes are planned serving areas of 20 tolO0 ha and covering in total
about 750 ha. In Inner Mongolia, small-scale groundwater irrigation schemes of 50 to 150 ha will serve
about 4,500 ha.
Slopeland Protection ($83.3 million)
The main objective of this component is to increase the vegetation cover and erosion control capacity in
the project watersheds through planting and protecting trees, shrubs and grass on about 337,000 ha. At
present, slopeland is cultivated with crops and large expanses of wasteland remain untreated. The
slopeland conservation component will both diversify and raise farmer incomes, and reduce soil and
water loss from untreated areas. It will provide farmers with an important cash alternative to raising
sheep and goats. Overgrazing by sheep and goats on slopeland seriously damages the vegetation cover
and causes major soil erosion throughout the project area. Decrease in the number of grazing sheep and
goats, (and increase in pen feeding) may be the single most important factor in permanently restoring
vegetation cover in the project area. Accordingly, the component includes some investment in livestock,
which will serve as incentive to switch from goat to cow raising, and will encourage the farmers to plant
and maintain grass.



28
Afforestation and Vegetative Cover ($43.5 million)
Arbor Trees and Shrubs ($31.8 million). Trees of various species (pine, poplar, and black locust etc. for
timber) will be planted on narrow terraces or fish-scale pits on about 90,000 ha of slopeland. The tree
species that have been selected are all income-producing and can be selectively harvested for their poles
in 10 to 15 years. Shrubs (caragana, seabuckthorn) are planned for about 91,000 ha of land too steep for
trees. About 40 % of the land in the project areas is classified as degraded wasteland, and after the trees
and shrubs are planted the land will be contracted to individual farmers. Land preparation takes various
forms. The most common method in the past has been narrow, shallow terraces. But in recent years a
popular method is to form a network of small ridges in the loess soil that ensures that almost all direct
rainfall is conserved. This land preparation is usually a communal effort carried out by the villagers,
usually as their counterpart contribution. Seedlings and fertilizer are generally procured and planted by
specialist teams, contracted by the county PMOs. They are usually responsible for tending in thefirst one
or two years, and then the plantations are contracted to individual households.
The forestry experts in the Loess Plateau have considerable expertise in the selection, planting and
tending of a wide variety of trees and shrubs. The main species, the sites where they grow best, and their
purpose and end use are summarized below. A common feature of all these species is that they provide
good slope protection.
Chinese Pine: Evergreen, strong root system, cold resistant.
Prefers sandy loam soils, below 1,500 m, shaded or half shaded.
Used for timber.
Poplar:       Cold resistant, tolerant to variety of soil and water regimes,
Strong root system, fast growth.
Sandy river beds, loess hills.
Shelter belts and used for timber.
Willow:       Wind resistant, tolerant to variety of soil and water regimes.
Strong root system, fast growth Sandy river beds, loess hills.
Gullies and river beds.
Bank protection, shelter belts.
Black Locust: Adapts to a wide range of soil and water regimes, fast growth.
Slopes and sunny side of hills, not suited to windy areas.
Used for timber (pit props, houses), leaves for fodder.
Seabuckthorn: A shrub that adapts to a wide range of soil and water regimes, fast growing, shallow roots
with strong laterals. Fruit has many uses, and can be pruned for fuel.
Caragana:     A shrub that is tolerant to drought and cold, fast growing, strong and deep roots.
Harvested for fuel and feed.
Amorpha:      A shrub that is tolerant to drought and cold, fast growing, strong and deep roots.
Branches used for baskets, leaves used for organic fertilizer.



29
Grassland ($5.0 million). A variety of pasture grasses will be planted on 56,000 ha of land, mostly
unused waste land. These will be harvested to feed pen-reared animals or used for controlled grazing.
The varieties proposed are mostly alfalfa (30,000 ha), astralagus (13,000 ha), clover (8,000 ha) and red
bean grass (4,000 ha). The land will be contracted to individual farmers in units of 1-2 ha.
Natural Revegetation ($1.7 million). This will protect 28,000 ha of degraded or overgrazed slopeland to
allow natural revegetation. In Inner Mongolia, the vegetation will be native grasses, but in other areas
there will be a mix of trees, shrubs and-grasses. There are some good examples of uninhabited gullies or
small watersheds that have been protected and now have good vegetation cover. Many of them now
belong to villages that allow farmers, subject to an annual fee, to have access to the regenerated areas to
gather medicinal plants.
Livestock ($5 million). In Gansu and Inner Mongolia the main feature of the livestock component will be
to assist the farmers to purchase cattle to offset the reduction in goats and sheep. Farmers will receive
one or two breeding cows, a silage pit and stall and some fodder equipment. Ruminant livestock fit well
into the farming system of the watersheds where farmers have abundant unused crop residues, and there
is a potential for more fodder production from wasteland that is too steep for crops. In Inner Mongolia,
the model proposed is for villages or farmer groups to undertake an integrated program of grazing
control, pasture planting, and stall-fed animal units.
Horticulture ($36.3 million)
Fruit and nut-bearing trees will be planted on 72,000 ha of slopeland on narrow benches and pits. The
proposed fruit plantings are apples (17,200 ha), pears (7,400 ha), peaches (1,200 ha), and apricots (900
ha). Dates and nuts as proposed are kernel apricot (14,500 ha), Chinese dates (9,400 ha), walnuts (10,000
ha), prickly ash (7,300 ha), mulberry (870 ha) and persimmon (2,500 ha).
There is a need for more capacity for farmers to store their apples and pears. The climatic conditions in
the project area allow for low-cost and convenient storage without particularly sophisticated cooling
equipment. It pays to store fruit and wait for higher off-season prices. Some of the larger growers have
their own stores and rent space to other growers. New stores will be owned and operated by farmer
groups or individuals. Fruit stores are brick lined caverns with a ventilation shaft and hold 40 to 80 tons.
Parties interested in building stores will prepare technical and financial proposals to request project
financing of part of the cost. These will be screened by the county PMOs for inclusion in the project.
The marketing arrangements for fruit products have been reviewed and basically found satisfactory. The
project will encourage additional marketing activities by providing marketing training to farmers and
encouraging backward integration of wholesaler and fruit juice plants.
Nurseries ($3.5 million). Existing seedling nurseries will be improved and new ones will be set up to
provide high quality planting material. In the past most of the seedlings have been produced by the
county or township nurseries, but there is a trend to the use of farmer-owned nurseries. Typically, a
group of farmers are given technical assistance, supervision, planting materials and financial support by
the county PMOs.



30
Project Support Services ($25.6 million)
The support services component of the project will fund research and extension, training and study tours,
monitoring and evaluation, survey and design, vehicles, office equipment and upgrading of county PMO
buildings and operations and project management costs. Research conducted under the project and
applied in project areas includes topics in dryland farming techniques, forest construction techniques, and
forage and grazing management. Training is both international and domestic, and covers project
management, agriculture and forestry techniques, water-saving irrigation, computers, nursery
management, grassland management, etc. Training is given to project managers, technicians and farmers.
The project funds small watershed land use surveys and plans, and technical designs for fruit storage, and
irrigation and sediment retention structures. Project management costs, and some vehicles and office
equipment necessary are also included in this component.



31
Annex 3: Project Cost Estimate
China: Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Unit costs for land development and plantation activities are derived on a per hectare basis. Other items
(dams, nurseries, fruit storage, etc.) are costed using recent prices for civil work items and labor. Total
project costs are estimated at US $252 million. Contingencies of about 8% and Interest During
Construction (IDC) and other loan/credit fees of about 9% have been included in the costs. Tables for
physical works and investment costs follow.
The project will not result in major recurrent cost implications, which would put an additional burden on
government budgets at the various levels. However, the local governments need to allocate annually
some resources to maintain and guarantee safety of the key and warping dams. The total annual
maintenance costs for all key and warping dams are estimated at about US$ 400,000.



Component Costs Summary
Values in US$ '000
Component           Shaanxi Province    Shanxi Province    Gansu province     Inner Mongolia    CPMO                 Total               Percent
__  Quarttity  Tol   Quantity Total Cost Quantity   Total  Quantity  Total Cost  Total  Quantity ea    Totl  Cost   of Total
Tosta                                 Cotcost                                       Unitea         CosoosTta
I.Crop land Improvement
Terrace(ha)               26,938  23,462   28,576    29,608   28,653  26,461    4,770          4,648            88,937       946     84,1 78     33.3%°ie
Bankland development & protection(ha)         1  ,850    2,874       1_                        ,323              1,850     2,269      4,197        1.7%
Warping land(ha)             400               299                 325              1 783                        2,807
Key Dam (no)                  40   2,275       _20      1,345-      40   2,511        30       2,146               130    63,671       8,277      3.3%
Old dam strength(no)                            20        612                                                       20    30,608        612       0.2%
Warping dam(no)              180   I1,745t- _                       65      582       45        464               290      9,621       2,790       I.1%
Checkdam(no)                 500      260                          ss9      489      421        473              1,880       650       1,222      0.5%
Gully head protective works(km)  100  131                  _  __                     117          66              217        910        197       0.1%
Irrigation
Inigated land(ha)          750    1,363                                          4,098       6,344             4,848     1,590       7,707      3.1%
Irrigation channel(km)                                                             101        489                101     4,842        489       0.2%
Water diversion(no)                           45        306                          2         119                47     9,054        426|      0.2%
Small reservoir (no)                                                                26        855                 26    32,872        855       0.3%
Water cistems (no)        3,326     904   15,400      3,257   10,000   2,602    1,240         549             29,966       244       7,311      2.9%
Other                                                                               29        709                29    24,455         709       0.3%
Subtotal                  28,088  30,139   30,725    38,002   28,978  32,645   1 0,651        18,185 _98,442 1_ 1,209    118,971  --47.1%°
HISlope land Protection
Afforestation & vegetation cover
Abor tree(ha)
Blacklocust           18,100   3,469    1,000        222   10,591    1,847_                                29,691       187       5,539       2.2%
Poplar                 7,330    1,614    8,480      2,321    4,216    1,178    4,830       1,3931          24,856       262       6,506       2.6%
Chinese pine          10,500   2,030   10,080       2,499    6,316    1,210    3,238        784            30,134       216       6,523       2.6%
Platycladus                              2,850       556                                                    2,850       195         556     _0.2°M
Willow                     _          _1,305                            322      576         99              1,881      224         421       0.2%
Chinese toon                                                   522      133                                   522       254         133       0.1%
Subtotal              35,930   7,113   22,410       5,599   22,950   4,690    8,644       2,276            89,934       219      19,678       7.8%
Shrub (ha)
Seabuckthom            6,700     770    2,600        312   15,229    1,563   12,527       2,066            37,056       127       4,710       1.9%
Caragana               5,000     572   17,450       2,274    4,041     382    9,049        1,684       -   35,540       138       4,913       1.9%
Amorpha                  600       64                       12,700    1,395                                 1 3,300     110       1 1,459     0.6%
Shrub willow                                _                       _          5,474       1,019                        18 5,474  16  1,019   0.4%
Subtotal              12,300   1,406   20,050       2,586   31,970   3,339   27,050       4,770            91,370       132      12,101       4.8%
Artificial grass land (ha) _
Alfalfa                3,720     308    1,925         174   16,798    1,283    8,909        913 _          31,352        85       2,679       1.1%
Astragalus             1,200      105             _            725       56   10,915        973             12,840       88       1,134       0.4%
Sweet clover     _            ]           ,925        174                      5,988        693             7,913       110         867       0.3%
Red bean grass                                               3,927      370                                              _43,927  9  370 -    0.1°%
Subtotal               4,920     413    3,850         348   21,450    1,708   25,812      2,5801           56,032        90       5,049       2.0



Component Costs Summary (continued)
Values in US$ '000
Component           Shaanxi Province    Shanxi Province   Gansu province     Inner Mongolia    CPMO                Total               Percent
Quantity         Quantity  Total Cost Quantity  otl  Quantity  Total Cost   Tost   Quantity  Unitrg.  Total Cost   of Total
Cost                                 Cost                         CsUntcost
Natural revegetation     5,810     336   10,040        545    5,000      283    7,350        519            28,200        60       1,683      0.7%
Animal pen(m2)        _                                                       115,885       1,064          115,885         9  _   1,064  _   0.4%
Livestock   _       _                                          4,408    1,995    6,189      1,286           10,597       310       3,281      1.3%
Fodder equipment                                        .                126      291        519               291     2,217        645       0.3%
Horticulture
Fruit orchard (ha)
Apple                  7,400    4,311    2,900     1,730    6,300   3,379       575        395            17,175      571       9,815  _   3.9%
Chinese flowering crab                    775        545       _ __                                          775      703         545       0.2%
Pear                   4,600    2,464     700        465    2,100    1,026                                 7,400       534      3,955       1.6%
Peach                                                       1,200     6071                                 1,200       505        607       0.2%
Apricot                                                       900     4641                                   900      516         464       0.2%
Subtotal              12,000    6,775    4,375     2,739   10,500    5,476     575         395            27,450       560     15,385       6.1%
Date and nut tree (ha)     _ _
Apricot for kemel      3,100    1,349    1,900       861    6,777   2,080    2,739       1,130            14,516      373       5,420       2.1%
Chinese date           3,264    1,007    3,000     1,379    3,104    1,029                                 9,368       365      3,415       1.4%
Walnut                 3,472    1,145    4,570     2,141    2,017     714               _                 10,059       398      4,000       1.6%
Prickly ash            4,854    1,600   __.                 2,432     874                                  7,286       340      2,474       1.0%
Mulbeny                                           .           870     378 __  .                              870       435        378       0.1%
Persimmon              2,500     771                                      1                                2,500       308        771       0.3%
Subtotal              17,190    5,872    9,470     4,381   15,200   5,075    2,739       1,130            44,599      369      16,459       6.5%
Center Fruit storage (no)   40     455                           30      390       _       __                   70    12,071        845        0.3%
Farmer Fruit storage(no)  _  800    1,822                       303   1,823   1_ ,103                                  3,304       3,645       1.4%
Nursery (ha)                 100     897        90       824      132   1,190        60        543               382     9,040       3,453      1.4%
Subtotal                  88,150  25,089   70,195      17,022  107,070  26,096   72,170      15,081          337,585       247      83,288     33.0%
111. Project Support Costs  .                                                            _
Research & extension                 513                 317               784                 347      422                          2,382       0.9%
Domestic Training/Tours              331                 127               202                 195      145           .      .          1,000    0.4%
Foreign Training/Tours                189                391               683                 253      313                          1,830       0.7%
Monitoring & evaluation              358                 445               661                 411      470                          2,3_44 _ _  __0.9%
Survey & design                      410 _               313             1,078                 514               _                   2,315       0.9%
Operation & Management             1,199               3,023            1,977                 598    1,060                          7,858       3.1%
Equipment and vehicles              1 ,363      __       981             1 ,783                571                                   4,697       1.9%
Institution construction  __        2,134                                 1,051o                                                     3,184       1.3%
Subtotal             ___            6,496               5,596            8,221 | .            2,888    2,410                        25,611     10.1%
Front-end Fee                          251          _      245              276                  147    ___                             920       0.4%
IDC and Fees                         5,712               5,684             7,055        _      3,228                                 21,680       8.6%
Unallocated fund          __ _         646                 117              706                  471                                  1,940 _    0.8%
Total                      116,238   68,334  100,920    66,667  136,048  74,999   82,821      40,000                                  2,4101   100.0%



34
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis
China: Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Benefits
The project will produce benefits that are: (A) within the project area, (B) downstream in the Yellow
River and (C) global or regional beyond the project areas and the Yellow River Basin:
A. On-site Benefits within the project area
The majority of project benefits will occur within the project area, where about 2 million rural people
will directly benefit from this project. The project areas belong to the poorest in China, with an
average per capita income of less than US$ 70 per year. The various project components will reduce
poverty and raise incomes from different angles addressing a range of short-, medium-, and long-
term income generating measures:
*  Direct Income Increase. Terracing of loess soils usually allows crop yields to double with only
marginally higher input costs, and will therefore lead to an almost immediate rise in incomes. In
some of the drier areas and where sufficient surface or groundwater can be secured, terracing will
be combined with irrigation, which secures optimal yields, since soils, temperature and sunshine
hours make the Loess Plateau one of the most fertile areas in the world. The new terraces, and
access roads to the terraces, will give farmners the opportunity to grow a wider range of crops with
higher yields than is possible on unimproved slopes or old inaccessible terraces. In particular,
temperate fruit and nut trees grow well in the project area and will have a very significant impact
on agricultural incomes in the medium and longer-term.
*  Employment and Labor Productivity.  The diversification of agriculture and livestock
production will not only offer new employment and income opportunities; it will also helpcreate
a more balanced use of labor over the year. At present, labor demand is high in the months when
crops are planted and harvested, but there is significant underemployment in the winter and early
spring. Tending of tree and shrub plantings provides work in the off-season.
*  Food Security and Risk Reduction. Farmers in the Loess Plateau face the threat of severe
droughts. In dry years, crops on slopes can fail completely and the Government has to supply
many households with grain. Water cisterns built under the project will help to protect orchard
investments and will also be used to assure a minimum food production by providing insurance
against failure of grain crops in years of extreme drought. Irrigation, although a small part of the
project, also provides drought protection. Terracing lowers the variability of yields significantly.
In a year of average rainfall, grain yields on terraces can reach two to three times those on slope-
lands, and even in severe drought years, terraces usually produce a crop. Moreover, since farrners
typically store grain, the higher yields in the good years provide more insurance for the drought
years. The diversification of production that will result under the project will reduce income
variability. And a diversified income base can buffer falls in income in difficult times.



35
*   Natural Resource Protection and Securing of Long-term  Income Opportunities. Large areas in
the project area are severely degraded and current agricultural practices are unsustainable due to
uncontrolled grazing, fuel gathering, and cropping on slopes that are too steep for sustainable
farming. Taking these areas out of crop production to allow natural revegetation or changing their
use by planting native tree, shrub and grass species, or to allow grazing or managed harvesting in
later years will increase and secure long-term productivity of the areas and raise farmer's incomes
now and in the future.
B. Downstream Benefits
In addition to increasing production and income within the project areas, there will also be significant
benefits in the downstream areas:
*    Reduced Sediment Loads in Rivers. The project will reduce sediment inflow to the Yellow River and
its tributaries. This will have several benefits First, irrigation systems will be freed of large inflows of
sediment that choke the canals and often make it necessary to stop diversions when sediment loads are
high. Second, river channels will be more stable and maintenance costs for river training works will be
reduced. Third, sediment build up in downstream reservoirs (e.g. Xiaolangdi) will be slowed. Fourth,
the rise of the riverbed in the Yellow River will be slowed and the cost of raising the flood
embankments can be deferred.
*    Less variability in water flows and reduced flood risk. Retaining rainfall water on terraces, behind
key dams and check dams and in millions of small water harvesting pits surrounding trees planted
under the project will lower the peak run-off. This will reduce severity of down-stream floods, reduce
flood damage, and lower the cost of flood protection works2
C. Regional and Global Benefits
Regional and global environmental benefits are also likely to occur in the long run, although it is difficult to
specify the magnitude and time-horizon for this impact.
*   Impact on the Greenhouse Effects. Tuming bare slopeland into forests or orchards will lead to a
fixation of carbon in sub-surface and surface biomass in a range from 50 to 200 tons per hectare. This
will help to reduce the build up of CO2 in the atmosphere. The linkages between C02 concentration in
the atmosphere and global warming are now better understood and there have been interesting attempts
to quantify the benefits of forests and vegetative cover in this regard. 3
*   Long-term  Impact on Climate and Rainfall. A dense vegetative cover in the Loess Plateau is also
expected to have a long-term positive impact on the climate in the region In particular, it is expected
that rainfall will increase and become more evenly distributed, and temperatures will moderate. While
the trend is very likely to be positive, this effect is very difficult to quantify.
2 It could be argued that the project defers water from downstream use and aggravates the water shortage in the lower reach of the Yellow River.
However, retaining run-off is principally different from water diversion or pumping of water from the river, because it happens at different
seasons. The vast majority of run-off, which is kept back due to the project is retained during the rainy season with heavy downpours, when there
is ample water in the Yellow River. Very little water, if any at all, is retained during the dry season months, when the Yellow River runs dry in
its lower part. Most of the retained water infiltrates into the soils and is expected to contribute to a more balanced river flow in the long
run@@@
3An overview of quantification approaches is provided in: Global Environment Facility: Economics and the Conservation of Global Biological -
Diversity, Working Paper Number 2, 1993.



36
Economic Analysis
Approach:
Multiple Benefits and Interdependence of Components. The project addresses watershed development
in a holistic way with an integrated set of interventions and mutually re-enforcing activities. Most of the
project measures will bring different types of benefits affecting different areas. Terraces, for example,
significantly raise productivity and income; they reduce production risks and mitigate the effects of
droughts; and they effectively retain sediment. Most components are not independent, but need to be
assessed in the context of other project interventions. For example, to improve soil and water
conservation on slopeland and to address the severe over-grazing effectively and sustainably requires
substantive changes in the way livestock is raised. This will be achieved with a package of mutually
beneficial measures, which include large areas of grass planting, crop residue processing and the
introduction of improved cattle breeds to replace sheep and goats. Moving from uncontrolled grazing
towards stall-feeding allows collecting manure for horticulture and crop production. At the same time
residues from field crops can be better used as fodder. The economic benefits of these and most other
measures can not be assessed individually but only in the context of the overall farming system in a
comprehensive farm or area analysis.
Overview of Major Benefits by Components and Major Linkages among Components
Component, Sub-       Major Economic Benefits by          Major linkages with other Components and     Quantification Method/Module in
Component       Category4 (by decreasing importance)   indirect benefits (grouped in 'dependent on' and      Area Analysis
Cat.                                       'mutually supported/supportive')
Terraces          A    Increased crop yields,          Dependent on: none, terracing is one of the few  Standard crop models valuing
A    Allow higher value crops and    components, which could be implemented         inputs and outputs at economic
diversification.                independently of other components.'           prices and comparing 'with' and
A   Reduction of risk,               Mutually supported/supportive:                 'without' project situation;
B   Reduction (elimination) of water  *   Livestock provides draft power and manure  by-products such as crop residues
run-off (flood protection benefit)  for cropping;                             and non-traded inputs such as
B    Full sediment retention         *   Increased crop production on terraces      animal draft and manure are not
provides feed, and crop residues facilitate  valued in a comprehensive area
changes in grazing pattem;                 analysis, since they are only
*   Terraces extend the lifetime of gully     intermediate products;
structures.                                (sediment retention see next line)
*    Machine made terraces generally come
with a road.
Silt Retention    B    Sediment retention              Dependent on:                                  For sediment retention the
and Warping       B    Balancing of water run-off       *   Gully structures are usually built as a   methodology of Loess I project is
Land Structures    A    Income through agricultural       system of structures, where key dams depend   followed, which uses the
(check dams, key       production by creation of new       on check dams above, warping land          embankment raising cost in the
dams, warping          crop land                           development is inter-linked with dam       lower reach of the Yellow River as
dams, and                                                  structures, or protection works in the gully  the major reference value.
protection works                                           bed, etc.                                  Delaying such embankment raising
in gully bottom)                                       Mutually supportive:                           will safe costs equivalent to Yuan
*   Irrigation, many irrigation systems under  1.5 per ton of sediment retained. A
the project take surface water directly from  conservative figure of Yuan I per
gully structures;                          ton of sediment is used in the
*    most groundwater systems depend in the   analysis.
long-run on water infiltration from gully  Incremental agricultural
structures, terracing and other contour    production on new land is assessed
measures implemented under various         by standard crop models
components
A - on-site benefits, B - downstream benefits, and C - regional and global benefits.
Only in very dry areas, such as most places in Inner Mongolia, terracing alone will not result in sufficient yield increases and needs to be
combined with irrigation.



37
Component, Sub-      Major Economic Benefits by         Major linkages with other Components and   Quantification Method/Module in
Component      Category6 (by decreasing importance)  indirect benefits (grouped in 'dependent on' and    Area Analysis
Cat.                                      'mutually supported/supportive')
Irrigation        A   Increased agricultural         Dependent on:                                Crop models
production through increased  *   many irrigation systems are combined with
yields and diversification.       gully structures
A   Reduction of risk              Mutually supportive:
terracing, particularly in very dry areas
terracing without irrigation does not secure
sufficient yield increase to make it
economically viable
Water storage     A   Reduction of risk              Mutually supported:                           The benefit from such 'emergency
tanks             A   Reduction of losses            *   terracing often provides road surface areas,   water' goes far beyond normal
which are suitable water collection areas for   irrigation water use, quantification
storage tanks                             according to marginal benefits
Arbor trees       A   Income                         Dependent on:                                 Crop models for the income from
B   Sediment retention             *   Livestock component as changing grazing   timber;
B   Balancing of water runoff         pattem are essential for protecting new    Fodder from trees enter livestock
C   Climatic benefits                 plantations                                models as sub-model;
Mutually supportive:                         Global benefits are valued at US$
*   Trees provide fodder for livestock,      10 per ton of fixed carbon,
*   Incremental fuel wood releases crop      assuming that a carbon sink of up
residues for use as fodder                to 50 tons per ha would be built up
over 50 years.'
Shrubs            B   Sediment retention             Dependent on:                                 The fodder from shrubs is not
A   Income mostly indirect through   *   Livestock component as changing grazing    valued, crop models for shrubs are
forage for animals or             pattem are essential for protecting new   used as sub-models in the animal
fuel wood                         plantations                               production models.
C   Limited climatic benefits      Mutually supportive:
*   Shrubs provide fodder for livestock,
*   Incremental fuel wood releases crop
residues for use as fodder
Artificial            No direct economic benefit in  Dependent on and mutually supportive:         Crop models for grass production
Grassland             the A category, however, a     This component is closely linked to the objective  are used as sub-models in the
(plantation of        chain of benefits through      to change of livestock raising from natural   animal production models.
alfalfa, astragalus   changing pattem in livestock   grazing to stall-feeding
and other grass)      raising with again indirect
benefits on trees, shrubs and
natural grassland development.
Natural           B   Sediment retention             Dependent on:                                 Sediment retention at Yuan I per
Grassland         B   Limited water run-off reduction   .   Livestock component and acceptance of  ton
protection        C   Limited climatic benefits         farmers to change grazing pattern and close
(closing of areas)                                      natural grassland areas from grazing.
Livestock         A   Income                         Dependent on:                                 Livestock cash flow models with
Development                                           *   Artificial grassland development, shrub and  several sub-models for grass and
(animal pens,                                          tree production, and crop residues as       shrub production and fodder from
breeding cows,                                          altemative fodder source,                  trees.
fodder processing                                    *   Crop residues from incremental crop
equipment)                                              production on terraces
Mutually supportive:
* Terraces and horticulture by providing
manure and draft power
6 A - on-site benefits, B - downstream benefits, and C - regional and global benefits.
Studies show provisional estimates of global warming damage under a scenario of doubling CO2 concentration. The estimated damage ranges
from 0.25 to 2 per cent of the world's GNP for the year 2030. Using I percent of GNP and discounting this damage back to present values would
result in global warming damage of US$ 7 to 18 per ton of fixed carbon. A quantification is done using a value of US$. 10 per ton as a shadow
price for fixed carbon and assuming thatafforestation would raise the fixed carbon stock by about 100 tons per hectare (15% in the soil and 85%
in the biomass) over a period of 40 years (s-shaped growth curve). The EIRR is shown for both 'without' and 'with' inclusion of these benefits.



38
Component, Sub-       Major Economic Benefits by         Major linkages with other Components and    Quantification Method/Module in
Component       Category8 (by decreasing importance)  indirect benefits (grouped in 'dependent on' and     Area Analysis
Cat.                                       'mutually supported/supportive')
Horticulture (fruit  A   Income                       Dependent on:                                  Crop models
orchards, date    B   Sediment retention              .   Terracing to free up currently cropped
and nut trees, top-  B   Limited water run-off reduction  slopeland for orchards on slopeland,
working of        C   Climatic benefits               *   Crop residues from incremental crop
existing orchards)                                       production on terraces
Mutually supported:
*   Livestock provides manure
Fruit Storage     A   Income                          Mutually supportive:                          Cash flow analysis comparing with
*   Horticulture component                    and without situation
Nursery                No direct economic benefits,   Mutually supportive:                           Economic prices for seedlings are
Development            nurseries produce an           .   Arbor tree,                               used in the production models
intermediate product, which is    .   Shrub, and
costed at economic prices in the   *   Horticulture component
production models
On-site Benefits. The main economic benefits of the project will arise from an increase in the net value
of production as a result of a more efficient use of land, water and livestock resources in each of the small
watersheds. To capture the mutual benefits and costs of different project measures an area analysis
methodology is used.9 This method attempts to quantify all inputs and outputs and estimate a net value
of production for an entire area or watershed over a period of time. The estimated economic net cash flow
is derived from comparing the 'without' and the 'with project' net value of production. The 'without
project' case assumes a continuation of present yields and land use.10 The 'with project' casereflects the
changes in land use and yields that will result from the project. The net output value of various
agricultural activities (field crops, forestry, horticulture, animal husbandry, etc.)is assessed through crop
and livestock models using economic prices. By-products and intermediate products arevalued only so
far as they replace traded products (e.g. when manure is used and not chemical fertilizer).1I  All other
important by-products are quantified as they mostly determine inter-dependence among agricultural
activities (see footnote).
A - on-site benefits, B - downstreamn benefits, and C - regional and global benefits.
There are two commonly used methods for the evaluation of such projects: (a) a quantification of each sub-components separately followed by
an aggregation of the cash flow streams, and (b) a comprehensive area analysis, where the economic net output value of a whole area is
quantified over a period of time. The area analysis is the preferably method in this case, as it avoids double-counting of benefits and valuation
problems for intermediate and by-products, and it integrates mutually beneficial interactions between components.
'0 It could be argued that a continuation of current unsustainable land use practices, such as overgrazing or cropping on steep slopes would lead
to a permanent loss of soils and a reduced productivity over time in the 'without project' situation. However, loess soils are generally very deep
in the project areas and a loss of fertility due to soil erosion within the timeframe for the analysis would be very small. In addition such an effect
would have a positive effect to the overall project benefit. Leaving it out adds to the conservative approach taken for the economic
analysisg(@
" Many by-products do not have a direct replacement effect. They therefore do not represent an immediate economic value, but receive their
value only as inputs producing tradable commodities (e.g. crop residues are turned into meat). There are two different ways of valuing such by-
products:
a)  The economic value is considered to be zero as long as long as the by-product is not deficient. (It becomes a 'zero-cost' input, because it is
produced anyway and crop production would not be affected whether the straw is used or not used.)
b)  The by-product is valued with the net economic value, for example, of the meat, which it allows to be produced. (This could be a relatively
high value.)
Taking, as an example, terraces, which produce grain and crop residues, and livestock, which uses crop residues and produces meat, the
grain and meat define the final economic value. However, by applying a) or b) the relative economic viability between terraces (producing
crop residues) and livestock production (using crop residues) can be shifted significantly. The area analysis avoids this problem of under-
or over-valuation of such by-products to the benefit or disadvantage of production systems, as it only values the changes in grain and meat
production (final products). However the physical production constraints, e.g. raising more animals on the basis of crop residues, as there
are crop residues available in the area or on the farm have to be carefully assessed.



39
Downstream and Global Benefits. To calculate downstream and global benefits, sediment retained is
valued at Yuan 1 per ton, and carbon permanently stored is valued at Yuan 5 per ton. The assumptions
and results of the analysis for the project as a whole are presented below and in the attached tables. An
analysis of a typical small watershed, which provides more details about physical and economic
interaction between individual project measures, is presented in Annex 8.
Major Assumptions:
Prices. World market reference prices have been calculated for the major traded products such as
fertilizers, wheat and maize. For all other products financial prices as observed in the project areas have
been used. These prices reflect the recent downward trend observed for some of the major agricultural
commodities in China. The financial and economic prices are shown in Table 1. The calculation of world
market reference prices is shown in Table 2. For farm labor and unskilled labor a conversion factor of
0.8 for the summer months (May to October) and 0.5 for the winter months (November to April) is
applied to the wage rate of RMB 8 per day. This reflects the different economic opportunity cost of labor
in different seasons.
Crop Models and Economic Net Value of Production (NVP). The net value of production for the
major crops is shown in crop models, presenting the inputs and outputs for the major agricultural crops in
physical and value terms. Models are calculated for cropping on slopeland, terraces and on the new land
created behind the sediment control dams (Table 3). For tree plantations, cash flow models show input
and output over 25 years. The models reflect intercropping with an annual crop during the first years,
which is the usual practice. (Tables 4a to 4c).
Cropping Pattern and Land Use. The project will improve about 456,000 ha of slopeland, of which
216,000 ha are currently cropped and 230,000 ha are mostly overgrazed wasteland slopes. 89,000 ha of
the currently cropped land will be turned into terraces. The remaining land will be brought under
permanent vegetative cover, such as fruit and nut trees (71,000 ha), arbor trees (104,000 ha), shrubs
(110,000 ha), and artificial grassland (56,000 ha). Some 27,000 ha will be protected from animal grazing
to allow for renewal of the natural vegetative cover. About 4,400 ha of high value new cropland will be
newly created behind key dams or in the form of warping land. A summary of the cropping pattern is
shown in Table 5.
Phasing. The cash flow analysis is done over a 25 year period. The yield increases on terraces are
expected to build up over a period of 3 years with the exception of potatoes, where the increased yields
can mostly be observed in the first year. The land created behind dams is expected to be usable 6 years
after construction with the total amount (4,400 ha) useable after 13 years. The sediment retention impact
from dams and terraces will occur immediately after construction. The sediment retention from vegetative
measures, such as trees, shrubs or natural revegetation is expected to build up over a period of 6 to 10
years. The carbon storage benefit which is expected to accrue over a period of 40 years, is discounted
(12% discount rate per year) and its present value included in the benefit analysis.
12 It is assumed that the carbon sink is built up over 40 years. Yuan 5 represent the net present value of Yuan 83 (US$ 10 per ton) built up over 40
years in a s-shaped growth function with a discount rate of 12 per cent. The benefit is a one-time benefit; once the biomass is built up it will stay
in balance.



40
Results:
Physical Impact (Table 6). In the analysis, a very conservative estimate is taken that the area used for
annual cropping will be reduced from 216,000 ha slopeland to 89,000 ha terraces and 4,400 ha of dam
land. Despite this reduction, - due to the high productivity of terraces, - the overall grain output will be
higher in the future compared to now and grow from 167,000 to 197,000 tons per year.
Increased crop production will provide larger amounts of feed grains for pig and poultry raising and
larger amounts of crop residues for ruminants. The fodder basis for ruminants will change from grazing
to stall-feeding based on planted grass, hay and crop residues. This development will be supported by tree
and shrub planting, which provides fodder both directly in the form of leaves and branches and indirectly
by producing fuel. Using leaves and branches for fuel frees up crop residues (a traditional source of fuel)
to be used for fodder production. Overall fodder production for the project areas has been quantified on
the basis of fodder units. It was found that currently there is a deficiency of fodder of about 19,000 tons.
The project will close this gap with an incremental production of fodder of 137,000 tons. With the
increased feed and fodder the overall production of meat can be increased by almost 13,000 tons. The
relative importance of cattle production is expected to grow; sheep and goats will diminish in relative
terms. The changes in livestock rearing practices will double the amount of available animal manure to a
total of 1.2 million tons.
The project will support fruit and nut tree development on about 71,000 ha with a production volume in
the range of about a million tons of various fruits per year at full development. Farmers adapt their
plantings to consumer preferences and market changes, so the exact quantities produced may change
somewhat during implementation.
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR). The overall EIRR of the project is estimated at 21%. The
EIRR without down-stream and global benefits is estimated at 19%. Of this difference the benefits from
sediment retention contribute about 1.5% and the benefit from carbon storage contributes only about
0.5% to the EIRR of the overall project. However, downstream benefits are of significant importance for
dam structures and global benefits contribute significantly to the EIRR for arbor tree plantation and for
the livestock supporting activities. Indicative EIRRs for the main categories of project components are
shown belowI3.
On-site benefits  Including downstream    Including global
only         sediment retention   carbon storage benefits
benefits
EIRR               EIRR                EIRR
Terraces                           21.6%              22.5%                22.5%
Darn structures                     1.7%              16.0%                16.0%
Fruit & Nut trees                  28.5%              29.0%                29.0%
Arbor trees                        15.3%              15.7%                17.8%
Livestock supporting activities    14.1%              17.1%                18.3%
Total Project                      19.0%              20.5%                20.9%
"The separation of the cash flow by components can only be indicative, since there is no clear line between these components and most of them
can also not separately be implemented as explained above.



41
Project Risk and Sensitivity Analysis (economic):
Labor availability and the cost of labor is a major contributing factor to the project's economic success,
both in terms of the costs and on the benefits. During the construction phase the project benefits from the
availability of labor with very low opportunity costs. Ata later stage the benefits of the project are largely
derived from farming, which is a very competitive activity in the Loess plateau area but again largely due
to low labor costs and a lack of opportunities in the non-farmning sector. While it is absolutely unlikely
that the availability of low cost labor will change during the construction phase, it could be argued that
over a period of 15 to 20 years the relative attractiveness of labor intensive cropping in the Loess plateau
may change. Farming in the Loess Plateau could become less competitive due to its high labor input. The
risk for the project would nevertheless remain moderate. Slopeland development is labor intensive
during establishment but requires little labor input later on (e.g. arbor trees, shrubs or economnic forests).
Terraces can also be used for permnanent plantation, if feed grain production should become less
competitive in the long-term future.
The sensitivity of the project EIRR was tested for various scenarios of future cost increases for labor.
While the EIRR is sensitive, it was found that a significant labor cost increase in a very short time would
be necessary to make this project economically unviable.
Sensitivity of EIRR to labor cost increases:
EIRR              NPV
RMB million
Baseline situation                   20.9%            1,435.91
Economic labor cost increase of      15.2%              391.95
50% after year 10
Economic labor cost increase of      13.8%              233.39
50% after year 5              1           _
Switching value labor cost increase after year 5:  81%
Switching value labor cost increase after year 1O:  131%



42
Financial Analysis
Farm models
Farm model analysis clarifies the impact of the project on farm income. The analysis focuses on the
financial impact of changes in livestock raising methods and on the sensitivity of farm incomes to
droughts and to changes in input and output prices. For ease of comparison three typical farms have been
chosen with a similar endowment of land and labor resources, but major differences in livestock raising.
The analyzed farms will benefit from a similar package of land development measures consisting of
about 10 mu of terraces, 4 mu of fruit trees, 3 mu of shrub land, and 19 mu of arbor trees. The two farms
with ruminant livestock will furthermore plant 7.5 mu of grass land under the project.
Land Use Situation of Farms in Farm Model Analysis (units in mu):
Without project With project
Cropped slopeland                        28.5          9.3
Terraced land                               -         10.0
Irrigated land                            0.2          0.3
Fruit or nut trees                          -          4.0
Shrubs                                      -          3.0
Arbor trees                               2.7         19.2
Artificial grass land a!                    -          7.5
Waste land / natural grazing land        23.3          1.4
Total                                    54.7         54.7
a/ Farm 2 and 3 only (see below).
Farm I is not raising ruminant livestock but one donkey for field work and transportation. Under the
project the farm will increase pig production from two to four to make use of increased quantities of feed
crops from the terraced land.
Farm 2 raises 15 sheep and will change its husbandry practice from grazing these animals on slopeland to
pen feeding. In addition to the terracing, shrub and tree planting, the farm will develop 7.5 mu of
astragalus grass land and will construct a shed.
Farm 3 will sell the existing herd of 15 goats and buy two breeding cows, which will be kept in a stall.
The purchase of breeding animals and the construction of the stall will be supported under the project as
well as the land development works. Similarly to Farm 2 the farm will plant grass for feeding of the
cattle.



43
Results of the Farm Model Analysis:
All farms will benefit significantly from the project. The financial IRR of the investmentis estimated
to range from 30% to 44%. A summary of the financial indicators is given below. Detailed cash flow
tables for each farm are shown in Annex 4, Tables 8a to 8c:
Financial Indicator             Farm 1                Farm 2                  Farm 3
(values in Yuan)              (only land        (land development       (land development
development       investment + change     investment + change
investment)        to pen feeding)       from sheep to cattle)
Total Loan                       4,511                 5,983                   12,783
Development of Farm
Net Income (excl. off-
farm income):
... before project               2,833                 4,905                    4,245
... atyear I0                    4,935                 7,105                    6,885
... atyear 15                    6,414                 8,584                    8,364
... year20-25 average          11,720                13,840                    13,660
FIRR94                         44.3%                 34.2%                      29.6%
Return to Family Labor
(Yuan/day):
... without project              12.8                 14.4                       12.5
... with project                27.0                  22.0                       30.0
Tlhe major incremental income is due to changes in land use systems and accrues in a phased manner:
first, from increased income from the terraces after years 3-5 and, second from the commercial trees
and fruit trees after years 8-13, and third, from the arbor trees after year 20. All three farms will
increase their income from livestock production. The income of those farms raising large livestock is
currently about RMB 1,500 to 2,000 higher compared to farm 1, which has no large livestock. Over
the project this income difference will remain about the same in absolute terms. In other words,
changing the livestock raising method from grazing to pen feeding or from sheep/goats to cattle will
give those farms neither a particular advantage nor a disadvantage under the project in terms of their
individual income situation.
All three farms are expected to pay back most of the loan from year 5 to year 12. The small amount
borrowed for the development of the arbor tree plantation will be repaid from year 17 to 21 (for
annual payments see Cash flow tables 8a to 8c).
Sensitivity Analysis (financial):
Droughts and changes in farm-gate prices are of the highest concern to all farmers in the project area.
Both parameters are influential to the success of the project and different adverse drought and output
price scenarios have therefore been used in a sensitivity analysis to test the financialrobustness of the
project for the farmers.
14 The Financial Intemal Rate of Retum (FIRR) in a family farm analysis can not be compared with an Economic Rate of Retum (EIRR). The
EIRR is not only based on economic prices for inputs and outputs, it also includes opportunity costs for all farm labor including fatnilylabor,
while the FIRR considers hired labor at market prices and leaves out all family labor.



44
Droughts, particularly at the start of the project, could affect the success of the project significantly,by
destroying young plantations which will need to be replanted, and at the same time reducing annual
food crop production. In a sensitivity analysis a complete replanting of the arbor trees and a yield
reduction for annual field crops by 50% on slopeland and 40% on terraced land has been simulated for
the three farms described above. The FIRR would significantly drop for all farmns. However, in all
cases the FIRR would remain above 20% (see table below), which indicates that the project would still
remain financially viable. During the drought year the impact on income for the individual farm would
be very severe. All three farms would need to use savings, sell off assets or would need external
support, since their net income would drop close to or below zero. In such a case it is recommended to
extend the grace period for loan repayment for all components by one or two years.
Changes in prices have a different impact on farm cash flow and would not be well reflected in the
FIRR. Since the FIRR is calculated on the incremental cash flow, it is not very sensitive to price
changes, because price changes would shift the 'with' and 'without' project cash flow in the same
direction. However, prices do have a significant impact on the absolute income of farmers; and
independently of any rates of return, the project would fail in the long run, if farmers can not obtain a
reasonable and competitive income from farming in the project area. The return to labor based on
fanning only 1 5 is therefore used as a key indicator in the sensitivity analysis.
The result shows that farming would remain attractive with output price decreases of 20% for grain
crops and fruits. The return to labor would drop less than 20% and would stay above market wage
rates in the project area.16
Farm 1                  Farm 2                   Farm 3
(only land          (land development        (land development
development          investment + change     investment + change
investment)           to pen feeding)       from sheep to cattle)
FIRR        Yuan!       FIRR        Yuan!        FIRR        Yuan/
Day                     Day               .      Day
Normal situation             44.3%        14.7       34.2%         13.0        29.6%        17.7
Sensitivity scenarios:
Severe drought at            28.0%        14.7       23.3%         13.0        21.6%        17.7
project start
Drop in crop output          38.1%        13.4       30.5%         12.5        25.2%        16.5
prices by 20% over
next 4 years
Drop in fruit prices by      41.8%        12.6       31.4%         11.7        26.8%        15.8
20% over next 4 years
Combined drop in fruit       36.6%        12.4       29.0%         11.8        23.8%        15.6
prices and crop prices
by 20%
] The income from economic forests and arbor trees is here excluded in the return to labor calculation, since there the retums are very high and
would bias the attractiveness of farning@@@
1 The comparatively lower decrease in retums to labor is explained by the fact that a significant proportion of crop production is used as animal
feed within the farm@@@



45
Annex 4, Table 1. Financial and Economic Prices (RMB)
Unit  Financial Economic                                 Unit  Financial Economic
Outputs                                              Inputs
Annual crops                                         Seed and seedlings
Wheat                Kg        1.30      1.08        Wheat seed                kg        2.50       2.50
Maize                Kg        1.10      0.94        Maize seed                kg        5.00       5.00
Buckwheat            Kg        1.00      1.00        Soybean seed              kg        3.20       3.20
Soybean              kg        2.20      2.20        Millet seed               kg        2.50      2.50
Millet               kg        1.10      0.94        Buckwheat seed           unit       2.00       2.00
Potatoes             kg        0.30      0.30        Peanut seed               kg        5.00       5.00
Peanut               kg        3.00      3.00        Sunflower seed            kg        5.00       5.00
Sunflower            kg        2.40      2.40        Caragana -- Seed          kg        8.00       8.00
Vegetables           kg        0.60      0.60        Astragalus seed           kg        7.00       7.00
Melons               kg        0.70      0.70        Alfalfa seed              kg       10.00      10.00
Forest products                                        Locusts seedling          No.        0.12      0.12
Timber               m3      500.00    500.00        Poplars seedling         No.        0.28       0.28
Poles               No.        6.00      6.00        Pine seedling            No.        0.10       0.10
Fuel                 kg        0.12      0.12        Apples seedling          No.        2.00       2.00
Livestock products                                     Apricot kernel seedling   No.        1.00      1.00
Beef                 kg       10.00     10.00        Prickly Ash seedling     No.        0.80       0.80
Pork                 kg        7.00      7.00        Seabuckthorns seedling   No.        0.04       0.04
Mutton               kg        9.00      9.00        Caragana seedling        No.        0.05       0.05
Goat meat            kg        8.00      8.00     Chemical fertilizers
Poultry              kg        7.00      7.00        Urea                      kg        2.00       2.08
Piglet               kg       15.00     15.00        Phosphate                 kg        0.62       0.62
Chicks               kg        1.50      1.50        DAP                       kg        2.80       2.80
Eggs                 kg        8.00      8.00     Other inputs
Wool                 kg       10.00     10.00        Breeding cattle          No.    3,500.0   3,500.0
Cashmere             kg      120.00    120.00        Plastic sheet             kg        15.0       15.0
Cattle skin         No.      120.00    120.00   Labor
Sheep skin          No.       50.00     50.00     January                     WD          8.0        4.0
Goat skin           No.       20.00     20.00     February                    WD          8.0        4.0
Fruits and Nuts                                      March                       WD          8.0       4.0
Fruits               kg        1.20      1.20     April                       WD          8.0        4.0
Pear                 kg        1.60      1.60     May                         WD          8.0        6.4
Apricot kernel       kg        6.00      6.00     June                        WD          8.0        6.4
Prickly ash          kg       18.00     18.00     July                        WD          8.0        6.4
Seabuckthorn         kg        0.80      0.80     August                      WD          8.0        6.4
September                  WD          8.0        6.4
October                    WD          8.0        6.4
November                   WD           8.0       4.0
December                   WD          8.0        4.0



46
Annex 4, Table 2. Estimated Import/Export Parity Prices
(for the year 2005 expressed in 1998 prices)
Unit                     Import Price Parities
Wheat      Maize          Urea         TSP
(U.S. AtI. port)  (U.S. Gulf)  (NW.Europe)   (N.Africa)
World Market Reference Price:
World market prices a/                          US$/ton               125         112          151         132
Quality adjustment                                 %                  0%          0%           0%          0%
Ocean freight                                   US$/ton               +25        +20          +48          +42
CIF/FOB price                                   US$/ton               150         132          199         174
Internal Transport, Trade and Processing
Costs:
CIF/FOB price (Yuan) b/                         Yuan/ton            1,242       1,093        1,653       1,445
Port charges c/                                 Yuan/ton              +35        +35           +40         +40
Trade margins (10% of CIF/FOB prices)           Yuan/ton                                     +165         +145
Port to wholesaler /d                           Yuan/ton                                     +180         +180
Wholesaler to retailer e/                       Yuan/ton                                       +36         +36
Retailer to major consumption place             Yuan/ton             -180        -180
Conversion rate                                    %                100%        100%         100%        100%
Farm to/from retailer (12km) f/                 Yuan/ton              -12         -12          +12         +12
Processing costs                                Yuan/ton
Economic farm gate price                        Yuan/ton            1,085         936        2,086       1,858
Financial farmgate price                        Yuan/ton            1,300       1,100        2,000       1,800
Conversion factor                                  %                 83%         85%         104%        103%
Notes:
a/ Basic assumption of price projections are taken from World Bank Commodity Markets and the Developing Countries, A World Bank Quarterly.
Price for wheat refers to U.S. Soft Red Winter No. 2 F.o.b., 1997/98 price, using the relative price increases as projected by the World Bank for
Canadian Western Red Spring.
b/ Exchange rate of 8.3 Yuan per US$.
c/ Local price used.
d/ Dalian-Xian approximately 1200km; 0.165 Yuan per km and ton local price.
e/ 0.3 Yuan per ton per km local price.
f/ 1.0 Yuan per ton per km local price.



47
Annex 4, Table 3. Crop Budgets per hectare
Maize
Unit Price           Quantity              Financial Values (Yuan)      Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit  Fin.  Econ  Slope  Terrace  Dam Land   Slope   Terraced  Dam Land   Slope  Terraced  Dam Land
Output
Maize             kg      1.1   0.9  1,300    4,000       6,000    1,430    4,400       6,600    1,217    3,743       5,615
Maize Stover      kg                  1,400    4,400      6,500         -        -          -        -         -          -
Total Output                            2,700    8,400     12,500    1,430    4,400       6,600    1,217    3,743       5,615
Operating
Inputs
Maize seed      kg      5.0   5.0     30       32          45      150       160       225       150      160        225
Urea            kg      2.0   2.1     35       150        200       70      300        400        73      312        416
Phosphate       kg      0.6   0.6      35     200         250       22       124        155       23      129        161
Plastic sheet   kg       15    15               12         12        -       180        180        -      180        189
Pesticides     Yuan                                                 20       20          20       20       20         20
Manure         ton                      2        3          3         -        -          -        -        -           -
Animal tract.    day                   15       15         20         -        -          -        -        -           -
Labor
Family labor    WDs    8.0   5.6    123        129        144      984    1,032       1,152      660      718        801
Total Input                                                           1,246    1,816      2,132      925    1,519       1,803
Net Value of                                                           184    2,584       4,468      291    2,225       3,812
Production /a
Sunflower
Unit Price           Quantity              Financial Values (Yuan)      Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit  Fin.  Econ  Slope  Terrace  Dam Land   Slope   Terraced  Dam Land   Slope   Terraced  Dam Land
Output
Sunflower         kg      2.4   2.4    800    1,650       2,300    1,920    3,960       5,520    1,920    3,960       5,520
Stover            kg                    800    1,650      2,300         -        -          -        -         -          -
Total Output                            1,600    3,300      4,600    1,920    3,960       5,520    1,920    3,960       5,520
Operating
Inputs
Sunflowerseed   kg      5.0   5.0     23        23         23      113       113        113      113      113        113
Urea            kg      2.0   2.1    150       150        150      300      300         300      312      312        312
Phosphate       kg      0.6   0.6    300      300         300      186       186        186      193      193        193
Pesticides     Yuan                     -        -          -         -        -          -        -         -          -
Manure         ton                      2        2          2
Animal tract.    day                   15       15         15         -        -          -        -         -          -
Labor
Family labor    WDs    8.0   5.4    105         97        108      840       776        864      562      522        582
Total Input                                                           1,439    1,375      1,463    1,180    1,140       1,200
Net Value of                                                           482    2,586       4,058      740    2,820       4,320
Production /a
to be continued



48
Annex 4, Table 3. Crop Budgets per hectare (continued)
Wheat
Unit Price           Quantity              Financial Values (Yuan)      Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit  Fin.  Econ  Slope  Terrace  Dam Land   Slope   Terraced  Dam Land   Slope  Terraced  Dam Land
Output
Wheat             kg      1.3   1.1  1,000..  2,500                 1,300    3,250                1,079    2,698
Straw             kg                  1,500    3,000                           -           -              -       -
Total Output                            2,500    5,500     -          1,300    3,250     -         1,079    2,698
Operating
Inputs
Seed            kg      2.5  2.5      80       80                  200      200      -           200      200      -
Urea            kg      2.0  2.1      35       150                  70      300      -            73      312      -
Phosphate       kg      0.6   0.6     35      200                   22       124     -            23      129      -
Plastic sheet   kg       15   15                12                   -      180                    -      180      -
Pesticides     Yuan                                                 20       20      -            20       20      -
Manure         ton                     2        3                         -       -                -        -      -
Animal traction  day                   15       15                        -       -                -        -      -
Labor
Family labor    WDs    8.0   5.6    123        129                 984    1,032      -           660      718      -
Total Input                                                           1,296    1,856     -           975    1,559      -
Net Value of                                                             4    1,394      -           104    1,139      -
Production /a
Buckwheat
Unit Price           Quantity              Financial Values (Yuan)      Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit  Fin.  Econ  Slope  Terrace  Dam Land   Slope   Terraced  Darn Land   Slope   Terraced  Dam Land
Output
Buckwheat         kg      1.0   1.0  1,000    3,000                 1,000    3,000                1,000    3,000
Straw             kg                  1,600    3,500                            -          -              -       -
Total Output                            2,600    6,500     -          1,000    3,000                1,000    3,000
Operating
Inputs
Seed            kg      2.0   2.0     80       80                  160       160     -           160      160
Urea            kg      2.0  2.1      35       150                  70      300      -            73      312
Phosphate       kg      0.6   0.6     35      200                   22       124     -            23      129
Pesticides     Yuan                                                 20       20      -            20       20
Manure         ton                      1        2                           -           -              -       -
Animal tract.    day                   15       15                           -           -              -       -
Labor
Family labor    WDs    8.0   5.4    118        109                 944       872     -           628      590
Total Input                                                           1,216    1,476     -           883    1,191
Net Value of                                                          -216    1,524      -            97    1,789
Production /a
To be continued



49
Annex 4, Table 3. Crop Budgets per hectare (continued)
Soybean
Unit Price          Quantity             Financial Values (Yuan)      Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit  Fin.  Econ  Slope  Terrace  Dam Land   Slope  Terraced Dam Land   Slope  Terraced Dam Land
Output
Soybean          kg      2.2  2.2    600.   1,400                 1,320    3,080    -         1,320    3,080     -
Total Output                            600    1,400     -          1,320    3,080    -         1,320    3,080     -
Operating
Inputs
Soybean seed    kg     3.2  3.2      40       40                 128      128     -           128      128     -
Urea           kg      2.0  2.1        -       -                   -        -     -             -        -     -
Phosphate      kg      0.6  0.6    200       350                 124      217     -           129      226     -
Plastic sheet  kg       15   15               12                   -      180     -             -      180     -
Pesticides    Yuan
Manure         ton                    2        2                            -     -
Animal tract.   day                   18      18                   -        -     -
Labor
Family labor    WDs    8.0  5.2    119       121                 952      968     -           594      623
Total Input                                                         1,204    1,493    -           851    1,157
Net Value of                                                         116    1,587     -           469    1,923
Production /a
Millet                                                          l
Unit Price          Quantity             Financial Values (Yuan)      Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit  Fin.  Econ  Slope  Terrace  Dam Land   Slope  Terraced Darn Land   Slope  Terraced Dam Land
Output
Millet            kg     1.1  0.9  1,400    3,500                 1,540    3,850     -         1,310    3,276
Millet straw      kg                  900    2,640                        -       -               -        -
Total Output                           2,300    6,140     -         1,540    3,850    -         1,310    3,276
Operating
Inputs
Millet Seed    kg      2.5  2.5      12       12                  30       30     -            30       30
Urea           kg      2.0  2.1    150       300                 300      600     -           312      624
Phosphate      kg      0.6  0.6    200       450                 124      279     -           129      290
Pesticides    Yuan                                                20       20     -            20       20
Manure         ton                    1        2                           -          -              -      -
Animal tract.   day                  21       21                           -          -              -      -
Labor
Family labor    WDs    8.0  6.4    147       164                1,176    1,312    -           941    1,050
Total Input                                                         1,650    2,241    -          1,432    2,004
Net Value of                                                        -110    1,609     -          -122    1,262
Production /a
To be continued



50
Annex 4, Table 3. Crop Budgets per hectare (continued)
Potatoes
Unit Price          Quantity             Financial Values (Yuan)      Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit  Fin. Econ  Slope  Terrace  Dam Land   Slope  Terraced  Dam Land   Slope  Terraced Dam Land
Output
Potatoes          kg     0.3  0.3  6,000   12,000                 1,800    3,600     -         1,800    3,600    -
Total Output                           6,000   12,000    -          1,800    3,600    -         1,800    3,600
Operating
Inputs
Potato Seed    kg      0.3  0.3  1,500    1,500                  450      450     -           450      450     -
Urea           kg      2.0  2.1                                    -        -     -             -        -
Phosphate      kg      0.6  0.6    200       300                 124      186     -           129      193
Pesticides    Yuan
Manure         ton                    3        3                   -        -
Animal tract.   day                  25       25                    -       -
Labor
Family labor    WDs    8.0  6.4    151       166                1,208    1,328    -           966    1,062
Total Input                                                         1,782    1,964    -         1,545    1,706
Net Value of                                                          18    1,636     -           255    1,894
Production /a
Peanut
Unit Price          Quantity             Financial Values (Yuan)      Economic Values (Yuan)
Unit  Fin.  Econ  Slope  Terrace  Dam Land   Slope  Terraced Dam Land   Slope  Terraced Dam Land
Output
Peanut           kg      3.0  3.0    900    1,800                 2,700    5,400     -        2,700    5,400     -
Total Output                            900    1,800      -        2,700    5,400               2,700    5,400     -
Operating
Inputs
Peanut seed    kg      5.0  5.0    150       150                 750      750      -          750      750     -
Urea           kg      2.0  2.1    200       450                 400      900      -          416      936     -
Phosphate      kg      0.6  0.6    250       350                 155      217      -          161      226     -
Plastic sheet  kg       15   15               12                   -      180      -            -      180     -
Manure         ton                    2        2                           -          -                  -     -
Animal tract.   day                   15      15                        -       -               -        -     -
Labor
Family labor   WDs    8.0  5.3    156        159                1,248    1,272    -           794      842     -
Total Input                                                        2,553    3,319     -         2,122    2,934     -
Net Value of                                                         147    2,081     -           578    2,466     -
Production /a
a/ Negative values indicate that the production does not fully pay for the used labor, which is mostly family labor.



Annex 4, Table 4a. Fruit Orchard - High production level - Per Hectare Crop Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET PER HECTARE
Years->                      Quantities                      Unit Price                 Financial Value (Yuan/ha)
Unit    1      2      3      4      5    6-7  8-11  12-16  17-20  (Yuan)    1       2      3     4      5    6-7  8-11  12-16  17-20
A. Project Investment
Seedlings              No.        -   450    112              -    -    .        -      -       2.0     -   900   224       -
Urea                    kg        -    130    130             -    -    -        -      -       2.0     -   260   260       -
Phosphate               kg        -    120    120             -                                 0.8     -    96    96       -
Animal Manure          ton        -    15    15               -    -       -     -      -
Agro-chemicals          kg               2       -            -    -    -        -      -      18.0     -    36      -      -
Labor                    WDs       80    150    44               -    -    -       -      -       8.0  640  1,200   352       -
Sub-total Investment Costs                                                                                -  1,292   580      -
B. Operation
Output
Fruit production        kg                      -           750 2,000 8,000 15,000 20,000       1.2     -     -      -      -   900  2,400 9,600  18,000 24,000
Intercrop- Potatoes     kg    15,000 15,000 15,000 15,000 10,000 5,000    -      -      -       0.3 4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  3,000  1,500   -      -      -
By-products             kg        -      -      -      -      -    -    -        -      -               -     -      -      -     -      -    -       -      -    un
Sub-total Output Revenue                                                                            4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500  3,900  3,900 9,600 18,000 24,000
Inputs
Seed                    kg     1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,000  500     -      -      -       0.3  450   450   450   450   300   150         -
Urea                    kg      150   IS0    150    150   150  300   300   300    300           2.0  300   300   300   300   300   600   600    600    600
Phosphate               kg      250    250   250    250   250  400  400   400   400             0.8  200   200   200   200   200   320   320    320    320
Animal Manure          ton       20     20     20    40    30   20   20    20    20                        -         -      -     -      -    -       -      -
Agro-chemicals          kg        2      2      2      2      2    4    4        4      4      18.0   36    36    36    36    36    72   72    72           72
Sub-total Input costs                                                                                 986   986   986   986   836  1,142  992    992    992
Operation Profit/Loss (without labor)                                                                 3,514  3,514  3,514  3,514  3,064  2,758 8,608  17,008 23,008
Financial Cash Flow (without labor)                                                                     4,154  3,422  3,286  3,514  3,064  2,758 8,608 17,008 23,008
Labor                    WDs      120    314    314    314   412  412  412    531    531         10.0 1,200  3,140  3,140  3,140  4,120  4,120 4,120  5,310  5,310
Financial Cash Flow incl. Labor                                                                         2,314  -918  -206   374 -1,056 -1,362 4,488 11,698 17,698



Annex 4, Table 4b. Fruit Orchard - Medium production level - Per Hectare Crop Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET PER HECTARE
Years ->                      Quantities                      Unit Price                   Financial Value (Yuan/ha)
Unit    1      2       3      4      5    6-7  8-11  12-16  17-20  (Yuan)    1         2      3     4      5    6-7   8-11  12-16  17-20
A. Project Investment
Seedlings               No.        -   450    112               -     -     -       -      -       2.0     -   900   224       -      -      -     -      -       -
Urea                    kg         -    130    130              -     -     -       -      -       2.0     -   260   260
Phosphate               kg         -    120    120              -     -    -        -      -       0.8     -    96    96
Animal Manure           ton        -     15      15             -     -     -       -      -
Agro-chemicals          kg                2       -             -     -     -       -      -      18.0     -    36
Labor                     WDs       80    150      44             -      -    -       -      -       8.0  640  1,200   352
Sub-total Investment Costs                                                                                   -  1,292   580
B. Operation
Output
Fruit production        kg                        -           500 1,500 6,000 10,000 15,000        1.2     -      -     -      -   600  1,800 7,200 12,000 18,000
lnteTcrop - Soybean     kg       800    800    800    800    600   600      -       -      -       2.2 1,760  1,760  1,760  1,760  1,320  1,320    -
Straw                   kg       640    640    640    640    480   480      -       -      -               -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -       -
Sub-total Output Revenue                                                                               1,760  1,760  1,760  1,760  1,920  3,120 7,200 12,000 18,000      9
Inputs
Seed                    kg        60     60     60      60     40    40     -       -      -       3.2  192   192   192   192   128   128          -      -       -
Urea                    kg        50     50      50    180    200   200   200    200    300        2.0  100   100   100   360   400   400   400    400    600
Phosphate               kg       100    100    100    200    200   200   300    300    400         0.8   80    80    80   160   160   160   240    240    320
Animal Manure           ton        -      -       -    20      20    20    20     20      20               -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -       -
Agro-chemicals          kg         -       -     2       2      2     2     4      4       4      18.0     -      -    36    36    36    36    72        72     72
Sub-total Input costs                                                                                    372   372   408   748   724   724   712    712    992
Operation ProfittLoss (without labor)                                                                    1,388  1,388  1,352  1,012  1,196  2,396 6,488  11,288 17,008
Financial Cash Flow (without labor)                                                                        2,028  1,296  1,124  1,012  1,196  2,396 6,488  11,288 17,008
Labor                     WDs      100    234    234    234    407   407   407    531    531        10.0 1,000  2,340  2,340  2,340  4,070  4,070 4,070  5,310  5,310
Financial Cash Flow inel. Labor                                                                              388 -2,244 -1,568 -1,328 -2,874 -1,674 2,418  5,978 11,698



Annex 4, Table 4c. Fruit Orchard - Low production level - Per Hectare Crop Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET PER HECTARE
Years                         Quantities                     Unit Price                   Financial Value (Yuan/ha)
Unit    1      2      3      4       5    6-7  8-11  12-16  17-20  (Yuan)    1        2     3      4      5    6-7  8-11  12-16  17-20
A. Project Investment
Seedlings               No.        -   450    112              -    -      -      -       -      2.0     -   900   224              -      -     -
Urea                    kg         -    130    130             -    -       -      -      -       2.0    -   260   260
Phosphate               kg         -    120    120             -    -      -      -       -       0.8    -    96    96
Animal Manure          ton         -     15    15              -     -     -       -      -
Agro-chemicals          kg                2      -             -    -      -       -      -      18.0    -    36       -
Labor                    WDs        80    150    44                     -     -      -      -       8.0  640  1,200   352
Sub-total Investment Costs                                                                                  -  1,292   580
B. Operation
Output
Fruit production        kg                       -           200   750 4,000  7,500 11,000        1.2    -      -      -      -   240   900 4,800  9,000 13,200       LA
Intercrop-Millet        kg     1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,000   500     -       -      -       1.1 1,650  1,650  1,650  1,650  1,100   550    -      -       -
Stover                  kg     1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,000  500       -      -      -
Sub-total Output Revenue                                                                              1,650  1,650  1,650  1,650  1,340  1,450 4,800  9,000 13,200
Inputs
Seed                    kg        15    15    15    15    10         5      -      -      -       3.2   48    48    48    48    32    16         -      -       -
Urea                    kg        40     40     40    170    170  170   170    170   300          2.0   80    80    80   340   340   340   340    340    600
Phosphate               kg        70     70     70    200    200   200   200    200    400        0.8   56    56    56   160   160   160   160    160    320
AnimalManure            ton        -      -      -    20      20   20    20      20     20                   -      -     -      -         -     -      -       -
Agro-chemicals          kg         -      -      2      2      2     2     4      4      4       18.0     -     -    36    36    36    36    72        72     72
Sub-total Input costs                                                                                  184   184   220   584   568   552   572    572    992
Operation Profit/Loss (without labor)                                                                   1,466  1,466  1,430  1,066   772   898 4,228  8,428 12,208
Financial Cash Flow (without labor)                                                                       2,106  1,374  1,202  1,066   772   898 4,228  8,428 12,208
Labor                    WDs       100    234    234    234    407   407   407    531    531       10.0 1,000  2,340  2,340  2,340  4,070  4,070 4,070  5,310  5,310
Financial Cash Flow incl. Labor                                                                            466 -2,166 -1,490 -1,274 -3,298 -3,172   158  3,118  6,898



54
Annex 4, Table 5. Cropping Pattern (ha)
Without project            With Project
Cultivated  not cultivated  Terraced   Dam land  Managed
slopeland   slopeland   land               slopeland
Annual Crops
Millet                         85,800                 12,000
Maize                           8,000                 16,000     2,203
Potatoes                       52,590                 16,000
Soybean                         8,000                  8,000
Buckwheat                      48,990                  8,000
Peanut                          8,000                  8,000
Sunflower                       5,000                  5,000     2,203
Wheat                                                 16,000
Sub-total annual crops        216,380                 89,000     4,406
Wasteland                                   239,979
Fruit & Nut trees                                                           70,684
Arbor tree                                                                 103,900
Shrubs                                                                     110,000
Artificial grass                                                            56,000
Closed Natural Grassland                                                    26,775
Total Category                216,380     239,979     89,000     4,406   367,359
Total Land treated            456,359                460,765



55
Annex 4, Table 6. Summary of Annual Physical Production Impact
Without                With Project
Project a/
Average of 5-year periods       Difference
Unit   l-to 25    I to    6 to 10  11 to 15 16 to 20 21 to 25
Crop Production
Wheat                ton       b/       24,889   39,911  40,000  40,000  40,000    +40,000
Maize                ton       10,400   35,475   67,611  75,635  77,221  77,221    +66,821
Millet                ton      91,682   80,220   57,253  42,449  42,000  42,000    -49,682
Buckwheat             ton      61,287   41,792   23,911  24,000  24,000  24,000    -37,287
Sunflower            ton        4,000    6,075    9,770  12,710  13,318  13,318     +9,318
Sub-total Grains      ton     167,369  188,451  198,456 194,794 196,539 196,539    +29,170
Peanut               ton        7,200    10,320   14,400  14,400  14,400  14,400    +7,200
Soybean              ton        4,800   21,470   27,273  11,847  11,200  11,200     +6,400
Potatoes             ton      315,540  370,032  322,280 195,800 192,000 192,000   -123,540
Fruits                '000 ton         -        -      121    533    892   1,091       +1,091
Wood and Fuel Products
Timber             '000 m3                             -      -       -   1,155     +1,155
Poles              '000 No.         -        -         -  2,077   4,154   2,908     +2,908
Fuel                 ton      127,364   128,409  134,695 267,485 355,800 345,410   +218,046
Livestock Products
Meat                  ton      27,980   33,349   40,788  40,954  40,954  40,954    +12,974
Manure             '000 ton       578      765    1,145   1,164   1,164   1,164       +585
Forage Balance
Production
Hay                 ton            -   25,974  100,727 101,360 101,360 101,360   +101,360
Wheat straw         ton           -   30,489   47,911  48,000  48,000  48,000    +48,000
Maize stover        ton       11,200   38,454   72,723  81,404  83,123  83,123    +71,923
Millet straw        ton       77,220   69,319   46,933  32,129  31,680  31,680    -45,540
Buckwheat straw     ton       78,384   49,164   27,831  28,000  28,000  28,000    -50,384
Sunflower stover    ton        4,000    6,075    9,770  12,710  13,318  13,318     +9,318
Natural grazing     ton      167,985    83,077       -       -       -       -   -167,985
forage
Equivalent to Forage    ton   120,511   141,715  224,870 247,891 259,265 257,117   +136,606
Units
Demand
Forage Units        ton      139,555   148,944  210,903 246,616 246,946 246,946   +107,392
Surplus(+)/          ton      -19,043   -7,229  +13,967  +1,275 +12,319 +10,171    +29,215
Deficit (-)
Sediment retention    '000 ton             11,405   41,632  45,786  45,805  45,649    +45,649
a/ Reference is made to the treated area only (456,000 ha, see Table 6).
b/ Wheat is normally not grown on slopeland.



56
Annex 4, Table 7. Summary Economic Benefits
On-site benefits    Including downstream  Including global carbon storage
only        sediment retention benefits        benefits
NPV    EIRR   Annual   NPV    EIRR   Incremental   NPV    EIRR
sediment                    carbon
retained                    stored
RAMB mill.   %   mill. Ton RMB mill.   %    mill. Ton   RMB mill.    %
Terraces               320.6 21.6%         4.5   350.0 22.5%             0    350.0 22.5%
Dam structures          -91.1  1.7%       26.8    43.7  16.0%            0      43.7  16.0%
Fruit & Nut trees     1,014.7 28.5%        5.7  1,035.6 29.0%            0   1,035.6 29.0%
Arbor trees             94.1  15.3%        2.3   105.2  15.7%         10.4    140.4  17.8%
Livestock supporting   16.3  14.1%        5.8    40.7  17.1%          2.2     48.1  18.3%
activities
Total Project         1,177.5 19.0%       45.0  1,398.1 20.5%         12.6  1,440.8 20.9%



Annex 4, Table 8a: Farm Model la (farm with no large livestock)
Financial Cash Flow (in Yuan '000) /a
Future
With Project                        Average Present Without
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19  20 to 25    1            15-25
Main Production
Annual Crops                       2.23  2.93  3.43  4.05  4.13  3.99  3.86  3.86 3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72 3.72    3.72    2.26    2.26
Forest products                    0.46  0.37 0.37 0.37  0.40  0.40  0.40  0.40  0.40  0.53  0.53  0.83  0.96  0.96  0.96  0.96  0.96  0.96  0.96    5.35    0.46    0.46
Livestock products                 0.76  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46  1.46    1.46    0.76    0.76
Fruits and Nuts                       -    -    -    -    - 0.06  0.23  0.23  1.20  1.20  1.20  1.20 2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  3.30  3.30 3.30    3.30    -       -
Seedling and Seed                     -    -    -    - 0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02 0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02    0.02  -       -
Sub-total Main Production            3.45  4.76  5.26  5.88  6.00  5.93  5.95  5.95 6.79  6.92 6.92  7.22  8.40  8.40  8.40  8.40  9.45  9.45  9.45   13.84    3.49    3.49
On-Farm Use
Annual Crops                       0.37  0.42  0.46 0.46  0.46  0.46 0.46  0.46 0.46  0.46  0.46  0.46 0.46 0.46  0.46  0.46  0.46  0.46  0.46    0.46    0.38    0.38
Net ValueOfProduction                3.09 4.34 4.80 5.42  5.55  5.47  5.50  5.50  6.34  6.47  6.47  6.76  7.95  7.95  7.95  7.95  9.00  9.00 9.00   13.39    3.11    3.11
Production Cost
Investment                            - 4.44  1.34 0.31                -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                 -       -       -
Operating
Inputs                           0.28  0.83  0.84 0.83  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93 0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  1.03  1.03  1.03    1.03    0.28    0.28
Hired Labor                              -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    0.04               -       -
Sub-total Operating Costs          0.28  0.83  0.84 0.83  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93 0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  1.03  1.03  1.03    1.07    0.28    0.28
Sub-Total Production Cost            0.28  5.27  2.18  1.14  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93 0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  1.03  1.03  1.03    1.07    0.28    0.28
Other Outflows
Incremental Maintenance               -    - 0.20 0.30  0.40  0.50 0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60 0.60 0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60    0.60   -       -
OUTFLOWS                           0.28  5.27  2.38  1.44  1.33  1.43  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.63  1.63  1.63    1.67    0.28    0.28
Cash Flow Before Financing           2.81 -0.93  2.42 3.98  4.21  4.04 3.97  3.97 4.80 4.93  4.93  5.23  6.41  6.41  6.41  6.41  7.37  7.37  7.37   11.72    2.83    2.83
Financial Inflows
Disbursements from project loan       - 3.56 0.71  0.25    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -              -       -       -
Transfer from Previous Period      0.28  1.72  1.47 0.89  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93 0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  1.03  1.03  1.03    1.07    0.28    0.28
Sub-Total Financial Inflows          0.28  5.27 2.18  1.14  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93 0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  1.03  1.03  1.03    1.07    0.28    0.28
Financial Outflows
Project loan Principal                -    -    -    - 0.44  0.46  0.48  0.59  0.62  0.64 0.67  0.11    -    -    -    - 0.09  0.10 0.10    0.04        -       -
Projectloanlnterest                   -    - 0.16 0.19  0.20  0.18  0.16  0.14  0.11  0.09  0.06  0.03  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.01    0.00  -     -
Transfer to Next Period             1.72  1.47 0.89 0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  0.93  1.03  1.03  1.03  1.03    1.07    0.28    0.28
Sub-Total Financial Outflows         1.72  1.47  1.05  1.12  1.57  1.57  1.57  1.66  1.66  1.66  1.66  1.07 0.95  0.95  0.95  1.05  1.14  1.14  1.14    1.11    0.28    0.28
Net Financing                       -1.44 3.80  1.13 0.01 -0.64 -0.64 -0.64 -0.74 -0.73 -0.73 -0.73 -0.14 -0.02 -0.02 -0.02 -0.12 -0.11 -0.11 -0.11   -0.04  -    -
Cash Flow After Financing            1.37  2.87 3.55  4.00  3.58  3.40  3.33 3.23  4.07  4.20 4.20  5.10  6.39  6.39  6.39  6.30  7.25  7.25  7.25   11.68    2.83    2.83
Residual value of
Transfer to Next Period            -0.00    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    0.17               -    0.28
Farm Family BenefitsAfter Financing  1.37  2.87  3.55 4.00  3.58  3.40  3.33  3.23 4.07  4.20 4.20  5.10 6.39  6.39  6.39  6.30  7.25  7.25  7.25   11.85    2.83    3.11
ReturnsperFamily-DayofLabor         0.006 0.006 0.010 0.011 0.011 0.009 0.009 0.009 0.011 0.011 0.011 0.012 0.015 0.015 0.015 0.015 0.017 0.017 0.017   0.027   0.013   0.014
IRR = 44.3%, NPV = 11.92
\a Receives 10 mu terraces.



Annex 4, Table 8b: Farm Model 2 (Sheep from grazing to pen-feeding)
Financial Cash Flow (in Yuan '000) /a
Future
With Project                         Average Present Without
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19  20 to 25    1               15-25
Main Production
Annual Crops                        2.23  2.93  3.43  4.05  4.13  3.99  3.86  3.86  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72  3.72    3.72    2.26    2.26
Forest products                     0.46  0.37  0.37  0.37  0.40  0.40  0.40  0.40  0.40  0.53  0.53  0.83  0.96  0.96  0.96  0.96  0.96  0.96  0.96    5.35    0.46    0.46
Livestock products                  3.46  4.16  4.16  4.26  4.47  4.57  4.57  4.57  4.57  4.57  4.57  4.57  4.57  4.57  4.57  4.57  4.57  4.57  4.57    4.57    3.46    3.46
Fruits and Nuts                        -    -    -    -    - 0.06  0.23  0.23  1.20  1.20  1.20  1.20  2.25  2.25  2.25  2.25  3.30  3.30  3.30    3.30     -        -
Seedling and Seed                      -    -    -    - 0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02    0.02    -        -
Sub-totalMainProduction               6.15  7.46  7.96  8.67  9.01  9.03  9.06  9.06  9.90 10.03 10.03 10.33 11.51 11.51 11.51 11.51 12.56 12.56 12.56   16.95    6.19    6.19
On-Farm Use                                                                                                                                           0
Annual Crops                        0.38  0.42  0.50  0.71  0.79  0.79  0.79  0.79  0.79  0.79  0.79  0.79  0.79  0.79  0.79  0.79  0.79  0.79  0.79    0.79    0.38    0.38
NetValueOfProduction                  5.78  7.04  7.45  7.96  8.22  8.24  8.27  8.27  9.10  9.24  9.24  9.53 10.71 10.71 10.71 10.71 11.76 11.76 11.76   16.16    5.81    5.81
Production Cost
Investment                             - 6.33  1.49  0.37    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                -       -        -
Operating
Inputs                            0.87  1.43  1.40  1.25  1.47  1.53  1.56  1.52  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.57  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.66  1.63  1.63    1.63    0.88    0.88
Hired Labor                          -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    0.09                  -        -
Sub-total Operating Costs           0.87  1.43  1.40  1.25  1.47  1.53  1.56  1.52  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.57  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.66  1.63  1.63    1.72    0.88    0.88   Qn
Sub-Total Production Cost             0.87  7.76  2.89  1.62  1.47  1.53  1.56  1.52  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.57  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.66  1.63  1.63    1.72    0.88    0.88  co
Other Outflows
Incremental Maintenance                -    - 0.20  0.30  0.40  0.50  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60    0.60  -        -
OUTFLOWS                            0.87  7.76  3.09  1.92  1.87  2.03  2.16  2.12  2.13  2.13  2.13  2.17  2.13  2.13  2.13  2.13  2.26  2.23  2.23    2.32    0.88    0.88
Cash Flow Before Financing            4.90 -0.72  4.37  6.04  6.36  6.21  6.11  6.14  6.97  7.10  7.10  7.37  8.58  8.58  8.58  8.58  9.50  9.54  9.54   13.84    4.93    4.93
Financial Inflows
Disbursements from project loan        - 5.03  0.71  0.25       -    -    -    -         -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -             -       -        -
Transfer from Previous Period       0.88  2.73  2.18  1.37  1.47  1.53  1.56  1.52  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.57  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.66  1.63  1.63    1.72    0.88    0.88
Sub-Total Financial Inflows           0.88  7.76  2.89  1.62  1.47  1.53  1.56  1.52  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.57  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.66  1.63  1.63    1.72    0.88    0.88
Financial Outflows
ProjectloanPrincipal                   -    -    -    - 0.71  0.74  0.77  0.90  0.94  0.64  0.67  0.11    -    -    -    - 0.09  0.10  0.10    0.04          -       -
Project loan Interest                  -    - 0.23  0.26  0.27  0.24  0.20  0.17  0.13  0.09  0.06  0.03  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.01    0.00  -        -
TransfertoNextPeriod                2.73  2.18  1.37  1.47  1.53  1.56  1.52  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.57  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.53  1.66  1.63  1.63  1.63    1.72    0.88    0.88
Sub-Total Financial Outflows          2.73  2.18  1.60  1.72  2.50  2.54  2.50  2.60  2.60  2.26  2.30  1.67  1.55  1.55  1.55  1.68  1.74  1.74  1.74    1.76    0.88    0.88
Nct Financing                        -1.86  5.58  1.29 -0.10 -1.04 -1.01 -0.94 -1.07 -1.07 -0.73 -0.77 -0.10 -0.02 -0.02 -0.02 -0.15 -0.08 -0.11 -0.11   -0.04  -      -
Cash Flow After Financing             3.05  4.86  5.66  5.94  5.32  5.20  5.17  5.07  5.91  6.37  6.34  7.27  8.56  8.56  8.56  8.43  9.42  9.42  9.42    13.80    4.93    4.93
Residual value of
Transfer to Next Period             -0.00    -  --    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                                                   0.27       -    0.88
Farm Family Benefits After Financing  3.05  4.86  5.66  5.94  5.32  5.20  5.17  5.07  5.91  6.37  6.34  7.27  8.56  8.56  8.56  8.43  9.42  9.42  9.42   14.07    4.93    5.81
Returns perFamily-Day ofLabor        0.009 0.008 0.010 0.011 0.010 0.009 0.009 0.009 0.010 0.011 0.010 0.012 0.013 0.013 0.013 0.013 0.015 0.015 0.014   0.022   0.014   0.017
IRR = 34.2%, NPV = 10.85
\a Receives, 10 mu terraces, changes from grazing to pen feeding of 15 existing sheep.



Annex 4, Table 8c: Farm Model 3 (from goat to cattle raising)
Financial Cash Flow (in Yuan '000) /a
Future
With Project                        average Present Without
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19  20 to 25    1            15-25
Main Production
Annual Crops                        2.23  2.93 3.43  4.05  4.13 3.99 3.86 3.86 3.72  3.72 3.72 3.72 3.72  3.72 3.72  3.72  3.72 3.72  3.72    3.72    2.26    2.26
Forest products                     0.46 0.37 0.37  0.37  0.40 0.40 0.40 0.40 0.40 0.53 0.53  0.83  0.96  0.96  0.96 0.96  0.96 0.96  0.96    5.35    0.46    0.46
Livestock products                  2.47 4.73 3.86 3.86 3.86 3.86 3.86 3.86 3.86 3.86 3.86 3.86 3.86  3.86 3.86 3.86  3.86 3.86 3.86    3.86    2.47    2.47
Fruits and Nuts                        -    -    -    -    - 0.06  0.23 0.23  1.20  1.20  1.20  1.20 2.25  2.25  2.25 2.25  3.30 3.30 3.30    3.30       -       -
Seedling and Seed                     -    -    -    - 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02  0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02  0.02  0.02 0.02 0.02    0.02             -
Sub-total Main Production            5.16  8.03 7.66 8.28  8.40 8.33  8.35 8.35 9.19 9.32 9.32 9.62 10.80 10.80 10.80 10.80 11.85 11.85 11.85   16.24    5.20    5.20
On-Farm Use
Annual Crops                        0.38  0.42 0.46 0.46 0.46 0.46 0.46 0.46 0.46 0.46 0.46 0.46 0.46  0.46 0.46  0.46  0.46 0.46 0.46    0.46    0.38    0.38
NetValueOfProduction                 4.79 7.61  7.20 7.82  7.95 7.87  7.90 7.90 8.74 8.87 8.87 9.16 10.35 10.35 10.35 10.35 11.40 11.40 11.40   15.79    4.82    4.82
Other Inflows
Income from goats sold                 - 1.00 0.50    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -               -       -       -
INFLOWS                             4.79  8.61  7.70 7.82 7.95 7.87  7.90 7.90 8.74  8.87 8.87 9.16 10.35 10.35 10.35 10.35 11.40 11.40 11.40   15.79    4.82    4.82
Production Cost
Investment                            - 14.82  1.34 0.31                                                        -    -        -    -    -        -       -       -
Operaffng
Inputs                            0.54  1.44  1.29  1.28  1.38  1.38  1.41  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.42  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.51  1.48  1.48    1.48    0.55    0.55
Hired Labor                          -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    0.04               -       -
Sub-total Operating Costs           0.54  1.44  1.29  1.28  1.38  1.38  1.41  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.42  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.51  1.48  1.48    1.53    0.55    0.55
Sub-Total Production Cost            0.54 16.26 2.63  1.59  1.38  1.38  1.41  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.42  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.51  1.48  1.48    1.53    0.55    0.55
Other Outflows
Incremental Maintenance                -    - 0.20 0.30 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.60    0.60
OUTFLOWS                            0.54 16.26 2.83  1.89  1.78  1.88 2.01  1.98  1.98  1.98  1.98 2.02  1.98  1.98  1.98  1.98 2.11  2.08 2.08    2.13    0.55    0.55
Cash Flow Before Financing           4.24 -7.65 4.87  5.93 6.16 5.99 5.89 5.92 6.75 6.88 6.88  7.15 8.36  8.36 8.36  8.36 9.28 9.32 9.32   13.66    4.27    4.27
Financial Inflows
Disbursements from project loan       - 11.83 0.71  0.25    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -              -       -       -
Transfer from Previous Period       0.55 4.43  1.93  1.34  1.38  1.38  1.41  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.42  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.51  1.48  1.48    1.53    0.55    0.55
Sub-Total Financial Inflows          0.55 16.26 2.63  1.59  1.38  1.38  1.41  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.42  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.51  1.48  1.48    1.53    0.55    0.55
Financial Outflows
ProjectloanPrincipal                   -    -    -    - 1.95 2.04 2.13 2.32 2.42 0.64 0.67  0.11    -    -    -    - 0.09 0.10 0.10    0.04              -       -
Project loan Interest                  -    - 0.53  0.56 0.58 0.49 0.40 0.30 0.20 0.09 0.06  0.03  0.02 0.02  0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.01    0.00           -       -
TransfertoNextPeriod                4.43  1.93  1.34  1.38  1.38  1.41  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.42  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.38  1.51  1.48  1.48  1.48    1.53    0.55    0.55
Sub-Total Financial Outflows         4.43  1.93  1.87  1.95 3.90 3.94 3.90 4.00 4.00 2.11  2.15  1.52  1.40  1.40  1.40  1.54  1.59  1.59  1.59    1.57    0.55    0.55
Net Financing                        -3.89 14.34 0.76 -0.36 -2.52 -2.56 -2.49 -2.62 -2.62 -0.73 -0.77 -0.10 -0.02 -0.02 -0.02 -0.15 -0.08 -0.11 -0.11   -0.04  -   -
Cash Flow After Financing            0.36 6.69 5.63  5.57 3.64 3.43  3.40 3.30 4.14 6.15 6.12  7.05  8.34  8.34 8.34  8.21  9.20 9.20 9.20   13.62    4.27    4.27
Residual value of
Transfer to Next Period             -0.00    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    0.25               -    0.55
Farm Family Benefits After Financing  0.36 6.69 5.63  5.57 3.64 3.43 3.40 3.30 4.14 6.15 6.12  7.05  8.34  8.34 8.34  8.21  9.20 9.20 9.20   13.87    4.27    4.82
Returns per Family-Day of Labor     0.001 0.011 0.014 0.015 0.010 0.008 0.009 0.008 0.010 0.015 0.014 0.016 0.018 0.018 0.018 0.018 0.020 0.020 0.020   0.030   0.013   0.014
IRR = 29.6%, NPV = 10.31
\a Receives 10 mu terraces, gives up 15 goats for 2 cattle.



60
Annex 5: Project Financing Plan (US$ million)
China: Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Sources                  Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5        Total
Total Project
IBRD/IDA                         20.00      35.00     40.00     35.00      20.00      150.00
Govermment
Central Government              0.48       0.48      0.48      0.48       0.48        2.41
Provincial Government           3.72       6.51      7.44      6.51       3.72       27.91
Prefecture Govermment           1.61       2.82      3.22      2.82       1.61       12.07
County Government               2.66       4.65      5.31      4.65       2.66       19.93
Farners                           5.35       9.35     10.69      9.35       5.35       40.09
Total Cost/Financing           33.82      58.82     67.15     58.82      33.82      252.41
Shaanxi Province
IBRD/IDA                          5.47       9.57     10.93      9.57       5.47       41.00
Govermment
Provincial Government           0.81       1.42      1.62      1.42       0.81        6.08
Prefecture Govermnent           0.36       0.63      0.72      0.63       0.36        2.71
County Govermnent               0.45       0.79      0.90      0.79       0.45        3.37
Farmers                           2.02       3.54      4.04      3.54       2.02       15.17
Total Cost/Financing            9.11      15.95     18.22     15.95       9.11       68.34
Shanxi Province
IBRD/IDA                          5.33       9.33     10.67      9.33       5.33       40.00
Government
Provincial Government           1.12       1.97      2.25      1.97       1.12        8.43
Prefecture Govermment           0.49       0.85      0.97      0.85       0.49        3.64
County Government               1.14       1.99      2.27      1.99       1.14        8.52
Farmners                          0.81       1.42      1.62      1.42       0.81        6.07
Total Cost/Financing            8.89      15.55     17.78     15.55       8.89       66.66
Gansu Province
IBRD/IDA                          6.00      10.50     12.00     10.50       6.00       45.00
Govermment
Provincial Government           1.43       2.50      2.86      2.50       1.43       10.72
Prefecture Government           0.11       0.18      0.21      0.18       0.11        0.79
County Government               0.41       0.72      0.83      0.72       0.41        3.10
Farmners                          2.05       3.59      4.10      3.59       2.05       15.39
Total Cost/Financing           10.00      17.50     20.00     17.50      10.00       75.00
Inner Mongolia
IBRD/IDA                          3.20       5.60      6.40      5.60       3.20       24.00
Government
Provincial Government           0.36       0.62      0.71      0.62       0.36        2.67
Prefecture Government           0.66       1.15      1.31      1.15       0.66        4.93
County Govermnent               0.66       1.15      1.31      1.15       0.66        4.93
Farmers                           0.46       0.81      0.93      0.81       0.46        3.47
Total Cost/Financing            5.33       9.33     10.67      9.33       5.33       40.00



61
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
China: Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Procurement
Procurement Arrangements (Table A)
The Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in January
1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January, 1999, will be applied to all
Bank-financed procurement of goods and works. The Model Documents developed by the Ministry of
Finance and the Bank will be adopted for all international competitive bidding (ICB) and national
competitive bidding (NCB) for civil works and goods and the Standard Bid Evaluation Form will be used.
Procurement for watershed development, accounting for most of the project cost, will follow the
approach successfully adopted for the first Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2616-
CHA) (Loess I). The project works consist of various forms of land development that will be carried out
in small watersheds surrounding 3464 villages in 37 counties in four provinces. It consists of a
combination of small works contracts and community participation, and force account. This approach to
procurement is economic and efficient, and it is consistent with the strong tradition in China of public
participation at all stages of a project's implementation. The villagers will be given long-term contracts to
the land they have helped to develop, and they will be subsequently responsible for cost recovery. Thus,
they have a strong incentive to achieve the best quality at the lowest cost. These procurement
arrangements have been a major factor in the outstanding performance of the village committees and
local govemments in implementing Loess I where more than 200 million cubic meters of earthworks has
been carried out at an average cost of about $ 0.25 per cubic meter.
Works contracts estimated to cost $250,000 or more each will be procured under NCB procedures; those
costing less than $250,000 each may be procured under small works procedures; and cropland
improvement and slopeland protection works costing less than $10,000 each (up to an aggregate of $100
million) may be procured under force account or community participation procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Crop Land Improvement ($119 million). The basic method for procurement of cropland improvement
will be small works. Most of cropland development works will be performed through small works
contracts awarded to local work teams and equipment operators. The value of a typical contract in a
village for an earthmoving package will generally be between $5,000 and $10,000 equivalent. These
contracts will be on an output basis. About 80% of the terraces, (estimated at about $68 million), silt
retention structures ($17 million), and small scale irrigation works ($10 million) will be carried out under
contracts with operators of earthmoving equipment (mostly small 75 HP bulldozers) drawn mostly from
the beneficiaries' townships. Contracts will be awarded each working season on a competitive basis.
Each year the county PMOs advertise the contracts required for the next construction season in local
newspapers, radio, and TV. There is keen competition among operators for the work. In a watershed, a
typical contract would be with a single operator for about 5 ha of terraces in two months. Several
terracing contracts are normally procured in a watershed in each working season. The beneficiaries will
do final grading and dressing of slopes. County and township technical specialists will provide overall
supervision, and all work will be inspected and certified by village committees. Key dams and warping



62
dams are procured through small works contracts and are constructed under the supervision of the county
water conservancy staff.
Small works will not be used in some, more isolated, areas where competitive contracting would be
infeasible, and in cases where villages themselves own bulldozers. In these cases (estimated at around
$22 million), terracing construction will be procured through force account and community participation.
The unit price set for this work will be based on the price awarded under small works procedures for
works performed in the same area and for similar terrain. Some 30,000 small-scale water cisterns will be
procured on a unit cost basis and will be manually constructed by villagers under technical guidance from
county water conservancy staff.
Slopeland Protection ($78.3 million). Arbor tree and shrub planting, and other forms of slopeland
conservation, ($34 million), is not suitable for competitive contract bidding, as the works are small,
widely scattered, and scheduled according to the time of year and availability of seedlings. Therefore, the
works will be procured through force account and community participation. Land preparation works are
done by the villagers. Specialist forestry teams, under contract to the villagers will procure, plant, and
fertilize the seedlings and tend the plantings in the initial period. Orchards and artificial grass land
($41 million) are usually planted and tended by individual farmers.
Livestock ($5 million) will be purchased through national shopping by the PMOs together with the
farmers. Farmers will receive up to two cows per household.
Vehicles and Equipment Vehicles ($2.1 million) will be procured through ICB. A preference of 15% of
the CIF price, or actual customs duty, whichever is lower, will be applied to domestically manufactured
goods procured through ICB. Miscellaneous items of equipment ($1 million) in packages costing less
than $250,000 will be purchased through national shopping. Two provinces would use local counterpart
funding for the procurement of vehicles. One province would also procure office equipment using
counterpart funds only.
Office Buildings PMO office and training buildings ($3.2 million) at 21 prefecture/county locations
would be up-graded. These works would be procured through small works contracts, since no individual
contract is expected to exceed $250,000.
Procurement of Services Consulting services ($ 0.3 million), mostly under short term assignments for
national specialists, will be procured under the project. The employment of individual consultants and
firms would be in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers" of January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999, and would use
the Standard Request for Proposals, dated July 1997 and revised in April 1998. Contracts of $100,000 or
more will be procured through QBCS. Contracts under the Project support services component costing
less than $100,000 each may be procured through selection based on consultants' qualifications. Services
for training and study tours costing less than $50,000 may be procured on the basis of single source
selection. Services of individuals will be procured in accordance with the procedures outlined in the
consultant guidelines for selection of individuals. It is anticipated that most consultant services would be
procured as individual consultants. This is because planned consulting assignments will not require
teams or outside professional support and because the specialized nature of the assignments means the
experience and qualifications of the consultant are of paramount importance. The organization and
implementation of training and study tours programs ($2.5 million) would be 100 percent financed by the
Bank loan based on programs agreed by the Bank.



63
Other Items not financed by the Bank Management and administration ($7.9 million), interest during
construction ($21.7 million), research and extension, and survey, design and construction supervision
($9.4 million) would be funded by the Borrower.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
Prior review of contracts would cover Bank financed procurement of land development works and
livestock above a threshold of $100,000 and buildings above a threshold of $250,000 and would also
consist of annual review of the first three contracts in two counties to be selected at random in each
project province. Prior review of contracts for the procurement of equipment and vehicles would cover
all contracts above a value of $250,000. This would cover about 70% percent of the total value of Bank-
financed vehicles and equipment. Contracts not subject to prior review would be subject to ex-poste
review. Ex-poste review would be carried out initially on 1 out of every 20 contracts in one county to be
selected at random in each province.
All contracts for consultant services above the threshold of $100,000 for engagement of firms and
$50,000 for engagement of individuals would also be subject to prior review. It is anticipated that all
contracts for consultants would be for individual consultants (national experts hired on short-term
assignments) with a value of less than $50,000. Two contracts will be reviewed each year on an ex-poste
basis to ensure compliance with agreed procedures.
Overseas training and study tours would not be subject to prior review. This is considered appropriate in
view of CPMOs good management of organizing study tours in Loess I.
Bank supervision missions would periodically review compliance with agreed procurement procedures
for civil works under small works unit price contracts with community participation.
Disbursements
Disbursements for cropland development procured through small works would be against contracts. For
other land development and slopeland development, each major form (terraces, trees, shrubs, grasslands)
will be assigned an average unit price per hectare, which serves as a basis for disbursement. Bank
supervision missions will review unit prices and revise them if necessary. Revisions will be made on the
basis of actual average costs realized during the previous year. Statements of expenditures (SOEs) will
be required for disbursement to be made against (a) contracts for land development costing less than
$100,000 (other than the first three contracts in each of the two counties per province selected by the
Bank annually for prior review); (b) contracts for livestock costing less than $100,000; (c) contracts for
equipment costing less than $250,000; (d) contracts for office buildings costing less than $250,000; (e)
contracts for consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (f) contracts for individual
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent, and (g) all training and study tours.
To facilitate disbursement, four Special Accounts - one in each province - will be established in
amounts representing, for each province, the estimated average expenditure for a four month period.
Applications for replenishment, supported by appropriate documentation, will be submitted monthly or
when the amounts withdrawn equal 50% of the initial deposits, which ever comes first.
A rigorous system of physical checking of the quantity and quality of work has been developed in Loess
I, and this will be adopted for the project. The beneficiaries themselves have a strong interest in good
quality work and they supervise closely the bulldozer operators and specialist teams. The county PMOs



64
will prepare disbursement applications after inspection and acceptance of all the work completed in a
given period. The prefecture will carry out detailed checks on 20-30 percent of the work, and an
independent check by the provincial PMO and the Central PMO will cover 10 percent. The provincial
finance bureaus will require certification from the provincial PMOs as to quantity and quality before
making disbursements from the Special Accounts.
Because of the seasonality of the works and tree planting campaigns, and based on the need for early
establishment of nurseries, retroactive financing is recommended for expenditures made between
September 30, 1998 and credit signing. Works eligible for disbursement will be subject to physical
checks of quantities and quality by the county, prefecture and provincial PMOs. The total disbursable
amount will be SDRI 1.05 million ($15 million equivalent) based on work programs reviewed and agreed
by the Bank.
Allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Table C.



65
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million)
Expenditure Category                         Procurement Method
ICB         NCB         Other/a       NBF          Total
Crop Land Improvement                                                                 119.0                     119.0
(90.3)                    (90.3)
Terraces                                                                         84.2                      84.2
(67.3)                    (67.3)
Silt retention structures                                                        17.3                      17.3
(10.4)                    (10.4)
Small-scale irrigation works                                                     10.2                      10.2
(8.1)                     (8.1)
Small-scale water cisterns                                                        7.3                       7.3
(4.4)                     (4.4)
Slope Land Protection                                                                   78.3                      78.3
(47.0)                    (47.0)
Arbor trees                                                                      19.7                      19.7
(11.8)                    (11.8)
Shrubs                                                                           12.1                      12.1
(7.3)                     (7.3)
Artificial grass land                                                             5.0                        5.0
(3.0)                     (3.0)
Natural grassland management                                                       1.7                       1.7
(1.0)                     (1.0)
Fruit and nut orchards                                                           36.3                      36.3
(21.8)                    (21.8)
Nursery improvement                                                               3.5                       3.5
(2.1)                     (2.1)
Livestock                                                                                5.0                       5.0
(4.0)                     (4.0)
Vehicles/Equipment /b                                          2.3                       1.1          1.4          4.7
(2.3)                    (0.8)        (0.0)         (3.1)
Vehicles                                                   2.3                                    1.2          3.6
(2.3)                                  (0.0)        (2.3)
Computer, and other office equipment                                                 1.1          0.1          1.2
(0.8)        (0.0)        (0.8)
Project Support                                                                          6.0         16.8         22.9
(4.7)        (0.0)        (4.7)
Office buildings                                                                     3.2                       3.2
(1.9)                     (1.9)
Training, study tours and consulting services                                        2.8                       2.8
(2.8)                     (2.8)
Management and Administration                                                                     7.9          7.9
(0.0)        (0.0)
Other /c                                                                                          9.0          9.0
(0.0)        (0.0)
Front-end Fee (1%  of IBRD loan)                                                         0.9                       0.9
(0.9)                     (0.9)
IDC /d                                                                                               21.7         21.7
(0.0)        (0-0)
Total                                                      2.3                    210.2          39.9       252.4
(2.3)                  (147.7)         (0,0)     (150.0)
/a  Include procurement of works through small works contracts (SW) and force account and community participation for
land development, price quotations, shopping (national, international), consultant services, and training and study tours.
/b  In Inner Mongolia vehicles and office equipment will be financed by counterpart funding. In Shanxi vehicles
will be financed by counterpart funding.
Ic  Includes research, monitoring and survey, design construction supervision.
Id  Excluding Front-end Fee.
Note: NBF = Not Bank-financed. Bank disbursement in parentheses



66
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Values
(US$ million)
Expenditure       Contract      Procurement       Contracts     Total    Subject to
Category          Value          Method         Subject to    Value   Prior Review
(Threshold)                    Prior Review
(US$ x 1,000)
__ __    Value   %
1. Crop Land         >250            NCB              All           0
Development          <250             SW           See Notes      97.3
<10           FA, CP         See Notes      21.7
2. Slopeland          >10             SW            See Notes       0
Development           <10           FA, CP          See Notes      78.3
3. Livestock         >100             NS              All           0
<100            NS              None         5.0
4. Equipment         >250            ICB              All           0       0
<250            NS              None          1.3      0      0
5. Vehicles           All            ICB              All          2.1      2.1    100
6. Support
Services
(a) Office           >250            NCB              All           -
buildings         <250            SW            See Notes      3.2     N.A.  N.A.
(b) Consulting       >100            QCBS              All              -           -
Services          <100            CQ              None          -        -      0
<50          Individual      See Notes       0.3      0
Training and         >50             N/A             None          0.5      -       0
Study Tours       <50             N/A             None         2.0       0  J
Notes:
Prior review of Bank fmanced procurement for land development works would consist of annual review of the
first three contracts in two counties to be selected at random in each project province.
All contracts not subject to Bank prior review would be subject to Bank post review (1/20 contracts)
Ex-poste review of contracts for individual consultants would take place on two contracts per year.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
SW:  Small works
CP:  Community Participation
NS:  National Shopping
ISP: International Shopping Procedures requiring at least three price quotations
NSP: National Shopping Procedures requiring at least three price quotations
QCBS: Quality and Cost Based Selection
CQ:  Consultants' Qualifications



67
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds
Total Project
Amount of the Amount of the
Credit Allocated Loan Allocated
Expenditure Category    (in SDR million) (in US$ million) Percent of expenditure to be
financed
Front-end Fee                                   1.0
I.  Land Development:           20.57          47.6    80%
Terracing
Irrigation works
II. Land Development:           12.61          44.8    60%
Slopeland protection
Water cisterns
Silt retention structures
III. Livestock                    .75           3.1    80%
IV. Vehicles and Equipment        1.56           .9   100% of foreign
expenditure; 100% of local
expenditure (ex-factory
costs); 75% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
V. Buildings                      1.04          0.5    60%
VI. Training, Study Tours and     .37           2.1    100%
Consulting Services
Total                       36.90        100.0



68
Annex 6, Table D: Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds (Shaanxi Province)
Shaanxi Province
Amount of the Amount of the
Credit Allocated Loan Allocated
Expenditure Category    (in SDR million) (in US$ million) Percent of expenditure to be
financed
Front-end Fee                                   0.3
I.  Land Development:            5.38          12.6     80%
Terracing
Irrigation works
II. Land Development:            3.39          13.6     60%
Slopeland protection
Water cisterns
Silt retention structures
III. Livestock                   0.00           0.0    80%
IV. Vehicles and Equipment       0.37           0.3     100% of foreign
expenditure; 100% of local
expenditure (ex-factory
costs); 75% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
V. Buildings                     0.74           0.3    60%
VI. Training, Study Tours and    0.07           0.4    100%
Consulting Services
Total                        9.95         27.5



69
Annex 6, Table E: Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds (Shanxi Province)
Shanxi Province
Amount of the Amount of the
Credit Allocated Loan Allocated
Expenditure Category    (in SDR million) (in US$ million) Percent of expenditure to be
financed
Front-end Fee                                   0.3
I.  Land Development:            6.78          14.7     80%
Terracing
Irrigation works
II. Land Development:            2.95          11.2     60%
Slopeland protection
Water cisterns
Silt retention structures
III. Livestock                   0.00           0.0    80%
IV. Vehicles and Equipment       0.15           0.0     100% of foreign
expenditure; 100% of local
expenditure (ex-factory
costs); 75% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
V. Buildings                     0.00           0.0    60%
VI. Training, Study Tours and    0.07           0.3     100%
Consulting Services
Total                        9.95         26.5



70
Annex 6, Table F: Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds (Gansu Province)
Gansu Province
Amount of the Amount of the
Credit Allocated Loan Allocated
Expenditure Category   (in SDR million) (in US$ million) Percent of expenditure to be
financed
Front-end Fee                                   0.3
I.  Land Development:           4.28           15.4     80%
Terracing
Irrigation works
II. Land Development:           3.68           13.1     60%
Slopeland protection
Water cisterns
Silt retention structures
III. Livestock                  0.23            1.4    80%
IV. Vehicles and Equipment        .89           0.6    100% of foreign
expenditure; 100% of local
expenditure (ex-factory
costs); 75% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
V. Buildings                    0.30            0.2    60%
VI. Training, Study Tours and   0.23            1.0    100%
Consulting Services
Total                       9.61           32.0



71
Annex 6, Table G: Allocation of Loan and Credit Proceeds (Inner Mongolia Autonomous
Region)
Inner Mongolia
Amount of the   Amount of the
Credit Allocated Loan Allocated
Expenditure Category   (in SDR million) (in US$ million) Percent of expenditure to be
financed
Front-end Fee                                  0.1
I.  Land Development:           4.13           4.9      80%
Terracing
Irrigation works
II. Land Development:           2.59           6.9      60%
Slopeland protection
Water cisterns
Silt retention structures
III. Livestock                  0.52            1.7     80%
IV. Vehicles and Equipment      0.15           0.0      100% of foreign
expenditure; 100% of local
expenditure (ex-factory
costs); 75% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
V. Buildings                    0.00            0.0     60%
VI. Training, Study Tours and   0.00            0.4     100%
Consulting Services
Total                       7.39          14.0



72
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
China: Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
A. Project Budget (US$000)                  Planned             Actual
BB                                          $176,000           $167,000
Trust Fund                                  $200,000          $190,000
B. Project Schedule                         Planned             Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)          5/1998             5/1998
Appraisal mission departure                  1/1999             1/1999
Negotiations                                 3/1999             4/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                6/1999             9/1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Water Resources
Preparation assistance: Japan PHRD Fund $200,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                 Specialty
Juergen Voegele                      Task Team Leader
Nicolette DeWitt/Philip Daltrop/                Lawyers
Clifford Garstang
Tony Shen                    Financial Management Specialist
Hyung Min Kim                       Disbursement Officer
William Smith                      Engineer/ Procurement
Ross Wallace                      Horticulture Specialist
Brian Brandenburg                     Livestock Specialist
Dick Grimshaw                           Agronomist
Josef Ernstberger                        Economist
Julia Li                           Project Analyst



73
Annex 8: Project Financial Management System
China: Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
In accordance with Bank OP/BP 10.02 and the Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and
Reporting System for World Bank Projects, the task team has discussed and reviewed with Provincial
Finance Bureau of Shaanxi, Shanxi, Gansu and Inner Mongolia, and provincial project management
offices of the above provinces for the Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project (the
"Project") plans, procedures and guidelines for establishing a sound financial management system,
including staff/training, accounting, internal controls, reporting requirements, auditing and budgeting. As
a result of assessment of financial management system of the Project, the following were noted:
The Project will finance soil and water conservation works in watersheds in 37 counties of the four
provinces and is similar in many aspects to the First Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
(Phase I). The estimated project cost is USD 252 million and the Loan/Credit will be USD 150 million.
The main components of the project are terraced cropland, tree and shrub, plantations, grasslands,
orchards and cattle raising.
Organization of project financial management
Structure of project management
The Project covers 37 counties located in 4 provinces (Shaanxi, Shanxi, Gansu and Inner Mongolia).
Project management structure is as follows:
(a) Central Project Management Office
A Central Project Management Office (CPMO) has been set up in Xian for the Project with the
responsibilities of providing technical oversight and inter-provincial coordination during project
implementation.
The CPMO will supervise the Project in the participating provinces; prepare progress reports;
arrange combined procurement under ICB contracts; coordinate institutional development
aspects, particularly overseas training, study tour and technical assistance.
(b) Provincial Project Management Office
Project Management Offices at the provincial level (PPMOs) have been set up in each of the 4
provinces participating in the Project. PPMOs, operated by the provincial Soil and Water
Conservation Bureau with support from provincial finance bureaus, are responsible for project
implementation while coordinating activities and inputs of other technical departments and
bureaus:
*  draw up annual project work programs and budgets
*  review and approve designs and work plans prepared by lower-level project management
offices
* undertake procurement not covered by the CPMO
* prepare disbursement applications



74
(c) Prefecture Project Management Offices and others
Prefecture project management offices are one level below PPMOs and have been established
and assigned the responsibilities of coordinating work of participating counties and spot checking
physical progress and quality.
County project management offices are one level below prefecture project management offices
and have a major role in project implementation, such as preparing sub-watershed development
plans in consultation with township and villages, and maintaining quality. Township project
management offices also work closely with villagers through village committees to develop and
implement project proposals.
Loan disbursement arrangement
The Provincial Finance Bureau (PFBs) of each of the 4 provinces will manage respective special
accounts and withdrawal applications of the Project. Funds will flow from PFBs through the
Prefecture, Municipal, County and Township Finance Bureaus. The World Bank Division in each
of PFBs will review withdrawal applications submitted by the Provincial Project Management
Office to ensure that all requirements are being met. The Chief of the World Bank Division will
approve disbursement authorization and the Finance/Accounting unit of the Division will execute
withdrawals from the special accounts and transfer appropriate amounts through various levels of
finance bureau system to the account of the County/Township Finance Bureaus to pay
contractors/vendors. Various PMOs will be also reimbursed by special account for any legitimate
expenses incurred for the Project. Such a transaction normally takes no longer than 10 business
days, which is in accordance with the guidelines established by Ministry of Finance (MOF).
The World Bank Division of respective PFBs currently manages the special accounts of a number
of Bank financed projects in the provinces. In addition, the Bank will provide training and
assistance in preparation of withdrawal application as and when deemed necessary.
Staff and training
The financial management capacity of the Project will be strengthened through training, provision of
equipment and recruitment of qualified staff. Though majority of the staff of both PFBs and PMOs at
various levels were involved in Phase I and the Project is similar in many aspects to Phase I, well-
designed and focused training program still needs to be developed and provided as and when needed
(by PFB and the Bank) to those that are new to Bank operations, in particular new counties, to ensure
personnel of quality commensurate with job responsibilities. During the Project's launch workshop,
the Bank plans to readdress in detail some of the major aspects of project financial management and
reporting requirements.
In addition, adequate number of qualified financial/accounting staff should be recruited for PMOs of
all levels before Project commencement. The chief accountant to be hired for the Project should have
adequate experience and credentials in the financial and accounting management. Furthermore,
he/she should be able to maintain the books of account, exercise adequate internal controls, safeguard
Project's assets, monitor progress of the Project and produce financial and monitoring reports
required by the Bank and MOF on a timely basis.



75
To fuither facilitate the Project, well-defined role, job description and operation procedures should be
made easily accessible to all staff (in particular accounting staff) involved to guide in the accounting
practices and financial information preparation and reporting. The Financial Management Guidelines
("The Manual") should also provide detailed plans, procedures and guidelines for the following
aspects of the Project and serve as a yardstick in performance evaluation:
* project financial management structure and staffing
* project accounting
* fund management (both Bank and counterpart) and cash management
* asset management, procurement and disbursement procedures
* budgeting
* auditing
We have been provided with a copy of project financial management guidelines prepared by PFB of
one of the participating provinces (i.e., Shanxi province) for Loess I. Per review of the documents,
we noted that majority of the required aspects as mentioned above have been sufficiently covered.
We have also been advised that such guidelines had been issued by other participating provinces for
Loess I and are expected to be further modifiedltailored to the specifics of the Project and issued in
due course.
Financial and accounting system
In line with other Bank financed projects in the People's Republic of China, the Project will use
"Temporary Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management for Projects Financed by the
World Bank" (the "Regulations") issued by MOF as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation of
financial statements and management reports. The Regulations were issued by MOF in 1993 and
revised ir 1997 and were in principle geared toward infrastructure oriented projects. In addition, the
Regulations dictate chart of accounts and related instructions that would therefore affect project
accounting and reporting requirements.
Accrual accounting will be adopted by the Project. Ledgers, journal vouchers and original-supporting
documents will be maintained at initiating PMOs.
Internal controls
A well designed internal control system (both administrative and accounting) is one of the key
elements critical to the success of a project. As the project financial management guidelines designed
for Phase I will be revised to meet the conditions of the Project, we noted from review of the
guidelines that adequate controls would be provided for the Project. We emphasize to the Project that
the revised guidelines should at a minimum include the following internal control features:
* A system of authorization, verification, reconciliation, record procedures and project
reporting adequate to provide reasonable control over project costs, security of assets,
schedules and technical performance
* Delegation and segregation of duties
* Timely and accurate financial reporting



76
Reporting requirements
The format and content of the following reports of the Project have been discussed with and agreed to
by the Project. Reports are due to the Bank within 30 days after the end of each period.
Financial statements (hi-annual basis)
*  Balance sheet
* Statement of sources and uses of fund by project component
*  Statement of implementation of credit/loan agreement
*  Statement of special account
The above project financial statements represent the standard project financial reporting package recently
agreed to between the Bank and MOF and will apply to all FY 99 projects.
Monitoring reports (bi-annual basis)
*  Statement of project progress
Procurement reports (bi-annual basis)
*  Contract expenditure report - goods & works, consultants
* Procurement management reports
Each of the participating provinces will manage, monitor and maintain their respective project
financial reports; project level consolidation will be done by the CPMO.
Auditing requirements
The Bank requires the Project to have its financial statements audited in accordance with standards
acceptable to the Bank. Audit arrangement for the Project will be similar to other Bank financed
projects in PRC whereby National Audit Office or its authorized agent will be designated as auditor
for the Project.
Audited annual financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6 months after the end of each
reporting year.
Budgeting
Annual budget will be prepared by respective township/county PMOs and firther reviewed,
consolidated and approved by PPMOs. Project level budget will be consolidated and finalized by
CPMO. The budget will be used as a basis for cost control and performance monitoring. Procedures
used in the budgeting process should be detailed in the project financial management guidelines and
used as a guide for all parties involved.



77
Conclusion
Based on above analysis, we confirm that the Project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements as stipulated by OP/BP 10.02. In our opinion, the Project has in place an
adequate project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate
and timely information on the status of the Project in the reporting format agreed with the Project and
as required by the Bank/IDA. In terms of disbursement procedures, the Project is being deemed
Ineligible for Project Management Report-Based Disbursements and will be utilizing traditional
disbursement techniques, in accordance with the agreement reached between the Bank and the
Ministry of Finance of PRC.



78
Annex 9: Guota Small Watershed Analysis
China: Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
Guota watershed demonstrates the existing development problems in the project area, the approach the
project takes to overcome these problems, and the expected impact on production and incomes.
Location and General Features
The Guota watershed is located in the northern part of Ansai County in Shaanxi Province on the left bank
of the Yanhe River. The total watershed area is 364 ha. There are 77 households with 324 people living in
3 natural villages. Most of the land is hilly and the farmers crop about 170 ha of slopeland with millet,
beans, buckwheat, potatoes, maize and some oil crops. There are no terraces, the yields on the slopes are
low, and in dry years the harvest can fail completely. Poplars, black locust trees and shrubs are grown on
about 30 ha, and 10 ha are used for apple production. The remaining 150 ha are mainly wasteland and
heavily grazed slopes. The farmers raise approximately 240 sheep and goats, 60 large animals, 90 pigs
and 500 poultry. The annual precipitation is 513 mm and varies from over 700 to less than 300 mm in dry
years. In most years, two thirds of the rainfall is between July to August.
Present Situation
Soil and Water Conservation. The management of soil and water is the biggest challenge faced by
farmers in the Loess plateau. Loess soils are generally fertile, and sunshine and temperature are favorable
for producing temperate crops. An average rainfall of 500 mm, most of which occurs during the cropping
season, is sufficient to achieve reasonable yields if well distributed. But, at present between 60 and 70%
of the rainfall is lost to the plants because of run-off. Not only is this a loss for the crops, but the
uncontrolled runoff erodes the soils, extends and widens the gullies, and causes flood damage and
siltation in downstream areas.
The Guota farmers' inability to retain rainfall and build up soil moisture is the main constraint to farm
production, because:
(a) most of the rainfall is in intense storms that run off the steep, un-terraced land;
(b) late rains delay planting, or cause damage to crops that are already planted.
(c) the variation of rainfall between years is high and drought years are frequent, and
(d) there are no perennial streams in the watershed, and drinking water must be hauled long distances
from low-yielding open wells in the gully beds.
Underutilized Slopeland. Sheep and goats heavily graze virtually all the unused slopeland in Guota.
Young grasses and shrubs are grazed before they can develop, and goats damage the roots of plants so
that natural re-growth is limited. Most slopes in the Guota watershed are nearly barren and far below their
capacity to produce biomass. The 130 ha of grazed slopeland cannot provide sufficient fodder for the 240
sheep and goats and 60 large animals in the watershed.
At present, there are three key constraints to bringing about changes in Guota's land use patterns that are
necessary to creating a more productive and sustainable system. These involve inadequate land use rights
and regulations, credit constraints and



79
Land Use Rights. The classical 'dilemma of the commons' applies to the use of grazing areas and
wasteland. Lack of defined land use rights or agreed grazing rules leads to over grazing and land
deterioration, to the detriment of all farmers in the watershed. Farmers have individual land use rights
covering most cropped areas. However, past contracts didn't ensure these rights were long-term and
binding, which discouraged farmers from necessary investments in land improvement.
Poverty and Investment Capacity. Household crop production and income levels are not sufficient to
allow savings so farmers rarely have sufficient resources to invest in land use changes. Farming is
mainly on a subsistence basis and the limited cash income from livestock and fruits is mainly used to
finance inputs such as fertilizer and seed, or to meet basic personal needs. Moreover, changing land use
also requires some income to substitute for existing income from the slopes which is lost (generally a
very small amount) when the slopes are planted to shrubs and trees. (Terracing is normally timed so that
is doesn't result in lost income in the construction season). Future income from change in use of
slopeland materializes only after several years. Typically such investment would be financed with
medium or long term credit, which is not available to farmers in the area.
Community Organization. The farmers in Guota watershed are aware that there are better ways to use
their land. They know that terraces retain rainfall and that managed slopeland development is more
productive than uncontrolled grazing. However, not only the combination of poverty and land use rights
makes it almost impossible for individuals to change their production systems. A change by individuals is
also difficult, because a substantive re-organization in the use of key resources is needed involving
agreement and participation of entire communities. For example, terracing, - a key element in improving
the land use situation - is effectively done by a group of farmers or the whole village together on an entire
hillside including the construction of access roads for the benefit of everybody. Changing grazing habits
requires commitment and effort from all households in the watershed. Such changes usually need an
external impetus in terms of organization and capital as successfully developed and practiced under Loess
I project. The farmers in Guota know of the success of Loess I and have a strong interest in being a part
of Loess II.
Project Interventions
The project will address the development of the Guota watershed through an integrated set of
interventions. The interdependence of individual activities necessitates implementing the project as a
comprehensive package in the entire watershed area. The farmers' complete agreement with the whole
package of interventions is therefore essential. Project interventions must be financially attractive to all
project farmers by contributing to higher future income, and, in the start up stage, not reducing current
income below pre-project levels.
Terraces. The project will terrace 62 ha of gentle and moderate slopeland with less than 25 degrees
slope. This will be done in the early stage of project implementation and be concluded in year 3. The
limited labor force in the watershed requires that the main earth works to be done by bulldozer. This will
connect remote villages and fields to roads.
Water retention structures: The project will build 3 small check dams and subsequently a key dam
below the check dams. In the long-run, this will create 5 ha of valuable cropland. However, most of this
new land will not be usable before year 10.
Slopeland development: Out of the total of 277 ha of currently untreated slopeland 62 ha will be
terraced and the remaining 215 ha will be used as follows: 19 ha will be planted with fruit trees, 4-0 ha



80
with locust and poplars, 52 ha with shrubs, mainly caragana and seabuckthorn, 27 ha will be used for
artificial, grass production, and 90 ha of natural grassland will be closed from grazing for natural
regeneration. Tree and shrub planting will be implemented over 3-5 years. The artificial grassland needs
to be established in the first two years to produce sufficient fodder for implementing the changes in the
livestock production. A comparison of existing and future land use is given below.
Existing Land Use                           Future Land Use
Other land                                  Other land        Terraced land
11%                                         10%                17%
Cropped        Coe/Artificial
lopeland        spgsa
41%           slps7rssln
Grazed slope                                                      X.*. ...  Orchards
land  -          *:***.                                                     %
38%                         Orchards
Timber trees 2%             Shrub land          Timber trees
Shrub land    7%                        15%                  18%
1%
Livestock: Changes in land use will require adjustment livestock production. To reduce grazing pressure
the number of sheep and goats will gradually be reduced and cattle raising will be increased.17 Cattle
numbers will be expanded partly out of the existing stock and by introducing improved breeding cattle for
selected households presently without cattle. The farmers will expand pig and poultry production by
about one third and make use of the increased amounts of feed grains produced on the terraced land. All
livestock will be raised in pens and the project will provide some financing for farm household without
appropriate pens. Pen feeding will allow most of the animal manure to be collected, which will be used in
horticulture and crop production.
Impact for Guota Watershed:
Production: Under the project, the total grain production is expected to grow from 116 to 175 tons (see
Table 1). 18 The higher yields on terraces will more than compensate for the reduction in area. There will
be some shift in the relative importance of crops. Maize production will more than double and millet and
buckwheat will become relatively less important. Potato production will increase initially, because
potatoes are relatively suitable as a first crop after terracing. In the longer-run they will become slightly
17 The PMO projects the possibility of a significant increase in the number of sheep and goats under the project from
240 to 650. However, the development of fodder production (see section below) would not permit such a drastic
increase.
" Most project related changes in cropping and livestock production will take place over a period of 10 to 15 years.
However, to include the expected returns from forest tree and fruit tree planting the forecasted figures for cropping
and livestock for the year 15 have extended to 25 years.



81
less important. Meat production is expected to grow from almost 12 to about 15 tons per year. The
shifting composition of livestock means that production of beef will increase. (Table 1).
Fodder production will increase and the
forage balance will improve under the         Forage Demand and Supply Situation
project (see Chart)19. At present, there is a
forage  deficit of about 25%, which         200
adversely  affects livestock  production.       1 -       -Demand-Suppy -A-Defih)USwplus
Increased forage production comes from a
number of sources.  The project will
produce larger amounts of crop residues     ISO
and promote the usage of treated crop
residues for ruminants. Artificial grass
plantations will produce an additional 40 to
50 tons of hay. Plantings of shrubs and     100
trees will also indirectly increase the        1 4
fodder supply by producing an additional       '
source of fuelwood to replace the use of
crop residues for fuel. Increased fodder     s0
production will allow farmers to give up
grazing on slopes and enable complete
closure of slopeland. It will eliminate the
forage deficit in four years, and in average     2      5
years thereafter, produce a forage surplus.                                           Yea
Surplus production is necessary to cope
with the high year to year variation in      -                                           i
production.
Labor. There is a strong seasonal demand for labor in the watershed. Demand peaks in April and July,
when most of the 200 working population are busy all day. However, on an average, only 46% of the
workforce are occupied. This figure is expected to decline further as a result of population growth. The
project will increase the usage of labor, to a level between 50 and 60%, and double the labor occupancy
rate in the low season. A significant seasonal pattern will remain. Table 2 and the attached Chart show the
development of labor demand as a percentage of available labor for each month of the year. The return to
family labor per day will drop during the investment phase from a level of RMB 14 per day to RMB 11.
This is the result of a large proportion of the investmnent to be done in the form of unpaid labor
contribution from the beneficiaries of the project, which will not generate an immediate return. After the
investment phase the returns to labor will increase to about RMB 31 per day (see Table 3).
'9Forage is expressed in forage units, where one ton is equivalent to one ton of alfalfa hay.



82
Incomes. Total agricultural net income in Guota                                              l
would double within 12 to 13 years from below           Development of Income
RMB 400,000 (RMB 1,200 per capita20) to
about RMB 800,000 (RMB 2,000 per capita).          1400
The income would  rise steadily  from  the
productivity gains on terraces, livestock and fruit  1    -
production. Timber sales will further boost        1200
income after year 20 to a level of RMB 1.3                                            I
million. Most of the principals and interests from  1000
the project loan/credit would be paid back at year
12. Only repayment of investments in arbor trees   800
and dams would take up to year 22. The               
repayment conditions will permnit maintaining    K  600               a
significantly increased income levels over the
repayment period (see Chart, for more details
regarding the Financial Cash Flow situation in      400
the Guota watershed see Table 3).                   200
Downstream Benefits. After full development
about 31,000 tons of sediment would be retained.      0
This amount represents about 90% of the current       t               C' o  n CD 0 0   N
annual soil erosion in the watershed.                                  years
Economic  Rate  of Return  (EIRR): The             In +corme before RepayrTent h- nconm after Repaynent
economic rate of return for Guota watershed is
estimated at 19.6% including downstream benefits. Excluding downstream benefits the EIRR would be
16.7%.
20 This income of RMB 1200 per capita can not be compared with the pure personal income, because it considers
only direct operational returns and expenditure for plant and livestock production. Depreciation, necessary repair
and maintenance for assets such as buildings and farm machines are estimated at about RMB 1,500 per farn. This
would leave about RMB 700 per capita pure personal income from farming. The PMO estimates the per capita
income at RMB 437, which seems to represent the total cash income only excluding on-farm consumption.



Table 1. Change in Production
Without                                                                  With Project
Unit  1 to25   1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20  21 to 25
Agriculture and Livestock
Maize                 ton     33.0  33.0  41.5  41.1  45.6  56.9  61.5  63.0  64.5  66.0  67.5  69.0  72.0  75.0  75.0  75.0  75.0  75.0  75.0  75.0  75.0    75.0
Buckwheat             ton     32.5  32.5  36.7  31.1  27.8  31.9  33.0  33,0  33.0  33.0  33.0  33.0  33.0  33.0  33.0  33.0  33.0  33.0  33.0  33.0  33.0    33.0
Soybean               ton     15.8  15.8  23.8  27.5  29.3  34.8  34.0  33.2  32.2  28.6  26.2  23.2  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6  19.6    19.6
Millet                ton     34.8  34.8  38.7  36.6  37.5  42.0  42.0  42.0  42.0  42.0  42.0  42.0  42.0  42.0  42.0  42.0  42.0  42.0  42.0  42.0  42.0    42.0
Sunflower             ton              -        -    -    -       0.6  1.2  1.7  2.3  2.9  3.5  4.6  5.8  5.8  5.8  5.8  5.8  5.8  5.8  5.8                 5.8
Tois.. si to i....    j .       .        .     .     .     ;     .-.                         .    ..                              .. . . j  . i  . . i  ..................-.. ...........   i
oa  ri.ns         ton    116.1 116.1 140.7 136.3 140.1 165.6 171.1 172.4 173.4 171.9 171.6 170.7 171.2 175.4 175.4 175.4 175.4 175.4 175.4 175.4 175.4   175.4
Potatoes              ton    132.0 132.0 162.0 150.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0   120.0
Fruits                ton     79.7  79.7  79.7  79.7  79.7  79.7  81.7  87.7  94.2 120.2 144.2 166.7 193.7 209.7 225.7 245.7 269.7 269.7 289.7 309.7 334.7   364.7
Seabuckthorn          ton        -    -           -    -  3.2  7.2  10.8  14.5  15.7  15.7  15.7  15.7  15.7  15.7  15.7  15.7  15.7  15.7  15.7  15.7    15.7
Beef                  ton      3.9  3.9  3.9  3.9  5.7  7.4  7.4  7.4  7.4  7.4  7.4  7.4  7.4  7.4  7.4  7.4  7.4  7.4  7.4  7.4  7.4                      7.4
Pork                  ton      4.3  4.3  4.4  4.7  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0                      5.0
Mutton                ton      1.8  1.8  2.5  2.2  2.0  1.0  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1  1.1                      1.1
Goat meat             ton      1.2  1.2  2.0  1.8  1.7  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8                      0.8
Poultry               ton      0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6                      0.6
Total Meat                    11.7  11.7  13.3  13.1  14.8  14.8  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9  14.9    14.9
Eggs                  ton      1.4  1.4  1.5  1.6  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8                      1.8
Wool                   kg    240.0 240.0 200.0 160.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0   120.0
Cashmere              kg      24.0  24.0  20.0  16.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0    12.0
Manure                ton    259.4 259.4 294.3 336.8 351.9 374.0 390.4 395.0 395.0 395.0 395.0 395.0 395.0 395.0 395.0 395.0 395.0 395.0 395.0 395.0 395.0   395.0    c
Forest Products
Timber                m3      81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0  81.0   521.0
Poles               000 No.  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.88  1.28  1.69  2.09  2.09  2.09  2.09  2.09  2.09  1.61
Fuel                  ton    155.0 155.0 132.2  80.5  57.6  86.0 111.2 120.8 130.7 130.7 140.7 150.7 160.7 180.7 190.7 200.7 210.7 210.7 210.7 210.7 210.7   206.7
Forage Production
Hay                   ton        -    -  8.1  37.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8  46.8    46.8
Maize stover         ton      37.4  37.4  46.5  45.2  49.3  61.2  66.1  67.8  69.4  71.0  72.6  74.3  77.5  80.8  80.8  80.8  80.8  80.8  80.8  80.8  80.8    80.8
Millet straw         ton      38.7  38.7  40.8  33.6  29.3  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7  31.7    31.7
Buckwheat straw      ton      40.0  40.0  40.0  29.7  28.6  36.4  38.5  38.5  38.5  38.5  38.5  38.5  38.5  38.5  38.5  38.5  38.5  38.5  38.5  38.5  38.5    38.5
Sunflower stover      ton        -    -    -    -    -    -  0.6  1.2  1.7  2.3  2.9  3.5  4.6  5.8  5.8  5.8  5.8  5.8  5.8  5.8  5.8                      5.8
Leaves/Branches      ton      42.3  42.3  42.3  42.3  42.3  50.1  61.8  74.7  83.7  92.7 101.7 101.7 104.7 107.7 110.7 113.7 113.7 113.7 113.7 113.7 113.7   111.3
Natural grazing forage   ton  96.0  96.0  53.3  30.2  15.5    -    -    -    -    -    -    -          -    -    -    -    -     -              -    -        -
...9.6 .. .......-   .... ............   .  .....- . ... ...... ........I...... . . ...... ..   . ..... ..........-.. . .    .    ....  . ..~... ......  ........   ... .. ....... ..... ............
Supply               ton /a   81.1  81.1  89.3 113.2 124.6 129.7 137.3 142.4 146.2 150.1 153.9 154.7 159.3 163.9 166.9 169.9 169.9 169.9 169.9 169.9 169.9   168.7
Demand               ton /a  106.8 106.8 115.0 123.2 121.4 121.8 123.6 127.2 131.8 135.4 137.2 137.6 137.6 137.6 137.6 137.6 137.6 137.6 137.6 137.6 137.6   137.6
Deficit/Surplus      ton /a  -25.7 -25.7 -25.7 -10.0  3.2  7.9  13.8  15.2  14.5  14.6  16.7  17.1  21.7  26.3  29.3  32.3  32.3  32.3  32.3  32.3  32.3    31.1
Sediment retention
incremental     '000 ton      -  0.2  2.4  3.9  24.2  24.9  26.1  27.5  28.9  30.0  30.6  30.8  30.9  30.9  30.9  30.9  30.9  30.9  30.9  30.9  30.9    30.8
a/ Forage units



84
Annex 10: Documents in the Project File
China: Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
1.    Project Implementation Plan: Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project II
2.    Feasibility Study Report: Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project II
3.    Feasibility Study Report: Shaanxi Province - Loess Plateau Watershed
Rehabilitation Project II
4.    Feasibility Study Report: Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region - Loess Plateau
Watershed Rehabilitation Project II Inner Mongolia
5.    Feasibility Study Report: Shanxi Province - Loess Plateau Watershed
Rehabilitation Project II
6.    Feasibility Study Report: Gansu Province - Loess Plateau Watershed
Rehabilitation Project II Environmental Impact Assessment
7.    Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project - Social Assessment - Back to
Office Report
8.    Procurement Assessment
9.    Financial Management Certification
10.   Project Management Certification



85
Annex 11: Statement of Loans and Credits
As of April 19, 1999
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                            disbursements a/
Project ID    Year              Borrower                   Purpose
IBRD         IDA      Cancell-    Undis-       Orig        Frm
ations      bursed                 Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 106
Active Projects
CN-PE-3653      1999  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN   CONTAINER TRANSPORT                71.00         0.00      0.00         71.00        0.00     0.00
CN-PE-41890    1999  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN    LIAONING URB TRANSP               150.00         0.00       0.00       150.00        0.00     0.00
CN-PE-49665    1999  PRC                              ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV            90.00      30.00       0.00       119.03         0.00     0.00
CN-PE-50036    1999  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN   ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY               200.00         0.00      0.00       200.00         7.45     0.00
CN-PE-51856   1999  MINISTRY OF FINANCE               ACCNTG REFORM & DEV            27.40         5.61      0.00         32.96        1.36     0.00
CN-PE-63123    1999  PRC                              YANGTZE FLOOD ENERGY           40.00        40.00      0.00         79.21        0.00     0.00
CN-PE-3539      1998  PRC                             SUST COAST RES DEV            100.00         0.00      0.00         96.00       -.25      0.00
CN-PE-3566      1998                                  BASIC HEALTH                     0.00       85.00      0.00         81.99         .05     0.00
CN-PE-35698   1998  PRC                               HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.          300.00         0.00      0.00       300.00         9.00     0.00
CN-PE-3591      1998  PRC                             STATE FARMS COMMERCI          150.00         0.00      0.00        102.59     -32.91      0.00
CN-PE-3606      1998  GOC                             ENERGY CONSERVARTION            63.00        0.00      0.00         63.00        2.87     0.00
CN-PE-3614      1998  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN   GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP              200.00         0.00       0.00       192.00        5.61     0.00
CN-PE-3619      1998  MINISTRY OF FINANCE             2ND INLAND WATERWAYS          123.00         0.00      0.00       123.00        18.50     0.00
CN-PE-36414    1998  CHINA                            GUANGXI URBAN ENV.              72.00       20.00       0.00        88.83       -1.20     0.00
CN-PE-36949   1998  PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA   NAT.NWY 3-HUBEI                     250.00         0.00      0.00       242.00       12.00      0.00
CN-PE-40185   1998  PRC                               SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT            95.00        0.00      0.00         92.00      21.75      0.00
CN-PE-45788    1998  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN   TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                 230.00         0.00      0.00       230.00       39.70      0.00
CN-PE-46563    1998  PRC                              TARIM BASIN II                  90.00       60.00       0.00       140.76        5.11     0.00
CN-PE-46952   1998  PRC                               FOREST. DEV. POOR AR          100.00      100.00       0.00       200.81         8.50    17.00
CN-PE-49700   1998  PRC                               IAIL-2                        300.00         0.00       0.00       280.00        3.30     0.00
CN-PE-51736   1998  GQC                               E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR          250.00         0.00       0.00       250.00       92.38     0.00
CN-PE-56491    1998  PRC                              HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                 0.00       28.40       0.00        10.66       -9.81     0.00
CN-PE-34081    1997  PRC                              XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II          430.00         0.00       0.00      331.51        89.27     0.00
CN-PE-3590      1997  PRC                             QINBA MTS. POVTY RED            30.00      150.00       0.00       148.35       23.88     0.00
CN-PE-3635      1997  PRC                             VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ            10.00       20.00       0.00        15.19        1.30     0.00
CN-PE-3637      1997  PRC                             NATL RUR WATER III               0.00       70.00       0.00        62.10       10.38     0.00
CN-PE-36405   1997  PRC                               WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA          400.00         0.00      0.00       320.09         5.08     0.00
CN-PE-3643      1997  PRC                             XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II          300.00         0.00       0.00       230.72       57.72     0.00
CN-PE-3650      1997  GOC                             TUOKETUO POWER/INNER          400.00         0.00       0.00       394.61     137.17      0.00
CN-PE-3654      1997  PRC                             HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2          400.00         0.00       0.00       336.64       86.62     0.00
CN-PE-36952   1997  PRC                               BASIC ED. IV                     0.00       85.00       0.00        41.37     -26.19      0.00
CN-PE-38988    1997  PRC                              HEILONGJIANG ADP               120.00        0.00       0.00        93.02        8.38     0.00
CN-PE-44485    1997                                   SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO           400.00         0.00       0.00       400.00       53.05     0.00
CN-PE-34618    1996  PRC                              LABOR MARKET DEV.               10.00       20.00       0.00        24.00       22.16     0.00
CN-PE-3507      1996  GOC                             ERTAN HYDRO II                400.00         0.00       0.00        25.23     -22.55      0.00
CN-PE-3563      1996  PRC                             ANIMAL FEED                   150.00         0.00       0.00       138.78      110.45    18.79
CN-PE-3569      1996  P.R.C.                          SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI          260.00         0.00       7.75       110.73       32.49    22.50
CN-PE-3589      1996  PRC                             DISEASE PREVENTION               0.00      100.00       0.00        69.06       58.11     0.00
CN-PE-3594      1996  PRC                             GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR             60.00       90.00       0.00       125.65       26.19     0.00
CN-PE-3599      1996  YUNNAN PROV. GOV.               YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT             125.00       25.00       0.00       139.13       18.15     0.00
CN-PE-3602      1996  PRC                             HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO          125.00        25.00       0.00       123.98       76.31     0.00
CN-PE-3638      1996  PRC                             SEEDS SECTOR COMNER.            80.00       20.00       0.00        80.15       27.70     0.00
CN-PE-3646      1996  PRC                             CHONGQING IND POL CT           170.00        0.00     77.99         91.22     102.45      0.00
CN-PE-3648      1996  SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT              SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE           250.00        0.00       0.00       157.96       76.95     0.00
CN-PE-3649      1996  CHINA                           SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV             0.00      100.00       0.00        34.56       -8.05     0.00
CN-PE-3652      1996  PRC                             2ND SNAANXI PROV HWY          210.00         0.00       0.00       139.29       51.28     0.00
CN-PE-36950    1996  PRC                              BASIC ED. POOR III               0.00      100.00       0.00        11.93     -20.76      0.00
CN-PE-40513    1996  PRC                              2ND HENAN PROV HWY            210.00         0.00       0.00       175.14       51.14     0.00
CN-PE-3493      1995  PRC                             INLAND WATERWAYS              420.00         0.00       0.00       275.02       -9.54     0.00
CN-PE-3571      1995  PRC                             RAILWAYS VII                  400.00         0.00     29.00        344.67     201.66    -2.97
CN-PE-3585      1995  GOC                             SHENYANG IND. REFORM          175.00         0.00       0.00        97.54       49.74     0.00
CN-PE-3596      1995  PRC                             YANGTZE BASIN WATER            100.00      110.00       0.00        35.28      -12.19     0.00
CN-PE-3598      1995                                  LIAONING ENVIRONMENT           110.00        0.00       0.00        70.21       58.65     0.00
CN-PE-3600      1995  PRC                             TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME           200.00        0.00       0.00       125.74       43.65     0.00
CN-PE-3603      1995  PRC                             ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE           275.00       75.00     20.00        199.84      155.96     7.94
CN-PE-36041    1995  MOF                              FISCAL & TAX REF. 8             50.00       25.00       0.00        66.31       41.61     0.00
CN-PE-3612      1995  PRC                             XINJIANG HIGHWAY I             150.00        0.00       0.00        47.85       37.86     0.00
CN-PE-3634      1995  PRC                             MATERNAL CHILD HEALT             0.00       90.00       0.00        18.42        8.84     0.00
CN-PE-3636      1995  PRC                             BASIC EDUC IN POOR &             0.00      100.00       0.00         3.39       -1.46     0.00
CN-PE-3639      1995  PRC                             SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC            95.00      200.00       0.00       143.78       32.70     0.00
CN-PE-3642      1995                                  ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT           400.00         0.00       0.00       136.50      -44.02     0.00
CN-PE-3647      1995  PRC                             ECONOMIC LAW REFORM              0.00       10.00       0.00         5.51        5.59     0.00
CN-PE-36947    1995  GOC                              SICHUAN TRANSMISSION          270.00         0.00       0.00       132.50      119.80    80.99
CN-PE-37156   1995  PRC                               IODINE DEF. DISORDER             7.00       20.00       7.00         1.01       11.57     -.19
CN-PE-3502      1994  MOH                             RUR HEALTH MANPOWER              0.00      110.00       0.00        29.62       24.07     0.00
CN-PE-3504      1994  PRC                             HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL          380.00         0.00       0.00        48.65       15.63     0.00
CN-PE-3540      1994  PRC                             LOESS PLATEAU                    0.00      150.00       0.00        27.96      -23.21     0.00
CN-PE-3557      1994  PRC                             FOREST RESOURCE DEV              0.00      200.00       0.00        40.47       13.01   -32.36



86
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions               and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                          disbursements a/
Project ID    Year             Borrower                   Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancell-    Undis-       Orig         Frm
ations     bursed                  Rev'd
CN-PE-3562     1994  PRC                             XIAOLANGDI                    460.00        0.00      0.00           .83        .83      0.00
MULTIPURPOSE
CN-PE-3586    1994  PRC                              SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT          160.00        0.00       0.00       62.73       57.29      0.00
CN-PE-3593     1994  PRC                             SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP              0.00      205.00      0.00        25.39      -12.80      0.00
CN-PE-3595    1994  PRC                              RED SOILS II DEVELOP            0.00      150.00      0.00        40.36       16.45      0.00
CN-PE-3609    1994  GOC                              SICHUAN GAS DEV &             255.00        0.00      0.00       122.62       71.13      0.00
CONSERVATION
CN-PE-3622    1994  SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT          SHANGHAI MTP II               150.00        0.00      0.00         7.36        7.37      0.00
CN-PE-3626    1994  GOC                              FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY           140.00        0.00      0.00        58.63       36.62      8.35
CN-PE-3633     1994  GOVERNMENT OF PRC               TELECOMMUNICATIONS            250.00        0.00     30.00        15.27       45.27      0.00
CN-PE-3641     1994  PRC                             YANGZHOU THERMAL POW          350.00        0.00       0.00       74.09       57.77      0.00
CN-PE-3644     1994  PRC                             XIAOLANGDI                      0.00      110.00       0.00       25.56        8.87      0.00
RESETTLEMENT
CN-PE-3473    1993  P.R.C.                           ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES            0.00      110.00      0.00        19.79       19.17      0.00
CN-PE-3512     1993  GOVT OF PEOPLES REP. OF C   SHANGHAI PORT REST.               150.00        0.00     25.74         3.88       29.10      2.86
CN-PE-3518     1993  PRC                             GUANGDONG PROV.               240.00        0.00       0.00         2.08       -.94      0.00
TRANSPORT
CN-PE-3533     1993                                  TIANJIN IND. II               150.00        0.00     40.35        13.59       44.43      7.93
CN-PE-3559     1993  PRC                             AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI            0.00      115.00      0.00        10.41       -1.50      0.00
CN-PE-3561     1993  PRC                             SICHUANT ADP                    0.00      147.00       0.00         5.49       0.00      0.00
CN-PE-3567     1993  PRC                             EFFECTIVE TEACHING S            0.00      100.00       0.00         9.59       7.98      8.04
CN-PE-3570     1993  PRC                             RAILWAY VI                    420.00        0.00       0.00        94.61      93.62      0.00
CN-PE-3580     1993  PRC                             SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON.           250.00        0.00       0.00         4.15       -.31      0.00
PROTECT.
CN-PE-3581    1993  PRC                              HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT         120.00        0.00      0.00          9.59       9.60      0.00
CN-PE-3592     1993  PRC                             REF. INST'L.& PREINV            0.00       50.00       0.00       18.47       18.48      0.00
CN-PE-3597     1993  PRC                             TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO          100.00      100.00       0.00       47.43       43.08      0.00
CN-PE-3616     1993  PRC                             TIANHUANGPING HYDRO           300.00        0.00      0.00        65.95       49.37      0.00
CN-PE-3623     1993  PRC                             FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A            0.00       60.00       0.00        19.16      16.21      0.00
CN-PE-3627     1993  PRC                             GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P          325.00      165.00       0.00      325.46      322.19    86.20
CN-PE-3632     1993  ROC                             ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS            0.00       50.00      0.00        10.71       11.06       .03
CN-PE-3503    1992                                   ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE          310.00        0.00      0.00          7.79       7.80      0.00
CN-PE-3534     1992  PRC                             ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP          220.00        0.00       0.00       19.91       19.92    12.42
CN-PE-3564     1992  BEIJING MUNICIPALITY            BEIJING ENVIRONMENT            45.00       80.00       0.00        25.28      20.02      8.32
CN-PE-3565     1992                                  SHANGHAI METRO TRANS            0.00       60.00       1.69         1.32       -.08      0.00
CN-PE-3568     1992  R.O.C.                          TIANJIN URB DEV & EN            0.00      100.00       0.00        18.33      15.24    -2.50
CN-PE-3624     1992  MIN. OF PUBL.HEALTH             INFECTIOUS DISEASES             0.00      129.60       0.00        31.49      26.83    26.79
Total                                                                           14,868.40   3,995.61    239.52   10,014.74   3,002.08   270.14
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               8,558.59           12,529.50           21,088.09
of which has been repaid:                  73.75            2,515.23            2,588.98
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              18,550.68            9,648.52           28,199.20
Amount sold                                        0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :           10,014.74               21.95           10,036.69
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.



87
Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of Feb. 28, 1999
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1987/92/94            China Bicycles          8.50    3.39    0.00    0.00    8.50    3.39    0.00    0.00
1993                  Shenzhen PCCP           3.76      .99    0.00    0.00    3.76     .99    0.00    0.00
1993                  Yantai Cement          13.51    1.95    0.00    7.22   13.51    1.95    0.00    7.22
1994                  China Walden JV         0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.53    0.00    0.00
1994                  China Walden Mgt        0.00     .01    0.00    0.00    0.00      .01    0.00    0.00
1994                  Dalian Glass           20.50    2.40    0.00   40.50   20.50    2.40    0.00   40.50
1994                  Dynamic Fund            0.00   12.35    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.08    0.00    0.00
1994/97               PTP Leshan             12.20    1.00    0.00   16.00   12.20    1.00    0.00   16.00
1995                  Dupont Suzhou          23.36    4.15    0.00   46.80   23.36    4.15    0.00   46.80
1995                  Newbridge Inv.          0.00    7.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.89    0.00    0.00
1995                  Suzhou PVC             22.00    2.48    0.00   22.20   22.00    2.48    0.00   22.20
1996                  Beijing Hornel          5.00      .50    0.00    5.50    5.00     .50    0.00    5.50
1996                  Jingyang               40.00    0.00    0.00  100.00   40.00    0.00    0.00  100.00
1996                  Nanjing Kumho          16.00    3.81    0.00   45.50   13.63    3.81    0.00   38.75
1996                  Tianjin Kumho          11.17    0.00    0.00   33.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Weihai Weidongri        4.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.11    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Ningbo                  0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Orient Finance         13.33    0.00    0.00   16.67   13.33    0.00    0.00   16.67
1997                  PTP Hubei              12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38   10.96    0.00    0.00   22.04
1997                  Rabobank PTPC           2.40    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Caltex Ocean           21.00    0.00    0.00   45.00   13.68    0.00    0.00   29.32
1998                  Chengxin-IBCA           0.00     .36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Pacific Ports           0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00
1998                  Rabobank SHFC           2.75    0.00    0.00    2.75    2.25    0.00    0.00    2.25
1998                  Zhen Jing               0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  232.22   54.22    0.00  408.92  206.79   45.82    0.00  347.25
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  CHENGDU                 7.40    3.20    0.00    8.60
CHEMICAL
1997                  CHINEFARGE             12.80    0.00    0.00   20.00
1998                  EURECA                  0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  JIANGSU COLINE          6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  LESHAN SCANA            6.10    1.35    0.00    0.00
1997                  NISSAN/DONGFENG    20.20    0.00    0.00   27.00
1998                  ORIENT FIN A INC        3.33    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  PTP HOLDINGS            0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1998                  SHANGHAI KRUPP         30.00    0.00    0.00   78.44
1997                  SMC                     14.00    0.00    0.00   14.00
1996                  TIANJiN                 9.10    0.00    0.00    9.10
1998                  WUHAN CIG               0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1998                  WUHAN PORT              5.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
1998                  XIB                    50.00   20.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  ZHEJIANG COLINE         6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  ZHEN JING               4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         175.43   30.55    0.00  162.14



88
Annex 12: Country at a Glance
east   Lower.
POVE-RTY and SOCAL.                                           Aela &   Mlcldle~                     --         -- -
Chilna    PcifIc  income       Oeeopnunt duaivmo
1997
Populatin, mid-year (millions)                     I,22712     1,753     2,282    ILife expectancy
GNP per capita(Atlas mefho  L$)                       860       970      1,230
GNP (Atlies method, US$ billions)                  1. 455.4    1,07      2,818
Avernge annual groweth 1001497
Population (%)                           1.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'L  1.3   ~ 12
Popule- m                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~GNP                    Gross
Labor force(%                                          .         1A4       1        erpna
most recent estmate (Latestyw  vial,.16  7                                         capita                       enrollment
Poverfy %0 ofopuiatlon bMo   natonJ povety line)        7
Urban population (% of iota p"owuaIn                   32        32        42
Life expectancy at birth (YaOs)                        70        68.       69 
Infart mortalitylperl,OOOllve bi,ths)                  32        38        36
Childmi rnutritOn (% of children under 5)              16o       is          -               Aocceato safe water
Access to safe water (% olpopulatlod)                  90         84        84
Illiteracy (feo oulto  g 15+)                          19         17       1
Gross pnmaryentroln,ent (%fscho/a apopulaion)         120       118       114Chn
Male                                        :       121       120       116               Lower-mlddle-1ncome rop
Female                                              120       119       113~
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TeRM TR1NDS
ituG    10986      4)96      1907      .-.....   ..
Economic ratloa
GDP (US$ billons)                           1516    295.7      616.5    902.
Gross domeatic inives"tatiGop               27.9      37.       39.6      38.2                     Trade
Exports of goods anid serv',ic/op,           5.0; ~ 12.2        21.0      23,0
Gross domestc savngs/GOP                    28.5      38.2:     41,7      42.7
Gros niatIonl Sam'ngs/GVP                    28.5 -36.3         40.4      41A4
Current account balance(GOP                  0.2    .2.5        0&.9.      3.2     DomestiInetmn
Intterest paymentsGOP                          ..     0.2        OA6       0.6     +aignvsmn
Total debt/GDP                                 ..     8.        15.8      16.3     Saig
Tota debt serviceiexxorts                      ..      90        87        8.8
Presentvalue ofdebtlGDP                        ..       .                 14.9
Present value of debtexports                   ..       .          .      62.7
.1           ~~~~Indebtedness
11)76-816  1987.971    1996   11997~ 108.02
GOP                                 9,3      10.1      9.8       8.8        *.        -hn
GNP per capita                      8.3       8.       8.7       7.4    ..Lower-middle-income gwup
Expors of goodwsad evices          18.8      10.6     *5.6      27.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1988      1998      1997      Growth rates of output andlinvetment(%
(% of GDP)                                                                         3
AgrIculture                                  32.8     27.1      20.4      18.7
Industry                                    45.4      44.0      49.6      49.2 
Manufacturing                              29.5     35.5      37.8      37.3     .11
Services                                     21.7     28.9      30.1      32.1    a0 
Private consumption                          64.0     51.4      46.7      45.7            92   93   94   94   es   97
General government consunmption               7.5    13.4       1 1.6     11.6                     GD1    ---GDP
imports of goods and services                4.5      14.7      18.9      18.5
(average annual growth)       ~~~~~~1976-86  1987-97  1996     1997      Growth rates of exports and nImports I%) 
Agriculture                                   6.0      4.4       5.1       3.5 
Industry                                     11.0     13.8      12.1      1 0.8     a      I
Manufacturing                              12.8     13.3       1 1.6     9.9
Services                                     12.0      8.7       7.9       8.3
Private consumption                           9.3      8.8      11.1       6.2    10
General government consumption                9.4      9.9       9.6       8.2            92    93    .    e           9
Gross domestic investment                   '10.85    1 1.2      8.2       5.8  69
Imports ot goods and services               22.5      12.8       5.9      13.1               -Exports   ----mports
Gross national product                        9.8      9.9       9.8       8.5
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Econiomics central database.
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its incomne-group average. If data are missing,
the diamond will be incomplete.



89
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986      1996      1997     Infladon (%)
Domes21c prices                                                                 3
(% change)                                                                      2°
Consumer prices                               ..     6.5       9.4       7.9    20
Implicit GDP deflator                        4.0     4.6       5.9       1.2    is
Is
Government finance 1
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                    o ,
Currentrevenue                                ..    24.0       11.4     12.0            92   93   94   95   95   97
Current budget balance                        ..     5.6       0.6       0.6            -     GDP deflator   *-CPI
Overall surplusdefdicit                       ..    -1.8       -1.5     -1.5
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                            1976    1986       1996     1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  30,942   151,066  182,696    2Om
Food                                        ..   4,448    10,232   11,054
Fuel                                        ..   3,683      5,929    6,987    150,040
Manufactures                                 ..  19,670   129,141  158,767
Total imports (ci)                            ..  42,904   138,838  142,361    100,000
Food                                        ..   2,002      7,866    6,308     soo 
Fuel and energy                              ..    504      6,877   10,306
Capital goods                                ..  20,415    59,610   57,930         o
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      66         ..91  92  93  94  9   s
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      69        ..        ..                mExports      a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mit lions)                            1976    1986       1996     1997      Cu aent ccount balance to GDP ratI (%)
Exports of goods and servkes               7,383   29,583   171,700  207,253     4 T
Imports ofgoods and services              7,125   37,472   154,100  166,755
Resource balance                            258   -7,889    17,600   40,498      2
Net income                                    0      176   -12,370  -16,900DF    F                  F         F
Net current transfers                         0      255      1,922    4,660      |
91   92   5    4   95  94  97
Current account balance                     258   -7,458     7,152   29,258      2             -
Financing Iterns (net)                        ..   5,410    28,248    6,599
Changes in net reserves                       ..   2,048   -35,400  -35,857     41
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (USS millions)        ..  16,417   111,728  146,448
Conversion rate (DEC, locaJUS$)              1.9     3.5        8.3      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    19U6      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                   CompotIOn of total debt, 1997 (USS mililons)
Total debt outstanding and dlsbursef          ..  23,719   128,817  146,697
IBRD                                        ..    965      7,616    8,239
IDA                                                774     7,579    7,30             G: 31       A: 23: 7,830
Total debt service                            ..   2,974    15,756   18,445                                 0: 2,904
IBRD                                        ..      66       840      858
IDA                                         ..       8        73       81                                   E: 20,782
Composrtion of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..    155        249      228
Official creditors                          ..   1,165     4,401     4,315
Private creditors                           ..   3,693     6,454    8,134
Foreign direct investment                   ..   1,875    40,180   44,236
Portfolio eaquity                           ..       0     3,466    8,457                  'F: 75,478
World Bank programn
Commitments                                 ..   1,120     1,900    2,425      A -.8RD                     E - Eilaterat
Disbursements                               ..    607      2,097    2,275      8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F. Private
Princpal repaymens                          ..       0       364      377      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Nd tows                                     ..    607       1.734    1,898
Interest payments                          ..       75       549      562
Ntransfbrs                                  ..    532      1,185    1,335
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                   1126t99



. IBRD 30158~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR 05
SE_COND LOESS PLATEAU10°lo                                                                               1                                ,_,FDRTO   
WATERSH-ED REHABILITATION PROJECT                    M                       LIA,oi2s                                                          MiOf4NGOLIA       -  h      ,f 
ELClESS PLATEAU 11 PROJECT to,,*WN   ,, _, Su
LOS PLTA IQ_._ PRJET''',-_, .'%
-S?s.  '                                  S      , -,           sW                   /\,, -    5               F >i>' F    _"2  
'~~~~~~j  PROINC CAPITALS                                                                                                                          4tii H
NATIONAL CAPITANL>                                                 '     <  >     0A           s  a        .         ,             H   N D    N   
G~~.\>D./&X9         vQ9re f',EAT W   ALLS :6e:gE
l3di~~~~~ROIC BOUNDARIESN                                                                                                                            j[
or sny cnd rsemene or *   0   qlo   21   3:S   hL0Mis      Sf CHONGO   N    it--        HUB    I                    n    ,   fy-J     }%    H EBEI
93'   \,   102'   106'   ,,/  J  ffignd  3  110" X I:X\ S ? p lid' sHANGZHO APRIL1983!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e



110'         111'                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~112'         113'                          14'                         115'
CHINA 
SECOND LOESS PLATEAU
WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                     C'taOt 
SHANXI PROVINCE                                         0E
HUAIREN                       GUANGUNG 
HUINYUAN           V      -
UINOUIUAI ~          UNQI
HE-  USHECH                                                       FANSHI
so'                     ..9'    j~~~~~~                                      ~    ~~, >-'_WITZAN 
LOESS PLATEAU II PROJECT COUNTIES
EAN     NINGWU                                                      - 'T7,  LOESS PLATEAU. I PROJECT COUNTIES
~~~<~~~>   $"'  -">~~~~~~~~~~~  ,~~~~"' ~~~0   SELECTED TOWNS
-   / A   ~~~~~~~                  Xinzhou   SI~~~~~~~~NGXJANGON   ---PIEOVINCE CAPITAL
/    2'                         '   H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XNZHOU' '0__   GREAT WALL
LANXIAN      JINGLE                     K ,                                       COUNTIY (XN JBOUNDAIrES
-                                    TITIAN                      - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARlIES
4'     7 -"N,        -,           -t         ~~~~~~YANOCII 
UNTLAN  - FAN     GO~~: TAITUAN                       '3' YANGQOUANJ~
SHOUTANG            PI NGDING
SHAANXI    ,,N                                                                     o                          YN 
[LISH      WENS5HUI                                                    YN
HUSH                                     ~~~~~~~~                                   ~          ~~~~~TAIGU  41HE E
/      ZHONGYANG          FENY4N0 /                         YUTANHE,IL,
-37~~~~                                       xi O              IZUOGUAN
-JIAOKOU         ;;     i'tK 
NI1   INYUAN            WOXOlG'
2040   - 'SITIANXIQlXIA,,
A'   r  i?HOZHOU                 ONIN                  HCHENG¼.-
ITANGYUAN 
T~,ANING    ~   P25141A
'~~~' ~~~~  ' ~~   HCNFD GO                          TUINIIU   CAGN
A'    '<  '                  020142~~~~~~GMA                 C NGSUNN
IUTAN>y/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SI                               PINGSHN'
/  7//AX,  '"  N  LUNFEN 0                       ANZE
X IANQrEN       FUSHAN                                     004 
WENSI  <    ----->   YAFL~OCNHEINOSO
ONCHENO                                                                                                        «-I~~_/QjW    YI4NG0FEEATO
PINOLNSINGCHUA
1 t>CYONGJI-'               U
HO     ~              HEA
TINJ    ETEG ____AGN 'iMONGO A
to'                                       112'                                                    i700~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JNCEG H
WANRONG                              YA-CHEN__                      __       __           _     __        _



RUSSIAN                                        108-                          iw           110-                  UP
IEDIRATION                                                        CHINA
SECOND LOESS PLATEAU
MONGOIJA                                      WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
SHAANXI PROVINCE                                      FLJGU
"t"o
LOESS PLATEAU 11 PROJECr COUNTIES
LOESS PLATEA
39                   u I PIZQJFCT COUNTIES
5HENMU
SELECTED TOWNS
PROVINCE CAPITAL
GREAT WALL
COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
PROV11'4CE BOUNDARIE
-p
. . .. . . . . . .
hfUBEI
106-                  107-                                                                         H I
dd-k
Su
Vi
jiNGBIAN
ZA                                                 ZICHANG   11" QINGJI
37'
3                                                                   WUQI
NINGXIA                                                                                          YANCH'JAN
V                                                                              SHANXI
111DAN
76
GANSN
41      N,
rJXIAN                                             36-
GANSU
lUANGING            'HUANGLONG,HANGHEN
Y]JUN       N,   z
BAISHJI
'VI   7'ANG
35                           aia                                                                               5                            35-
v:                                                           -aiuxK,
0,NGXIAll   t                                                 '-,JCJHENG
L NYOU                            FINN-
WEINAN
SA021     '-F-INCKANG,                                                   HU-IN
TOM
z
--k -x,                                                                      ENAN
'-\MJE kA
31                                                                                              ANT AN             I-DNAN
4                 I
FENG
TAiGA          ZI 0,,                             4,                        f M",
/f
p,
DANFENG
ZHASHU
-AN-                                                                           /     SHANYAIIG             ,GN
ZINIA,N                                      AN
Y-NG
A"INN                                                                                                  A-
n   gm.,      gn ..N
-+ZHC                                  >
'H                  L-A
33
GOIANG                                                                    XJNIAING
XXANG
NANZHENG
Z'
ANKANG
__n MM --                                                                 SAHE
A
ZHENBA
ZIYANG
PINGU                        HUBEI
SICHUAN                           l                   )
LAN GAO
,M-
32'                                                                                              r
0     25    50   75                                                                                                               32- -
ZJiENPING U5                                    E.
io,                     107,                    108-



IBED 30161
94'              9~~~~~~                                                    ~~6 '.  lOW  E                    1O4                    lO 10S'                                           us'
-.               -.MONGOLIACHN
-, -..    ~~        '-                  SECOND LOESS PLATEAU
V                                                        -.               ~~~~~~~~~~~WATERSH ED REHABI LITATION PROJECT
-42'                                                                                                                                                                             GAINSU PROVINCE
(Ad-nrnnrd
XINJIANG                                     une
-,  D,Eei) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~LOESS PLATEAU II PROJECT COUNTIES
9                                                                                                                    /    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOESS PLATEAU IPROJECT COUNTIES  40-
/                    .r""K                                                                                    /           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 S~ELETDTOWNS
/               ~~~~~~ANXI                                          P/OIC CAPITAL
DUNHUANG  -                         j~~~~~~~~~~'11uquQ~~~JI 4,                     NEI MO)NGOL                                                          -.-COUNTY (SEAN) BOUNDARIES
D69h40990                                                                                                   9            -   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIRS
/  AKES0'                                        -                                                       "'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/0T      .                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
AKE AlMENGGLUZU                                                                                                         Ul/NI~S
nrnrDurn ~      X  ANGY   ~          - 
I                   4.    r~~~~~~~~~~~~~.o                  90I
COUNFI LS                                    S  A            u4                                        IG       I
-3:    0     510   lOT    150                                2 ADII%1'IS]TEEILE UNDER DLJI ANI~,                                UK 
I  I  I                                                                                                                                               1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN IA C
KILOMETERS                                                                                                  ']IN3jIEHAG  N *-  %4  1 
4 YONGCHANG                                        TAN'ZNL U                                                  211'%SHAANXI
8 AL3EEiNIDS EkED)UNDELR-INGYUAN                            DDu         /                                               /        .,
6 ADMINSINEl REDUNDEE2 RAYINLAOI
9.0 .4'n.e~~~~Rn 4.4 n....,.nun.hR...n..         8 DUD.N'cII`NG        <'YOEN(EL,UNI,                                                 LIu P,IE
96'                      11~ GADAIAN-in 
RUSSEAN        ~         ~        E            2UDLDND1                                     l G      A           LNHU              ~       -3
FEDERAnON                                       3( D  UA IGEr                                  /''EN                             UU
MONOOuIA  -                         SW   U WOYIAN                         ED                           ..J Dl' D   ~   >190HDDEEN,F                            4n!N.)  A
LIN08  2  ~~~~~~~  13 DR/AKIN                                                    n                     ELI~~~~~~~Jl 
'~~~'~~  -  7   ~~718 IENG/N                                                                                      uPrIlEl      '
MOGOI                                                                                                                                      (;XIo~    I(IN-/N~  4  fo
4V~~~ 1*696  3D D~GINIE/IEIUA                                                                       OMIDI
£ -       1        i~~~~~~~, ZON                        2               N/NNJI-U                                                                                    ID l
7'  747                      Mn nr   NE               2' GEE/ID                               - tN   *~~~~        ,P  10J1PNDINGJIAIHIA      1 E'A     NI/        IJL
N,,                     33 ENEDIZIDN~~~~~~~llAl                                      4.           4A ''OT0,34ND
\I2NNIOINgtt  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j4OII - 
3D CHIENEG
LAODDIETNAM   'G,rM'evonG  TAN          DDDDHn25 IA,1C,-ANi1SC/J A                                                               DA[ C   NXAN,I   ~        N ,
P66L~~~UES          PR'~?                                          I IIA -l X 
'19 ING( HUP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~API19



IBRD 30162
RUSSIAN                                   ?z i                      1                                                                                 116.                       1120-                      1 .1
FEDERATION
-V                                                                             CHINA
fil WN
3
r
SECOND LOESS PLATEAU
MONGOLIA
g                                          WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
NEI MONGOL PROVINCE
CpNul u                                                                              LOESS PLATEAU 11 PROJECT COUNTIES
LOE5S PLATEAU I PROJECT COUNTIES                                        RUSSIAN
FEDERATION
0    SELECTED TOWNS
0
1                                   HUN
PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                             MANZHOUL                <
i                               WNC
COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                  CHEN8A-ERHU
INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES
41
COUNTIES:
j                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MOLIDAWA
1. WULATE- IAN            2. X NGHE                                                                                                                  DAWO'ERZU
DA
EWENKE
x                                                            2.
BAOTOUQ                 3 FENGZHEN
3. TUMOTE-YOU            14. CHAHA'F.R YOUYISHONG
100-                                          4 TUMOTE-ZUO              15. CHAHA-FR-YOUYIZHOU
5. TUOKETUO              16. X ANGHUANG
6. HELINGE'E'            7'ZHENGXIANGBAI                                                                                               HEILONGJIANG
HUHEHAOT                8. ZHENGLAN
4AN,                                                                                         8LIANGCHENG                  DONGSHENG
9. ZH                    20 WUYUAN
I0. JINING                21, LINHE
u                                                                                           i1. CHAHA, ER-YOUYIQIAN    22. HANGJIN-HOU                                             GWUZHUMUOIN
23. DENGKOU
q 044        HUOLINGUOLE -4
Z                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UAN
XIWUZHUM                                      ERQIN YOUYIZHONG
MONGOLIA                                                               SUNITE-ZUO                                               I 0- \-                   2       KE-ERGI    JILIN
ERLIA                                  GA                                                                       ZUOYIZHONG
-bl,                        Q,  N
NI-AOTE) "'                            XLINHOA.IT
TONGLIAO
TE
EiiNA
uy,.,                             KESH KETEN
Z                                                                                     17
L
0-                                                                                                                            SIZIWANG
4
GANS                                                                        WULAT OU                                                                                 DUO
2 02jt
ALASHAN-YOU                                22,021)                                       141 5
3                                                              10
11                                                              LIAONING
LA5HAN_ZUO
WUHAI
5                          1 2
M-'H V-1
3
ETUOKE
QINGHAI                                                                                                                                                   iiIJING
HE
41
0   50  100  150  200  2
A                                                                       HEBEI                                                           KJILCIMETERS
--p
-dd-k
t .11:;:.=,n5t mf--                                          if                                                   SHANXI
-W-k
NIN                                                     112                                IW                                 1                                   T24
APRIL 1999



