Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3222 CHA 
LOAN NUMBER 4477 CHA
Project Agreement
(Second Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GANSU PROVINCE INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION SHAANXI PROVINCE SHANXI PROVINCE
Dated September 17, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3222 CHA 
LOAN NUMBER 4477 CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 17, 1999, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), 
and GANSU PROVINCE, INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION, SHAANXI PROVINCE and SHANXI 
PROVINCE (the Project Provinces).
WHEREAS:  (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association (the Development Credit 
Agreement), the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR36,900,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Project Provinces agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount equal to one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Project 
Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Association’s entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank’s entering into 
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, 
respectively) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, wherever used in 
this Agreement (except in Section 5.04 hereof and in Part A.2 of Section I and Section 
II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement), references to the Association, the Credit and the 
Credit Account shall also be deemed to be references to the Bank, the Loan and the 
Loan Account, respectively,
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, environmental and agricultural practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required therefor.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each Project Province shall carry 
out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each of the Project Provinces shall carry out the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 
of the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of its Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions referred to in 
Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement and without limitation 
thereto, each of the Project Provinces shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Association and 
such Project 
Province, a plan for the future operation of its Respective Part 
of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with such 
Project Province on said plan.
Section 2.04.  (a) Each of the Project Provinces shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Each of the Project Provinces shall promptly inform the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or 
Page  3
the performance of its respective obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces shall maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the carrying out of its Respective 
Part of the Project.
(b)
Each of the Project Provinces shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of 
its financial statements for such 
year as so audited, and (B) the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and  
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association may 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Project Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates: 
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall have terminated in accordance with their 
terms; or 
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify the Project Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement or under the General 
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
Page  4
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C., 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Gansu:
Gansu Provincial Finance Bureau
616 West Donggang Road
Lanzhou 730000
Gansu
People's Republic of China
For Inner Mongolia:
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region Finance Bureau
Xi Hua Street, No. 1
Huhhot 010050
Inner Mongolia
People's Republic of China
For Shaanxi:
Shaanxi Provincial Finance Bureau
Bing Jiao Lane No.13 
Xi’an 710002 
Shaanxi
People's Republic of China
For Shanxi:
Shanxi Provincial Finance Bureau
Yingze Street 345
Taiyuan 030001
Shanxi
People's Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Project 
Province may be taken or executed by the Governor or any Vice Governor of such Project 
Province or such other person or persons as said Governor or such Vice Governor shall 
designate in writing, and the Project Provinces shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Page  5
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 5.04.  As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to the 
Project Provinces and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have 
terminated prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of the Project Provinces to consult with, and to furnish 
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be 
satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the 
Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, the Project Provinces shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are 
fulfilled by the Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative
GANSU PROVINCE
INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION
SHAANXI PROVINCE
SHANXI PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this  Section I .
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of goods or works to be financed in whole or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of 
the Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to "Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part D of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 2.
The following provision shall 
Page  6
apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (except for 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region).
Part C:
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part D of this Section, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods
National Shopping
Goods (other than livestock and vehicles) estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000 
equivalent, and livestock, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Works 
(a)
Procurement of Small Works
Except as provided in paragraph 2(b) of this Part, works under Parts A and B of 
the Project estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
(b)
Force Account and Community Participation
Works under Parts A(1)(a)(i) and A(2) of the Project and estimated to cost less 
than $10,000 per assignment, which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000 in the aggregate, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be carried out by force account in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines or by the use of 
community members hired in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more and (ii) each contract for works under Part A or B of 
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set 
Page  7
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to (i) each contract for livestock estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, (ii) each contract for works under Part A of the 
Project estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent, but not less than $100,000 
equivalent, and (iii) the first three contracts for works under Part A of the Project 
to be procured in accordance with the provisions of Part D.2(a) (Procurement of Small 
Works) of this Section I, in each of two counties selected by the Association at 
random, in each Project Province in each year during the period of Project 
implementation, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the execution of any such contract, the Project Province 
shall 
provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received; and 
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of Section II. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of consultants’ services to be financed in 
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 
and 1.8 of the Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C: 
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part B of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for training and study tours which are estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
Page  8
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01(b) 
of this Agreement.
Part A:
Project Management
1.
Each Project Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained, throughout the 
period of Project implementation:
(a)
a project leading group at the provincial level and in each prefecture 
and each county included in its Respective Part of the Project, each with composition 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Association, to formulate Project-related 
policies, coordinate among relevant agencies and provide overall guidance on 
implementation of its Respective Part of the Project; and
(b)
a project management office at the provincial level, and a project 
management office in each prefecture and each county included in its Respective Part 
of the Project, each with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Association, staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers, to organize, coordinate 
and implement Project activities at its respective level.
2.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, each Project Province shall:
(a)
prepare, through its PMOs in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the CPMO not later than December 1 in each calendar year, 
for forwarding to the Association in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05(a) 
of the Development Credit Agreement, a work plan and annual budget for the 
implementation of its Respective Part of the Project during the following calendar 
year; and
Page  9
(b)
thereafter, ensure the implementation during said following calendar year 
of such work plan as shall have been approved by the Association.
3.
Each Project Province shall:
(a)
carry out the training and study tours under its Respective Part of the 
Project in accordance with a training and study tour program acceptable to the 
Association; and
(b)
to that end, include in each work plan referred to in Part A.2(a) of this 
Schedule, an annual implementation plan for overseas training and study tours for the 
following calendar year.
Part B:
Land Development and Infrastructure
1.
Each Project Province undertakes to ensure that all land included in Part A of 
the Project shall be leased to households under arrangements acceptable to the 
Association, such arrangements to include a written lease agreement whereby said land 
shall be leased to said households for a duration of at least 30 years.
2.
In order to ensure the safety of all dams to be constructed or upgraded under 
its Respective Part of the Project and their related structures (the Dams), each 
Project Province shall take the following actions in accordance with sound engineering 
practices and on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association: 
(a)
It shall:  (i) undertake periodic reviews of the adequacy of the design 
and construction or upgrading of the Dams; (ii) prepare and furnish to the 
Association, promptly upon the completion of each said review, a report of the results 
of said review, together with any recommended changes to be introduced into the 
design, construction or operation of the Dams; and (iii) thereafter, promptly 
introduce the changes recommended by said report, taking into account the views of the 
Association on the matter.
(b)
It shall:  (i) prepare an operation and maintenance plan and an emergency 
preparedness plan for each Large Dam; (ii) furnish the same to the Association not 
later than six months after the commencement of works in respect of said Dam; (iii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with it on said 
plans; and  (iv) thereafter, promptly adopt said plans, taking into account the views 
of the Association on the matter.
(c)
Upon completion of the works in respect of each Dam, it shall:  (i) 
undertake annual inspections of the Dams under arrangements acceptable to the 
Association, in order to identify any deficiencies in their designs, construction or 
condition or in the quality and adequacy of the maintenance or methods of their 
operation, which may endanger their safety or the safety to downstream life, property 
or activities; and (ii) promptly rectify any such deficiencies.  To this end, it shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association, proposed arrangements for said inspections not 
later than June 30, 2003, and thereafter promptly implement said arrangements, taking 
into account the views of the Association on the matter.
(d)
In order to assist it in undertaking the reviews and inspections referred 
to in this paragraph 2, it shall employ one or more independent experts (or, if the 
Association shall so request, a panel of independent experts), whose terms of 
reference, qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Association.
3.
Each Project Province shall:
(a)
prepare watershed development plans in respect of its Respective Part of 
the Project, which shall include appropriate measures to promote sustainable grazing 
management, all developed in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association; 
and 
(b)
ensure that its PMOs shall give due attention to such measures in the 
annual work plans prepared by it pursuant to Part A.2(a) of this Schedule.
Part C:
Environmental Management; Resettlement
Page  10
1.
Each Project Province shall take and cause to be taken all measures necessary to 
ensure that its Respective Part of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with 
the Environmental Monitoring and Management Plan applicable to its Respective Part of 
the Project.
2.
Each Project Province shall ensure that all works to be carried out under its 
Respective Part of the Project shall be planned in accordance with the objective of 
avoiding, where feasible, any change in land or water use that would result in the 
involuntary loss by persons of shelter, of productive assets or access to productive 
assets, or of income or means of livelihood.  To this end, it shall give due attention 
to said objective in the preparation of annual works plans for its Respective Part of 
the Project pursuant to Part A.2 of this Schedule.  If, during the preparation of any 
such plans, it determines that such change in land or water use would nevertheless be 
unavoidable, it shall take the following actions, and confirm to the Association that 
said actions have been taken, prior to the commencement of any such works:
(a)
It shall:  (i) prepare a resettlement action plan on the basis of 
policies, planning principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria 
acceptable to the Association so as to improve the living standards and production 
levels of said persons; and (ii) if more than 200 persons are involved, furnish said 
plan to the Association for approval.
(b)
It shall carry out such resettlement action plan as shall have been 
prepared pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 2 (and approved by the 
Association, if more than 200 persons are involved).
Part D:
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Each Project Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of its Respective Part of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
Each Project Province shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association and furnish to the Association:
(a)
semi-annual reports, not later than March 15 and September 15 in each 
year, beginning March 15, 2000, summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities 
carried out by it pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Part D in respect of the preceding 
calendar semester, and setting forth the physical and financial progress in the 
implementation of its Respective Part of the Project, both cumulatively, and in 
respect of the said preceding calendar semester;
(b)
an annual report, not later than March 15 in each year, summarizing the 
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to Paragraph 1 of this 
Part D, in respect of the preceding calendar year, and setting forth proposed 
measures, indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to ensure the 
continued implementation of said Project Province’s Respective Part of the Project; 
and
(c)
a mid-term report, not later than September 30, 2001, integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to 
paragraph 1 of this Part D, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of its 
Respective Part of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its 
Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date.
3.
Each Project Province shall promptly review with the Association the reports 
referred to in paragraph 2 of this Part D, and, thereafter, take all measures required 
to ensure the efficient completion of its Respective Part of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter.
Page  11
