Report No. PID6890
Project Name                     China-Loess Plateau Watershed (@+) ...
Rehabilitation Project II
Region                           East Asia
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       CNPE56216
Borrower                         The provinces of Shanxi, Shaanxi, Gansu,
Inner Mongolia
Guarantor                        Government of China
Contact                          Wang Yue, Ministry of Water Resources
Date PID Prepared                September 10,1998
Date PID Revised                 January 8, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           January 18, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 25, 1999
Sector Background
China's Ninth Five Year Plan (1995-2000) places sustained and stable growth in
agriculture and the rural economy at the top of its agenda, and its ambitious
goals include major increases in grain production and farmers incomes. An
important component of this strategy is to improve productivity in rainfed
areas, particularly in the arid and semi-arid zones accounting for 30 percent
of the total arable land. While productivity of China's irrigated areas is
now among the highest in the world, progress in dryland agriculture has lagged
behind. In the Loess Plateau of northwest China, poor resource endowment and
high population pressure, combined with unsustainable agricultural practices,
have resulted in widespread poverty that until recently had resisted any
solutions.
Early efforts to treat the Loess Plateau included campaigns to terrace the
slope lands and to increase the vegetation cover on the plateau, and the
building of thousands of dams to intercept sediment runoff in the gullies.
These measures were aimed primarily at erosion control and little attention
was given by planners or farmers to optimizing agricultural production and
maximizing farm incomes. The Government's development strategy for the Loess
Plateau has been modified in recent years. It now recognizes that soil
conservation is compatible with sustainable and productive agriculture and
that they are mutually reinforcing. Thus, a key element in this strategy is
the comprehensive and integrated planning of individual watersheds.
Project Objectives
The primary objective of the project is to increase agricultural production
and incomes in the Loess Plateau region through a more efficient and
sustainable use of land and water resources in tributaries of the Yellow
Plateau covering the Loess Plateau. A secondary objective, to reduce erosion
and sediment inflows, is achieved by locating the project in parts of the
basin with severe soil erosion. Factors such as poverty level, development
potential, strong leadership and commitment at the local government level were



also considered in the selection of project areas. The project will (a)
create sustainable crop production on high-yielding level farmland and thereby
replace the areas devoted to crops on erodible slope lands, (b) plant the
slope lands to a range of trees, shrubs and grasses for land stabilization and
the production of fuel, timber and fodder, and (c) substantially reduce
sediment runoff from slope lands and gullies.
The feasibility of the projects components, the institutional arrangements,
and the participatory process have been confirmed by the highly successful
implementation of the Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project
(Cr.3540 CHA), under implementation since October, 1994.
Project Description
The project covers 19,500 sq. km in 11 river basins in 37 counties in Shanxi,
Shaanxi, and Gansu Provinces, and the autonomous region of Inner Mongolia.
Generally the poorer counties are selected for the project and, within the
counties, the poorer areas.
Counties and small watersheds were selected for inclusion in the project based
on a variety of criteria. These included soil erosion, poverty level,
experience in soil and water conservation works, development potential and
repayment capacity, strong leadership and commitment at the local government
level and proximity to science and research organizations involved in soil and
water conservation. Also, the intent is to establish activities in a range of
different but typical areas of the Loess Plateau. The large number of
counties included in the project is a reflection of strong demand from county
governments to participate. This will help disseminate the project models
over a wide area.
The project involves a range of crop development and slope protection
activities as summarized below.
2. Project Components
Cropland Development ($120 mn)
Terracing       Slopelands and old, irregular terraces on about 89,500 ha will
be converted to wide, level terraces. Terrace widths range from 5 to 15 meters
depending on slope. Access roads are built as a part of terrace construction.
Terraced land retains water and resists soil erosion. The improved soil and
water regime, and better access for inputs and outputs, give farmers the
opportunity to plant a wider range of crops with much higher yields than on
slopeland.   In a year of average rainfall, grain yields on terraces can reach
two to three times those on slopelands. Since farmers typically store several
years of grain, the high yields in the good years provide insurance for the
drought years. This security in staple grains allows farmers to take steep
slopeland out of grain production and put it into more sustainable use such
as tree and shrub plantations.     Farmers report that level terraces with good
road access require less family labor, and that this gives family members
time for off-farm employment, as well as cultivation of cash crops.
Warping Land    Warping is a term used to denote the creation of land by the
deposition of sediment. In the north of Shanxi province, and in Inner
Mongolia, there are sites where good quality crop land has been reclaimed in
the past by diverting sediment laden flood waters onto wasteland. This
-2 -



process is planned for numerous sites that will total about 2,800 ha.
Sediment control dams    Sediment control dams will be built to retain
sediment, control flooding, create land for crop production, and store
water for irrigation and village water supply. About 150 key dams will be
constructed to control sediment runoff and floods from drainage basins of 3
to 5 sq. km.   About 335 warping dams, about 3-10 m in height, with much
smaller catchment areas, will be built in the gullies of the plateau with the
main purpose of intercepting sediment and creating land. The area to be
formed by key dams will be about 1,500 ha and land formed by warping dams is
expected to reach about 935 ha. It takes about three years for land to be
ready for farming behind warping dams and 8-10 years for key dams.
Gully Stabilization        This consists of :
--small check dams built of rock or brushwood that slow down the flow in the
gullies and prevent undercutting of the gully sides; and
--low dikes and shrubs planted at the heads of gullies to stabilize the gully
head
Irrigation        Irrigation works  will consist of:
-- water-storage tanks (about 34,000) that will be located to catch run off
from roads, and be spaced far enough apart to allow sufficient water
collection; in some areas they may be combined with irrigation for orchards;
--small surface water diversions serving about 1,500 ha; and
--small-scale groundwater irrigation schemes mostly in Inner Mongolia serving
about 3,850 ha
Slopeland Conservation ($88 mn)
The main objective of this component is to increase the vegetation cover and
erosion control capacity in the project watersheds through means that bring
financial benefits to farmers. At present, slopeland is cultivated with crops
and large expanses of wasteland remain untreated. The slopeland conservation
component will both diversify and raise farmer incomes, and reduce soil and
water loss from untreated areas. It will provide farmers with an important
cash alternative to raising sheep and goats. Overgrazing by sheep and goats
on slopeland seriously damages the vegetation cover and causes major soil
erosion throughout the project area. Decrease in the number of grazing sheep
and goats, (and increase in pen feeding) may be the single most important
factor in permanently restoring vegetation cover in the project area.
Accordingly, the component includes some investment in livestock, particularly
in the poorest areas where few farmers are currently able to afford the
purchase of cows. In other areas, it will serve as incentive to switch from
goat to cow raising, and will encourage the farmers to plant and maintain
grass.
Afforestation and Vegetative Cover
Trees of various species ( pine, poplar, and black locust etc. for timber)
will be planted on narrow terraces or fish-scale pits on about 104,000 ha of
slopeland. The tree species that have been selected are all income-producing
and can be selectively harvested for their poles in ten to 15 years.
Intercropping with beans is often practiced for several years after the trees
are planted. Shrubs (caragana, seabuckthorn) will be planted on about 110,000
ha of land too steep for trees, but this may be a mix of trees and shrubs.
-3 -



About 40 W of the land in the project areas is classified as unused wasteland,
and after the trees and shrubs are planted the land will be contracted to
individual farmers.
Artificial Grassland
A variety of pasture grasses will be planted on 56,000 ha of land, mostly
unused waste land. These will be harvested to feed pen-fed animals or used for
controlled grazing.
Natural Revegetation
This will protect 27,000 ha of unused land to allow natural revegetation. In
Inner Mongolia, the vegetation will be native grasses, but in other areas
there will be a mix of trees, shrubs and grasses.
Horticulture
Fruit and nut-bearing trees will be planted on 70,000 ha of slopeland in
narrow benches and fish scale pits. Apples and pears will also be planted on
newly constructed terraces. Marketing of fruit produced under the project
will be enhanced by investments in fruit stores to be owned and operated by
farmer groups or individuals. Also, an overall marketing approach for the
three provinces will be set up, designed to unify and raise standards for
apples. Existing seedling nurseries will be improved and new ones will be set
up to provide high quality planting material.
Project Support Services ($28 m)
The support services component of the project will fund research and
extension, training and study tours, monitoring and evaluation, survey and
design, vehicles and office equipment.    Research conducted under the project
and applied in project areas includes topics in dryland farming techniques,
forest construction techniques, and forage and grazing management.     Training
is both international and domestic, and covers project management, agriculture
and forestry techniques, water-saving irrigation, computers, nursery
management, grassland management, etc. Training is given to project managers,
technicians and farmers. The project funds small watershed land use surveys
and plans, and technical designs for fruit storage, and irrigation and
sediment retention structures. Project management costs, and some vehicles
and office equipment are also included in this component.
Project Costs and Financing
The total project cost is US$250 million equivalent. Bank/IDA financing will
be US$150 million equivalent. The provinces and local governments will
finance US$100 million equivalent.    The farmers--the main beneficiaries of
the project--will repay the proceeds of the Loan/Credit and part of the
locally financed portion.
Project Implementation
The Ministry of Water Resources (MWR) is the central government agency with
overall responsibility for the project. MWR's mandate includes stewardship of
the land and water resources of China's major basins. It exercises this
responsibility through seven river basin conservancy commissions. The lead
agencies in MWR for the proposed project are the Yellow River Conservancy
Commission (YRCC), based in Zhengzhou, Henan Province, and its Upper and
Middle Reaches Bureau (MRB), based in Xian, Shaanxi ProvinceThe MRB and the
governments of Shanxi, Inner Mongolia, Shaanxi and Gansu provinces will be
- 4 -



responsible for overall project implementation. The management structure
includes Project Leading Groups (PLGs) and Project Management Offices (PMOs)
set up at the provincial, prefecture, county, township and village levels. The
organizational structure described above is in place for Loess Plateau I and
will be extended to areas included in the new project.
Environmental The overall effect of changes in land use under the project
will be to preserve the agricultural land resource, and increase productivity
in an environmentally sustainable manner. The land under forest and other
vegetative cover will increase from around 280,000 to over 600,000. The more
steeply sloping land presently devoted to field crops will be converted to
forests, and the more gently sloped cropping land will be converted to
terraces (around 90,000 ha). There will be a small increase in the area of
grassland, but much of the existing grassland will be improved to allow for
higher livestock carrying capacities, and will be managed by individual
farmers or farmer groups. The key dams and warping dams will intercept
virtually all of the sediment from the areas they control, and this will have
significant downstream benefits; the dams will eliminate destructive flash
floods, provide water for irrigation and other uses, and the sediment
deposited upstream of the dams will form high quality farm land.
The project will not convert natural forests or wetlands in the project areas
and thus will have little impact on wildlife. The project will, however,
increase forest cover, and evidence from recently developed areas suggests
that this will lead to a higher and more diverse population of birds and small
mammals. The higher standards of crop management will not lead to any
increase in the runoff of fertilizers (herbicides and insecticides are seldom
used in field crops) since most of the crop land will be terraced. The
expansion of orchards will lead to some increase in pesticide use, but an
objective of the project is to disseminate techniques for safer and more
efficient use of chemical controls and extend IPM technology.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 22, 1999.
- 5 -



Annex
Executive Summary to the Environmental Assessment (environmental
impact section)
Prepared by the China Green Environment Development Center and
Reconnaissance, Planning and Design Institute, the Yellow River Conservancy
Commission, Ministry of Water Resources
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
Major Environmental Factors
The project will bring about enormous environmental benefits, but also some
adverse impacts. As screened on the basis of the project construction and
operation activities, significant impacts will be caused by the following
environmental factors: environmental impacts during the construction stage,
plan disease and insect pest control, chemical fertilizer and pesticide
application, water quality impact and project safety during the operation
stage.
Impacts on Runoff-Sediment Regime
With various conservation measures implemented as proposed, the project will
be able to retain water and soil. Thus, te percentage of erosion management
will be increased from 27.1- to 52.3w, the efficiency of sediment reduction
will be increased from the present 27.5w to 52.3w at the end of the project,
an annual average increase of 2,980 million t in sediment reduction, and 146.4
million m3 in water storage.
In small, thanks to the retention effect of conservation measures, runoff and
sediment reduction will be achieved downstream of managed gullies. This will
mitigate flood risks caused by rainstorm in the downstream areas, and ensure
safety of villages and roads there. Large volumes of flood retained in the
managed areas will provide groundwater recharge, and increase the regular flow
of streams from year to year.
In large, the implementation of subbasin-based conservation measures will
achieve runoff and sediment reduction in all tributaries distributed in the
project area. Further in large, the development of water and soil retention
benefits of various conservation measures will undoubtedly mitigate
sedimentation in the lower Yellow River, reduce sediment removal work in
irrigation areas fed by the Yellow River, and save on dike raising cost. Al
these will provide significant economic and social benefits for flood control
in the lower Yellow River and construction in the Huang-Huai-Hai plain. The
implementation of the proposed conservation measures will cause some impacts
on the downstream runoff, but such impacts will be minor because the
downstream runoff variation is associated with may factors, including
precipitation, irrigation, water diversion, etc. In comparison with water
retention benefits to the realized in the project area, the effect on
downstream water reduction is negligible.
Impacts on Water Quality
Runoff retention and flood detention by various conservation measures and
- 6 -



moisture retention by plants will result in less silt and suspended load,
lower mineral degree, hardness and coliform content, and higher oxidibility of
waters, enable control of soil erosion and nutrient loss, reduce non-point
pollution sources, and finally help improve runoff water quality.
During the project implementation, more pesticide and chemical fertilizer will
be applied. In terms of the implementation of stage I, there is an increase
in the amount of application, but it is still lower than the national average.
Moreover, they are applied as appropriate, almost without impact on water
quality. Standards and safety procedures for the application of pesticide and
chemical fertilizer in China are discussed herein, to ensure that no adverse
environmental impact will result from improper use of such.
Impacts on Soil
The project will directly improve the moisture, fertility and physical
property of soil. The most obvious soil improvement will be found in basic
farmland.
Terraced fields will ameriliorate soil arability, control soil and water loss,
retain surface runoff and sediment, increase soil moisture, retain soil
fertility, improve soil cluster structure and microhabitat in favor of
formation and accumulation of organic matter in soil.
Afforestation will not only enlarge the micropopulation of s oil, which will
help accumulation of nitrogen, transformation of organic matter and
enhancement of fertility, but also increase the content of humus.
Sorts of silted land come from siltation of slopeland topsoil. Plentiful
organic matter of weed and animal manure contained in such soil will build up
soil fertility. Also, irrigated land and floodland development will bring
about great improvements to soil arability.
Impacts of Terrestrial Biosphere
Upon completion of the project, the eco-environment in the project area will
be significantly bettered. There will be an increase of 295,000 km2 in
vegetation, with vegetation coverage raised from 16.4% to 34.7%.    Also, the
enlargement of vegetation will provide a ground for the development of poultry
and animal husbandry. Plant diseases and insect pests will be the major
impact on plants and animals in the growth and development period, so pest
control is considered herein as an important task of the environmental
management under the project. Common plant diseases and insect pests and
animal diseases are given in the EIA main report, which includes a prevention-
oriented pest control program. The Ministry of Agriculture has developed laws
and regulations on pest control and animal disease control. Compliance with
such laws and regulations will control the attack of plant/animal diseases and
insect pests. With complete plant protection and animal disease control
agencies available at different levels in the project area, pest control under
the project will be guaranteed.
Impacts on Microclimate and Air Quality
Extensive afforestation reduces wind speed. Farmland under the protection of
shelter belts generally cuts down wind speed by 10-80%, thus preventing crops
- 7 -



from the adverse impacts of strong wind. Afforestation in desert is able to
fix sand dunes and avoid desertification.
Afforestation improves microclimate to some extent. Vegetation is capable of
air purification. According to the test results provided Shaanxi Province,
the dust content of air in forestland is 20-38t less than that in bare land.
In addition, plants absorb harmful gas such as S02 and C02, etc. Enlargement
of vegetation coverage greatly increases air humidity, prevents dry and hot
wind nuisance, and subsequently provides high crop yields.
Environmental Impacts in Construction Stage
Construction activities under the project will be completed in a decentralized
manner, involving a small number of construction workers. Most of them will
be local works of considerable mobility, for the purpose of controlling severe
water and soil loss, generally they will not cause adverse environmental
impacts. This is already proven by practice of Stage I. However, some
problems may be caused by defaults during the project construction, so
countermeasures to this effect are proposed in the EIA main report as
appropriate, mainly recultivation and afforestation of areas upon completion
of the construction, to prevent additional soil and water loss.
Project Safety
The project is designed and will be implemented according to the
"Specifications of Soil and Water Conservation", so that it will be of
adequate flood resistance. Also, perfect project safety supervision and
monitoring systems will be incorporated into the project construction,
allowing early identification and solution of any problem during construction,
and ensuring adequate safety of the project.
Compliance with Laws
The project EIA is carried out under the guidance of applicable laws and
regulations of China. It is considered that the project construction meets
the environmental laws/regulations of China.
Public Participation
The proposed project includes wide public participation, and fully represents
the interests of the local residents. The project per se is proposed on the
basis of the planning efforts made by the project provinces, and the project
proposal is prepared by planners and designers on the basis of wide public
consultation. Farmers in the project area will be major implementers and
beneficiaries of the project, so grassroots implementation agencies at village
level area all composed of local farmers.
The project proposal, feasibility report, EIA terms of reference and EIA
report have experienced many a time consultation of experts and review of
responsible authorities, thus the project feasibility is ensured.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
To fully develop environmental benefits and mitigate/offset possible adverse
environmental impacts of the project, a detailed environmental management
- 8 -



program is incorporated in the EIA. Environmental management under the
project mainly involves provision of environmental management offices at
different levels, to be responsible for environment protection and management.
Their principle responsibilities are as follows:
To incorporate the environment management program specified in the EIA
into the project management plan.
To undertake environmental management and monitoring during construction
and operation of the project;
To initiate follow-up studies, so as to gain more environmental
benefits;
To perfect the environmental management program on the basis of its
performance; and
To prepare reports according to the Government and the World Bank
reporting systems.
The environmental management program is already incorporated into the project
management system as specified in the EIA, which will effectively insure the
implementation thereof.
CONCLUSIONS
As an environmental improvement and enhancement, the project will generate
considerable economic benefits, wide-ranging social achievements and good
ecological benefits. Main functions of the project are to (a) enable
reasonable development and utilization of water and soil resources toward
economic development in the project area; (b) increase vegetation coverage to
a considerable extent, mitigate water and soil loss, retain moisture, regulate
micro-climate, effectively restrain various natural disasters, and improve
eco-environment; (c) greatly reduce sediment yield into the Yellow River, and
help mitigate aggravation in the lower reaches.
The project may cause some adverse environmental impacts, which, however, can
be mitigated or offset provided remedy measures are taken as appropriate.
Furthermore, the EIA includes a detailed environmental management program and
appropriate environment protection measures, which will ensure construction
and operation of the project in compliance with environment protection
requirements.
9



