L   iuri                                               CIRCULATING COPY
Documentof      TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS OM
Te World Bank
FOIt OFFICIAL USE ONLY
R4epor No. P-1767-KO
REPORT AND RECOMIMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TIwo
PROPOSED LOANS
TO THlE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
February 19, 1976
Tis doument has g resMcted distrIbuou ud may be used by recipie,X only In tine  erorma  |
their official duties. Its contents ay not otherw se be peisclosed without World aak authxorIbof



Currency Unit            Won
Won 485                   US$1.00
Won 1,000                 US$2.06
Won 1,000,000             US$2,061.86
Fiscal Year         -     January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAl BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON TWO PROPOSED
LOANS TCI THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR A RURAL
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a conventional
Bank loan and a loan on Third Window terms, equivalent to $20.0 million
and $40.0 million, respectively, to the Republic of Korea to help finance
the foreign exchange cost of a rural infrastructure project. The conventional
Bank loan would have a term of 25 years, including seven years of grace,
with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum. The Third Window loan would have a
term of 25 years, including seven years of grace, with interest at 4-1/2
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        The latest Economic Report ("Current Economic Position and Pro-
spects of the Republic of Korea") was distributed under cover of Sec M75-437
dated June 9, 1975. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I. An
Industrial Sector Mission report is under preparation.
3.        Korea's economic performance over the last decade was outstanding.
It entered the sixties with one of the lowest income levels in the world;
it had little experience of participation in international trade; and it
lacked natural resources. Despite these unpromising beginnings, Korea em-
barked on a course of export-oriented industrial growth that has led to
its recognition as one of the most successful examples of development. Its
rich endowment of human resources, including skilled labor and entrepreneurial
talent, a social environment which is conducive to rapid economic change,
and a national dedication to economic growth, all contributed to Korea's
impressive record.
4.        Around 1960, the Korean economy was still heavily dependent on
agriculture and tended to grow at 3-4 percent per year. Since then, how-
ever, the economy has been transformed and the growth of real GNP accelerated
to around 10 percent per year. Exports of manufactures increased from $65
million in 1964 to over $4 billion in 1974. The manufacturing sector grew
from 12 to 31 percent of GNP during this period while the share of agricul-
ture in GNP declined from over 40 percent to 22 percent, despite an annual
growth rate of 3 to 4 percent in value added in agriculture. The rate of
population increase declined from 2.6 percent per year between the censuses
of 1960 and 1966 to an estimated 1.7 percent in 1973/74. Consequently,
real per capita income more than doubled in the last decade and is estimated
at $472 in 1974.
5.        The growth of incomes has been sustained by a significant in-
crease in the proportion of resources allocated to investment. Expenditures
on fixed capital formation were below 11 percent of GNP in the years up to
1962, but have been around 24 percent of GNP in recent years. National
savings rose from very low levels of around 6 percent of GNP in the early
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



1960's to around 15 percent of GNP in 1970-72, both government and private
savings having increased very substantially. This indicates that large
capital inflows (which averaged about 9 percent of GNP during 1970-71,
roughly the same level as in the early 1960's), did not weaken efforts
to mobilize resources domestically. However, Korea entered upon a period
of rapid growth with a very low level of domestic savings and, therefore,
the Government pursued a policy of relatively heavy dependence on external
capital in the interest of a rapid acceleration of investment and growth.
Moreover, since exports during 1964-74 were rising at an average rate of
nearly 47 percent (in current prices), the burden of additional external debt
was not excessive and the debt service ratio stood at around 13 percent in
1974.
6.        Korea's performance in attempting to achieve a balanced distribu-
tion of the benefits of growth is also creditable. Available data for 1964
and 1970 indicate that the distribution of income in Korea is among the most
equitable in the developing world and that the overall size distribution of
income changed little during this period. However, as a consequence of the
rapid growth in manufacturing and a shift of terms of trade against farmers,
income of urban wage-earning households tended to increase faster than that of
rural households and was twice as high in 1968. Since 1968 the Government has
succeeded in raising the relative price of farm outputs, increasing labor
productivity in agriculture through subsidized supply of inputs, and improving
the opportunities for off-farm employment principally as part of the Saemaeul
(New Community) Movement begun in 1971. These measures have eliminated the
differential between average household incomes in urban and rural sectors.
Recent Developments and the Adjustment Process
7.        In the 1970's, the Korean economic situation has been subject to
sudden and sharp changes (see Economic Reports distributed under cover of
R74-42 dated March 4, 1974 and Sec M75-437 dated June 9, 1975). Following a
period of rapid growth the Government undertook a stabilization program during
1970-72 as a result of which real investment did not increase and the growth
of real GNP slowed to 8 percent per year. In 1973, international demand grew
rapidly and Korea took full advantage of its opportunities. As a result,
there was an unprecedented boom: real GNP grew by 16.5 percent and export
volume by 57 percent; national savings rose to 22 percent of GNP, and foreign
savings financed only about 15 percent of total investment.
8. I      The transition from the boom of 1973 to today's difficulties re-
flects the impact of the twin shocks of the rise in food, oil and other import
prices and the recession in the industrial countries. The Korean economy
was particularly vulnerable to both of these because of its heavy dependence
on imported energy, raw materials, and foodstuffs, and on exports to the de-
veloped countries.
9.        From the last quarter of 1973 to the middle of 1974, the prices of
imports rose very rapidly. The immediate impact of the oil price increase
alone was to raise the import bill by more than twice the entire current
account deficit in 1973.   The payments required to maintain the 1973 volume



- 3 -
of oil imports rose from $277 million to over $1 billion; the increase was
equivalent to 19 percent of total imports and over 6 percent of GNP at their
1973 levels. The higher prices of foodgrains added another $300 million to
the import bill. Furthermore, the average unit value of imports other than
petroleum and foodgrains rose by 45 percent during 1974, while the unit value
of Korea's exports rose by only 27 percent in that year. The impact of the
adverse shifts in the international terms of trade was aggravated during 1974
by the sudden recession in industrialized countries which affected the demand
for Korea's exports. The United States and Japan, which took 70 percent of
Korea's exports in 1973, suffered a decline of about 2 percent in real GNP
in 1974. As a result, Korea's export volume, which had grown by 57 percent in
1973 (and by over 29 percent in each of the preceding 5 years), grew by only
9 percent in 1974. The volume of exports to Japan actually declined by about
6 percent.
10.       The slackening of export demand and the adverse price movements
had a variety of effects on the economy. First, as a direct consequence
of the 18 percent deterioration in the international terms of trade, Korea
suffered a real income loss of the order of 4 percent of GNP in 1974. 1/ Ad-
justing for this terms of trade effect, real gross national income rose by
only 4.2 percent in 1974, following increases of 6.7 percent and 15.2 percent
in the previous two years.. Second, the rise in import prices accelerated
domestic inflation. The rate of increase of wholesale prices rose to 42
percent in 1974 from an average of 7 percent in the previous four years.
Two-thirds of the increase in prices was the result of increases in the
landed cost of imported commodities. In an effort to prevent the emergence
of untoward distortions, the Government allowed import price increases to
be fully reflected in domestic prices (with the exception of basic foodstuffs
and fertilizers). Domestic prices of petroleum products rose nearly 300
percent from August 1973 t:o December 1974. These were also reflected in the
prices paid by consumers for electric power and transportation. In general
the burden of adjustment to higher import prices was borne directly by con-
sumers. Consequently, wholesale prices rose by 42 percent in 1974 and at an
annual rate of nearly 30 percent in the first half of 1975. In the second half
of the year, however, the index increased by only about 5 percent as domestic
prices completed the process of adjustment to international inflation, and
the program of monetary restraint instituted by the Government began to take
effect. Third, the current account deficit on the balance of payments grew
from $309 million in 1973 to $2.04 billion in 1974 and net foreign exchange
reserves dropped from $1.`! billion to $0.3 billion during 1974. About half
of this external deficit was due to the terms of trade loss, the balance
being primarily due to the recession in the economies of Korea's trading
partners. Finally, part of the adjustment was made by a sharp slackening
in the pace of domestic economic activity. The annual rate of growth of
GNP slowed from 16.5 percent in 1973 to 13.8 percent in the first half of 1974
and 4.3 percent in the second half. Import volume grew by only 4 percent in
1974, compared with an average increase of 16 percent per year in the previous
1/    At 1970 prices and exchange rates.



- 4 -
5 years. Industrial production (seasonally corrected) fluctuated sharply
from month to month but showed very little gain after the first quarter
of 1974. Employment rose by only 3.4 percent and was able to absorb
only three quarters of the increase in the labor force in the year.
11.       The slowdown in domestic production would have been greater but
for various government measures to sustain employment. In December 1974
the currency was devalued by 17.5 percent to W 485 per US$. Special
credits were extended through the banking system to enable industry to
finance accumulation of inventories, and the Government purchased excess
inventories of finished goods from industries particularly hard hit by
the fall in export demand. Subsidized credit was extended to small firms
and exporters to ease their financial situation. The purpose of these
ameliorative policies (which characterized the second half of 1974 and
the first quarter of 1975) was two-fold. One was to sustain employment
levels, thereby easing the adjustment of the economy to the permanent
and sizeable loss of real incomes resulting from the terms of trade
movement. The second objective was to prevent too precipitate a decline
in investment and production levels of export industries in response to
a temporary recession in export markets. In support of Korea's long-term
goals, it was held desirable to maintain a minimal economic momentum and
to remain poised to take rapid advantage of the anticipated recovery in
export demand. This policy was, of course, predicated on the belief that
the world recession would be relatively shallow and shortlived, a belief
that was shared at the time by many economists and policy makers through-
out the world.
12.       Contrary to expectations, the recession in industrialized countries
continued well into 1975, with the GNP of OECD countries having fallen by an
estimated 2 percent in 1975. Despite the unfavorable demand conditions,
Korea's export volume is estimated to have expanded by about 21 percent in
1975. However, as a result of reduced demand and increased international
competition, particularly for iron and steel and clothing exports, Korea's
export prices declined by about 7 percent and its terms of trade deteriorated
by about 11 percent in 1975. This, together with rising payments on freight
and interest obligations, has been principally responsible for a continued
large deficit in the balance of payments (estimated at $1.9 billion in 1975
compared with $2.04 billion in 1974).
13.       Korea has suffered heavy balance of payments losses in 1974 and
1975 due to an exceptional combination of adverse events. The average loss
in the two years on account of terms of trade movements alone is estimated at
about 7 percent of GNP (at 1970 prices and exchange rates). Any attempt to
adjust to such a large foreign exchange loss without incurring sizeable
balance of payments deficits would undoubtedly lead to large-scale unemploy-
ment and a loss of growth momentum, which would have severe adverse conse-
quences for Korea's long-term economic development. The essence of Korean
policy, therefore, has been to smooth the process of adjustment, while at the
same time attempting to ensure that there is a steady movement toward long-
term improvement in the balance of payments. Toward this end, the Korean



- 5 -
Government has intensified measures by which it had already begun, earlier
in the decade, to tacklE longer term structural problems in its balance of
payments and the need tc' increase the availability of resources for invest-
ment.
14.       The severity of Korea's balance of payments problems in 1974 drew
attention to the sensitivity of a trade-oriented economy to the economic
fluctuations of its trading partners. Because Korea is poorly endowed with
natural resources and its principal comparative advantage is a skilled and
energetic labor force, a relatively high degree of trade orientation is
unavoidable; however, the Government has made and is making strenuous efforts
to reduce Korea's vulnerability to international fluctuations by diversify-
ing the commodity composition of and markets for exports as well as reducing
import dependence.
15.       In recent years Korea has made considerable progress in diversify-
ing exports. In 1971 and 1972, 75 percent of Korea's exports went to the
United States and Japan. This proportion dropped to 57 percent in the first
nine months of 1975. In the same period, the share of exports to Europe
nearly doubled from 9 percent to 16 percent, and the share of other countries
(excluding the United States, Europe and Japan) has increased from 16 percent
to 27 percent. Commodity exports to oil exporting countries have increased
very rapidly from a small base, and amounted to $120 million in the first
nine months of 1975. Similarly, the commodity concentration of exports has
declined significantly; four major categories of exports (textiles, clothing,
plywood and miscellaneous manufactures) accounted for 60 percent of exports
in 1970 but only 48 percent in the first nine months of 1975. During this
period there was a particularly rapid growth of exports of iron and steel,
electronics, electrical machinery and appliances and ships. During the last
year, Korea has also been highly successful in winning construction contracts
in the Middle East. The development of new exports and the upgrading of the
quality and design of traditional exports are the major means by which Korea
hopes to diversify its exports and to further reduce its dependence on markets
in Japan and the United States.
16.       These developments suggest that Korea will be able to sustain a
rate of growth of exports that is relatively rapid compared to other countries,
although not as high as it was prior to 1974. Global projections indicate
that the volume of manufactured exports by developing countries is likely
to grow about 12-15 percent per year for the rest of this decade. Consider-
ing that 90 percent of Korea's exports now consist of manufactured goods,
that its links with the Japanese and U.S. economies remain strong, that
successful efforts are being made to penetrate new markets (especially in
Europe and the Middle East) and that some progress has already been made in
diversifying the industrial structure, the long-term prospects for Korea's
exports are markedly-better than for developing countries as a whole. Pro-
vided measures continue to be taken to maintain price competitiveness, which
has been somewhat eroded by the relatively high rates of inflation in Korea
in the past two years, Korean exports may be expected to grow at 20-25 percent
per year in terms of current prices (allowing for international price infla-
tion of 5-6 percent per year).



- 6 -
17.       The potential for strengthening the balance of payments on the
import side is not great. Of total imports in 1974, 29 percent consisted of
raw materials for exports and a further 27 percent was capital goods, cat-
egories in which substantial import savings are unlikely to be compatible with
maintaining international competitiveness of export industries. More than
half of the remaining 44 percent of imports consisted of petroleum and food-
grains. The scope for restraining petroleum imports (16 percent of the total)
is very limited; because domestic energy sources are limited to low quality
coal, firewood and limited hydroelectric power, petroleum supplies about half
of Korea's energy needs and is utilized almost entirely for essential indus-
trial and transportation purposes. The number of private automobiles is
relatively small and home heating needs are met by coal and wood. Despite
these constraints, the rate of growth of petroleum consumption has been
severely curtailed - from 1.8 times GNP growth in 1968-73 to about the same
rate as GNP growth in the following two years.
18.       In order to reduce dependence on imported foodgrains, there
has been an energetic effort to increase agricultural productivity. In
1972-73 imports of grain accounted for about 30 percent of grain consumption
and about 11 percent of total imports. Since then, the rate of growth of
value added in agriculture has nearly doubled (from about 3.5 percent to about
6 percent per year). In part this was the result of good weather conditions,
but it was also in response to improved inputs and the assurance of high
grain prices. The proportion of land under high yielding varieties of rice
has increased from 16 percent in 1972 to 37 percent in 1975. Despite the
very severe topographical limitations (nearly 3/4 of the land area is too
mountainous to cultivate), there is a growing promise that Korea will be
able to achieve self sufficiency in its staple foodgrains - rice and barley.
As a result it is anticipated that, in the future, imports of foodgrains will
amount to only about 5 percent of total imports and will consist mainly of
wheat, which cannot be grown in sufficient quantity because of Korea's
climate and topography.
Medium-Term Prospects and Program
19.       The goal of Korea's economic policy in 1976 and the succeeding
years is the achievement of the maximum rate of growth consistent with the
maintenance of internal financial stability and a sound balance of payments.
The potential for improvement in the balance of payments was foreshadowed by
Korea's performance in the second half of 1975. While the full year deficit
is estimated at $1.9 billion, the deficit in the first half of 1975 was $1.7
billion. The striking recovery in the second half was the result both of
export recovery and import restraint. During the first five months of 1975,
exports were 10 percent lower and imports 22 percent higher (in current
prices) than in the corresponding period in 1974. Since then, monthly exports
have risen steadily and imports were held below their 1974 levels, so that the
increase in values for the year as a whole is expected to have been 12 percent
for exports and 2 percent for imports. Allowing for changes in the unit value
of imports and exports, import volume is estimated to have declined by 3
percent in 1975 and export volume to have grown by 21 percent. Since the
Government had to increase grain imports to replenish food supplies and as



-7-
imports of other goods for domestic use amounted to less than 20 percent of
total imports and reductions could,therefore, not be quantitatively signifi-
cant, it was necessary tco restrain the import of petroleum, capital goods and
raw materials for the production of export goods. As the restraint in the
import of raw materials was partially compensated for by the draw-down of
inventory levels and the decrease in the volume of capital goods imports, if
repeated in 1976, could adversely affect the expansion of capacity to produce
commodities for export in future years, the same degree of import restraint
cannot be sustained in 1976, when provision will have to be made for the
rising volume of production and trade.
20.       In the long-term, however, it is the firm intention of the Korean
Government to achieve a significant reduction in the size of the balance of
payments current account deficit both in absolute terms and, a fortiori, as a
proportion of GNP. Zhe Government's aim is to reduce the deficit from the
peak of 12 percent of GNP in 1974 to 7.6 percent in 1976, and to lower it
further to about 1-2 percent of GNP by 1980. This strengthening of the
balance of payments will facilitate an improvement in the maturity structure
of external borrowing and reduce reliance on short-term credits.
21.       Before the recent international developments, Korea appeared to
be set on an economic course which could have led to its maintaining a rate
of growth of GNP of over 10 percent annually. However, these developments
have led Korea to lower its sights, modifying the expected rate of growth of
the economy to around 8 percent.   In 1975, the growth of GNP is estimated
to have been about 7.4 peicent compared to an average rate of around 10
percent in the previous decade. The rate of fixed investment is being sus-
tained at about 23 percenl: of GNP in 1976 but will have to increase during
the Fourth Plan period (1977-81) to permit achievement even of the reduced
target GNP growth rate.   The great bulk of investment resources will continue
to go into the manufacturing sector and immediately associated infrastructure
requirements, with export growth being one of the principal criteria in
selecting investment projects. In this context, the Korean authorities have
recognized that efforts tc deepen the industrial structure must proceed
selectively and investments must be geared to expand capacity in industries
which are skill-intensive, reflecting the country's international comparative
advantage. This recognition has led to significant modification of the
long-term investment plans which had been prepared in 1973 - specifically, a
postponement of planned rates of expansion of petrochemical and steel pro-
duction capacity and a shift of priorities towards electronics and machinery,
which are relatively labor intensive and have shorter gestation periods. The
development of the machinery industry is also seen as providing the basis for
greater import substitution in the coming years.
22.       In order to curtail aggregate demand in the effort to reduce
inflationary and import pressures, the Government proposes to continue to
restrain monetary expansion in 1976 and to monitor carefully the prices of
100 key consumer commodities. The increase in wholesale prices is expected
to be restrained to about 10 percent by the end of 1976, assuming that the
increase in import prices will be of the order of 5 percent during the year.



- 8 -
23.       Success in restraining inflation is expected to have a signifi-
cant favorable effect on the mobilization of private savings. In the ex-
ceptional boom year of 1973, private savings reached 17.6 percent of GNP
but, predictably, declined to about 15 percent in 1975 in response to the
slowdown in the growth of incomes and the high rate of inflation. Adjust-
ing for the terms of trade loss, gross national income rose by 4.2 percent
in 1974 and 3.2 percent in 1975; in 1976, no adverse movement in the terms
of trade is anticipated and incomes are projected to rise by about 7 percent
(at 1970 prices). The Korean Government is taking measures designed to
channel the higher private savings likely to be generated by these develop-
ments to an increasing extent into the financial system and, thereby, into
more effective use for productive investments. Ih addition to restoring a
positive real rate of return on financial forms of savings (through a reduction
in the rate of inflation and, if required, necessary corrective modification
of the interest rate structure), the Government is taking steps to increase
the supply of government and corporate securities to the public and to provide
more attractive schemes for savings mobilization by commercial banks. Among
the measures designed to mop up private purchasing power is the use of six-
month certificates, instead of cash, in payment for one-third of the rice
procured by the Grain Management Fund this crop year - amounting to about W 60
billion (US$124 million), and carrying an interest rate of 18 percent per
annum.
24.       The measures to increase the mobilization of private savings are
being supported by fiscal actions to increase government savings. The
subsidization of farmers and urban consumers through the Grain Management Fund
and the Fertilizer Fund has placed a growing strain on Government finances
since 1974. In 1975, the borrowing from the Central Bank on the two accounts
is estimated at about W 350 billion (nearly 4 percent of GNP). The Government
is conscious of the importance of reducing this financial burden and is taking
the necessary remedial steps to slow down stock accumulation and to adjust
prices so as to eliminate the operating deficits. The selling price of fer-
tilizers was raised by 79 percent in December 1975, an increase which is ex-
pected to eliminate the operating deficit of the Fertilizer Fund. Furthermore,
the Government intends to set prices paid for the procurement and sale of
grain by the GMF at levels which will enable the elimination of the opera-
ting deficit in respect of wheat in 1976 and rice in 1977, leaving only a
small deficit resulting from the subsidy on barley, sales of which are pri-
marily for the lower income groups. The overall operating deficit of the GMF
is to be totally eliminated in 1978, although the deficit on barley sales may
continue; however, the GMF will be permitted to continue to incur cash deficits
for the accumulation of grain inventories as needed.
25.       In addition to these measures to eliminate progressively the
deficits in the extra-budgetary accounts, strong measures have been taken
to maintain budgetary savings performance despite increased expenditures
on defense and government salaries. In response to the perceived need
to improve Korea's defense capability following the events in Indochina
and related developments, expenditures on defense have increased from
4.3 percent to 5.1 percent of GNP in 1975 and are budgeted to increase
further to 6.4 percent of GNP in 1976; and to improve the salary levels
of government officials, expenditures on salaries and pensions are bud-
geted to increase by 43 percent in 1975 and 61 percent in 1976. Against



- 9 -
the anticipated increase of W 595 billion in expenditure on these two
items in 1975 and 1976, budget revenues are expected to increase by W 903
billion. In part, the increase in revenues is the result of inflation in
nominal incomes, but a significant proportion, W 214 billion, is to be
contributed by the defense surtax imposed in July 1975. 1/ The increased
revenue mobilization and the strong restraint on other current expenditures
(which are not permitted to increase at all), will result in the budgetary
current surplus being maintained at over 3 percent of GNP.
26.       This combination of measures to strengthen the balance of pay-
ments and to improve the mobilization and effective utilization of domestic
resources should help Korea to emerge successfully from its present econo-
mic difficulties. The continued high levels of balance of payments deficits
in 1974 and 1975 were, at least partly, due to the need to sustain Korea's
export growth which, as we have noted, is a key determinant of its economic
performance. Investment requirements are dictated by the need to expand
export volume, diversify the commodity composition of exports and increase the
domestic value-added component of exports. Although Korea continues to look
to exports for its growth momentum and to narrow the balance of payments
deficit, it is at the same time attempting to replace imports with domestic
production, particularly in the foodgrain and machinery sectors, to the extent
possible. This will further increase investment requirements in the short
run. To sustain investment levels in the face of severe balance of payments
problems and uncertainties about the rate of recovery of international demand
doubtless involves an element of risk. However, the risk does not appear to
be unduly large, especially in the light of Korea's past export performance
and demonstrated flexibility in economic policy making; and there is a signif-
icant payoff to this strategy in maintaining the momentum of growth, which
might be difficult to restore if more severe contractionary policies were
undertaken. Finding the means to finance the external deficits will continue
to be Korea's most urgent economic challenge. The servicing of the sizeable
foreign borrowing required should not pose serious difficulties for Korea
given the present debt service ratio and the prospects for continued export
growth, provided, however, that external debt is incurred on as reasonable
terms as possible and in particular that the proportion of debt incurred on
short- and medium-terms and at high interest rates is not excessive. Assuming
that capital inflows will be forthcoming on reasonable terms, the debt service
ratio will rise from 13 percent in 1975 to about 16 percent in 1977 (due to
heavy medium-term borrowing in 1974 and 1975) and then decline to under 15
percent in 1980. In order to assist Korea in holding external debt service to
1/   The defense surtax is a temporary levy, until 1980, aimed at securing
financial resources required for increased national defense expenditures
without reducing public expenditures on development. The levy is pri-
marily a surtax on a number of existing taxes.



- 10 -
manageable levels, and taking into account its relatively low per capita
income and its good performance in economic management and development, Korea
is considered eligible for "Third Window" financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
27.       As of December 31, 1975, Korea had received 22 Bank Loans and
8 IDA Credits, amounting in total to $883.8 million in loans and $107.0
million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the refinancing
of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan).
28.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been for the transport
sector --$219.7 million for railways, $101.5 million for highways 1/ and
$80 million for ports. $130.5 million has been lent for agriculture pro-
jects. The Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) has received $150
million, the Korea Development Bank (KDB) $60 million, and the Medium Industry
Bank (MIB) $30 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry. A
total of $80.3 million has been provided for three education projects; $25.0
million for a tourism project; and $15.0 million for a secondary cities
project. The First Program Loan to Korea of $100 million (1094-KO) was
approved in March 1975 and became effective on April 21, 1975. Disbursements
were completed by November 22, 1975. Documents pertaining to a proposed second
program loan have been distributed to the Executive Directors.
29.       As of December 31, 1975, about $452 million of the total Bank lend-
ing remained undisbursed on effective Loans and Credits, mostly from commit-
ments in the past eighteen months. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of that date and Notes on
the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated in the Notes, progress on
project implementation is generally satisfactory.
30.       Excluding one project that was subsequently cancelled, IFC had,
by December 31, 1975, entered into nine commitments: five in the financial
sector and one each in the fields of textiles, electrical and electronic
products, synthetic fibers and tourism, totalling $30.4 million (net of
participations and cancellations). In December 1975, IFC's Board approved
a tenth commitment of about $5.5 million in loan and equity for a paper
manufacturing company. Currrently, IFC has under advanced consideration a
zinc smelting and a tire manufacturing project; under preliminary consider-
ation are projects in the fields of steel products, cement distribution,
construction materials, bearings, electronics and development finance.
1/   A $90.0 million loan for a Third Highway Project was approved on
February 3, 1976.



- 11 -
31.       Korea's ambitious industrial development programs require large
capital expenditures and further loans to the three major development banks
are planned to meet this need. This will enable the continuation of assistance
to a wide spectrum of industries, including small-and medium-sized enter-
prises. With the closer relationship established as a result of recent
promotional efforts, we expect IFC's activities also to continue expand-
ing rapidly. IFC would seek projects that would: (a) result in foreign
exchange revenues or savings; (b) contribute to modernize or deepen the
industrial structure; and (c) increase value added in manufacturing.
32.       The emphasis which the Government places on agricultural and rural
development will be reflected in the programs for FY76 and FY77. In addition
to the proposed project, the Second Integrated Dairy Development Project was
approved recently; the Miho watershed development project, the second stage of
the Yong San Gang irrigation project, and a second agricultural credit project
have been appraised; the Okseo irrigation and regional development project has
been identified and is under preparation.
33.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growt'h of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given relatively less
emphasis than in the past, the investments required are large, and thus there
is considerable support for this sector in the proposed program.
34.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt (dis-
bursed) outstanding at the end of 1975 as about 8.5 percent, and the share
of debt service was of the order of 3.0 percent at that time. These ratios
are expected to increase somewhat by the end of the present decade.



- 12 -
PART III - RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN KOREA
35.        The extremely rapid expansion of Korea's manufacturing capacity
over the past decade or so has been concentrated largely around three metro-
politan areas: Seoul-Incheon, Daegu and Busan. The employment opportuni-
ties offered by the dynamic industrial sector and the fact that a substan-
tial wage-differential existed as between urban and rural areas resulted in
a heavy migration from the countryside to these cities. Thus, between 1966-
1970, the population of Seoul rose by 9.8 percent per annum, Busan's by 7.2
percent per annum, and that of Daegu by 6.4 percent per annum as compared with
a national average of 1.9 percent per annum. Over half of the country's popu-
lation of approximately 34 million now lives in and around these three cities.
The Government has become increasingly concerned with raising incomes and im-
proving the living standards of the nearly 15 million people who live in the
rural areas in order to distribute the benefits of growth more evenly and also
to slow down the drift of people from the countryside to the cities which is
placing an increasing strain on the urban infrastructure.
36.        The average farm size in Korea is about 0.9 ha, of which 0.5 ha
is paddy land, while upland crops, such as barley, maize, soybeans, fruit,
vegetables, tobacco, mulberries (for silkworm production) and other cash crops
are cultivated on the remaining extent. Nearly two-thirds of farm households
have less than 1 ha of cropland but only 4 percent of farm households are
landless largely as a result of the Farmland Reform Law of 1950 which imposed
a ceiling of 3 ha of cultivated land per household.
37.        All uncultivated land in Korea (about 67 percent of the total
area) is classified as forest but most high-grade timber production comes
from the 840,000 ha (9 percent) of National Forests. Most of the remaining
"forest' is privately owned in smallholdings. The average holding size is
2.6 ha but the median size is less than 1 ha, with 96 percent of the holdings
being less than 10 ha. Private forest land is used mostly for the gathering
of fuelwood and is therefore usually almost bare of trees or carries stunted
pines.
38.        Rice and barley are the major crops, accounting for two-thirds
of the total crop area. Due to climatic constraints, double cropping of
rice is not possible in Korea but a rice-barley rotation is practiced in
the southern regions and now occurs on about half of the total paddv land.
Rice yields in Korea are higher than those in South and Southeast Asia,
reflecting a high level of input use and good management. High-yielding
varieties (HYV's) of rice were introduced in 1971 and are now grown on about
30 percent of the paddy area. The Government's plans call for HYV coverage to
reach 70 percent by 1980. The main constraints on national foodgrain pro-
duction, in addition to the severely limited total area suitable for cultiva-
tion, are water control (irrigation and drainage), varietal improvement (mainly
of barley) and, to a lesser extent, agricultural credit.
39.        The settlement pattern in Korea reflects topographic and historical
realities. As 70 percent of the country is mountainous, settlements mostly



- 13 -
occur in the valleys and coastal plains. Frequent wars and invasions have
led to a pattern of clustered villages, each house having a courtyard and
a single entrance gate.
40.        The development of irrigation has played, and will continue to play,
a major role in the expansion of rice production and the achievement of food-
grain self-sufficiency. In 1962, the total irrigated area was 660,000 ha or
53 percent of the total paddy area. At present 1,100,000 ha (86 percent),
is irrigated, though not: all areas have fully adequate supplies. The Govern-
ment's plans also include 140,000 ha of drainage improvement, land consolidation
for 290,000 ha and complementary development of inputs and farm mechani-
zation. Upland development on a wide scale is a fairly recent phenomenon in
Korea and is a response to greatly intensified population pressure on the
land resources since the Korean War. Most development on the lower slopes
has been carried out by the farmers themselves. A recent Government survey
estimated that a further 200,000 ha of forest land could be economically
converted to crop land, compared with an existing total upland area of 1.0
million ha. However, the remaining areas wlll present more severe technical
problems than the past development did. The Government has recently under-
taken a national 10-year program to reforest 1.0 million ha of low product-
ivity forest land (15 percent of all forest land). The purpose ofCthis
drive is to increase the production of timber, fuelwood, chestnuts and other
forest products and to combat erosion, which has become a major problem on
the steep, over-exploited hillsides. Within this program, fuelwood blocks
will be established on 200,000 ha to provide high-yielding, conveniently
situated sources of fuel for village-use, to ease the pressure on the
remaining forest land and to reduce the use of imported fuels and agricultural
residues for heating.  The relatively severe winters in Korea mean that an
average rural household uses about 4.2 ton/yr of fuelwood for house heating.
The rate of establishment of fuelwood blocks has now reached 30,000 ha per
year.
41.        In order to provide a strong base for the development of the rural
areas, a National Land Development Plan (1972-81) was completed in mid-1971.
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) assisted in the preparation
of this Plan by financing a Regional Physical Planning Study which commenced
in 1969. The Study's recommendations were incorporated in the National
Land Development Plan which classified national land space both by region
and by land use. Three basic objectives were established: (a) efficient
land-use and development; (b) protection and conservation of natural re-
sources; and (c) improvement of the living and working environment.
42.        The work undertaken on the preparation of the Plan provided the
background for the formulation of a program aimed specifically at achieving
the economic uplift of the rural areas; the program known as the "Saemaeul
(New Community) Movement" was launched in September 1971. The experience
gained by the Korean authorities in implementing the "National Construction
Service" between 1961-64 (the primary aim of which was to resettle refugees
after the Korean war) and the "Self-Help Works Program" (1964-72) also proved
a valuable input in planning the Saemaeul Movement. These two earlier pro-



- 14 -
grams were relatively modest in scope and involved expenditures of between
$10-20 million per year which were financed from counterpart funds by the
sale of foodstuffs provided by U.S. under the PL 480 Program. Needy rural
people were employed mainly on upland and tidal land reclamation, and works
involving irrigation, flood control, reforestation, and road building were
undertaken.
43.        The Saemaeul Movement is broader in scope than these earlier efforts
and aims at physical and environmental improvements in the rural areas by
cooperative group action, and at increasing incomes both by creating more
off-farm jobs and raising agricultural productivity through more effec-
tive use of land and water resources. In 1972 and 1973 most of the Movement's
emphasis was placed on village improvement projects carried out mainly with
voluntary labor during periods of the year when labor requirements for farm
work are low. In 1974, the Government expanded the Saemaeul Movement to
include rural development projects carried out with hired workers. Many
of these programs are not new but have been reoriented to give the benefi-
ciaries a greater say in project planning and execution.
44.        Although the Movement has been expanded to cover projects in the
urban areas as well, its main thrust is directed toward rural areas and
agriculturally-related activities. According to official figures, a total
of Won 275 billion (approximately $567 million) was invested In Saemaeul
projects between October 1971 and May 1974; the investment in calendar 1974
was Won 102 billion ($210 million). About 22 percent of the total investment
was provided from the budgets of the Central Government and local authorities,
and the remainder contributed by the villagers in the form of cash or labor,
with the latter (estimated at 215 million man-days) constituting some 65
percent of the villagers' contribution. The physical achievements of the
Saemaeul Movement up to 1974 include the construction of 28,000 km of village
roads, 9,800 village water supply projects, land consolidation involving
48,000 ha and reforestation on about 52,000 ha.
45.        The efforts to improve the productivity and living conditions in
the rural areas are bearing fruit; the average rural household income in
Korea is now about $1,300 per year, on a par with average urban household
incomes. This has resulted in an increasing demand for urban-type services,
such as electricity, piped water supply and improved communication facilities.
The Government has recognized that services of this kind are important in
discouraging rural-urban drift (which has been as strong in Korea as elsewhere
in Asia, though perhaps with less damaging consequences) and has responded with
a massive program of rural electrification and more modest programs for the
other services. Electricity is now available to nearly 60 percent of rural
households, compared to 93 percent in the cities, and the Government plans
to increase the rural coverage to about 90 percent by 1978. Initially, vil-
lage electricity is used mainly for lighting and domestic appliances but, in
the longer term, it sets the stage for the development of cottage industries
and other small-scale productive enterprises.
46.        The water supply program is less well advanced.   Since 1971, the
proportion of the rural population served by simple piped water systems



- 15 -
has doubled to reach 25 percent. The Government hopes to increase this by
another 4,000 systems ('12 percent) in the next few years and to reach 50
percent coverage by 1981. The objective of the program is to provide a
safe, convenient and re:Liable supply of water to each house compound, re-
placing wells of limited capacity and reliability. Water supply is well
advanced in the cities ;nd larger towns but the rural centers of 1,000 to
20,000 population have :Lagged seriously behind.
47.        At the end of the sixties only about 12,500 km of village roads
existed, while it was estimated that some 46,000 km would be required to give
adequate access to all t:he villages in Korea. As indicated in paragraph 44,
much progress has been made under the Saemaeul Movement in meeting this need.
48.        Since the turn of the decade, much has been done to improve the
standard of living and the quality of life in the rural areas of Korea.
However, much remains to be done to ensure that the benefits of Korea's
economic growth are dist:ributed equitably throughout the country. The pro-
posed project will assist the Government in its efforts to achieve this
laudable objective.
Previous Bank Group Investments
49.        While this project would be the first multi-sectoral Bank-assisted
project for rural development in Korea, it draws on experience gained from
several previous Bank Group investments. Technical standards for irrigation
have been developed under the Pyongtaek-Kumgang (Loan 600-KO) and Yong San
Gang (Loan 795/Credit 283-KO) Irrigation Projects, which cover 30,000 ha
and 33,000 ha, respectively, on the West Coast. A Seeds Project (Loan 942-
KO) is assisting the expansion of seed production for most of the major food
crops. A Dairy Developrient Project (Credit 234-KO) is assisting small-scale
milk producers and establishing processing plants. Specialized cash crops,
such as orchards, sericulture, asparagus and mushrooms, are being developed
under an Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 335-KO) and an Agricultural
Processing Project (Loant 994-KO). Agricultural education is being assisted
by the Second and Third Education Projects (Loan 906/Credit 394-KO and Loan
1096-KO). Bank Group investments in the transport sector include five
Railways Projects and three projects for the development of the major highway
network. Other external. finance for rural development has come from the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) (irrigation and rural electrification) and USAID
(community development, irrigation, upland development and power).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.        The proposed project has been formulated in such a manner as to
ensure that the Bank's policies, administrative procedures and appraisal
standards could be met within the Government's multi-sectoral, decentralized
and evolving approach to rural development. It would support Government's
ongoing programs in minor irrigation, upland reclamation, fuelwood produc-
tion, rural roads and bridges and rural water supply and electrification.



- 16 -
In addition, the proposed project would help finance technical assistance
for the improvement of hydrological services and for the monitoring and
evaluation of the project. An appraisal mission visited Korea in July-
August 1975; its report (958a-KO, dated February 15, 1976) is being
circulated separately. Negotiations were held in Washington from January 12-
23, 1976 with a Government team led by Mr. Dong Kyu Choi. A Loan and Project
Summary is attached as Annex III. Detailed features of the components of the
proposed project are given in paragraphs 51-57 below.
Detailed Features of the Proiect
51.        Minor Irrigation - This component would consist of 66 sub-projects,
serving an area of 13,500 ha in all provinces of Korea (except Jeju Island).
The service area includes rainfed paddy lands and some upland areas to be
converted to paddy. About 30 percent of the sub-projects would use pumping
stations or weirs in areas where perennial river flows are available. The
sub-project works include the main canals and rough levelling of upland to
be converted to paddies on a contract basis and on-farm development works
(minor ditches, drains and final land levelling) which would be carried out
by the farmers.
52.        Upland Reclamation - Under this component presently unproductive
slope lands (most of which carry a light cover of small trees and grass
and yield only fuelwood) would be converted to cultivable land. The method
of treatment would depend on factors such as the slope, depth and type of
soil, and agronomic potential. As the upland areas remaining to be developed
are more difficult than those developed to date, past design and construction
procedures will need to be modified. The upland reclamation component is
thus envisaged somewhat as a pilot project, with a strong technical assis-
tance and research element. This part of the proposed project would include
about 35 sub-projects on a total net development area of 4,500 ha; the sub-
projects would cover most of Korea but would be concentrated in the more
densely populated western provinces. After conversion, a variety of upland
crops, including barley, soybeans, fruits and vegetables, would be grown
on these lands.
53.        Fuelwood - The project would significantly reduce Korea's shortage
of fuel by establishing about 11,000 village fuelwood blocks, covering about
127,000 ha largely in the more densely populated western provinces where fuel
shortages are most severe. The procedures developed under a successful
Government program carried out in recent years will be followed. Plantations
(averaging 40 ha in size) would be established mostly on private "forest"
land using communal labor, with seedlings, fertilizer and technical assistance
being provided by Government agencies. The blocks would typically contain a
mixture of fuelwood and timber-producing species. The proposed project also
includes support for fuelwood research in the form of vehicles, equipment
and materials. This research would address problems such as species selection,
optimum spacing and fertilizer use.
54.        Roads and Bridges - Approximately 850 km of farm and village roads,
as well as 200 bridges, would be constructed under the project. Road seg-
ments would average about 3 km and would generally follow the alignments of



- 17 -
existing footpaths and tracks. Roads would be about 5 m in width and would
have a graded surface of stone or gravel. Bridges would generally be 4 m
wide and of simple re:Lnforced concrete slab (or beam and slab) construction,
multiple spans being used when necessary. Under the project, greater atten-
tion than at present wiould be given to the design of foundations and to the
quality of concrete used. Communal labor would be used for the construction
of roads and bridges, with cement, reinforcing steel, tools and certain
types of skilled labor being provided by the Government.
55.        Water SuppDy - Sanitary water supply systems would be constructed
in about 2,000 villages.  Dug wells are the usual sources of water, although
springs, infiltration galleries and surface sources (with a pressure filter
and chlorinator) are also used. Water will be pumped to a storage tank,
from which a distribution svstem (usually of PVC pipe) will serve each house
compound. Standards cf design, construction and operation are sufficient
to ensure economy and bacteriological safety. The works would be constructed
by communal labor, with materials and certain types of skilled labor being
supplied by the Government.
56.        Rural Electrification - This component would aim to electrify some
300,000 additional rural households, through a program of about 2,700 sub-
projects. A typical village would be supplied by extending a single - or
three-phase - branch from an existing primary feeder. Each house com-
pound would be given metered service. Individual householders would
engage electricians for house wiring.
57.        Improvement of Hydrologic Services - Korea has a reasonably good
network of rainfall and streamflow gauges and has made commendable efforts
in publishing hydrologic measurements. The major deficiency has been in
analyzing the available data so as to develop efficient and reliable design
methods for the water development design agencies. Under the project, the
Ministry of Construction (and other agencies), with assistance from consul-
tants, would apply modern techniques to some of the more urgent problems,
such as reservoir sizing, spillway capacity determination and rates of
sedimentation. These mnethods would be incorporated into handbooks to be
used, for example, in iesigning future minor irrigation sub-projects.
Project Planning and Sub-Project Selection
58.        Sub-project selection involves both the villages and Government
agencies. For village-specific sub-projects, each village sets its own pri-
orities, subject to review by the County 'Saemaeul Committee. The selection of
such sub-projects is an iterative process in which an initial proposal,
drawn up by the village Saemaeul Committee, is submitted to the district
committee and then to ithe county committee. For larger-scale projects,
such as irrigation and upland development, Government agencies have the
major role in identifying and evaluating potential sub-projects, though
local views are also important in determining priorities. For the proposed
project, technical and economic sub-Droject selection criteria have been



- 18 -
established in consultation with the Government. Sub-project selection has
been largely completed and a master list of sub-projects pertaining to most
of the components of the proposed project was agreed upon during negotiations.
Some amendments to the roads and bridges and water supply sub-project lists
are being considered but final agreement is expected to be reached on them
by the end of February 1976. As regards upland reclamation, the finalization
of a master list of sub-projects has been deferred until appointment of an
upland reclamation adviser who will participate in refining the criteria
to be used and participate in the selection process; his services will be engaged
within four months of the signing of the proposed loan. For minor irrigation,
a list of potential sub-projects was reviewed first on technical grounds
mainly to ensure an adequate water supply and then a cutoff economic rate
of return of 10 percent was applied to select a program of works within the
available budget. Upland reclamation sub-projects will be selected so as
to maximize the economic and financial rate of return, while maintaining a
reasonable geographic balance, to allow the proposed design method to be
tested under a variety of soil and topographic conditions; the criteria to
be employed include potential for high value crops, accessibility and farm
size. Fuelwood sub-projects have been selected mainly taking into account
the size of the estimated fuel deficit in particular villages on the basis
of the information collected during a nationwide survey in 1975. Quantita-
tive selection criteria for roads and bridges have been introduced for the
first time; the factors considered include road lengths and the area of
farmland served, which can be shown to be related to the economic rate of
return. Water supply selection criteria include the state of the present
water supply, the existence of waterborne disease and the unit cost of im-
proving the supply. Criteria for selecting the rural electrification sub-
projects included population density and the proximity of existing feeder
lines. In addition to the above technical and economic criteria, the village's
past record of achievement and its willingness to contribute to the proposed
sub-projects will also be taken into account.
Project Cost and Financing
59.       Total project costs (excluding the value of volunteer labor) are
estimated at $143.5 million, of which $60.0 million (42 percent) would be
foreign exchange. The cost estimates are based on recent experience with
similar work by the agencies concerned, unit costs being updated to
January 1976 levels. No physical contingencies are included owing to the
nature of the project. Any increase or reduction in quantities or unit
prices (apart from the effects of inflation) would be compensated by a decrease
or increase in the number of sub-projects included in the component. Provi-
sion has been made for expected price increases of 15 percent in 1976 and 10
percent per annum thereafter. A detailed breakdown of costs is given in
Annex III and is summarized below:



- 19 -
Componenit              Costs ($ million)
Local   Foreign    Total
Minor Irrigaizion          31.3     20.9     52.2
Upland Reclazaation         5.4      3.6      9.0
Fuelwood                   13.3      0.7     14.0
Roads and Bridges           4.3      2.5      6.8
Water Supply                4.5      3.0       7.5
Rural ElectrtLfication     14.2     21.4     35.6
Technical Assistance, etc. 0.6       0.4      1.0
Sub-Total             73.6     52.5    126.1
Price Contingency           9.9      7.5     17.4
Total                 83.5     60.0    143.5
60.        The proposed Bank loans totaling $60.0 million would finance the
estimated foreign exchange requirement of the project. However, disbursement
rates for the various cclopnents would vary from the estimated foreign
exchange requirement in order to ensure that the Bank makes a reasonable
contribution for each component (cf. paragraph 76 below). The Korea Electric
Company (KECO), an autonomous public corporation, will be responsible for
the rural electrification segment of the proposed project; therefore, a
Project Agreement and a subsidiary loan agreement would provide for the on-
lending of $18.1 milliorL of the proceeds of the Bank loans through KDB to
i:ECO on the same terms as Government funds are normally provided to the agency
for rural electrificaticin schemes. The Central Government would provide
$134.4 million (inclusive of the $60 million of the Bank financing involved)
for the project; of this, $57.9 million would be loaned to beneficiaries as
explained in paragraph i1 belsw; Provincial Governments would provide the
remainder of $9.1 million. In addition, the beneficiaries of the project
would contribute volunteer labor the nominal value of which is expected to
amount to $24.8 million.
61.        Bank disbursements would be mainly used to reimburse expenditures
from the National budget for the minor irrigation, upland reclamation, fuel
wood and water supply components, the Provircial budgets for roads and
bridges, or would be on-lent to the Korea Electric Company (KECO) in the
case of rural electrification. For roads and bridges, National Government
funds would be provided to the Provinces under general revenue-sharing
arrangements. Government loans for the minor irrigation and upland reclama-
tion components would be made to the executing agencies through the National
Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF), while Government loans for rural
electrification would be made to KECO through the KDB. The contribution of
the beneficiaries is a notional amount representing the value of volunteer
labor for construction and is additional to the project costs tabulated in
paragraph 59 above. Local currencv costs would be financed through annual
budgetary appropriations to the various implementing agencies, including
the Provincial and county governments.



- 20 -
Organizational Arrangements
62.        Several Government agencies and ministries would be involved in
implementing the project. The Farmland Bureau of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Fisheries would have overall responsibility for the minor irrigation
and upland reclamation components including planning and sub-project selec-
tion. The works to be constructed would be owned and operated by Farm-
land Improvement Associations (FLIA) of which 127 are operating in Korea at
present. Technical services for sub-project design and construction
supervision would be provided by the Agricultural Development Corporation
(ADC) - a semi-autonomous body under the overall control of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries.
63.        The fuelwood component would be administered by the Ministry of
Home Affairs through its Office of Forestry. The sub-project execution
would be performed by village forestry associations which are structured
as cooperatives and grouped into unions at district, county and national
levels. The fuelwood produced would be shared amongst the members of village
forestry associations in proportion to the amount of volunteer labor con-
tributed by each. Most fuelwood plantations would be located on privately-
owned land with ten percent of total production going to the land-owner as
rent.
64.        The planning and overall coordination for the roads and bridges
segment of the proposed project would lie with the Saemaeul Guidance Division
of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Provincial Construction Bureaus and County
Construction Divisions would be strengthened through hiring additional staff.
65.        The Ministry of Health and Social Affairs would have responsibility
for supervising and maintaining the water supply component. County govern-
ments would undertake the preliminary and detailed design for individual
sub-projects and would supervise the construction, which would be carried
out by village labor. Design work and construction would be reviewed by
engineers of public health sections of Provincial Governments.
66.        KECO would be responsible, under the broad guidance of the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry, for the rural electrification component of the pro-
posed project.
67.        The Division of Water Control (Bureau of Water Resources) of the
Ministry of Construction would be responsible for the improvement of hydro-
logic services under the overall guidance of a Steering Committee on which
the major user agencies of hydrological information (e.g. ADC) would be
represented.
68.        The Economic Planning Board (EPB) would be responsible for monitor-
ing the progress of the project and act as a channel of communication with
the Bank. The executing agency for each component of the project would
submit a progress report to the EPB on a quarterly basis giving the physical
status and expenditure on each sub-project together with a statement from



- 21 -
the audit office of the Ministry concerned. A special Project Monitoring
Unit which is to be-set up within EPB's Budget Bureau, as a condition of
the effectiveness of the proposed loans, would review these reports and pre-
pare a summary of the physical and financial progress of the project and
applications for reimbursement. The disbursement applications together with
the progress reports would be forwarded to the Bank.
69.        The proposed project is unusual in that it is part of a multisec-
toral and nationwide rural development program, with emphasis on decentral-
ized decision-making and self-help. Therefore, careful attention should
be given to evaluating the results of the project and to studying the
achievements of Governnent's rural development efforts generally.   Under
the project, the Econonic Planning Bureau of EPB would assume responsibility
for these evaluation studies which will be carried out by governmental and
semi-governmental agencies acceptable to the Bank. The Bureau, in consult-
ation with the Bank, would draw up a three-year program of studies, prepare
terms of reference, monitor the progress of the evaluation studies, review
their conclusions and incorporate their findings in future rural development
planning.
Operation and Maintenance
70.        The ccmpleted .minor irrigation sub-projects would be operated and
maintained by the FLIA's. The standard of operation and maintenance (O&M)
of similar works completed in the past is generally quite satisfactory.    The
cost of adequate O&M (In early 1976 prices) would average about Won 28,000/
ha ($57/ha) for reservoir systems and Won 37,000/ha ($77/ha) for pumping
stations, but there could be wide variations between sub-projects. These
costs also include some agricultural extension services. KECO would be re-
sponsible for O&M of the rural electrification sub-projects which would be
integrated with the overall power network. The other components of the proj-
ect (upland reclamation, fuelwood, roads and bridges, and water supply) would
be maintained by the v:Lllagers themselves. By and large, O&M by the villagers
has been satisfactory. The small amount of labor needed to maintain upland
reclamation sub-projects-, fuelwood blocks and roads and bridges would be
provided by the villagers. Present standards of road maintenance are not
adequate but wiould be Improved through closer supervision of standards by
county staff. As regards water supply, a regular cash contribution would
be collected from consunmers to pay for cash costs of operation (electricity,
repairs, chemicals, etc.). An assurance has been obtained that all facilities
to be constructed under the project would be operated and maintained in
accordance with sound engineering practices and that, where operation and
maintenance is the responsibility of the villagers, a system of regular
periodic inspection by county-level staff would be established.
Cost Recovery
71.        For minor irrigation, farmers would pay the full cost of O&M through
a water charge imposed by the FLIA, as well as repaying a loan equal to 30 per-
cent of the capital cost of the project (about $1,120/ha on average excluding



- 22 -
the cost of voluntary labor) at 3.5 percent interest with repayment over 35
years. Farmers also pay a production tax of 6 percent on all foodgrain pro-
duction above 1.4 ton/farm, the assumed subsistence level. On a present value
basis, water charges and other taxes would cover about 23 percent of capital
and operating costs. These charges would absorb about 24-31 percent of
farmers' additional income depending on farm size. The beneficiaries of
upland reclamation sub-projects would contribute 10 percent of the project
cost in labor and would repay 30 percent of the capital cost at 9 percent
interest, with repayment over eight years. This implies a cost recovery
index of 28 percent, which is satisfactory given the risk associated with
rainfed cultivation and the income level of the beneficiaries. For the
fuelwood component, the beneficiaries would contribute labor for plantation
establishment, which equals 45 percent of the total imputed project cost,
plus all maintenance. For roads and bridges, the labor contribution equals
45 percent and 30 percent respectively of total imputed costs plus all
maintenance. For water supply, the beneficiaries would contribute about 35
percent of the capital cost in the form of labor and finance all O&M through
cash contributions. As regards rural electrification, consumers would pay
an energy charge which covers the cost of generation, transmission and O&M
of the project works. The tariff schedule is uniform throughout Korea. As
the cost per Kwh declines with increasing consumption, rural consumers pay
more per unit of energy than urban or industrial consumers, reflecting the
higher cost of serving rural areas. There is also a tax of 15 percent on
energy sales. Thus, there is little or no cross-subsidy between consumers.
Rural consumers would pay the full cost of internal wiring and would also
repay a loan for 90 percent of the capital cost of the sub-project, with
interest at 7.5 percent and a repayment period of 35 years.
72.        All the above provisions are satisfactory, allowing for the na-
ture of the services provided, the extent to which individual beneficiaries
can be identified and the position of the beneficiaries in the national
income scale.
Procurement
73.        Equipment and Materials.   Except for materials to be procured through
local shopping (see below), the requirements for equipment and materials for
each year's program would be consolidated by the executing agency and forwarded
to the Office of Supply of the Republic of Korea (OSROK). OSROK would further
consolidate the lists, where feasible, and would procure the goods. Cement,
reinforcing steel, PVC pipes, small pumps, electrical conductors, insulators,
transformers and switchgear, and field vehicles and motorcycles (estimated to
cost $23 million) would be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB),
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. A preference of 15 percent of the cif
price of imported goods, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers. Other goods (estimated to cost about $14
million) would be subject to local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to the Bank, as either the quantities required are small or the
nature of the supplies is such (for example, concrete poles, metal brackets)
that there would be no interest from foreign manufacturers.



- 23 -
74.        These ICB and LCB procedures would not apply for materials required
for roads, bridges and water supply sub-projects scheduled for construction
before June 30, 1976 and for all cement and steel required for these com-
ponents. In order that a whole construction season might not be lost due
to procurement delays and as the cement and steel would be required at varying
times for a large number of sub-projects scattered throughout the country,
these materials would be purchased by the county governments under local
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank with ceiling unit prices set by
the Government, based on recent bidding results for bulk procurement. Such
procurement would be limited to $10,000 per contract or $9.0 million in the
aggregate. An assurance has been obtained that OSROK would submit to the
Bank, through the EPB, periodic reports on the procurement of materials,
including lists of bids received on all contracts, and that, for materials
and equipment subject to LCB, if OSROK intends to award a contract to other
than the lowest evaluated bidder, a detailed evaluation report would be for-
warded to the Bank before the award is made (cf. Section 3.09 of, and
Schedule 4 to, the Loan Agreement). Supplies of transplants and fertilizer
for the fuelwood component (estimated to cost about $10 million) would need
to be procured close to the planting sites. Transplants would be procured
from local government or private nurseries, after obtaining several quotations,
while the small mamounts of fertilizer required would be obtained from NACF's
bulk supplies.
75.        Civil Works - Because the 15,000 or so su.b-projects are individuallv
quite small and scattered over the whole country, it would not be feasible to
combine them in packages large enough to be of interest to international
contractors. The largest of the sub-projects (for minor irrigation) would
generally be less than $2.0 million and are thus relatively small in inter-
national terms. The project civil works are expected to be constructed either
by small, locally-advertised contracts (minor irrigation, upland reclamation
and electrification) or by volunteer labor (fuelwood, roads and bridges and
water supply). Standard forms of contract for the minor irrigation and upland
reclamation components have been reviewed and are acceptable to the Bank.
An assurance has been obtained that, for the minor irrigation and unlancl.
reclamation components, local bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank would
be followed; a full list of bidders, together with the amounts of their bids
and a brief bid evaluation, would be forwarded to the Bank for all contracts
exceeding $1.0 million; and that, if the Go-ernment intends to award a contract
to other than the lowest evaluated bidder, a detailed evaluation report would
be forwarded to the Bank before the award is made (cf. Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
76.       Disbursements for materials, vehicles and equipment procured
following ICB would be made at 100 percent of the cif cost or 100 percent
of the ex-factory cost, if manufactured locally; in the case of materials and
equipment for the water aupply component procured following ICB, disbursement
would be made at 100 percent of the cif cost or 30 percent of the ex-factory
cost, if manufactured locally. Disbursements for materials Drocured following
LCB and local shopping would not be made directly but would ue included with
disbursements for civil. works (including plantation establishment), which



- 24 -
would be made at the following standard percentages of certified actual cost
(including the cost of locally-procured materials), as construction proceeds:
minor irrigation 30 percent; upland reclamation 40 percent; fuelwood 30
percent; roads and bridges 36 percent; water supply 30 percent; and rural
electrification 25 percent. Disbursements for foreign training and consult-
ant and advisory services would be at the rate of 100 percent of foreign
costs. Disbursements for project evaluation would be at the rate of 50
percent of the certified actual cost of studies carried out by non-govern-
ment and semi government bodies. There would be no disbursements for project
monitoring, local training or volunteer village labor. A disbursement
schedule is included in Annex III. Any savings in the loan accounts would,
at the request of the Government, be used to finance additional sub-projects
of the type included in the project and in accordance with the same criteria.
It is expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1979, about
one year after the completion of the bulk of project construction.
Benefits and Justification
77.        The proposed project would benefit about four million (30 percent)
of Korea's rural population (or about 15,000 villages which, on the whole
enjoy less than the national rural average income and thus would be con-
siderably below the national average income level). The benefits would
result from the intensification of agricultural production, opening up of
new farmland, expansion of fuelwood production, reductions in transport
costs and an improvement in the quality of rural life. The number of
beneficiaries is unusually high because there would be little overlap between
the sub-projects of the various components. The project would also encourage
decentralized decision-making, help to develop village-level institutions,
and be a further step in the Government's efforts to narrow inequalities between
the urban and rural sectors, as well as within the rural sector. Another
impact of the project would be an increase in employment; project construction
would require about 13.8 million man-days of unskilled village labor, which
would reduce unemployment in the off-season, and permanent employment would
be provided for about 3,900 persons on a full-time basis directly as a result
of the agricultural components.
78.        The proposed project will include over 15,000 sub-projects scattered
throughout Korea and there would be little interaction between the various
components; it is on this account that the rate of return for each component
has been analyzed separately. Using a seasonal shadow price for labor, the
economic rate of return would be about 13 percent for irrigation, 21 percent
for upland reclamation, 19 percent for fuelwood, and 10 percent for rural electri-
fication (based on revenue projections as a measure of willingness to pay and
thus ignoring the consumers' surplus). For roads and bridges, the rate of return
would be at least 8 percent for each sub-project (exclusive of non-agricultural
and welfare benefits which on the basis of the rate of return on a selected
sample of roads is expected to amount to a minimum of 3 percent). Water supply
is justified mainly as a contribution to the quality of rural life. The fact
that the villagers would contribute about 35 percent of the capital cost
in the form of voluntary labor, as well as all O&M costs, is an indication



- 25 -
of the high value they place on this service and strengthens the uoncliusior
that it is justified.
79.       The Bank's association with the Government's rural development
efforts through the implementation of the proposed project is expected to
contribute to:
(a) the introduction of quantitative sub-project selection
criteria;
(b) the improvement of the technical design and execution
standards of sub-projects;
(c) the development of planning and programming capability
for rural development (through the provisions for project
monitoring and evaluation); and
(d)  the maintenance of the Government's rural infra-
structure program at the planned level.
PART V -- LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Loan Agreements between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank, the draft Project: Agreement between the Bank and KECO, the report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, and the texts of draft resolutions approving the
proposed loans are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The effectiveness of the proposed loans is conditional upon the establishment
of the project monitoring unit within the EPB's Budget Bureau. The
draft Loan and Project Agreements contain covenants normally included in
agreements for projectis of this kind.
81.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply -with t-e
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend t:hat the Executive Directors approve the proposeu
loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
February 19, !976






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3 Page.
C01313  DATA -KOE
759     Per blof arableIa An
SOCIAL 3INDICAICRS
Refeenc   Casatriso
Korea                    Thiad      i-ay           aa 
ON PER CArrtA 154 (ATLAS LUS1)                                    ILL, '         310 l3          220 /b       370 4       2, 31,0 'b
UFA_0.rat    (p-r th-osd)                                  lhde            28              Li3 36.        8 4d1 a         a~
trutid  deLth raite (pee toruocod)                               Ii  aj                        itoA           13           6   4~
Infant mortality rote (for t ....and lisa  ir-the)              ...80-9-0                            j        hIS         LU.7 Lb
Life ecpeotac-y at bitht (loir-)                                 56             6559 /6.                      53 2          2
Si-oos eeProdutixc  rstS '2                                     >,1 /6         2.6 /d          3.2 /d        2.6 /o.h      1. U/d
Peorlation srowth r:atej                                        3.0 ig         2.24            31:511L
Population growth rate - oncen                                    6ZO            6Li5.526
Ags alc-uctre (percent)
15-Al.                                         St         ~         ~         ~~~~~~              ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.32  5.  2482
uSand over                                                     3             .                3             3;73/3
godndnc      ratIo Z4                                         0.9           0.oi             0.9           030 
dependency a-a isa5                                                       1-i,             I.           1.   6        0. 
Ur ban populatIon as peroont of total                            28L /6         o               13 i lk       39 /1. UI      2
F,amily planning:  Na. of ac eptors cuua.tine (those.)         -..550,                                      h5;.          -
No. of users (% of married -rSes)             -..-6                                        8    A
'I b,farce (thranendg                                 7,00010?                       100           1,0    /6    02,910 /ak,eA
Percentage employed in egsicoltrao                             66            52 E,                          6?          19.1
Pe,contege wsemployed                          ~           ~9 .16-                             bc        1 3 ___a_
Percent of national income seocinad by highest 5%                 17 /na             .I          --32 /Ay 
Ni-coot of naticnal income secived iy highsct 201i               42     .       37                            60   j   j   --
Percent of national incirao 'osnu -od  02 lowest 20%              7 7i    i0    4p f                           7Ld.t 
Percent of natt.onait.oobm  zecei-od by Ucont 504                20a    22          j l         .-107h 
I wadb  op*0 of acme,                                     2             23                             53 
%   aoned by  sallentlo%e f:nVre-                                 3              2              ..            .9           -
flslttc  per physicien                                     3,000 /d.c     1,670 '6         2,250 L6      2,190 4        8 180 If
Popalatios per nureing person                                   -.           i3   'f.u         350, /;      I.830,1 f      3,, If
populaticon Per hospital bad                                  2,610 /jg      1,1                    7Tiyboo 50     f/        0L I
Pea capita ra.,'aspply a, % of roquiresents /5                    5            103              105          ILl          bIA)
Pe, capita panteir apply, ,otol (gras. ps- dcyT/                 53             68               52            '6           ?
Of hich, nIaal od pol-                                         13/            L-9Q/Y          lU/jj15
Death rato     ye aooca /7 I                                                                                  15.-  ..
AdjusE;d /B prSnar3r School snr-olI-anet ratIo                   96             95/b             53 it       iIlI3
Ad.j%retd 7  renoadary 4.oboi anolen      ato2                                  la               13           2990
Sea,   f e~cbclinr.g p,onied. fi-st and S-ocd laysI              12             iS               02           11            12
Vocational. enoc;lsent 0s 4 of coo  scho.ol o)roltoat            ii             is if            02 Ij         ] 1.         23
Adult literacy rate %                                           -.               2 7t            -5$la                      9 /,
mDusiw
lgera   lo. of pernoe pr woom (urban)                            2.            2.7              -.            .8           1.0 /
Peroest of occupied   tS without piped wtate                      B             80 /le          - -               'S
Acceas to electricity (as 4 of total Ppoplatlos)                 28             B0 77            -_
Percent of ftual population    -   tioeod to electricity        812B cih        So 7?             3             s
f3T ivore per 1000 popalation                               22            17   c             3 /
Peacosge   "are per 10D0 papulation                             0.1,             2                3  0                         l
glectri-t poersi caosWAton (kwh p.c.)                            71            392              168.1;       3011 A.     3,5909 7b
Newsprint consumption P.c. kg Per year                          1.8            3-.L             U3 _          2 2    T    19.9 Z.h
Niotec. Figuren refer either i., tie loteet periods or to            accoont o   erlrsan       teeertaa     bd   nigt,     n
tie latest years. Latest particl   sofar in principle to             dietribction by age Bad oox of uatloescl populatione.
-.1e ;L-Z  1956-60 or 1966-70: ,be Iotest yearn L- yr4,-         A6  Protein etadaordo (reqairaseote) for all icontriaBes asetab-
olple. to 3960 nod 1970.                                              loaned by SODA Eoonodo Research Service proet. or o. a-natu
/I  The Per Capita GaP eatloat,, ia at whekt prices for               allowance of 6Ao gr-ame of total  roteio pen day, andi 20 granc of
yeara other than 1960,celooltid by tie -cne cor-rslo             anima and Paole   proteIn, of obiob 10 grass Shouldc be entaal
teeinUBe a  the 1972 Worldt Bank Atlas.                        protein.    hwe aetandards Bar coswhat l-acr than tbse   of 28
12  Average cnubar of daioghter-i par soos  of  prpioductioc          grams of trial prtotin atd 22 grams of aninal protein &e 00
age.                                                              acerage for the "arid, propoced b7 710 to the Third World Food
Pbp6    ti.  ge-c-t rmtn  e-   for tho, deoo-en cding 1n            Sive.Y       te.ugse         hicue      eT     ae    feide
& Ratio of populatlob under 15 and 65 and over to payola-           ags 1 through i say be -ct ae . flret appro-tiato     indan of
tic. of ages 15-63 for agi dependency ratio and to labor        ealnutrition.
far'ce of agks 15-61i for e-;onooio dependmeny matio.        /8   Percontaeg enrolled of norrespondirg popoiction of ech.ol age
45 A 14  referene satnders-d  r-prnsent ph.ysiological  -    ~      no defined for each coantry.
quiremanto for normal notLvidy and health, inking
4   oaputedL byIapplyiLng tc tie 1970 ftgure tie growth rate of GNP per cepita in seal toer    froc 1960 to 1970;     a6  1872;
75  2isA,      1965-70.     ae Deri,ed frma esamle surrey eett.moten (21.0,003 persone), nmcluding 17 eactor    provinces8
7? 1971;   a~ 1968;    '/h '195657;     /6  1960-72;   2_) Seoul city and eunicipaLltiea of 5,000 or sore ishahitazota;
~~ JtiouicpeAitiao,  _I Ada~inltreote caaterff of pmrri-ee end dletrlict   (cPAIarei  cod  eg,croerL.s);      /n   For the
deflinttiCO  of orion, see UK Demographic Yearbock 1973, p., i?7(    an  1950-55;   /-   1965-doria 1921;  /6 41psrcen
Doinmg luDe;   &j  Ten yaLre wad over;    /r  15 yeaTs a nd over;   /a  Wage and osIar7 horac    of hu.soahodb.    /6L.   oeolo
au   Ins,     /6  Mopoable cLones;      /w  Numbr 00 tin regtasi ro      aLA .UWorklnj in -the r--riati  /6  Rotto of nopulatloc
umder 15 end 65 end over to labor fooce of ages 15 ant -cr;                    Isi99~/  latiece;  Laa  1964,-At;  /an  Itta an
ooathimoai adoration raCer cc. publlo   cS.ooIa and I=ciod.n tsIaui     eduoctini at -be pent-ecroodaSY tonal; 7j[f8
oitin.  ohaanoso;  /ad  Pereo.i aix yaEr old end o-e 01       -e-II the cenou  Lakero that they os, read and -rib.;
/   Regietered unaep1oyed~   /4L  Water piped L00.id.;   /6    Inaide or~ toutldas   j"   Poraeatt.qe of Swe1l.ngs citi alectrir
UghLing;    tai   1961., ~,j 1955-60;      &-   1973;    /65  Retloata based 00 L labor force Smeple    use.Y.
o  J"a  h-as been e-Icot.ra. ccn neoiv      cuto7 coo to tin steilaudty of tic precet 1nov5        --nnic etructure to that.
of japan in ti h    ddfts     (olth the -o    principle renos's-ce base, I.a., efficient, inotloe       heap labor and ines,y
r,lianc- oa hport.d rae rotertols). HMoreo-ver, agriculture, transport, and      ther centure of Lbs ecoocap have ealSar
niaranlrith t.- YP-ra also -an, 1.ina01, ong-Ta.- Plan dl972-81), a petteml of industrial devlpopvt ohich -a oat vary
dlff-rft. fin-  tic one ..ane posoad with great-    ocn    in 'he sxi
if. ~I-iacr I1, 197'



Page 2 of 3 Pago.
5OMIU4C DKVELOMXII    DATA
(A-ost. in eillion    of U.S. Dollars)
A.tuel                         Poetd1972-                        1974-     1975-      1980-
1972       1973      1974       1975      1976       1980      1974       1975      1980       198       197        197       198
UTIOML ACCOUNTS                            ~~~~~~1973 Pri... end E..henxs Raet                   Average Aasaal Growth Retse              Al Perceat of GDE
Gros. Dwesti. Prod.et                      10,646     12,415    13.474     14,471    15,484     21,018      12 .5       7.4       7.8        8.        105.2    109.5      106.3
Galsa from Term, of 7TEed (+5              116.I     -       ....cM1..2A          T.22A,     -125         --                    - -                 -5.2     -:9.5     -.:6.3
Gro.. Dowstic I.Mea                        10,762     12,415    12,810     13,217    14,230     19.764       9.1        T:7      BE.         8.7       mW. U    100.0     1oo.o
I.port (i.ol.ding NFB)                      3.435     4.367      4,634     4.573      4,868      7,342      16.2       -1.3       9.9        9.0       36.2      34.6       37.2
geport. 11ip,ort .caseity)               2.7_71    3_961      3.30      3.4_40     4.132     7.126        9.2        4.1      15.7       12.0       25.8      26.0      36.1
Resource Gap                                 -664      -406     -1,328    -1,133       -736       -216      41.1      -14.7        -          -       -10.4      -8.6       -1.1
Cons,Vtion Eapeaditura.                    9,017      9,598    10,780     11,434    12.118     16,540       9.3        6.1       7.6        7.3       84.2      86.5       83.7
I-teeneet    1 ion,l stocke)                2,212      3,230     4.185     4,113      3,366      6,100      37.8       -1.7       8.3       12.2        32.7     31.1       30.9
DoeteSaig  /                        1,629     2,817      2,694     3,037      3.366     4,477       28.8      12.7       12.7      12.5        21.0      23.0      22.7
Netlon1 S-vinga                             1,772      2,914     2,721      2,970     3.044     4,261       23.6        9.2      12.3       13.0        21.2     22.5       21.6
MI6RiCHNISR TRADE                                           Aossl Data at Curret Price.                                                                   A. Percen.t of Total
ImPort.
Capital Goods                              762     1,157      1,849      1,837     2.059     2,900       57.0       -0.7       9.6       16.1       27.0      25.9      20.7
Int.-mdi.te Good. (e.ol.fuels)           1.118      2,110     2,943      2,968     3,391     6.492       63.5        0.9      16.9       18.8       43.0      41.8      46.4
Puels and R.l.ted Materials                230       312      1,130      1.395     1,700     2.700      130.0       21.3      14.1       15.0       16.8      19.7      19.3
of which, Petroleu                     221.      277      1,100      1,340     1,605     2,680      130.0       20.8      14.9       15,5       16.2      18.9      19.2
Coos,mtio. Goodo                          __1         661       810        900.2~    930      1.900      48.5       -1.1      16.1       14,2       13.3      12 7      13.6
Total March. Imports (elf)               2,522      4,240     6.852      7,100     8,100     13,992      63,0        3.6      14.5       17.5      100:0      0;~       100.8
EMprtts
Priasry prdoduts (maci. foal.)             269        327       422       501        567      1,341      25.0       18.7      21.8       19.8        9.4       9.9      10.0
Fuels and related naterlals
of whic : POto1~O 3                  18        35        100       113        120       175      160.0        6.5       8.7        7.0        2.4       2.3       1.3
MoueturadP God1,I99                                 2.909                                    11(i44  566 91a2  68.0  1.         .A       24 3       88.3      87.8      88.7
Total March. EMprt. (fob)                1,676      3,271     4,515      5,064     6,350     13,407      64,0       12.2       21.2      19.8      100.0     100.0     100.0
Turian end Border Trade                    -          .         -          -         .          -
Merehandise Trad. Indices                                  AvataR  1973 - 10
Eaport Price lode.                          79        100       127        118       124        130      27         -7         5          7
I.port Price lode.                          75       100        156        16.4      171        208      44          5         5          7
Tr.-  of Trade Indea                       106        100        81         72        72         72     -13        .11         -          -
Eap.rt. Volun   Inde.                       6.4       100       109        132       158        277      30         21        lb         11
VALUE ADDED BY SECTORi                          Asa1e Data et 1973     Prices end Rechanga Rtate               Aver.. A-sa1 Growth Se.ate                  As Percen  of Total
Agriculture                              3,201      3,500     3,620      3,837     3.952      4,633       6          6          4         2          29       29         23
Manof.ctorcg .od M-scg                   2,140      2,883     3,311      3,708     4,152      6,194      24         12        11         13          27       78         30
Other Sect-r                             4,6        4,7       5.549      5.715     6.146    9..,560      13          3        11          8          44       44         47
Total                                    9,700     11,358    12.480     13,260    14,250     20,387      13          7                    9         105      100        lo0
PUBLlc InRANCE
6/                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Percent of GDY
(Central Govsr.t)                                                                5          6,5    ,70       5         1          2         101                   7         1
Currnot Receipts                         1,701      1,530     1,862      2 199j,   2.5;        ,7                    8        1           01                   7         1
Currat SaEpditures                       1.359      1.193     1.406      1.704j    2.062-/    2.503       2         21         8          9          11       13         13
Budgetary S.0108                           342        337       436        495       489      1,367      15         -9         0         12                              - 7
Other Public Sector                        -          -          -         -          -         -          -                    -         -          .     
Public Sector Inveetnent                   522        443       593        728       746      1,888       7         23        21         10           5        6         10
CURRENTf EXPENDITURSE DIETAILS 7/                      Actual         ~         /DETAIL ON
(As % Total Currant Eapend.)                  1972    1973     1974     1975/   j916_6/      PUBLIC SECTOR      7/         US$ Million At 1973 P and ER
Ed-etion                                      18.6    19.3     17.      17.5    ='TF         14IS"                           74GW    1975   1976        Tof Total 1974-76
Other Social S-rvice                            9.1   10.4      9.6'     8.8      5.0        Social Seetrsr                 612       7f      84         10.9
Agriculture                                     2.4    2.4      2.0      1.8      1.9        Agriculture                    121       187    209         24.6
Other tEonoic Service.                          3.6    3.5      2.3      2.1      2.0        1s&setry and Mining             41        82     73          9.3
D.efense                                      33.9    35.2     41.2     43.0     47.0        Power                           55        44     33          4.6
Ad.inistration                                 13.9   13.8     12.1     11.5      9.8        Transport asd C-nication       138       146    172         22.2
TranCfr    to loca  goveronto                  15.1   14.2     14.2     14.6     16.1        0 he                           171       197    175         26.4
Other                                          3.4     1j.2     0.8      0.7      0.2        Total eapeditura               593       728    746        100.5
Tot.1 Currat Eapeodituceo                     100.0  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ FI B& CIN2
SELECrED INDICATORS                                      1960-     1965-   1970-   1975-          Public Sect-r Savings        456       495    489         70.3
1965      1970    1975    1980           Dometic Borrowing             58        38     41          6.6
Average ICOR                                              2.7      75      -        TY            Froria  Borrowina              79      195    216         22.9
Impart Slasticity                                         0.8       2.6     1.1     1.3           Total Pinancing              593       728    746        100.0
Marginal Donetic Saving. ate                             11.3      71.3    16.6     22.0
Marginal National Saving    Rante                        17.9      21.7    18.8    30.0
IABOR FORCE AND OOTPS1T                                      Total Eaoloynt                       Value Added Paz Worker (1973 - Prices & Rec. Rat-)l
PER WORKER                                      in millions        7. of Total        1972-74     In U.S.Dellar    Percent of Averg.     1972-74
1972     1974      1972    1974     Growth Rante    1972     1974    1972     1974     Growth Rate
AericuIture                                      5.3      5.6     50.6     48.2      2.8            604       646     66       60         3.4
Ma-f-cturing ond Mining                          1.5      2.1      14.2    17.8     18.3          1,189     1.577    150      147        15.1
Giber Sector                                     3.7      3.9      35.2    4.0..c    2.7          1.181     1.423    129       132        9,8
Total                                           10.6     11.6     100.0   100.9      4.6            916     1,076    100      100         8.4
1/  Incldes g-rornuent, corporate and private non-corp-rto saing..
2/Includes dometic -ai.gs. net fector jocse        form  bhrod and trac,f-r fron abroad.
3/Bunkering (nan-f-ctres).
4/Incldes trade, banking, ownership of dwellings, public      doisiri.ton-     otherseic.
5.I Revised Budg-t
6/ Budget.
7  .. Cnrs1 Budget and E-ooie De-elopoent Special A.ccount
Febsuary 9, 1976



ANNEX I
BALUAE OP PAYTETS. UTERNL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                             Page 3 of 3 pages
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual                                      Proiected                                  Grow th Rate
1971     9       1973    1974      1975    1j296    1977     1978    1979    1980                  1975-1980
SUMMARY BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (inlc. NFS)                 1,478   2,078   3,961    5,157     5,641   7,066    8,507   10,286  12,344  14,823                     21.4
Imoorts (incl. NPS5          2.489          ji7 76  4 367 7.229        7.500     324    9730    11.357  13.190  15.432                     15.5
Resource Balance (X-M)             -1,011    -501    -406   -2,072    -1,859  -1,258    -1,224  -1,071    -845    -609
Interest (net)                        -91    -106    -123    -141       -265    -407      -528    -613    -691    -755                     23.3
Other Factor Income (net)              29      19      26     -49        -24    -196       -40     150     190     175
Workers Remittance                     54      47       4       -         -       -         -       -       -      -
Current Transfers (net)               171     17      190      222       210     154       200     225     250     275                      5.5
Balance on Current Account           -848    -371    -309  -2.040     -1,938  -1,707   -1,592   -1,309  -1,096    -914
Private Direct Investment (net)        41      74     137      104        42     135       203     220     240     260                     44.0
Official Capital Grants                -       -       -        -          -      -         -       -       -       -
Public M&LT Loansd
Disbursements                       639     784     759    1,085     1,491   1,766    1,942    2,043   2,226   2,379                      9.8
-Repayments                          250     147     276      360       411     574       711     854     877     902                     17.0
Net Disbursements                     389     537     483      725     1,080   1,192     1,231   1,189   1,349   1,477                      6.4
Other M&LT Loans
Disbursements                        33      49      71      168        82     94        124     152     168     181                     17.1
slfepa',.tot_                         10      10      rS5     23         g      39 .~l. 59       ,_       .6      11;                     28.8
Net Disbursements                      23      39      53      145        50     55        65       77'     72      68                      6.4
Actual
Capital Transactions, n.e.i.          312     -91      84      306                             1/          1970    1971    1972     1973    1974
Change in Net Reserves                -83     188     448     -760       DEBT AND DEBT SERVICII-
GRANT AND LOAN COhMITMENTS                                                 Public Debt Out. & Disbursed     1,786   2,228    2,770   3,314   4,031
Official Grants & Grantlike            -       -       -        -          Interest on Public Debt           64      93     104      140     196
1/                                                       Repayments on Public Debt        211     250      247     276     360
Public M&LT Loansa                                                         Total Public Debt Service        275     342     351      415     556
IBRD                                 85      73     150       85         Other Debt Service (net)          11      22      23       31      54
IDA                                   7      26      20      -           Total Debt Service (net)         286     364     374     446      610
ADB                                  81      68      46       89
Other Multilateral                   -       -       -       -         Burden on export and NFS Earnings (7.)
Governments                         305     505     381     418
Suppliers                           242      86     236     441          Public Debt Service               22.5    23.1    16.9    10.5     10.8
Financial Institutions               12      80     205      787         Total Debt Service                23.4    24.6    18.0     11.3    11.8
Bonds                                -       -       -        19         TDS+Direct Investment Inc.        24.2    25.6    20.0     12.7    13.7
Public Loans, n.e.i.                 -
Total Public M&LT Loans               732     839   1,038    1,840       Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec.31.74         Interest as 2 Prior Year DO&D      4.3      5.2     4.7     5.1     5.9
EXTERNAL DEBT                      Disbursed Only            Percent         Amort. as 7 Prior Year D063)      14.3    14.0     11.1    10.0    10.9
IBRD                                  223.8                   5.6
IDA                                    78.3                   1.9        IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed           9.6    40.2    94.7    139.8   223.8
ADB                                   113.0                   2.8         "  as % Public Debt O&D             0.6     1.8      3.4     4.2     5.6
Governments                         1,697.3                  42.1         "  as 2 Public Debt Service         0.3     0.7      1.9     3.0     3.5
Suppliers                           1,250.6                  31.0
Financial Institutions                648.5                  16.1        IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed           26.7    39.8     47.1    58.5    78.3
Bonds                                  19.0                   0.5           as 2 Public Debt OE6D             1.5     1.8      1.7     1.8     1.9
Total Public M&LT Debt              4,030.6                 100.0        "*as % Public Debt Service           0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1
Other MALT Debt2/                     396.0
Short-term DebtJ                      971.0
1/  SOURCE: IBRD, loans of maturity one year and above, including commercial bank borrowing
/ SOUCE:     Korean authorities
... not available separately but included in total
February 9, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KORSA
A.     Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as at December 31, 1975)
Loan or                                                            US$ Million
Credit                                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Numher      Year           Borrower        Purpose          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Seven loans and credits fully disbursed                     153.8   39.7
600         1969    ADC                Irrigation            45.0              3.0
151         1969    Republic of Korea  Education                    14.8       1.5
669         1970    Republic of Korea Railways               40.o              2.4
234         1971    Republic of Korea  Livestock                     7.0       0.3
769         1971    Republic of Korea Highways               54.5              1.3
283         1972    Republic of Korea  Irrigation                   15.0       0.3
795         1972    ADC                Irrigation            33.0             27.7
335         1972    Republic of Korea Agricultural Credit           10.5       0.6
863         1972    Republic of Korea  Railways              40.0              4.7
905         1973    KDFC               Dev. Fin. Co.         40.0              2.9
906 &       1973    Republic of Korea  Education II          23.0   20.0      42.8
394
917         1973    Republic of Korea Ports                  80.0             70.3
942         1973    Republic of Korea Seeds Production        7.0              6.5
953         1974    Republic of Korea Tourism                25.0             21.8
956         1974    Republic of Korea Highways II            47.0             11.6
994         1974    AFDC               Agriculture           13.0             12.8
1070        1975    Republic of Korea  Secondary Cities      15.0             14.9
1095        1975    KDB                Dev. Fin. Co.         60.0             49.5
1096        1975    Republic of Korea  Third Education       22.5             22.5
1101        1975    Republic of Korea Fifth Railway         100.0            100.0
1145        1975    KDFC              Dev. Fin. Co.          55.0             55.0
1175*       1975    MIB                Dev. Fin. Co.         30.0             30.0
Total                                            883.8  107.0    482.4
of which has been repaid                       19.3      .5
Total now outstanding                            864.5  106.5
Amount sold                2.0
of which has been repaid 1.0                    1.0
Total now held by Bank and                      863.5  106.5
IDA (prior to exchange adjustment)             -----  -----    ------
Total undisbursed                               460.0   22.4     482.4
* Effective as of January 28, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
B.     Statement of IFC Investments (as of December 31, 1975)
Fiscal                                                      Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor           Type of Business               Loan     Equity     Total
1968     KDFC              Development f'inancing          -         0.7       0.7
1969     Honam Silk Co.    Textiles                       1.4        0.3       1.7
1970     Atlas Paper Co.   Pulp and paper                 4.5        0.5       5.0l/
1971     Korea Invest-
ment Finance
Corporation     Capital market development      -         0.7       0.7
1974     KDFC              Development financing           -         0.4       0.4
1974     Korea Invest-
ment Finance
Corporatior     Capital market development      -         0.3       0.3
1975     Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.            Electronic products           16.0        1.3      17.3
1975     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.   Capital market development     5.0        0.6       7.6
1975     Tong Yang Nylon
Company Ltd.    Synthetic fibers               6.9        2.1       9.0
1975     Hae Un Dae
Development
Conmpany Ltd.   Tourism                        2.7        0.7       3.4
Total gross commitment                 36.5        7.6      44.1
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                 12.8        0.9      13.7
Total commitments now held by IFC      23.7        6.7      30.4
Total tLndisbursed                      2.8        0.7       3.5
2/   Cancelled at the reouest of the Company



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 600        Pyongtaek-Kumgang Irrigation Project: US$45.0 million
Loan of May 23, 1969; Effective Date: May 25. 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The Project includes irrigation for about 35,000 ha, improvement
of drainage and roads, consolidation of paddy fields, benching of upland
and tidal land reclamation. Construction was delayed by a reorganization
of the executing agency and a delay in hiring consultants. The major proj-
ect components (two sea dikes, the main distribution system and pumping
plants) were largely completed by the end of 1974. Contracts for nearly
all of the remaining work have been awarded. Cost considerations have led
to the exclusion of about 5,000 ha of land from the project. Costs have
risen from US$90 million at appraisal to about US$130 million largely
because of the increased costs of right-of-way, engineering, administra-
tion and land consolidation. Preliminary estimates indicate increases in
the price of rice will partially offset the effects of higher costs and
reduced irrigable area. The economic rate of return is now estimated to
be about 10 percent, compared with the appraisal estimate of 14 percent.
The implementing agency (ADC) has reviewed ways of economizing on the
remaining work which should lead to some marginal cost savings. About
90 percent of the Loan has been disbursed. Construction is progressing
satisfactorily and is scheduled for completion by mid-1976.
Credit No. 151      First Education Project; US$14.8 million Credit
of June 4. 1969; Effective Date: May 25, 1970;
Closing Date: September 30. 1976
This Project comprises: (a) the expansion and equipping of 27
technical, commercial and agricultural high schools, 5 post-secondary
higher schools and 4 university teacher training departments; and (b)
26 man-years of technical assistance and 20 man-years of overseas fel-
lowships to support the development of agricultural and technical educa-
tion. All civil works, furniture, technical assistance and fellowships
included in the Project have been completed. Equipment procurement is
more than 90 percent complete and contracts have been awarded for about one
third of the remaining items. Disbursement has now reached about 93 percent
of the total. The total project cost is estimated to remain about 3 percent
below the appraised estimate. Due to delays in final equipment procurement,
the Closing Date has been extended by nine months.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
Loan No. 669        Third Railway Prolect: US$40.0 million loan and
Credit No. 183      US$15.0 million Credit of May 14, 1970; Effective
Date: September 11t.1970; Closing Date:
December-31. 1976        ..
The bulk of the Loan and Credit was earmarked for the purchase of
freight cars, diesel locomotives, and telecommunications and track mainte-
nance equipment. Progress is generally satisfactory except for delays in
the procurement of some microwave equipment which had to be re-tendered,
and delivery is now expected in October 1976. The Closing Date has been
extended by a year to December 31, 1976 to provide adequate time for the
completion of procurement.
Credit No. 234      Integrated Dairy Beef Development Project; US$7.0 million
Credit of February 11. 1971; Effective Date: August 24.
1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The development of about 700 small and medium-sized dairy farms by
providing long-term loans and the construction and operation of two dairy
products processing plants were the principal components of the Project which
also includes the provision of management and technical services. To date,
about 580 farmers have participated and farm loans of about US$4.5 million
equivalent have been approved. About 4,900 head of cattle have been purchased
and two dairy plants have been constructed and are in operation. The proceeds
of the Credit are almost fully committed.
Loan No. 769        First Highway Project; US$54.5 million Loan of
June 29, 1971: Effective Date: December 7. 1971
Closing Date: December 31. 1976
The construction of approximately 370 km of national highways
between Jeonju and Busan was satisfactorily completed in December 1973, at
a final cost about five percent above the appraisal estimate. Feasibility
studies and detailed engineering have been completed for 1,400 km and 1,100
km of national highways, respectively. A study of road maintenance and the
establishment of a pilot maintenance organization formed the basis of the
creation of a country-wide Highway Maintenance Organization which is being
carried out under the Second Highway Project. The Closing Date has been
extended by 13 months to permit completion of procurement of highway main-
tenance equipment.
Loan No. 795        Yonag San Gang Irrigation Project; US$33.0 million Loan
Credit No. 283      and US$15.0 million Credit of February 2. 1972; Effective
Date: September 15. 1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977
This Project aims at transforming an area with the highest drought
frequency in Korea into one with reliable irrigation and crop diversifica-
tion. Also, there wilL be increased production of high value crops such as
fruits and winter vegetables. Design work is proceeding satisfactorily and
the work on four dams, the main canals and land consolidation has started.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Award of all major contracts have been made, although the delay on several
means that construction will begin roughly a year later than scheduled at
appraisal. The delay was caused mainly by increased costs due largely
to price escalation and design modification. The cost increases will
be partially compensated for by benefits attributable to the enlargement
of the area to be irrigated by about 1,400 ha., and ADC plans to reduce
costs by constructing only canals, roads and drainage systems for contour
furrow irrigation on all lands exceeding 2 percent slope. Also the Bank
has begun monitoring construction costs on each of the ten major civil
works contracts on a monthly basis.
Credit No. 335      Agricultural Credit Project:   US$10.5 million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Effective Date: May 24. 1973;
Closing Date: September 1. 1976
The Credit supports a three year lending program to small farmers
to develop orchards, sericulture and mushroom production and to encourage
the breeding of poultry and swine. It also finances an organizational and
accounting study of the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
and the strengthening of its training facilities. The Project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and disbursement is proceeding on schedule.
Loan No. 863        Fourth Railway Project; US$40.0 million Loan of
November 22, 1972; Effective Date: February 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31. 1976
The main elements of the Project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to
the northeastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of
yard facilities; acquisition of passenger and freight cars; and improve-
ment of facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and
rolling stock. No major problems have been encountered; nearly all of
the Loan proceeds have been committed.
Loan No. 905        Fourth KDFC Project; US$40.0 million Loan of June 13,
1973; Effective Date: September 10. 1973; Closing
Date: December 31. 1977
The Project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 906        Second Education Project; US$23.0 million Loan and
Credit No. 394      US$20.0 million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective
Date: September 10. 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1977
The Project provides equipment for and extensions to the buildings
of: 18 technical and 14 agricultural high schools; ten higher schools/junior
colleges for industrial, agricultural, fishery and nursing training; colleges



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
of agriculture, engineering and natural sciences in nine universities and a
merchant marine college; and ten junior teacher colleges and 12 colleges of
education. It also includes pre-investment studies on health and manage-
ment education. Implementation is about seven months behind schedule due
to delays in the preparation of equipment lists (civil works, which are
being financed by the Government, are slightly ahead of schedule). The
Project has encountered two problems: delays in equipment procurement
and lack of counterpart funds to cover cost overruns on civil works (about
75%). However, steps have been taken by the Government and the Bank to
overcome these problems and therefore implementation should improve within
the next six months. The Project is expected to be completed on schedule
by the end of 1977. Disbursement has been somewhat slower than expected
at appraisal due to the delay in the preparation of equipment lists but is
expected to improve.
Loan No. 917        Ports Project: US$80 million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973: Closing Date:
June 30. 1979
The Project includes the provision of container and bulk cargo
facilities and equipment at Busan and coal piers and handling equipment
at Busan and Mukho. Work on the first three civil works contracts, amounting
to about one-third of the estimated project cost, is somewhat behind schedule
but is now proceeding satisfactorily. Bids received for the Mukho coal-
handling equipment and for the Busan grain handling facilities were close
to the revised cost estimates. Preparation and issuance of the remaining
contract documents is on schedule. The estimated project cost has risen by
about a third from the appraisal estimate, but the foreign exchange cost
should not increase by more than 20 percent because most of the civil works are
expected to be carried out by local contractors. The percentage disburse-
ment of the Loan is being reduced appropriately. The legislation for the
establishment of the Korean Port Authority has been approved by the National
Assembly and the necessary action is expected to follow shortly.
Loan No, 942        Seeds Project; US$7.0 million Loan of November 16, 1973
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The Project consists of: (a) the installation of five field crop
seed processing and storage facilities; (b) farm machinery for seed produc-
tion; (c) procurement of seasonal seed inventories through the operation
of a revolving fund; (d) seed testing laboratories and equipment; (e) crop
research (financed in part by USAID); (f) feasibility studies for irrigation
and area development; and (g) technical assistance. The necessary legisla-
tive and administrative action for revising the Seed Law and establishing
an "Office of Seed Production and Distribution" has been taken. Project
implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Preliminary estimates suggest
that Project costs would be somewhat higher than envisaged at appraisal; the
estimates are being reviewed.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan No. 953        Kyongju Tourism Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
January 4, 1974: Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31. 1978
The Project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multi-purpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or re-
alignment of about 57 kms of roads; infrastructure including storm water
drainage, environmental sanitation, community facilities, are a golf course;
a school for training hotel personnel; and a feasibility study for the
development of tourism on Cheju Island. Final design for almost all
Project components is complete and several contracts have been awarded.
Loan No. 956        Second Highway Project; US$47.0 million Loan of
January 25, 1974; Effective Date: April 4. 1974;
Closing Date: December 31. 1977
The Project, which forms part of the Government's 1972-76 road
construction and paving program, consists of the construction (chiefly on
new alignments) of about 130 kms and paving (largely on existing align-
ments) of approximately 635 km of national highways; feasibility studies
by consultants of about 1,000 kms of national and provincial roads, fol-
lowed by detailed engineering where justified; and the procurement of
highway maintenance and workshop equipment for the extension of a new
highway maintenance program from a pilot province to the remainder of
the country. All construction and paving contracts have been awarded,
and are expected to be completed in early 1976. Procurement of equipment
is in progress and expected to be completed by mid-1976. The studies and
engineering are expected to be completed by early 1977.
Loan No. 994        Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
US$13.0 million Loan of June 7, 1974: Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project aims at integrating the on-farm production of com-
mercial crops for export with efficient hygienic processing facilities
using land that is presently idle or underutilized. It comprises (i)
on-farm development of asparagus, oak mushrooms and mushrooms; (ii) con-
struction of and improvements to facilities to process asparagus, oak
mushrooms, mushrooms and fruits; and (iii) technical assistance includ-
ing training of staff, services of consultants, etc.
Loan No. 1070       Secondary Cities Regional Project; US$15.0 million
Loan of January 15. 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The principal aims of the Project are the establishment of an or-
ganizational framework for regional investment, planning and development and



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
to improve working andl living conditions in the secondary cities of the less
developed Gwangju region.  The main elements of the Project are;    (i) housing
sites and services in the cities of Yeosu, Mogpo and Gwangju (370,384 m2>;
(ii) a fishery harbor complex with industrial processing zone (215,385 m )
in Yeosu; (iii) a city market in Suncheon City (33,160 m2); and (iv) access
roads in Yeosu and Mog;po (6.61 km). It also provides technical assistance
to strengthen regional planning and development, to improve the utilization
of existing water supply systems in the four cities, to assist the manage-
ment and operation of the fishery complex and to carry out feasibility
studies of project proposals identified under the UNDP-financed Phase II
Regional Study.
Loan No. 1095       Korea Development Bank Project; US$60.0 million Loan
of March 31 1975; Effective Date: June 17, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30. 1979
The Project provides funds to KDB which will be used to make sub-
loans to finance dire.:t importa for industrial sbh-projects during the period
mid-1975 to mid-1977.
Loan No. 1096       Third Education Project: US$22.5 million Loan of
March 31, 1975; Effective Date: June 6, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30. 1980
The principEal aims of the Project are to assist in supplying needed
skills and to establish a framework for evaluating performance and improving
the educational system.  The Project consists of:   (a) construction and equip-
ment of a new technical high school; (b) equipment and extension of buildings
for three agricultural junior colleges; (c) equipment and enlargement of build-
ings for a fisheries college, three fisheries high schools, and equipment for
one merchant marine jtnior college; (d) construction and equipment of seven
new vocational training institutes; and (e) financing of engineering and tech-
nical services required for the preparation of future education projects.
Loan No. 1101       Fifth Railway Project; US$100.0 million Loan of
April 10. 1975; Effective Date: July 15. 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The Project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by helping in: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and other
equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and its financial
recovery. The main components of the Project are: an increase in station
and line capacity and improvements in signalling; acquisition of rolling
stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts and repair facilities;
track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening; completion of electri-
fication of 71 km of industrial lines; and other miscellaneous items.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1145        Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
US$55.0 million Loan of July 23, 1975: Effective Date:
September 5. 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Loan will cover about half the KDFC's foreign exchange
requirements through the end of 1977. It will be used to finance direct
imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods and of civil works.
Loan No. 1175       Medium Industry Bank (MIB) Project; US$30 million
Loan of November 26, 1975; Effective Date:   January 28,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
The project provides funds to MIB to make sub-loans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises over the next two years.



ANNEX III
Page 1
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Republic of Korea
Amount:             $60.0 million, of which $40 million will be on
standard Third Window terms.
Terms:              25 years, including seven years of grace, with
interest at 8-1/2 percent for the conventional Bank
loan and 25 years, including seven years of grace, with
interest at 4-1/2 percent for the Third Window Funds.
Project
Description:      The proposed project would consist of:
(a) the construction of 66 minor irrigation sub-projects
which will provide irrigation facilities for tracts
of land ranging from 50 to 700 ha. in size;
(b) upland reclamation of roughly 4,500 ha involving
some 35 sub-projects;
(c) the development of about 11,000 blocks of fuelwood
plantations over an area of approximately 127,000
ha.;
(d) the construction of a total of 850 kms of village
roads and 200 bridges;
(e) the construction of simple water supply systems
for some 2,000 villages;
(f) the electrification of about 300,000 rural house-
holds through a program involving some 2,700 sub-
projects; and
(g) the improvement of hydrological services.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Cost:
Foreign
Exchange    % of
Item      Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   Component  Total
(Won billion)         (US$ million)         (%)
Minor
Irrigation     15.1   10.2   25.3   31.3   20.9     52.2     40        41
Upland
Reclamation    2.6     1.7    4.4    5.4    3.6      9.0     40         7
Fuelwood         6.5    0.3    6.8   13.3    0.7     14.0      5        11
Roads and
Bridges        2.1     1.2    3.3    4.3    2.5      6.8     37         6
Water Supply     2.2    1.5    3.6    4.5     3.0     7.5     40          6
Rural Electri-
fication       6.9    10.4   17.3   14.2   21.4     35.6     60        28
Other Services   0.3    0.2    0.5    0.6    0.4      1.0     40          1
Sub-Total 35.7    25.5   61.2   73.6   52.5    126.1     42       100
Price
Contingency     4.8    3.6    8.4    9.9     7.5    17.4     43
Total
Project
Cost      40.5    29.1   69.6   83.5   60.0    143.5     42
The above costs represent financial outlays only and do not include the
value of volunteer labor.
Estimated
Disbursements:      Bank Fiscal Year         Annual          Cumulative
1976                   1.5              1.5
1977                  34.0             35.5
1978                  22.0             57.5
1979                   2.5             60.0



ANNEX III
Page 3
Procurement:        Eqluipment and Materials - Except for materials to be
procured through local shopping (see below), the require-
ments for equipment and materials for each year's program
would be consolidated by the executing agency and forwarded
to the Office of Supply of the Republic of Korea (OSROK).
OSROK would further consolidate the lists, where feasible,
and would procure the goods. Cement, reinforcing steel,
PVFC pipes, small pumps, electrical conductors, insulators,
transformers and switchgear, and field vehicles and
mctorcycles (estimated to cost $23 million) would be
subject to international competitive bidding (ICB), in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. A preference of 15 per-
cemt of the cif price of imported goods, or the prevailing
customs duty if lower, would be extended to local
minufacturers. Other goods (estimated to cost about
$114 million) would be subject to local competitive bid-
ding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, as either
the quantities required are small or the nature of the
supplies is such (for example, concrete poles, metal
brackets) that there would be no interest from foreign
manufacturers.
These ICB and LCB procedures would not apply for materials
required for roads, bridges and water supply sub-projects
scheduled for construction before June 30, 1976 and for
all cement and steel required for these components. In
order that a whole construction season might not be lost
due to procurement delays and as the cement and steel
would be required at varying times for a large number
of sub-projects scattered throughout the country, these
materials would be purchased by the county governments
urnder local shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank
with ceiling unit prices set by the Government, based
on recent bidding results for bulk procurement. Such
procurement would be limited to $10,000 per contract or
$9.0 million in the aggregate. An assurance has been
obtained that OSROK would submit to the Bank, through
thLe EPB, periodic reports on the procurement of materials,
including lists of bids received on all contracts, and
that, for materials and equipment subject to LCB, if
OSROK intends to award a contract to other than the
lowest evaluated bidder, a detailed evaluation report would
be forwarded to the Bank before the award is made (cf.
Section 3.09 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Loan Agreement).
Supplies of transplants and fertilizer for the fuelwood
component (estimated to cost about $10 million) would
need to be procured close to the planting sites. Trans-
plants would be procured from local government or private
nurseries, after obtaining several quotations, while the
suLall amounts of fertilizer required would be obtained
from NACF's bulk supplies.



ANNEX III
Page 4
Civil Works - Because the 15,000 or so sub-projects are
individually quite small and scattered over the whole
country, it would not be feasible to combine them in
packages large enough to be of interest to international
contractors. The largest of the sub-projects (for minor
irrigation) would generally be less than $2.0 million
and are thus relatively small in international terms.
The project civil works are expected to be constructed
either by small, locally-advertised contracts (minor
irrigation, upland reclamation and electrification) or
by volunteer labor (fuelwood, roads and bridges and
water supply). Standard forms of contract for the minor
irrigation and upland reclamation components have been
reviewed and are acceptable to the Bank. An assurance
has been obtained that, for the minor irrigation and
upland reclamation components, local bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank would be followed; a full list
of bidders, together with the amounts of their bids
and a brief bid evaluation, would be forwarded to the
Bank for all contracts exceeding $1.0 million; and that,
if the Government intends to award a contract to other
than the lowest evaluated bidder, a detailed evaluation
report would be forwarded to the Bank before the award
is made (cf. Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement).
Technical
Assistance:        (a)  Advisor to assist in establishment and testing of
design and construction standards for upland
reclamation; and
(b) consultants to advise and assist in the improvement
of hydrologic services.
Rate of Return:     The economic rate of return (e.r.r.) for each component
(except water supply - cf. paragraph 78 of the text) has
been worked out separately as it is not deemed appropriate
to calculate an overall e.r.r. for over 15,000 sub-projects
scattered throughout the country. The e.r.r. for each
component is:
Minor Irrigation     -    13 percent
Upland Reclamation  -     21 percent
Fuelwood            -     19 percent
Road and Bridges    -      8 percent as a minimum 1/
Rural Electrification     10 percent
Water Supply         -    n.a.
Appraisal
Report   :         No. 958a-KO dated February 15, 1976.
1/   Non-agricultural and welfare benefits would add a minimum of 3 percent to
the rate of return (cf. paragraph 78 of the text).



IBRD 10375
s--r Siu5,5RX  $ i  127 '  123-  tZ   :29'     APRIL 1973
U S K R
CHINA   iv       S      N (O R T H  K O R E A
J~~~~oa,, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
KoR on                                                 agcho  Ea7St Sea
\\EP OF
Ye 256           31 -'i                     ~J             >9         15mh
Seos   fzl3aJv$l                       GI e 5      ANG WEONV     3gu
Yellc w Se o n9
,. W.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uh
En~~ ~ ~~s  5  ,  Pa,, C       Ewas,esb
125'       ~~~~~                           ~ ~~~126'mho
c ig  .                                Je + IAror ser
37.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
CrL Dujc                Ol'3  /S
9091Ro                     _   Intemd t onu bounnd;r An
Ye//ow   Sea e a36
3 12                                  J   E  54' '  1Meonglu
Be.sene~                       GYEONGNOo,
re.0 E Ng                                 JA35
KOREA
__                            K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__  IExpressways
iigesasunder consiructlon
-  --cpreways           4
-.--.--Railways under construction  u
34'
nor  .~~~~~~~~             .4-.~~~~   'Airports
______Special cities
Provincial bourdories
JeL                                  itentoa  boundaries
411E             ~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~0 20  AO  50  50  100  20  1dO  160
K IL OMETERSR
0     23    40    60    so   100
120-             126b             12 7              138,             12 9



