Report No. 958a-KO
Korea
Appraisal of
Rural Infrastructure Project    IL CP
February 15, 1976
East Asia & Pacific Projects
Irrigation Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00              Won 485
Won 1,000      =    US$2.06
US$1 million         Won 0.485 billion
Won 1 million  =    US$2,062
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)               =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)            =    2.47 acres
1 million cubic meters
(Mm3)                     810 acre-feet
1 cubic meter per                      3
second (m3/s)             35.3 ft /s (cusec)
1 ton                     =    1,000 kilogram (kg)
=    2,205 pounds
1 megawatt (MW)                1,340 horsepower (hp)
NOTATION
-- Less than half the smallest unit shown
- Nil or negligible
Not available separately but included in total
Not available
. Not applicable
e Mission estimate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ACSR      -    Aluminum Conductor (Steel Reinforced)
ADC       -    Agricultural Development Corporation
cif       -    Cost, insurance and freight
EPB       -    Economic Planning Board
FAO       -    Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
fob       -    Free on board
FEDC      -    Farmland Expansion and Development Corps (of ADC)
FLIA      -    Farmland Improvement Association
GNP       -    Gross National Product
GVP       -    Gross Value of Product
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
KDB       -    Korea Development Bank
KECO      -    Korea Electric Company
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
MAF       -   Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MCI       -    Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MHA       -   Ministry of Home Affairs
MHSA      -   Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
MOC       -    Ministry of Construction
NACF      -   National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
OOF       -    Office of Forestry
ORD       -    Office of Rural Development
OSROK     -    Office of Supply of the Republic of Korea
pH        -    A measure of acidity
PVC       -   Polyvinylchloride
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
UNICEF    -    United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
VFA       -   Village Forestry Association
WHO       -   World Health Organization
GLOSSARY
Do        -   Province
Gun       -    County
Myon      -    District
Ri        -    Village
Hung Nong
- Gae    -    "Farmers' Action Group" - Water Users' Association
Saemaeul
Undong  -    New Community Movement
Tongil    -    A high-yielding rice variety
Chigae    -    A-frame for human portage
Ondol     -    Under-floor heating system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS   ...............................    i-iv
I.      INTRODUCTION   ..........................................                                          1
II.   BACKGROUND ............................................    2
General . ..........................................    1
The  Economy   .........                  .............................                    2
Rural  Conditions  in  Korea   ........................                                   3
Previous  Bank  Group  Investments   ..................                                    6
III.       THE  SAEMAEUL  MOVEMENT   .................................                                         6
Origins  and  Goals   ................................                                    6
Organization  of  Saemaeul  Activities   ....                            ..........        8
Achievements  of  the  Saemaeul  Movement   ....                            ........      9
Project  Formulation   ..............................                                      9
IV.      TIE  PROJECT   ...........................................                                        10
Project  Works   ....................................                                    11
Improvement  of  Hydrologic  Services   ....                            ...........      12
Project  Planning  and  Sub-Project  Selection   ....                            ...     13
Status  of  Design   .................................                                   13
Construction  Methods   .............................                                    14
Construction  Schedule   ............................                                    14
Cost  Estimates   ...................................                                    14
Financing   ........................................                                     15
Procurement   ......................................                                     16
Disbursements   ....................................                                     1/
Accounts  and  Audits   ..............................                                   18
Supervision   ......................................                                     19
Project  Initiation  Plan   ..........................                                   19
Environmental  Effects   ............................                                    19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. P.W. Whitford, R.S. Baskett, J.P. Gittinger, C.G. Goldfinger,
ll. Maeda and K.V.S.K. Nathan (Bank), and Messrs. E. Gelb and L.E. Shanan
(Consultants).



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................    20
Project Execution ................................    20
Technical Assistance .............................    21
Training .........................................    22
Operation and Maintenance ........................    22
Cost Recovery ....................................    23
Project Coordination .............................    24
Project Monitoring ...............................    25
Project Evaluation ...............................    26
Agricultural Supporting Services ....        .............    26
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................    27
Assumptions ......................................    28
Minor Irrigation .................................    28
Upland Reclamation ...............................    29
Fuelwood .........................................    30
Roads and Bridges ................................    30
Water Supply .....................................    31
Rural Electrification ............................    31
Other Impacts of the Project .....................   31
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..............     ...    32
ANNEXES
1.   Physiography and Land Use
2.   The Saemaeul Movement
3.   Minor Irrigation Component
4.   Upland Reclamation Component
5.   Fuelwood Component
6.   Roads and Bridges Component
7.   Water Supply Component
8.   Rural Electrification Component
9.   Improvements in Hydrologic Services
10.   Cost Estimates
11.   List of Materials and Equipment
12.   Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
13.   Schedule of Critical Events
14.   Project Financing
15.   Agriculture
16.   Agricultural Supporting Services
17.   Project Evaluation - Minor Irrigation
18.   Project Evaluation - Upland Reclamation
19.   Project Evaluation - Fuelwood
20.   Project Evaluation - Roads and Bridges
21.   Project Evaluation - Rural Electrification
22.   Cost Recovery - Minor Irrigation and Upland Reclamation



-3-
MAPS
10375     -    Korea
10376     -    Korea:  Topography and Rainfall
10377     -    Korea:  Population
10378     -    Korea:  Land Use
10380     -    Korea:  Location of Major Forest Industries
10447     -    Korea:  Cultivated Area per Crop
REFERENCE
1.   Leslie E. Shanan (Consultant);  "Proposed Guidelines for Upland
Development in the Rural Infrastructure Project and the Water-
shed Development Project," October 1, 1975 (available on
request).






KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed project would be the first Bank-assisted multi-
sectoral rural development project in Korea and includes minor irrigation,
upland reclamation, fuelwood, roads and bridges, water supply and rural
electrification components. The project has been formulated within the
Saemaeul Undong (New Community Movement), a national rural development
program in which villages set their own development priorities and con-
tribute, in cash or kind, to the selected projects. The Saemaeul Move-
ment began in 1971 and, even though this appraisal did not attempt to
review the entire Movement iu dept.i, it lhus clearly made an impressive
contribution, both in physical terms and in the modernization of rural
attitudes and the building of institutions at the village level, capable
of planning, financing and executing development projects with a minimum
of government assistance. The government's plans call for all Korea's
35,000 villages to reach this "self-reliant" stage by 1981 and the pro-
posed project would assist this process.
ii.       Korea's economic development since 1963 has been impressive, with
an average growth rate in GNP of 10% per annum in real terms. This has been
mainly achieved by concentration on export-oriented industries -- the growth
rate in agriculture has been a moderate 3.5% per year and annual grain im-
ports have increased to 3 million tons in recent years. Since the end of
1973, the economy has received a sharp setback, as a result of the energy
crisis and the world recession. The result has been increased inflation,
unemployment and an adverse balance of payments. The project would go some
way towards alleviating these developments, by utilizing nearly 14 million
man-days of seasonally underemployed rural labor for project construction.
In addition, the project would create at least 3,900 permanent jobs.
iii.      Owing to the mountainous topography and the high population density
in Korea, few opportunities exist for expanding the existing cropped area
of 2.2 million ha. Double-cropping is limited by climatic factors but could
be expanded with increased water control and the develoDment of shorter-
duration varieties of rice and other grains. There are about 200,000 ha
of uplands which could be cultivated but the existing methods of development
will require refinement and testing before this target can be achieved.
Most of Korea's mountain land is forested but is under heavy pressure to
meet demands for fuelwood. Consequently, the Government has instituted a
program to establish fuelwood blocks adjacent to the villages. A basic
necessity for most rural development activities is the provision of road
access to each village and this is therefore a major component of the
Saemaeul Movement. Rural income has already reached the point where the
rural people are demanding urban-type services, such as electricity and
piped water, and have demonstrated their willingness to contribute at an
appropriate level to such infrastructure.



- ii -
iv.       Project works include 66 minor irrigation sub-projects, ranging from
50 to 700 ha in size, 35 upland development areas, 11,000 fuelwood plantations,
850 km of village roads and 200 bridges, water supplies for 2,000 villages,
and 2,400 rural electrification schemes. The project would serve about 15,000
villages in all. Except for upland reclamation, where newly-devised design
techniques would be put into practice, under the guidance of an international
adviser, these sub-projects would be similar to those implemented in recent
years. However, improved design criteria and construction methods have been
incorporated into several of the components. The project also includes a
program to improve hydrologic measurements and analysis throughout Korea,
which would require the services of an international consulting firm.
v.        Quantitative sub-project selection criteria have been used by the
Government for the first time for rural development projects in Korea in
preparing this project. In addition, the development priorities of the
villagers and their past record in the Saemaeul Movement are given consider-
able weight. A master list of sub-projects, largely agreed upon at negotia-
tions, would form the basis for project monitoring and supervision. Detailed
design work is proceeding and would be mainly completed before the beginning
of construction in March, 1976. Construction would be generally completed in
two years with some of the larger works, as well as studies and evaluation,
continuing through 1978.
vi.       Total project costs are estimated at US$143.5 million, of whicn
US$60.0 million (42%) would be foreign exchange. This cost does not include
the value of volunteer labor, which would be used to construct the fuelwood,
roads and bridges, and water supply components. The proposed Bank Loans
totalling US$60.0 million would finance the foreign exchange requirements of
the project. Internally, sub-projects would be financed by a combination of
loans and subsidies from the Central and Provincial Governments and contri-
butions (in volunteer labor) from the beneficiaries. The execution of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Korea Electric Company would be a condition
of disbursement for the rural electrification component.
vii.      Except for materials to be procured through local shopping, all
equipment and materials would be procured through the Office of Supply. Goods
which would be procured in small quantities or which by their nature would
not be of interest to foreign suppliers (estimated to cost US$14 million)
would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Bank. Other centrally-procured equipment and materials (estimated to
cost US$23 million) would be procured through international competitive bid-
ding following Bank guidelines. To enable construction to begin early in
1976, up to US$9.0 million worth of materials for roads, bridges and water
supply would be procured through local shopping. Transplants and fertilizer
for the fuelwood component (estimated to cost US$10 million) would also be
procured through local shopping. As the 15,000 or so sub-projects are small
and scattered, the civil works could not be grouped into packages large
enough to interest international contractors and would thus be subject to
local competitive bidding (minor irrigation, upland reclamation and rural
electrification) or constructed by volunteer village labor. Disbursements



- iii -
would not be made directly against materials procured through local procedures
but would be included in a standard percentage of disbursement against comple-
ted civil works.
viii.     Auditing provisions would include financial auditing by the audit-
ing sections of the Ministries and independent auditors, as well as spot-
checking of the physical progress of the project by the responsible Ministries
and Bank supervision missions.
ix.       The following table shows, for each component, the responsible
Ministry and the executing agency:
Component                 Ministry             Executing Agency
Minor Irrigation    Agriculture and Fisheries   Farmland Improvement
Associations
Upland Reclamation  Agriculture and Fisheries   Counties
Fuelwood            Home Affairs                  Village Forestry
Associations
Roads and Bridges   Home Affairs                  Provinces, Counties
Water Supply        Health and Social Affairs   Counties
Rural Electri-      Commerce and Indusiry         Korea Electric Company
fication
For the minor irrigation and upland reclamation components, technical services
would be provided by the Agricultural Development Corporation. Improvements
to Hydrologic Services would be carried out by the Ministry of Construction.
Training, both in-service and overseas, would be included in the project.
x.        Irrigation systems would be operated and maintained by the Farm-
land Improvement Associations, who would also collect water charges. The
Korea Electric Company would operate the power systems. All other compo-
nents would be maintained by the villagers themselves. Loan repayment
terms for minor irrigation and upland reclamation, in line with national
policy, would imply cost recovery indices of 23% and 28% respectively,
which are considered satisfactory, taking into account the income levels
of the beneficiaries, the size of the "project rent" and allowances for
risk and uncertainty. The cost of rural electrification would be fully
recovered, while the villagers' contribution to the capital costs of the
fuelwood, roads and bridges, and water supply components, mostly in the
form of labor, would equal 45%, 40% and 35% respectively. In addition,
the villagers would meet all recurrent costs.
xi.       The progress of the project would be monitored by the Economic
Planning Board (EPB), through a system of quarterly reports. The executing
agencies would report to EPB, through their respective Ministries, and EPB



-iv -
would forward a summary to the Bank, as a basis for its disbursement appli-
cations. EPB would also be responsible for setting up a program of evalua-
tion studies, to be carried out mostly by other agencies. These studies
would measure project benefits, the effectiveness of the institutional
structure and the social impact of the project.
xii.      Agricultural research and extension services in Korea are generally
adequate. Additional extension staff would be deployed to support the minor
irrigation component. Extension personnel would be given additional training in
soil conservation practices and assigned to the upland reclamation sub-projects.
The availability of agricultural credit and seeds would be adequate to meet
the needs of the project.
xiii.     The proposed project would benefit about four million rural people
(about 30% of Korea's rural population), increase rural incomes and employ-
ment opportunities, develop the ability of the rural people to plan and
implement projects, and improve the quality of rural life. The number of
beneficiaries is high because there would be little "overlap" between the
sub-projects in the various sectors. Using a seasonal shadow price for
labor, the economic rate of return would be about 13% for irrigation, 21%
for upland reclamation, 19% for fuelwood, and 10% for rural electrification
(based on revenue projections as a measure of willingness to pay and thus
ignoring the consumers' surplus). For roads, the rate of return would be
at least 8% for each sub-project and has been estimated at 16% for a typical
sub-project. Water supply is justified mainly as a contribution to the
quality of rural life. The project would have a positive effect on income
distribution and on Korea's balance of payments.
xiv.      With appropriate assurances, the proposed project would be suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$20.0 million and an Intermediate Term Loan of
US$40.0 million, both with twenty-five-year maturities and seven-year grace
periods, following previous practice for agricultural projects in Korea.
The borrower would be the Republic of Korea.



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has reqtuested Bank assis-
tance in financing a multi-sectoral nationwide Rural Infrastructure Project.
Bank assistance would allow the pace of development in some rural sectors
to be accelerateed and, in others, to be maintained in the face of increasing
budgetary constraints. The Project has been formulated within the broad
program of the Saemaeul Undong (New Community Movement), a national approach
to rural development, which affects virtually all public sector investments
in the rural areas and which is based largely on decentralized decision-making
and self-help from the villagers. Under the project, present methods of
sub-project selection, design and construction would be improved, and a
system of monitoring and evaluation would be introduced. The project would
meet high-priority needs in minor irrigation, upland reclamation, fuelwood,
roads and bridges, water supplies and rural electrification. This project
would be the first Bank Group investment for multi-sectoral rural development
in Korea. Previous related Bank Group investments in Korea include two large-
scale irrigation projects, two livestock projects, projects for seeds, agri-
cultural products processing and agricultural credit, and three highway proj-
ects (para 2.18).
1.02      The project was prepared by the Government in 1974-75, the work
of the various Ministries being coordinated and compiled by the Economic
Planning Board. Preparation of the minor irrigation and upland reclamation
components made use of the results of the UNDP/FAO "Upland Development and
Watershed Management Project" (AGL/ROK 67/522), completed in 1973. The
present report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission, compris-
ing Messrs. P. W. Whitford, K. V. S. K. Nathan and R. H. Sheehan (Bank), and
Messrs. H. Boumendil, J. G. Devitt and C. D. Spangler (consultants), which
visited Korea in March-April, 1975 and an appraisal mission, comprising
Messrs. P. W. Whitford, R. S. Baskett, J. P. Gittinger, C. G. Goldfinger,
H. Maeda and K. V. S. K. Nathan (Bank), and Messrs. E. Gelb and L. E. Shanan
(consultants), who visited Korea in July-August, 1975.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      The Republic of Korea covers an area of 98,000 km  (Map 10375).
The topography is comparatively rugged (Annex 1) and crops are confined to
the valley floors, the lower hillsides and some coastal plains. Korea's
climate shows pronounced seasonal variations, with cold, dry winters and
hot, humid summers. About 60% of the annual rainfall, which averages from
800 mm to 1,400 mu in various regions, falls during the summer growing



- 2 -
season (June to September) (Map 10376). The river system is well developed
but strong seasonal variations in flow and rather frequent flooding are
characteristic.
2.02      The mid-1975 population is estimated at 34.0 million, with a
recent growth rate of 1.7%. The Government expects to reduce this growth
rate to 1.3% by 1980.  Population density (including the urban population)
is nearly 350 per km2 overall, or 1,500 per km2 of cropped land (Map 10377).
By comparison, population density on Java is 600 per km4 overall or 750 per
km2 of cropped land. About 45% of Korea's population is rural and there
are about 2.5 million farm households, mainly located in the 35,000 or so
villages.
The Economy
2.03      Beginning from a position uncomfortably close to the bottom of the
international income scale and having limited physical resources, little in-
ternational trade and limited development experience, Korea embarked in the
early 1960's on a course of export-led industrial growth that became one of
the outstanding success stories in international development. From 1963 to
1972, real GNP rose at an average annual rate of nearly 10% and per capita
GNP doubled. Rapid growth continued in 1973 (17% in real terms) and the
first half of 1974. The 1974 GNP is estimated at US$475 per capita.
2.04      The driving force behind Korea's growth has been industrial ex-
ports, mainly textiles, clothing, plywood and electronics. The industrial
base is now being deepened to include iron and steel, machinery, shipbuild-
ing, and chemical industries. Income distribution in Korea is generally
more equitable than in comparable developing countries, with the lowest
quintile of the population receiving 10% of national income. Mainly because
of adjustments to input and crop prices, the gap between rural and urban
incomes has narrowed considerably in the last few years. Household incomes
in rural areas are now about equal to those of households in urban areas
but the average income of an agricultural worker is still only 46% that of
his urban counterpart.
2.05      Since the end of 1973, the Korean economy has been struck by the
twin shocks of sharply increased world prices for fuel, food and raw mate-
rials and the protracted recession in the industrialized countries which
buy Korean exports. This has led to sharply increased inflation (for
example, a 26% rise in consumer prices in 1974), rising unemployment and
a rapid drawdown of Korea's foreign exchange reserves. Government response
to these events included a 17.5% devaluation of the Won, gradual adjustment
of domestic prices towards world market levels, intensive export promotion,
and the seeking of additional medium- and long-term funds from abroad. Fis-
cal measures included increased excise taxes and a new sales tax. While
current account deficits are likely to continue for some years, Korea's
longer term prospects are bright, with an average growth rate in GNP of
8% per annum appearing likely.



-3-
2.06      The growth rate of valued added in agriculture in Korea averaged
about 3.5% per annum in real terms during 1962-72 (Annex 15). Growth
accelerated in 1973 and 1974 to 5.5% and 6.9% respectively but this was
mainly due to rapid growth in the livestock and fisheries sub-sectors.
Total foodgrain production has grown little in the last decade, standing
at about 7.2 million tons, the steady rise in rice production being counter-
balanced by declines in the other major food crops. Thus total grain
imports have increased from 700,000 tons annually in 1962-64 to 3 million
tons in recent years, or a decline in the degree of self-sufficiency from
90% to 70%. The cost of imported grain in 1974 was US$640 million. Prospects
for reversing this trend are not good, as demand is increasing at 2.5% per
year and the supply of cultivable land is quite limited. However, self-
sufficiency in rice production can be expected within a few years.
Rural Conditions in Korea
2.07      The average farm size in Korea is about 0.9 ha, of which 0.5 ha
is paddy land (para 2.09), while the remainder grows upland crops, such as
barley, maize, soybeans, fruit, vegetables, tobacco, mulberries (for silkworm
production) and other cash crops. Nearly two-thirds of farm households have
less than 1 ha of cropland but only 4% of farm households are landless. The
national farm size distribution is given in Annex 1. Most farmers own the
land they cultivate, 70% being full owners and a further 23% renting some
land in addition to their own. This equitable distribution of land ownership
is the result of the Farmland Reform Laws of 1945 and 1950, which imposed
a ceiling of 3 ha on cultivated land per household.
2.08      All uncultivated land in Korea (about 67% of the total area) is
classified as forest but most high-grade timber production comes from the
840,000 ha (9%) of National Forests (Map 10380). Most of the remaining
"forest" is privately owned in small holdings. The average holding size
is 2.6 ha but the median size is less than 1 ha, with 96% of the holdings
being less than 10 ha. Private forest land is used mostly for the gathering
of fuelwood and is therefore usually almost bare of trees or else carries
stunted pines less than 3m high. Private forest land is also highly valued
as a family burial ground but this traditional Confucian practice appears to
be weakening.
2.09      Rice and barley are the major crops, accounting for two-thirds of
the total crop area and they are grown throughout the country, with a concen-
tration in the western and southern coastal areas (Maps 10378 and 10447).
Due to climatic constraints, double cropping of rice is not possible in Korea
but a rice-barley rotation is practiced in the southern regions and now
occurs on about 45% of the total paddy land. With the advent of earlier-
maturing varieties and improvements to management and infrastructure, double
cropping is increasing and may eventually reach 60% of all paddy land (Annex
15). Rice yields in Korea are much higher than those in South and Southest
Asia, reflecting a high level of input use and good management. However,
yields are still 20% below those in Japan, indicating a margin for improve-
ment. High-yielding varieties (HYV's) of rice were introduced in 1971 and



- 4 -
now account for 30% of paddy area. The Government's plans call for HYV
coverage to reach 70% by 1980. The main constraints on national foodgrain
production are water control (irrigation and drainage), varietal improve-
ment (mainly of barley) and, to a lesser extent, agricultural credit.
2.10      The development of irrigation has played, and will continue to
play, a major role in the expansion of rice production and the achievement
of self-sufficiency (Annex 3). In 1962, the total irrigated area was 660,000
ha or 53% of the total paddy area. At present 1,100,000 ha, or 86% of all
paddy area, is irrigated, though not all areas have fully adequate supplies.
In recent years, emphasis has shifted from small-scale to large-scale irrig-
ation projects but future planning, which calls for an additional 150,000
ha of irrigation by 1981, will stress both kinds of projects.  The Govern-
ment's plans also include 140,000 ha of drainage improvement, land consoli-
dation for 290,000 ha and complementary development of inputs and farm
mechanization.
2.11      Other food crops, soybeans and other pulses, potatoes and
miscellaneous cereals, are grown mainly in upland areas and account for
about 18% of the cropped area. Over the last decade, production of most
of these crops has stagnated or declined, due to the conversion of upland
to paddy (in response to a Government price policy which gives a strong
incentive to rice production), partial abandonment of some poorly developed
upland areas (Annex 4) and possibly other factors. LTpland development on
a wide scale is a fairly recent phenomenon in Korea and is a response to
greatly intensified population pressure on the land resource since the
Korean War. Most development on the lower slopes has been carried out by
the farmers themselves. Government assistance on a large scale began in
1962 and 100,000 ha were developed in five years. Development then slackened
and has accelerated only recently, following the passage of the Farmland
Expansion and Development Promotion Law. A recent Government survey estimated
that a further 200,000 ha of forest land could be economically converted to
crop land, compared with an existing total upland area of 1.0 million ha.
However, the remaining areas will present more severe technical problems
than the past development did.
2.12      Fruit, vegetables, tobacco and ginseng are high-value crops,
accounting for 11% of land area but almost one-quiarter of crop value. Only
small areas are used to grow maize and other feed crops. Livestock depend
on crop residues, grazing of wastelands, rice bran and imported feeds. Cattle,
which number 1.8 million, are kept mainly for draft purposes and one million
families own one or more animals. Beef production is about 46,000 ton/yr
and milk production over 100,000 ton/yr.
2.13      The Government has recently begun a national 10-year program
to reforest 1.0 million ha of low productivity forest land (15% of all
forest land). The purpose of this drive is to increase the production of
timber, fuelwood, chestnuts and other forest products and to combat erosion,
which has become a major problem on the steep, over-exploited hillsides.
Within this program, fuelwood blocks will be established on 200,000 ha, to
provide high-yielding, conveniently situated sources of fuel for the villag-
ers, to ease the pressure on the remaining forest land and to reduce the



use of imported fuels and agricultural residues for heating. The relatively
severe winters in Korea mean that an average rural household uses about
4.2 ton/yr of fuelwood for house heating (Annex 5). The rate of establish-
ment of fuelwood blocks has now reached 40,000 ha per year.
2.14      The settlement pattern in Korea reflects topographic and historical
realities. As 70% of the country is mountainous, settlements mostly occur
in the valleys and coastal plains. Frequent wars and invasions have led to
a pattern of clustered villages, each house having a courtyard and a single
entrance gate. Korea has also undergone rapid urbanization in the last two
decades, with Seoul and Busan now accounting for 23% of total population.
These two cities exercise a strong influence on the surrounding regions,
which are considerably more developed and urbanized than the nation as a
whole. At the other end of the scale, one finds the remote settlements of
the mountainous Northeast and the rugged coastal region of the Southwest
characterized by smaller, more isolated and poorer villages. Nevertheless,
while differences between rural regions are noticeable, the major disparity
in living standards is between urban and rural areas.
2.15      Korea has a fairly well developed major transport network, with
railways, expressways and paved two-lane highways connecting the provincial
capitals and the major towns. The provincial and county road network is
generally adequate in terms of density and location but much of it is badly
surfaced and inadequately maintained, leading to excessive operating costs.
Possibly more important, however, is the fact that many villages do not
have vehicular access to the county road network, which sharply increases
the costs of agricultural production, inhibits diversification into perishable
crops and restricts the mobility of labor and the access of the villagers to
social amenities. In 1969, a total of 46,000 km of village roads and 1,800
bridges were identified as being needed to give adequate access to all vil-
lages. Since then, 28,000 km of roads and 1,300 bridges have been constructed
by volunteer labor (para 3.11). However, the remaining works are located in
areas of more difficult topography or require longer bridges.
2.16      The average rural household income in Korea is now about US$1,300
per year and the resulting increase in living standards has created a demand
for urhaP-type services, such as electricity, water supply, postal services
and access to telephones (in approximately that order). The Government has
recognized that services of this kind are important in discouraging rural-
urban drift (which has been as strong in Korea as elsewhere in Asia, though
perhaps with less damaging consequences due to industry's ability to absorb
labor) and has responded with a massive program of rural electrification and
more modest programs for the other services. Electricity is now available
to nearly 60% of rural households, compared to 93% in the cities, and the
Government plans to increase the rural coverage to about 90% by 1978. Ini-
tially, village electricity is used mainly for lighting, radio and television
sets and domestic appliances but, in the longer term, it does set the stage
for the development of cottage industries and other small-scale productive
enterprises.
2.17      The water supply program is less well advanced.  Since 1971, the
proportion of the rural population served by simple piped water systems with



individual house connections has doubled to reach 25%. The Government hopes
to increase this by another 4,000 systems (12%) in the next few years and to
reach 50% coverage by 1981. The objective of the program is to provide a
safe, convenient and reliable supply of water to each house compound, replacing
wells of limited capacity and reliability. Water supply is well advanced
in the cities and larger towns but the rural centers of 1,000 to 20,000
population have lagged seriously behind.
Previous Bank Group Investments
2.18      While this project would be the first multi-sectoral Bank-assisted
project for rural development in Korea, it draws on experience gained in
several previous Bank Group investments. Technical standards for irrigation
have been developed under the Pyongtaek-Kumgang (Loan 600-KO) and Yong San
Gang (Loan 795/Credit 283-KO) Irrigation Projects, which cover 30,000 ha and
33,000 ha, respectively, on the West Coast. A Seeds Project (Loan 942-KO) is
assisting the expansion of seed production for most of the major food crops.
A Dairy Development Project (Credit 234-KO) is assisting small-scale milk
producers and establishing processing plants and a second similar project
has been approved. Specialized cash crops, such as orchards, sericulture,
asparagus and mushrooms, are being developed under an Agricultural Credit
Project (Credit 335-KO) and an Agricultural Processing Project (Loan 994-KO).
Agricultural Education is being assisted by the Second and Third Education
Projects (Loan 906/Credit 394-KO and Loan 1096-KO). Bank Group investments
in the transport sector include five Railways Projects and three projects for
the major highway network. Other external finance for rural development has
come from ADB (irrigation and rural electrification) and USAID (community
development, irrigation, upland development and power).
2.19      In addition to project financing, the Bank has carried out, in the
last few years, the following Sector Surveys: Agriculture; Transportation;
Power; and Water Supply. These surveys give additional information on the
sectoral setting of each of the components of the proposed project.
III. THE SAEMAEUL MOVEMENT
Origins and Goals
3.01      The proposed project would fit within the framework of the Saemaeul
Movement, launched in September, 1971 as part of a large-scale effort to reduce
the rural-urban income gap and to slow down rural-urban migration (Annex 2).
The new program has drawn upon USAID-financed community development experience
during the late 1950's and the early 1960's, but it is considerably broader in
scope and more ambitious in its goals. The following discussion is intended
to give only an overview of the Saemaeul Movement. In-depth analysis is re-
stricted to those sectors to be assisted under the project.
3.02      The Saemaeul Movement is a multi-objective approach to rural devel-
opment. Its fundamental goals are to increase the incomes of farm households,
to improve living conditions in the countryside and to build self-reliance at



-7-
the village level. The many activities undertaken to achieve these goals can
be classified as follows:
(a) environmental and housing improvements - for example,
roof improvements, drains, kitchen improvement,
community halls, and communal laundries;
(b) infrastructure - for example, rural roads, bridges, minor
irrigation systems, water supply, and electrification; and
(c) income-generating or directly productive activities in
agriculture and manufacturing - for example, livestock
raising, silk production, and cottage industries.
3.03      Besides providing physical infrastructure and employment opportuni-
ties, the Saemaeul Movement puts a heavy emphasis on institution building.
The main goal is to develop self-reliance, that is, the capacity of villagers
to program, finance, and execute a range of developmental activities with a
minimum of outside assistance. Another social development objective is
the modernization of attitudes in the rural areas, for example, the pro-
motion of a commercial rather than a subsistence view of agriculture. The
emphasis on self-reliance is reflected in the following (rather qualitative)
classification of villages, used to determine the degree of Government assis-
tance:
(a) Basic villages - These lack leadership as well as the
technical and financial resources necessary to carry out
development projects and therefore require guidance, as
well as financial assistance, from the Government;
(b) Self-help villages - These have acquired the necessary
leadership and organizational ability to identify and
carry out development projects but lack the financial
resources to implement them and therefore still require
Government financial support; and
(c) Self-reliant villages - These have carried out a number
of projects and achieved a degree of financial self-
sufficiency, allowing them to finance development from
their own resources or from loans.
3.04      In 1973, basic villages represented 53% of the total number of
villages in Korea (18,900 out of 34,700), and self-reliant villages 7%.
Government plans call for the elimination of the basic village category
in 1976 and for achieving self-reliance for all villages by 1981 (Annex 2,
Table 1). This target, which implies a reduction in direct subsidy support
(paras 5.11 and 5.12) over the next few years, appears reasonable and attain-
able, though the target will perhaps not be reached as quickly as the Govern-
ment would like.
3.05      While there are regional variations of income in Korea, these
are relatively small and there are no clearly defined large depressed areas.



- 8 -
Reasons for this include the compact size of Korea, the well developed
communications network, the mobility of the labor force, the high rate of
literacy throughout the country and the equitable farm size distribution
(para 2.07). There is no sharp distinction between subsistence and commer-
cial agriculture and, as a result, new techniques and attitudes have diffused
fairly quickly. Nevertheless, there are many small localities, scattered
throughout Korea, where poor transport and lack of services such as irrigation,
electricity and water supply are constraining development and encouraging
rural-u-ban migration.  For these reasons, the Saemaeul Movement is nationwide
but concentrates on the basic villages, which tend to be in the more remote
par.s of each region. For the same reasons, the proposed project would also
he aiational i½, scope with an emphasis on basic (and also self-help) villages.
OrLal.jzizion of Saemaeul Activities
3.06      The organizational structure of the Saemaeul Movement has two
main characteristics:
(a)  Within the government, Saemaeul activities are admin-
istered by the existing government agencies and are
subject to the existing technical review and budgetary
approval procedures. The arrangement does create a
problem of adapting agency priorities to development
needs as perceived by the villagers but, on the other
hand, it ensures the integration of Saemaeul activities
into the established government programs and operating
procedures.
(b) Within the villages, the Saemaeul Movement attempts to
build new institutions and to train a new generation of
village leaders.
3.07      At the national level, general policy issues for the Saemaeul
Movement are dealt with by a Vice-Ministerial Coordinating Committee,
chaired by the Minister of Home Affairs and with representation from all
ministries dealing with Saemaeul activities. A Central Coordinating Com-
mittee of senior officials then translates these general policy objectives
into sectoral planning guidelines for the Ministries. At the Provincial
level, responsibility for Saemaeul planning is assumed by a Provincial
loor:inating Committee. There are also county and district Saemaeul
Committees, comprising representatives from all the Government agencies
u.oncerned.
3.08      At the village level, Saemaeul Committees, headed by an elected
Saemaeul leader and assisted by a woman leader, have been established. In
iaost villages, the Saemaeul leader is not the village chief, who is appointed
directly by the Provincial government, but is a younger man with above-
average education or skills. The establishment of a Saemaeul program for
a village and the selection of projects is an iterative process in which an
initial proposal, drawn up by the village Saemaeul Committee, is submitted
to the district committee then to the county committee. These committees
allocate funds on the basis of: (a) sectoral priorities defined by the



- 9 -
Government; (b) the technical feasibility of the project; and (c) the
village's past record of achievement and the suitability of the proposed
project for the stage of development of the village.
3.09      There are no hard and fast rules as to the type and mix of
projects to be undertaken by each category of villages but the general
pattern is that basic villages undertake mainly environmental improvement
activities, which provide a testing ground for training the new leadership
and for building a sense of community. Self-help villages concentrate
mainly on infrastructural projects, which include a Government subsidy,
and self-reliant villages undertake directly productive projects, usually
financed by credit, with little (if any) subsidy element.
Achievements of the Saemaeul Movement
3.10      By now, "Saemaeul" has become almost synonymous with rural (and,
in some zases, urban) development. Thus the movement has no firm boundaries
and the exact determination of the total investment in and the physical
achievements of the Saemaeul Movement is difficult. Available data are
summarized in Annex 2, Tables 2 and 3. According to official figures, a
total of Won 275 billion (approximately US$567 million) was invested in
Saemaeul projects between October, 1971 and May, 1974, with Won 102 billion
in 1974 alone. It is worth noting that only 22% of the total investment
was provided from government budgets. The remaining 78% was contributed
by the villagers, mainly in volunteer labor, which totalled 215 million
man-days. For the present project, which stresses infrastructural programs,
the Government contribution would be higher, about 50%. A sample survey
conducted in 30 villages by the Korea Development Institute showed that an
average rural household contributed 39 man-days to Saemaeul activities
during the above 32-month period. The labor contribution increased with
the stage of development of the village--a basic village contributed only
21 man-days on average during the period, while a self-reliant village contri-
buted 58 man-days (Annex 2).
3.11      The physical achievements of the Saemaeul Movement up to 1974 in-
clude 28,000 km of village roads, 9,800 village water supply projects, 48,000
ha of land consolidation, and 52,000 ha of reforestation (including fuelwood
blocks). The movement covers practically all the villages of Korea. It is
worth stressing that physical construction is only one objective of the Sae-
maeul Movement--institution building and the development of self-reliance
(para 3.03) are equally important, though more difficult to measure.
Project Formulation
3.12      Bank assistance for rural development in Korea has been under
discussion for some years between the Government and the Bank. The major
challenge has been to formulate a project in which the policies, administra-
tive procedures and appraisal standards of the Bank could be met within the
Government's multi-sectoral, decentralized and evolving approach to rural
development. In early 1975, the Government proposed to the Bank a package
of seven sectoral programs of the infrastructure type for Bank assistance.



- 10 -
These sectors were chosen because of their high priority within the Govern-
ment's development planning, the Bank's familiarity and expertise in these
sectors and their preponderant economic benefits. The proposed components
all represent high-priority rural development needs and would have been con-
sidered for financing even in the absence of the Saemaeul Movement. One com-
ponent (River Improvements) could not be prepared in time for inclusion in
the project. In the detailed formulation and appraisal of the project,
every effort has been made to work through the existing administrative
procedures wherever possible, to support self-help and institution-building
at the village level, and to use conventional Bank procedures in a flexible
way to accommodate a unique project.
3.13      The proposed project includes six infrastructural investment
programs, most of which have direct economic benefits. However, water
supply (and, to a lesser extent, rural electrification) is justified
largely as a means of improving the quality of village life. The project
would mainly assist villages in the "self-help" category, although the
fuelwood and rural electrification components would be directed more at
"basic" villages, as the more advanced villages have already benefitted
from these programs. The degree of self-help would vary between the
components but it would be present in all cases, either in the form of
volunteer labor, a cash contribution or a loan repayment obligation.
3.14      The Bank's involvement in the Rural Infrastructure Project would
contribute to:
(a) an acceleration of the pace of development in some rural
sectors and the maintenance of the recent rapid rates in
other sectors;
(b) the introduction of quantitative sub-project selection
criteria;
(c) improvement of the technical design and execution
standards of sub-projects; and
(d) the development of planning and programming capability
for rural development (through the provisions for project
monitoring and evaluation).
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project would support on-going Government programs
in minor irrigation, upland reclamation, fuelwood, roads and bridges, water
supply and rural electrification. The project also provides for training,
technical assistance, improvement of hydrologic services and for monitoring
and evaluation of the results of the investment program. The works to be
constructed under the project are described in Annexes 3 to 8 and are sum-
marized below:



- 1 1 -
Project Works
4.02      Minor Irrigation - This component (Annex 3) would consist of 66
sub-projects, serving an area of 13,500 ha in all Provinces of Korea (except
Jeju Island) and benefitting about 400 villages. The service areas include
rainfed paddy lands and some upland areas to be converted to paddy. About
65% of the sub-projects would use small earth dams, less than 30 m high,
similar to many which have been successfully constructed in Korea in the
past. These dams typically have ungated overflow spillways on one abutment
and a pipe outlet, controlled by a slide gate, for releasing irrigation water.
The remaining sub-projects would use pumping stations or weirs, in areas where
perennial river flows are available. The sub-project works include the main
canals and rough levelling of upland areas to be converted to paddies, along
with on-farm development works (minor ditches and drains and final land
levelling), which would be carried out by the farmers concerned. There is
ample evidence in Korea that farmers are willing to undertake this work. In
order to ensure rapid implementation of the component, land consolidation or
boundary realignment has been left for future consideration.
4.03      Upland Reclamation - Upland reclamation (Annex 4) refers to the
conversion of presently unproductive sloping lands (most of which at present
carry a light cover of small trees and grass and yield only fuelwood)
to cultivable land. The method of treatment would depend on the slope
(which varies from 5 to 35%), depth and type of soil, agronomic potential
and other factors. As the upland areas remaining to be developed are more
difficult than those developed to date, past design and construction proce-
dures will need to be modified. The upland reclamation component is thus
envisaged somewhat as a pilot project, with a strong technical assistance
and research element. About 55% of the land to be reclaimed would be re-
shaped into a series of near-level benches with full protection of banks
and drainage ways to prevent erosion. Other designs (semi-bench terracing
and contour farming) would be used only under favorable conditions. The
upland reclamation component would include about 35 sub-projects benefit-
ting about 100 villages, or a total net development area of 4,500 ha, in
most Provinces of Korea but concentrated in the more densely populated
Western Provinces. After conversion, these lands would grow a variety of
upland crops, including barley, soybeans, fruits and vegetables.
4.04      Fuelwood - The project would have a significant impact on Korea's
shortage of fuel (para 2.13) by establishing about 11,000 village fuelwood
blocks, covering about 127,000 ha (Annex 5). Sub-projects would vary from
3 to 50 ha in size, the smaller blocks being additions to previous fuelwood
developments. Sub-projects would cover all Provinces but would be con-
centrated in the more densely populated Provinces, where fuel shortages are
most severe. The fuelwood component would follow the procedures developed
under the large and successful program carried out in the last few years.
Plantations would be established mostly on private "forest" land of low
productivity (the owner being entitled to 10% of production) by communal
labor, with seedlings, fertilizer and technical assistance being provided
by government agencies. The main species used are Pine, Black Locust, Alder
and Lespedeza, and blocks would typically contain a mixture of fuelwood and
timber-producing species. The proportion of timber species would not exceed



- 12 -
35% under the project. The project includes support for fuelwood research,
in the form of vehicles, equipment and materials. This research would address
problems such as species selection, optimum spacing and fertilizer use.
4.05      Roads and Bridges - Approximately 850 km of farm and village
roads, as well as 200 bridges, would be constructed under the project
(Annex 6). This component would benefit about 900 villages. Road segments
would average about 3 km and would generally follow the alignments of exist-
ing footpaths and tracks. Roads would be about 5 m in width and would have
a graded surface of stone or gravel. Bridges would generally be 4 m wide
and of simple reinforced concrete slab (or beam and slab) construction,
multiple spans being used when necessary. Under the project, greater atten-
tion than at present would be given to the design of foundations and to the
quality of concrete used. Communal labor would be used for the construction
of roads and bridges, with cement, reinforcing steel, tools and certain types
of skilled labor being provided by the government. The provision, under the
project, of some simple equipment, such as concrete mixers and stone crushers,
would be necessary to improve the quality of construction to acceptable levels.
4.06      Water Supply - Sanitary water supplies would be constructed in
about 2,000 villages in all Provinces (Annex 7). Dug wells are the usual
sources of water, although springs, infiltration galleries and surface
sources (with a pressure filter and chlorinator) are also used. Water is
pumped to a storage tank, from which a distribution system (usually of PVC
pipe) serves each house compound. A per capita consumption of 80 1/day is
allowed for in design. Standards of design, construction and operation are
sufficient to ensure economy and bacteriological safety. The works would
be constructed by communal labor, with materials and certain types of skilled
labor supplied by the government. Concrete mixers, provided to the counties
under the roads and bridges program, would also be available to water supply
sub-projects, to increase the likelihood that storage tanks would be water-
tight.
4.07      Rural Electrification - This component (Annex 8) would electrify
305,000 additional rural households, through a program of 2,682 sub-projects
serving 6,075 villages. A typical village would be supplied by extending a
single- or three-phase branch from an existing primary feeder. Each house
compound would be given a 10A metered service at 220 V. Concrete poles would
be used, with aluminum conductors (steel reinforced) in most of the country
and copper in some areas with corrosion problems. Individual householders
would engage electricians for house wiring. The systems would be designed
primarily for lighting, radio and television sets and light commercial loads.
Improvement of Hydrologic Services
4.08      Korea has a reasonably good network of rainfall and streamflow
gauges and has made commendable efforts in publishing hydrologic measure-
ments. The major deficiency has been in analyzing the available data so
as to develop efficient and reliable design methods for the water develop-
ment design agencies. Under the project, the Ministry of Construction (and
other agencies), with consultant assistance (para 5.08), would apply modern



- 13 -
techniques to some of the more urgent problems, such as reservoir sizing,
spillway capacity determination and rates of sedimentation. These methods
would be incorporated into handbooks to be used, for example, in designing
future minor irrigation sub-projects. The project would also provide for
additional gauging and other equipment and includes a concerted effort to
obtain rating curves for the existing streamflow gauges.
Project Planning and Sub-Project Selection
4.09      Sub-project selection involves both the villages and the govern-
ment agencies. For village-specific sub-projects, each village sets its
own priorities, subject to the review of the County Saemaeul Committee
(para 3.08). For larger-scale projects, such as irrigation and upland
development, the government agencies have the major role in identifying
and evaluating potential sub-projects, though local pressure is also impor-
tant in determining priorities. For the present project, technical and
economic sub-project selection criteria have been reviewed and, in most
cases, improved. Sub-project selection has been largely completed
and a master list of sub-projects was agreed upon at negotiations for most
components. Some amendments are being made to the roads and bridges and water
supply  sub-project lists and final agreement is expected in February, 1976.  For
upland reclamation, it has been decided to defer the finalization of a
master list until the upland reclamation adviser has been engaged (para
5.07). For minor irrigation, a list of potential sub-projects was reviewed
first on technical grounds (mainly to ensure an adequate water supply)
and then a cutoff economic rate of return (10%) was applied to select a
program of works within the available budget. Upland reclamation components
will be selected so as to maximize their economic and financial rates of
return, while maintaining a reasonable geographical balance, to allow the
proposed design methods to be tested under a variety of soil and topographic
conditions. Criteria used include the potential for high-value crops,
accessibility and farm size (to avoid labor constraints). Fuelwood sub-
projects have been selected mainly on the size of the estimated fuel deficit
in the village, following a nationwide survey in 1975. Quantitative select-
ion criteria for roads and bridges have been introduced for the first time.
Factors considered include road length and farmland served, which can be
shown to be related to the economic rate of return (Annex 20). Water supply
selection criteria include the state of the present water supply, the in-
cidence of waterborne diseases and the unit cost of improving the supply.
Criteria for selecting rural electrification sub-projects include population
density and the proximity of an existing feeder line. In all the components,
in addition to the above technical and economic criteria, the village's past
record of achievement under the Saemaeul Movement and its willingness to
contribute to the proposed sub-project are also taken into account.
Status of Design
4.10      For the minor irrigation component, designs are now completed for
80% of the program. All designs were completed by the end of January 1976.
For upland reclamation, detailed designs would be prepared only after the
ground had been cleared and detailed topographic and soil surveys made. There



- 14 -
should be no difficulty in preparing designs in pace with construction.
For fuelwood, the design work is minimal and there would be no problems in
completing it before March, 1976. For roads, final designs are available
for about 25% of the total program. All designs for each year's program
would be completed by March of that year. Design work in water supply has
reached only 1% of the program but local consultants will be used to expedite
the work. For rural electrification, about 7% of the sub-projects have been
designed. Except for upland reclamation, current design standards are satis-
factory and final designs would not be submitted individually to the Bank.
As the existing standards for the design and construction supervision of
upland reclamation sub-projects are not suitable (Annex 4), agreement was
reached at negotiations on appropriate standards (similar to those described
in Reference 1) and an assurance obtained that the agreed standards would be
employed throughout the implementation of this component (Section 3.04 of
the Loan Agreement and Supplemental Letter).
Construction Methods
4.11      Labor-intensive methods would be used for those components to be
constructed by village volunteer labor, namely, fuelwood, roads and bridges,
and water supply. As there is a serious need to improve the quality of
structural concrete for these components (now produced by hand mixing), small
hand- or gasoline-powered concrete mixers would be procured under the project
and assigned to the county offices. The other components (minor irrigation,
upland reclamation and rural electrification) would be executed by contract,
the intensity of machine use varying with the size and nature of the work.
In some cases, equipment would be rented by the government agencies to civil
works contractors. Cement and reinforcing steel would be supplied to the
contractors by the Government.
Construction Schedule
4.12      As the project is by nature a time slice of an on-going program
the duration of the project is, to some extent, arbitrary. In general, a
two-year period (1976-77) has been used, based on an assessment of the likely
speed of execution for the agency concerned. The rural electrification com-
ponent and the bridges program would be substantially completed in 1976. A
small proportion of the minor irrigation and upland development sub-projects
would run into 1978, while technical assistance in hydrology, the research
programs in upland reclamation and fuelwood, and the project monitoring and
evaluation program would continue through 1978.
Cost Estimates
4.13      Total project costs are estimated at US$143.5 million, of which
US$60.0 million (42%) would be foreign exchange. The cost estimate is based
on recent experience with similar work by the agencies concerned, unit costs
being updated to projected January, 1976 levels. No physical contingencies
are included, owing to the nature of the project. Any rise or fall in quan-
tities or unit prices (apart from the effects of inflation) would be compen-
sated by a decrease or increase in the number of sub-projects included in



- 15 -
the component. Provision has been made for expected price increases of
15% in 1976 and 10% per annum thereafter. While inflation in Korea in
recent years has been above these levels, it is anticipated that it will
moderate in the future and that, in any case, continued rapid inflation would
lead to further exchange rate adjustments and thus limit cost increases,
expressed in US Dollars, to about the levels used. Price contingencies
amount to US$17.4 million or 14% of the baseline estimate.
4.14      A detailed cost estimate is given in Annex 10 and is summarized
below:
Foreign
Exchange % of
Item         Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total  Component Total
------Won billion----      -----US$ million-----    (%)
Minor Irrigation   15.1    10.2   25.3        31.3      20.9   52.2      40        41
Upland Reclamation  2.6      1.7    4.4        5.4       3.6    9.0     40          7
Fuelwood             6.5     0.3    6.8       13.3       0.7   14.0       5        11
Roads and Bridges   2.1      1.2    3.3        4.3       2.5    6.8      37         6
Water Supply         2.2     1.5    3.6        4.5       3.0    7.5      40         6
Rural Electri-
fication           6.9    10.4   17.3       14.2     21.4   35.6      60         28
Other Services       0.3     0.2    0.5        0.6       0.4    1.0     40          1
Base Cost Estimate 35.7    25.5   61.2        73.6      52.5  126.1      42       100
Price Contingency   4.8      3.6    8.4        9.9       7.5   17.4      43
Total Project Cost 40.5    29.1   69.6        83.5      60.0  143.5      42
The above costs represent financial outlays only and do not include the
value of volunteer labor. The opportunity cost of such labor is discussed
in para 6.04.
Financing
4.15      The proposed Bank Loans totalling US$60.0 million would finance the
foreign exchange requirement of the project. However, the disbursement rates
for the various components (para 4.20) would vary from the estimated foreign
exchange requirement, in order for the Bank to make a reasonable contribution
to each component. As the Korea Electric Company (KECO) is an autonomous
public corporation, a Project Agreement and a Subsidiary Loan Agreement would
provide for the on-lending of US$18.1 million through the Korea Development
Bank (KDB) to KECO for the rural electrification component on the same terms
as Government funds on-lent to KECO tbrough KDB, namely 7.5% interest with
repayment of 35 years, including a five-year grace period. A proposed



- 16 -
condition of disbursement for the rural electrification component would be
that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, had been concluded
between KDB and KECO. Sources of funds for the project would be as follows:
National Government 94% (US$134.4 million), of which US$57.4 million would
be loaned to the beneficiaries; Provincial Governments 6% (US$9.1 million).
In addition, the beneficiaries would contribute labor with a nominal value
of US$24.8 million. Details of the financing arrangements for each component
are given in Annex 14.
4.16      Bank disbursements (para 4.20) would be mainly used to reimburse
expenditures from the national budget (for the minor irrigation, upland
reclamation, fuelwood and water supply components), the Provincial budgets
(roads and bridges), or would be on-lent to the executing agency in the case
of rural electrification (para 4.15). 'For roads and bridges, National gov-
ernment funds would be provided to the Provinces under general revenue-
sharing arrangements. Government loans for the minor irrigation and up-
land reclamation components (US$18.4 million) would be made to the execut-
ing agencies through the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF),
while Government loans for rural electrification (US$13.1 million) would be
made to KECO through KDB. The terms and conditions of loans to the benefi-
ciaries are discussed in paras 5.11 and 5.12 and in Annex 14. Local currency
costs would be financed through annual budgetary appropriations to the various
implementing agencies, including the Provincial and county governments.
4.17      An assurance has been obtained that the funds required to carry out
each year's work program would be allocated annually in the regular National
and Provincial budgets (Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement). Because of the
proposed disbursement procedures (para 4.20), the Government would need to
have sufficient funds on hand at the beginning of each quarter to finance
the whole project cost during that quarter. Availability of funds for 1976
was confirmed at negotiations.
Procurement
4.18      Equipment and Materials - Equipment and materials are listed in
Annex 11. Except for materials to be procured through local shopping (see
below), the requirements for equipment and materials for each year's program
would be consolidated by the executing age±icy (Chapter Vj and forwarded to
the Office of Supply of the Republic of Korea (OSROK). OSROK would further
consolidate the lists, where feasible, and would procure the goods. Cement;
reinforcing steel; PVC pipes; small pumps; electrical conductors, insulators,
transformers and switchgear; and field vehicles and motorcycles (estimated
to cost US$23 million) would be subject to international competitive bidding
(ICB), in accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines. A preference of 15%
of the cif price of imported goods, or the prevailing customs duty if lower,
would be extended to local manufacturers. Other goods (estimated to cost
about US$14 million) would be subject to local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank, as either the quantities required are
small or the nature of the supplies is such (for example, concrete poles,
.ietal brackets) that there would be no interest from foreign manufacturers.



- 17 -
The above ICB and LCB procedures would not apply for materials required for
roads, bridges and water supply sub-projects scheduled for construction
before June 30, 1976 and for all cement and steel required for these com-
ponents. In order that a whole construction season might not be lost due to
procurement delays, such materials (listed in Annex 11) could be purchased
by the county governments under local shopping procedures acceptable to the
Bank with ceiling unit prices set by the Government, based on recent bidding
results for bulk procurement. Such procurement would be limited to US$10,000
per contract or US$9.0 million in the aggregate. An assurance has been ob-
tained that OSROK would submit to the Bank, through the EPB, periodic reports
on the procurement of materials, including lists of bids received on all con-
tracts, and that, for materials and equipment subject to LCB, if OSROK
intends to award a contract to other than the lowest evaluated bidder, a
detailed evaluation report would be forwarded to the Bank before the award
is made (Section 3.09 and Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement). Supplies of
transplants and fertilizer for the fuelwood component (estimated to cost
about US$10 million) would need to be procured close to the planting sites.
Transplants would be procured from local government or private nurseries, after
obtaining several quotations, while the small amounts of fertilizer required
would be obtained from NACF's bulk supplies. Further details are given in
Annex 11.
4.19      Civil Works - Because the 15,000 or so sub-projects are individually
quite small and scattered over the whole country, it would not be feasible to
combine them in packages large enough to be of interest to international
contractors. The largest of the sub-projects (for minor irrigation) would
generally be less than US$2.0 million and are thus relatively small in inter-
national terms. Experience on the two ongoing irrigation projects (para 2.18)
has shown that foreign contractors are not willing to bid on even considerably
larger works of this kind in Korea. The project civil works would therefore
be constructed either by small, locally-advertised contracts (Minor Irrigation,
Upland Reclamation and Electrification) or by volunteer labor (Fuelwood, Roads
and Bridges and Water Supply). Standard forms of contract for the minor irri-
gation and upland reclamation components have been reviewed and are acceptable
to the Bank, provided bids are normally awarded to the lowest evaluated bid-
der. An assurance has been obtained that, for the minor irrigation and
upland reclamation components, local bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank would be followed; a full list of bidders, together with the amounts
of their bids and a brief bid evaluation, would be forwarded to the Bank for
all contracts exceeding US$1.0 million; and that, if the Government intends
to award a contract to other than the lowest evaluated bidder, a detailed
evaluation report would be forwarded to the Bank before the award is made
(Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement). There would be about 15 contracts exceed-
ing US$1.0 million.
Disbursements
4.20      Procedures for preparing disbursement applications are discussed in
para 5.15. Disbursements for materials, vehicles and equipment procured
following ICB would be made at 100% of the cif cost or 100% of the ex-
factory cost, if manufactured locally (30% for water supply materials).



- 18 -
Disbursements for materials procured following LCB and local shopping would
not be made directly but would be included with disbursements for civil
works (including plantation establishment), which would be made at the fol-
lowing standard percentages of certified actual cost (including the cost of
locally-procured materials), as construction proceeds: minor irrigation
30%; upland reclamation 40%; fuelwood 30%; roads and bridges 36%; water
supply 30%; and rural electrification 25% (Annex 12, Table 2). Disbursements
for foreign training and consultant and advisory services would be at the
rate of 100% of foreign costs. Disbursements for project evaluation would
be at the rate of 50% of the certified actual cost of studies carried out
by non-government and semi-government bodies. There would be no disbursements
for project monitoring, local training or volunteer village labor. The
estimated schedule of expenditures on the project, the proposed allocation
of the proceeds of the Loans, and a quarterly disbursement schedule are
presented in Annex 12. Any savings in the Loan accounts would, at the request
of the Government, be used to finance additional sub-projects of the type
included in the project. It is expected that disbursements would be completed
by June 30, 1979, about one year after the completion of the bulk of project
construction.
Accounts and Audits
4.21      The progress of Lhe project would be recorded through a series
of quarterly reports (para 5.15) from the executing agencies. As these
agencies are all Government departments or regulated corporations they
would be subject to normal Government control and supervision procedures.
Each Ministry has an internal auditing section, to examine its accounts,
as well as those of lower levels of government and corporations supervised
by the Ministry. The Ministerial auditing sections are supervised by the
Board of Audit and Inspection, an independent agency reporting directly to
the President. The Board's methods include routine audits (formal audits),
which may be waived if the Board is satisfied with the agencies' internal
auditing procedures, and comprehensive audits (performance audits), in the
case of large projects or where wrongdoing is suspected. These arrangements
would be satisfactory for the financial auditing of project expenditures. An
assurance has been obtained that each executing agency would maintain a
separate project account, Lhat these accounts would be audited annualiy,
initially by the auditing section of the responsible Ministry and ultimately
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that these auditors would
submit to the Bank, within five months of the close of a fiscal year, an
audit report on the project accounts, in such detail as the Bank may request
(Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement). It has been agreed Lhat the Board of
Audit is acceptable to the Bank for this purpose (Supplementary Letter).
4.22      The rural electrification component would be executed by the Korea
Electric Company (KECO), a public utility owned 50% by the Government and
operated along commercial lines (para 5.06). An assurance has been obtained
that KECO would engage an independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank, and
would submit to the Bank, within four months of the close of each fiscal



- 19 -
year, its audited balance sheet and financial statements for the year (Sec-
tion 4.02 of the Project Agreement).
4.23      In order that the Government and the Bank might be sure that the
funds expended under the project were being used only for the purposes of the
project, some spot checking of physical progress would be required. A
master list of sub-projects to be included in the project was agreed upon
at negotitiations, for most components. The list will be finalized before
March, 1976. During project execution, other sub-projects could be substitu-
ted but only with the agreement of the Bank. At the end of each quarter,
the Ministry responsible for each component would select not less than ten
sub-projects at random and visit the sites, in order to verify the reports
of the executing agency with respect to these sub-projects. It should be
noted that the executing agency is either a local government (Province or
county) or an autonomous body (such as KECO) and thus a Ministry check would
be reasonably independent. An assurance has been obtained that the quarterly
reports of the executing agencies, forwarded to EPB through the Ministries
(para 5.15), would be accompanied by a statement as to which sub-projects
had been visited, the results of the visits and follow-up action taken
(Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement).
Supervision
4.24      Owing to the large number of sub-projects, systematic supervision
of each sub-project by Bank staff would be impossible. Even so, the project
would require a greater than normal supervision input. As the interests of
the Bank and the Government in speedy and efficient execution of the project
coincide, it would be possible for the Government, through the monitoring
arrangements of para 5.15 and the auditing procedures outlined above, to
undertake the bulk of the necessary supervision work. Bank supervision
missions would then be free to concentrate on the overall progress of the
project, technical problems, the evaluation of project benefits and so on.
These missions would also make spot checks on randomly selected sub-projects.
Project Initiation Plan
4.25      The major steps to be undertaken before project construction can
begin are: completion of sub-project selection and designs (para 4.10);
procurement of materials (which process has already been started); execution
of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (for the rural electrification component);
appointment of a technical adviser (for the upland reclamation component)
and a consulting firm (for the hydrologic studies). Critical dates for
these and some other less important steps are given in Annex 13.
Environmental Effects
4.26      The expected environmental effects of each component of the project
are discussed in Annexes 3 to 8. No major problems are anticipated. In-
creased soil erosion from the construction of irrigation, upland development
or roads sub-projects would be minimized by careful design and construction
supervision. The establishment of fuelwood plantations would reduce erosion



- 20 -
from overused upland areas. The water supply component would increase the
supply of safe water in Korea's villages and thus improve the general level
of public health.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Execution
5.01      The various infrastructure components of the project are parts of
ongoing programs, which are the responsibilities of several ministries. This
division of responsibility would not be changed for the execution of the
project but existing provisions for supervising the standards of work and
for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the project would be
strengthened. The executing agencies for the various components are de-
scribed below.
5.02      Minor Irrigation and Upland Reclamation.  Overall responsibility
for these components rests with the Farmland Bureau of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Fisheries (MAF), which is also responsible for project planning
and sub-project selection. Minor irrigation sub-projects would be owned and
operated by the Farmland Improvement Associations (FLIA's), of which 127
exist at present in Korea, covering all the major agricultural areas. While
the FLIA's are formally voluntary associations of farmers, they are under
close supervision by the Provincial administrations, which appoint the FLIA
chairmen, and indirectly by the MAF. The role of the FLIA's in operation
and maintenance and agricultural supporting services will be described in
paras 5.10 and 5.20. Technical services for sub-project design and construc-
tion supervision would be provided by the Agricultural Development Corpora-
tion (ADC), a semi-autonomous corporation supervised by MAF, having broad
responsibilities for land and water development throughout Korea. ADC has
a staff of 1,200 engineers and technicians, managed by a President, a Vice-
President and a Board of Directors. Minor irrigation sub-projects would be
designed by ADC's Survey and Design Department and construction would be
supervised by the ADC Branch (Provincial) Office concerned, on behalf of
the FLIA (Annex 3, Figure 3). Construction of upland reclamation sub-proj-
ects would be administered by the county governments, witn technical ser-
vices provided by ADC, through its newly-created Farmland Expansion and
Development Corps.
5.03      Fuelwood.  The fuelwood component would be administered by the
Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), through the Office of Forestry, and executed
by the Village Forestry Associations (VFA's), which have been established
in every village. The VFA's are structured like cooperatives and are grouped
into VFA Unions at district and county levels and a Federation of VFA Unions
at the national level. The VFA structure is closely supervised, administra-
tively and technically, by the Office of Forestry and its branches in the
Provincial, county and district administrations (Annex 5, Figure 1). Fuel-
wood sub-projects would be planned and supervised, both at establishment and
in operation, by the county foresters of the VFA Unions and the district



- 21 -
staff of the Office of Forestry. Most fuelwood plantations would be
established on private land, made available to the VFA under a long-term
lease (Annex 5). Production of fuelwood would be shared amongst the VFA
members in proportion to the amounts of volunteer labor contributed, with
10% of the total going to the landowner as rent. The equipment for fuelwood
research included in the project would be used by the Forest Research Insti-
tute, under the Office of Forestry.
5.04      Roads and Bridges.  Responsibility for the planning and overall
administration for this component lies with the Saemaeul Guidance Division
of the MiA.  Overall administration and supervision of sub-projects would
rest with the Saemaeul Guidance Sections at the Provincial level (for bridges)
or the county level (for roads). Under the project, the roles of the Pro-
vincial Construction Bureaus and County Construction Divisions in the technical
supervision of the construction of bridges and roads respectively would be
strengthened through deployment of additional staff to overcome present
deficiencies in the quality of completed work (Annex 6). An agreement to
this effect was reached at negotiations.
5.05      Water Supply.  The Ministry of Health and Social Affairs would be
responsible for the water supply component, through its Environmental Health
Bureau (Annex 7). The preliminary design of individual sub-projects would be
the responsibility of sanitarians in the county administrations. The county
Construction Division would then undertake detailed design and supervision
of construction, which would be carried out by village labor. Design and
construction would be subject to review by an engineer in the Public Health
Section of the Provincial administration.
5.06      Rural Electrification.  The Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI)
would be responsible for the overall planning of the rural electrification
component, with the Provincial governments being responsible for sub-project
selection and coordination with other rural development activities (Annex 8).
The executing agency for sub-project design and construction would be the
Korea Electric Company (KECO), an autonomous public corporation, which is
responsible for nearly all power generation, transmission and sales in Korea.
Construction would be supervised by KECO's branch offices.
Technical Assistance
5.07      In order to establish the new design and construction standards for
upland reclamation (para 4.10) and to test them under various topographic and
soil conditions, the services of an adviser with broad international ex-
perience in soil conservation would be required. As well as advising the
Director of the Farmland Expansion Corps of ADC on the proper design and
execution of the project works, the adviser would also establish and super-
vise a program to measure runoff and soil losses for different types of
upland development and incorporate the findings of such research into revised
design standards. He would also make recommendations on staff training and
liaise with the Office of Rural Development on the establishment of follow-
up extension efforts with the farmers in reclaimed areas. An assurance has
been obtained that ADC would employ, within four months of Loan signing, an



- 22 -
adviser with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, for a
two-year period (Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement).
5.08      The Division of Water Control, Bureau of Water Resources, Ministry
of Construction (MOC) would be responsible for the Improvements to Hydrologic
Services included in the project (para 4.08), under the overall guidance of
a Steering Committee on which the major user agencies for hydrologic informa-
tion (for example, ADC) would be represented. Further details are given in
Annex 9. An assurance has been obtained that a Steering Committee for
Hydrologic Services would be established within six months of Loan signing
(Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement). An international consulting firm
specialized in hydrology would be engaged to assist MOC in designing improve-
ments to the existing gauging network, advising on the procurement of equip-
ment and the publication of data and undertaking studies aimed at overcoming
the shortcomings of the analytical methods in use at present in Korea. These
studies would lead to the production of revised design handbooks for MOC,
ADC and other users. About 35 man-months of consulting assistance would be
required. Outline terms of reference are given in Annex 9. An assurance
has been obtained that MOC would employ, within six months of Loan signing,
a consulting firm specialized in hydrologic analysis (or a consortium of
firms, one of which is specialized in hydrology) acceptable to the Bank,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, for a period of about
two years (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Training
5.09      The main training needs would be for ADC staff engaged in the
design of minor irrigation and upland reclamation sub-projects and for FLIA
managers. Training of ADC minor irrigation designers, both in-service and
on short study tours to other countries, would be largely associated with
the program to improve hydrologic services. A program for training ADC up-
land reclamation design and construction staff would be devised by the up-
land reclamation adviser (para 5.07) and would include in-service training
and short study tours to adjacent countries. FLIA managers associated with
the project would travel to Japan or Taiwan in groups of 10 to 15 to observe
the operation and maintenance of irrigation systems.  Selected MAF or ADC
staff would attend overseas seminars or short courses in project planning
and evaluation.  Further details are given in Annexes 3 and 4.  Financing
from the Loans of the foreign costs of other training needs identified
during the course of project implementation would require the Bank's
approval. Arrangements for submitting and approving training requests
under the project were agreed upon at negotiations.
Operation and Maintenance
5.10      The completed minor irrigation sub-projects would be operated and
maintained by the FLIA's. The standard of operation and maintenance (O&M)
of similar works completed in the past is generally quite satisfactory. The
cost of adequate O&M (in early-1976 prices) would average about Won 28,000/ha
(US$57/ha) for reservoir systems and Won 37,000/ha (US$77/ha) for pumping
stations, but there could be wide variations between sub-projects. These



- 23 -
costs also include some agricultural extension services (para 5.20). KECO
would be responsible for O&M of the rural electrification sub-projects which
would be integrated with the overall power network. The other components
would be maintained by the villagers themselves, under the guidance of the
Saemaeul leader (or VFA chief). In most cases, O&M by the villagers has
been satisfactory but some improvement is needed for village roads and
water supplies. A regular cash contribution would be collected from water
supply consumers to pay for cash costs of operation (electricity, repairs,
chemicals, etc.) and also, in many cases, to generate a small surplus for
the village development fund (Annex 7). Roads and bridges would be maintained
by voluntary labor. Present standards of road maintenance are not adequate
but would be improved under the project through closer supervision of stand-
ards by county staff. The small amount of labor needed to maintain upland
reclamation sub-projects and fuelwood blocks would be provided by the vil-
lagers. An assurance has been obtained that all facilities to be constructed
under the project would be operated and maintained in accordance with sound
engineering practices and that, where operation and maintenance is the respon-
sibility of the villagers, a system of regular periodic inspection by county-
level staff would be established (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
5.11      Minor Irrigation and Upland Reclamation.  For minor irrigation,
farmers would pay the full cost of 0 & M, through a water charge imposed
by the FLIA, as well as repaying a loan equal to 30% of the capital cost
of the project (about US$1,120/ha on average excluding a small amount of
contributed labor) at 3.5% interest with repayment over 35 years (Annex 14).
Farmers also pay a production tax of 6% of all foodgrain production above
1.4 ton/farm, the assumed subsistence level. Using a discount rate of 10%
(the opportunity cost of capital in Korea) and a period of 50 years, this
implies a cost recovery index 1/ of 23% and a benefit recovery index 2/ which
varies from 24% to 31%, depending on farm size.  Water charges and direct
taxes would be equivalent to 18% to 21% of incremental income due to the
project, depending on the farm size. The adequacy of these charges is
assessed in Annex 22, by comparing them with the "project rent", which is
defined as incremental net farm income before paying water charges less the
value of family labor, farm management, the return on the farmer's own
investment and an allowance for uncertainty. The implications of the proposed
1/   Defined as the ratio of the present worth of incremental revenues due
to the project to the present worth of the incremental costs associated
with the project.
2/   Defined as the ratio of the present worth of incremental revenues due
to the project to the present worth of incremental income accruing to
the project beneficiaries before payment of water charges and debt
service but after payment of incremental general tax payments.



- 24 -
charges for income distribution are also examined. According to this analysis,
the proposed charges are about 50% of project rent, or more than the theoret-
ically optimum level for the smallest farmers, and about 70% of project rent
for the larger farmers (or an overall "rent recovery index" of 60%). Despite
the slight inequity on small farmers, the proposed charges are regarded as
satisfactory from the point of view of overall benefit recovery, especially
in view of the excellent record of previous projects of this kind in Korea
- collections have typically exceeded 98% of assessments. The beneficiaries
of upland reclamation sub-projects would contribute 10% of the project cost
in labor and would repay 30% of the capital cost at 9% interest, with repayment
over eight years (Annex 14). This implies a cost recovery index of 28%, which
is satisfactory, given the risk associated with rainfed cultivation and the
income level of the beneficiaries (Annex 22).
Other Components.  For the fuelwood component, the beneficiaries
would contribute labor for plantation establishment, which equals 45% of
the total imputed project cost (Annex 10), plus all maintenance. For
roads, the labor contribution equals 45% of total imputed costs (30% for
bridges) plus all maintenance. For water supply, the beneficiaries would
contribute about 35% of the capital cost in the form of labor and finance
all O&M through cash contributions. Electricity consumers would pay an
energy charge which covers the costs of generation, transmission and O&M
of the project works. The tariff schedule is uniform throughout Korea and
there is a tax of 15% on energy sales. There is little or no cross-subsidy
between consumers. Rural consumers would pay the full cost of internal
wiring and would also repay a loan for 90% of the capital cost of the
sub-project, with interest at 7.5% and a repayment period of 35 years. All
the above provisions are satisfactory, allowing for the nature of the
services provided, the extent to which individual beneficiaries can be
identified and the position of the beneficiaries in the national income
scale. Part of the Government's philosophy for the Saemaeul Movement is
that the proportion of Government subsidy should gradually decline for
future projects, as each village becomes more self-reliant (para 3.04).
5.13      For each component, assurances have been obtained that project
beneficiaries would continue to contribute to the capital and annual cost
of facilities to be provided under the project, at no less than the exist-
ing levels, which are described above (Sections 3.13, 3.14, 3.15, 4.04, 4.05
and 4.06 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Coordination
5.14      The level of funding for rural development is such that only a
very small number of high-priority projects can be constructed in a given
village in a single year. Thus it is unlikely that a given village would
benefit from more than one or two sub-projects of the present project and
consequently, the need to coordinate the construction activities of the
various executing agencies in the field would be minimal. However, at the
sub-project selection stage it has been necessary to ensure that sub-projects
are not recommended where the necessary prerequisites do not exist. For



- 25 -
example, an electrification sub-project should not be proposed for a village
without road access or an electric well pump for a village without a power
supply. In addition, there is a need to match the selected sub-projects
with the physical and institutional capacities of the villages concerned.
These questions are considered by the existing hierarchy of Saemaeul Coor-
dinating Committees at each level of government (para 3.07). These arrange-
ments are satisfactory and would be continued under the project.
Project Monitoring
5.15      The Government has designated EPB as the appropriate agency to
monitor the progress of the project, to draw the attention of the executing
agencies to any problems or delays and to act as a channel of communication
with the Bank. At the end of each calendar quarter, the executing agency
for each component of the project would prepare a progress report, giving
the physical status and expenditure on each sub-project on the master list
(para 4.21). This report would be forwarded by the responsible Ministry to
the EPB, together with a statement from the Auditing Office of the Ministry
(para 4.23). A Project Monitoring Unit would be established within EPB's
Budget Bureau to receive these reports, check them for internal consistency
and for conformity with Ministry of Finance records of disbursements against
the project components, prepare a summary of the overall physical and finan-
cial progress of the project (including information on procurement, to be
supplied by OSROK) (para 4.18) and would prepare an application for reimburse-
ment, based on the total expenditure during the quarter (para 4.20). Except
for the minor irrigation and upland reclamation components, for which MAF's
complete report would be forwarded, only the summary would be sent to
Washington in support of the disbursement application. The detailed reports
of the executing agencies would be available in Korea for review by supervi-
sion missions. Formats for the detailed reports and the summary were agreed
upon during negotiations.
5.16      Assurances have been obtained (Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement)
on the following points:
(a) The EPB would establish a Project Monitoring Unit
in its Budget Bureau and would appoint suitable staff
to the Unit;
(b) The Ministries responsible for the various components of
the project would submit to the EPB within one month of
the close of each calendar quarter, a detailed report on
the physical and financial progress of all sub-projects,
in a form acceptable to the Bank; and
(c) The EPB would submit to the Bank, within two months of
the close of each calendar quarter, a summary report on
the physical and financial progress of the project,
together with information on procurement and spot checking
in a form acceptable to the Bank.
The establishment of the Unit is proposed as a condition of effectiveness of
th.e Loans.



- 26 -
Project Evaluation
5.17      The proposed project is unusual in that it is part of a multi-
sectoral and nationwide rural development program, with an emphasis on
decentralized decision-making and self-help. Therefore, careful attention
should be given to evaluating the results of the project and, to a lesser
degree, to studying the achievements of the Saemaeul Movement generally.
Studies done to date have been preliminary in scope and have no formal links
to the Government's planning and executing agencies.
5.18      Under the project, the Economic Planning Bureau of the EPB would
assume responsibility for evaluation studies. The Bureau, in consultation
with the Bank, would draw up a three-year program of studies, prepare terms
of reference, monitor the progress of the evaluation studies, review their
conclusions and incorporate their findings in future rural development plan-
ning. High priority studies would include: measurement of the benefits of
the project components, particularly upland reclamation, roads and bridges, and
water supply, for which few data are available at present; anlysis of the
effectiveness of the present administrative, coordinating and sub-project
selection mechanisms; the measurement of changes in rural attitudes to
development; and, an assessment of investment priorities for villages at
various stages of development. Clearly, not all these questions will be
answered in a three-year period but it is hoped that the evaluation mechanism
to be established under the project would have permanent value. Evaluation
data could also be used in the preparation of a follow-up project for Bank
consideration, which might include sectors other than those included in the
present project.
5.19      Evaluation studies would be carried out by a number of agencies.
Some of the more straightforward studies (for example, traffic volumes on
village roads) would be carried out by the responsible Ministry. Others
would require specialized research bodies, such as the Korea Development
Institute, the National Agricultural Economics Research Institute, the
Universities, and possibly consultants. The nature of the studies was
discussed at negotiations. An assurance has been obtained that a program
of evaluation studies would be submitted by the Economic Planning Bureau
of EPB within six months of Loan signing, and that the Bank would be consulted
periodically on the scope and form of such studies.
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.20      Research and Extension.  The Office of Rural Development (ORD) of
the MAF is responsible for research and extension, which are more advanced
in Korea than in most developing countries. Research is aimed at crop yield
improvement, earlier-maturing varieties (to increase cropping intensities) and
disease resistance. ORD's Extension Bureau has county offices, with about
15 subject matter specialists, and district offices, with four or five field
extension workers, or one worker per 350 to 500 farmers, which is satisfactory.
In irrigated areas, additional extension staff are employed by the FLIA's.
In order to ensure a rapid build up of benefits from the minor irrigation



- 27 -
component, an assurance has been obtained that ORD or the responsible FLIA
would appoint an additional extension agent in every myon (district) in which
a minor irrigation sub-project would be constructed, within one year of Loan
signing. Guidance to those farmers benefitting from upland reclamation would
require special attention, in order to achieve high yields and to maintain
the project works without causing excessive erosion (Annex 4). As the
existing extension staff are not specially trained in these areas, an assur-
ance has been obtained that ORD would cooperate with ADC in training extension
workers in soil conservation and would appoint, within one year of Loan signing,
suitably trained extension workers in every gtn (county) in which an upland
reclamation sub-project would be constructed (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agree-
ment and Supplementary Letter).
5.21      Agricultural Credit.  The Government-sponsored cooperative system,
the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF), is the main source
of institutional credit and supplies about half of total credit needs.
Most loans are at 9% per annum interest. Institutional credit is supplemented
by private sources and the farmers' own savings. Availability of additional
credit (expected to total Won 6 billion per year) is expected to be sufficient
to permit the use of inputs at the projected rates.
5.22      Farmers' Organization.  The principal farmers' organizations are the
FLIA's (para 5.02). At a lower level, farmers are organized into Hung Nong
Cae ("farmers' action groups"), which are responsible for water distribution
at the local level and act as points of contact for the extension workers.
The Hung Nong Gae are also responsible for small-scale improvement works,
collection of water charges, hiring out of farm machinery and yield surveys.
5.23      Seeds.  Until recently, seed production was largely a responsibility
of the Provincial ORD branches, with little central coordination. As a result,
seed has been produced in sufficient quantity but its quality has not always
been adequate. Under a recent Bank-assisted Seeds Project (Loan 942-KO), a
new Seeds Law has been passed and an Office for Seed Production and Distri-
bution established. These steps, together with improvements to processing
plants and technical assistance, should ensure that the availability of
quality seeds is not a constraint on the agricultural components of the
project. Further details on agricultural supporting services are giver, in
Annex 16.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The Rural Infrastructure Project would benefit about four million
people (about 30% of Korea's rural population or about 15,000 villages),
through intensification of agricultural production, opening up of new farm-
land, expansion of fuelwood production, reductions in transport costs and an
improvement in the quality of rural life, through the provision of water
supply and electricity. The number of beneficiaries is unusually high
because there would be little "overlap" between the sub-projects of the
various sectors. The project would also encourage decentralized decision-
making, help to develop village-level institutions, and would be a further



- 28 -
step in the Government's efforts to narrow inequalities between the urban
and rural sectors, as well as within the rural sector. Other impacts of the
project include an increase in short-term and long-term employment and a
reduction in foodgrain imports.
6.02      Because the 15,000 or so sub-projects would be scattered throughout
Korea, there would be little interaction between the various components.
Thus it is appropriate to analyze each component separately. Where possible,
an indicative economic rate of return, based on a "typical" sub-project or on
average conditions, has been calculated. In the case of rural electrifica-
tion, a modified financial analysis has been used to produce a minimum esti-
mate of the economic rate of return. Quantification of the benefits of water
supply has not been possible and a qualitative justification is therefore
used.
Assumptions
6.03      Prices and Foreign Exchange.  All prices have been adjusted to
a projected early-1976 level; whenever possible crop prices for economic analysis
have been based on the Bank's projections of 1985 world market prices. Thus
the world market price was used for rice, soybeans, and tobacco. In the
absence of price forecasts for polished barley for human consumption, a price
equal to 85% of that projected for wheat flour was used. For other crops,
and for farm income analysis, average farmgate prices for the last five years
(adjusted for inflation) have been-used. As there is little market for
fuelwood, the value was determined in terms of agricultural residues and
'coal, the alternative fuels for which it would be substituted. For the
purpose of economic analysis a shadow foreign exchange rate of Won 560 = US$1
(compared to the official rate of Won 485 - US$1) was used to value the
internationally traded commodities (rice, barley, soybeans and tobacco)
and the foreign exchange component of the agricultural inputs and the con-
struction cost. The shadow exchange rate is based on research undertaken
by the Korea Development Institute.
6.04      Labor.  As the demand for unskilled labor is highly seasonal in
the rural areas of Korea, seasonal shadow pricing is appropriate. As the
the rural labor force is approximately fully employed during the crop season
and is also fairly mobile, it is appropriate to use observed wage rates for
hired labor as the opportunity cost of labor, that is, Won 1,800/day for
April, May, July, August and September and Won 1,900/day for the peak months
of June and October. During the winter months there is little wage employ-
ment. There is, however, some self-employment, notably the weaving of bags
from rice straw, for which the net value of production is about Won 450/day --
this value has been used to represent the opportunity cost of unskilled labor
during the period November to March.
Minor Irrigation
6.05      Cropping Pattern and Yield.  The analysis (Annex 17) is based on
the effect of the project on whole farms. In addition to the irrigated ser-
vice area of about 14,000 ha (of which 9,400 ha is presently grown to rice)
the project area farms also include an additional 4,600 ha of upland. As a



- 29 -
result of the conversion of uplands to paddy, farmers will have to adjust
their cropping pattern. It has been assumed that they will try to preserve
the area of high-value crops. A small increase in yield has also been assumed
for the upland crops, due to additional extension efforts and lower costs for
transporting inputs, due to improved access. Present and future cropping pat-
terns and yields were estimated for three climatic regions of Korea - North,
Southwest and Southeast. Details are given in Annex 15. The following yields
(on a milled or polished basis) were assumed for the major crops:
Region
Crop                        North      Southwest   Southeast
-------   ton/ha--------------
Traditional Rice - Present              2.4          2.7          2.7
- Future Without Project           2.6         2.8          2.8
- Future With Project              3.4          3.5         3.5
Improved Rice - Present                 2.8          3.1          3.1
- Future Without Project           3.0          3.3         3.3
- Future With Project              3.9         4.2          4.2
Barley - Present                        1.9          2.0          2.0
- Future Without Project           2.0         2.2          2.1
- Future With Project              2.2         2.5          2.5
6.06      Farm Income.  Three farm sizes have been examined:  0.5 ha; 0.9 ha
(which is the average farm size in Korea); and 1.8 ha.  The cropping pattern
was varied between the farm sizes to reflect the more intensive land use on
small farms. Farm budgets, which provide for hired labor and animal power,
taxes, water charges and debt service, are shown in Annex 17. At full devel-
opment (Year 7 onwards), the net income of an average-sized farm would be
Won 885,000 (US$1,820), compared to Won 540,000 (US$1,100) at present (or
12% lower than the national average farm income). Farmers with 0.5 ha of
land would increase their income by 63% from Won 340,000 to Won 555,000.
These calculations, which exclude off-farm and non-agricultural income,
show that the beneficiaries would have sufficient financial incentives to
participate in the project. About 24,000 farm families would benefit from
the component.
6.07      Economic Analysis.  Using shadow prices for inputs, outputs and
labor, neglecting transfer payments, and assuming a salvage value for the
project works of 25% at the end of the evaluation period of 35 years, the
economic rate of return of the whole component was found to be 13%. Sensi-
tivity tests showed that the price of rice is the only assumption to which
the rate of return is particularly sensitive. Using the estimated construc-
tion costs for the sub-projects in each region, the rates of return for the
three areas were 13%, 13% and 12% respectively.
Upland Reclamation
6.08      Farm Income.  Following the selection criterion that at least
one-third of the sub-project areas should be devoted to high-income crops
(para 4.09), a cropping pattern was devised, which includes high-value



- 30 -
fruits (apples) and vegetables, as well as low-valued grains, pulses and
pasture (Annex 15). As the component is relatively small and somewhat of
a pilot nature (para 4.03), regional variations were not considered and
only one farm size (1.0 ha of reclaimed land) was analyzed. As the return
from apples (at full development) is much higher than for the other crops,
the effect of omitting fruits from the cropping pattern was also tested.
The additional farm income due to the project is estimated at Won 1,000,000
(US$2,060) or Won 570,000 (US$1,200) if apples are excluded. This should
provide adequate incentives to the farmers, even allowing for the inherent
risks of rainfed cultivation. About 5,000 farm families would benefit from
this component.
6.09      Economic Analysis.  Under similar assumptions to those for the
minor irrigation component, the rate of return is estimated at 21% (for
both cropping patterns). Details are given in Annex 18. The higher
ultimate income from fruit is offset by several years of negative cash
flow during the growing period.
Fuelwood
6.10      As returns from timber production are known to be greater than
that for fuelwood, a mixture of fuelwood species only was assumed, in order
to obtain a minimum estimate of the rate of return of the component. Details
of the analysis are given in Annex 19. Only the value of fuelwood production
was quantified, as the other benefits of this component (such as additional
production from the surrounding natural forest and a reduction in erosion
and flood peaks) did not lend themselves to evaluation. Volunteer labor
for plantation establishment maintenance and harvesting was valued at a
shadow wage rate (para 6.04). The resulting economic rate of return is
19% and it was not found to be unduly sensitive to any of the assumptions
made in deriving it. Beneficiaries of this component would number about
150,000 households.
Roads and Bridges
6.11      For roads sub-projects, an analysis (Annex 20) was made of the
economic viability of various combinations of road length (from 2 to 6 km)
and agricultural land served (from 25 ha to 200 ha).  Time_savings in the
transport of inputs and outputs to maintain the existing level of agricul-
ture were evaluated and the changes in cropping pattern likely to occur as
a result of lower transport costs were estimated, based on surveys elsewhere
in Korea. The resulting rates of return are shown in Annex 20, Figure 1.
A cutoff rate of return of 8% is suggested, as indications are that other
benefits (such as improved access to job opportunities in the rural towns)
would add about 3% to the rate of return calculated purely on agricultural
benefits. As the sub-project selection process is not yet completed, no
overall rate of return for the component is available. The rate of return
for a typical road, 3 km long and serving 150 ha, would be at least 16%.
About 44,000 households would benefit from the roads and bridges component.



- 31 -
Water Supply
6.12      The major benefit of the water supply component would be an im-
provement in the quality of village life for about 150,000 families. The
standard of service (house connections) would be appropriate to the level of
income of the beneficiaries and may be considered as a necessary complement
to other more directly p mductive rural investments. In addition, the
water supply component would have some health benefits, would result in some
time savings, and would assist in developing the institutional capacity of
the villages for further development. However, none of these benefits could
be readily quantified and no attempt at numerical analysis has been made.
Given the cost recovery arrangements of the component, a modified financial
analysis, similar to that undertaken for electrification (para 6.13), would
tell us little about the value of the service to the consumers. However,
the fact that the villagers contribute about 35% of the capital cost, in the
form of volunteer labor, as well as all O&M costs, is an indication of the
high value that they place on this service and strengthens the conclusion
that it is justified.
Rural Electrification
6.13      The projected growth of demand for electricity and the division
of this growth between domestic and small power consumers was based on
observed trends in other rural areas of Korea, with a reduction for the
fact that the villages to be electrified under the project are somewhat
smaller and more remote than those which have already been served. Fur-
ther details are given in Annex 21. Revenues from rural electrification,
which measure willingness to pay and are thus a minimum estimate of the
benefits of the component, were calculated using KECO's 1975 tariff
structure and the Government's 15% electricity tax. Using the construc-
tion cost of the component and KECO's estimates of generation, trans-
mission, maintenance and administrative costs, a minimum estimate of the
economic rate of return was found to be 10%. This estimate, which takes
no account of the consumers' surplus or a recent tariff increase, is
moderately sensitive to the rate of growth of demand and the price charged.
The electrification component would benefit 305,000 households.
Other Impacts of the Project
6.14      Food and Fuel Production.  At full development, the project would
increase Korea's production of rice by 26,000 tons (10% of rice imports in
1974), barley by 13,000 tons (4% of 1974 barley imports), potatoes by 24,000
tons, cabbage and other vegetables by 10,000 tons, and fruit by 36,000 tons,
with minor effects on other crops. No marketing problems are anticipated.
The project would result in foreign exchange savings of approximately US$7
million annually. About 640,000 tons of fuelwood would be produced annually,
allowing 500,000 tons of agricultural residues to be used for soil improvement
and reducing the consumption of coal by 170,000 tons.
6.15      Employment.  Project construction would require about 13.8 million
man-days of unskilled village labor, mostly on a volunteer basis, which would



- 32 -
reduce chronic underemployment in the off season. The additional permanent
employment from the agricultural components (neglecting the second-round ef-
fects of the other components) would be equivalent to 3,900 full-time jobs.
6.16      Income Distribution.  While no survey data are available on the
present incomes of the project beneficiaries, it may be assumed that, as the
project is aimed at "basic" and "self-help" villages (para 3.13), the benefit-
ting villages on the whole would be below the national rural average income
and thus be considerably below the national average income level. The proj-
ect would therefore improve the national income distribution and it has been
very roughly estimated that 20% of the project's benefits would accrue to
the 25% of the rural population who, in the Bank's definition, are in ab-
solute or relative poverty. The project would have only minor effects on
income distribution within the villages it would serve.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreements were reached with the Government during negotiations
on the following major points:
(a) design standards for upland reclamation (para 4.10);
(b)  availability of funds in the 1976 budget (para 4.17);
(c)  the master list of sub-projects (para 4.23);
(d)  formats for the quarterly reports (para 5.15); and
(e)  the evaluation studies (para 5.19).
7.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following major points:
(a)  design standards for the upland reclamation component,
to be agreed upon at negotiations, would be employed
throughout the implementation of the project (para 4.10);
(b)  OSROK would submit to the Bank, through the EPB, periodic
reports on the procurement of materials (para 4.18);
(c)  each executing agency would maintain a separate project
account, these accounts would be audited annually by
the auditing section of the responsible Ministry and
ultimately by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and the Auditors would submit to the Bank, within
five months of the close of a fiscal year, an audit
report on the project accounts, in such detail as the
Bank may request (para 4.21);



- 33 -
(d) the quarterly reports of the executing agencies
would be accompanied by a statement by the respon-
sible Ministry on the results of its spot-checking
of physical progress (para 4.23);
(e)  ADC would employ, within four months of Loan signing,
an upland reclamation adviser, with qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Bank, for a two-
year period (para 5.07);
(f) MOC would employ, within six months of Loan signing,
a consulting firm specialized in hydrologic analysis
acceptable to the Bank, under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, for a period of about two
years (para 5.08);
(g) for each component, project beneficiaries would
continue to contribute to the capital and recur-
rent project costs at no less than the existing
levels (para 5.13);
(h) EPB would establish a Project Monitoring Unit in its
Budget Bureau and would appoint suitable staff to the
Unit; the Ministries responsible for the various
components of the project would submit to EPB within
one month of the close of each calendar quarter, a
detailed report on the physical and financial progress
of all sub-projects, in a form acceptable to the Bank;
and EPB would submit to the Bank, witbin two months
of the close of each calendar quarter, a sunuary
report on the physical and financial progress of
the project, together with information on procure-
ment and audit results, in a form acceptable to the
Bank (para 5.16);
(i) ORD would appoint an additional extension agent
in every myon (district) in which a minor irrigation
sub-project would be constructed, within one year of
Loan signing (para 5.20); and
(j) ORD would cooperate with ADC in training extension
workers in soil conservation problems and would
appoint, within one year of Loan signing, suitably
trained extension workers in every gu (county)
in which an upland reclamation sub-project would be
constructed (para 5.20).
7.03      The establishment of a project monitoring unit is proposed as a
condition of effectiveness of the Loans (para 5.16).



- 34 -
7.04      A proposed condition of Loan disbursement for the rural electri-
fication component would be that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to
the Bank, had been concluded between the Korean Development Bank and the Korea
Electric Company (para 4.15).
7.05      With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank Loan of US$20.0 million and an Intermediate
Term Loan of US$40.0 million, both with twenty-five-year maturities and
seven-year grace periods, following previous practice for agricultural
projects in Korea. The borrower would be the Republic of Korea.
February 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Physiography and Land Use
Topog7raphy
1.        The Republic of Korea covers 98,000 km  (Map 10375).  The Korean
peninsula is very rugged and mountainous, although no point in South Korea
exceeds 2,000 m in elevation. Only about 15% of the land may be classed as
plains and such plains as do exist are coastal, small in area and isolated
from one another. The Taebaeg Range extends down the peninsula, close to
the east coast (Map 10376). As a result, the western rivers are longer and
have built up more extensive flood plains than those flowing to the east.
2.        The west and south coasts are extremely indented, the flood plains
of the numerous rivers alternating with rocky headlands and there are numerous
offshore islands. The shoreline itself is indefinite, as a tidal range of up
to 10 m alternately covers and exposes mudflats, shoals and low-lying islands.
There is considerable potential for the creation of new land by diking off
arms of the sea. Jeju, a volcanic island with an area of about 1,800 kn2, lies
about 80 km off the south coast.
3.        The principal rivers are the Han, Nagdong, Geum and Seomjin.  The
Han has a length of 540 km and drains an area of 33,000 km2 (partly in North
Korea). The Nakdong has a length of 730 km and drains 24,000 km2. River
flows show pronounced seasonal variations (para 6), are prone to flooding and
carry high sediment loads, due to active natural and manmade erosion on the
steep hillsides. As a result of deposition, riverbeds frequently aggrade
and are often above the level of the surrounding flood plain, thus worsening
the flood hazard.
4.        The alluvial flood plains generally yield sufficient shallow ground-
water to meet domestic needs (Annex 7) but to date there has been no signifi-
cant development of groundwater for irrigation.
Climate
5.        The climate of Korea is characterized by warm, moisture-laden south-
east winds during summer and cold northwest winds from the central Asian high
pressure area during winter. The mean monthly temperatures for various cities
are shown in Table 1. Winters are pronounced in Korea but are neither as cold
nor as dry as on the nearby mainland. The frost period begins in mid-October
in the north, or mid-November in the south, and lasts until late-April, a
range of 185 to 220 frost-free days. The agricultural implications of the
frost free period are discussed in Annex 15.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        The average rainfall amounts to about 1,250 mm per year, varying
from 800 mm in parts of Gyeongsang Bug Province to 1,400 mm along the south-
ern coast (Map 10376). About 60% of the rainfall is concentrated during
the summer, from July to September. Mean monthly precipitation data for a
number of stations is given in Table 2. Typhoons are rare in Korea but
severe damage sometimes occurs. Even in the summar, rainfall is unreliable,
especially during the critical transplanting period (June). Droughts also
occur sometimes during August and September. Irrigation is therefore required
to obtain optimum yields from high-yielding varieties of rice.
Soils
7.        Korea's soils can be classified topographically into:
(a) Low plains soils consist of marine, marine-alluvial and silty
soils and are mostly clay-loams and silt-loams. They account
for about 1.3 million ha, and are usually cultivated with paddy.
(b) Hill and colluvial terraces are widely distributed over the
west and southwestern zones of the country. They account
for about 1 million ha, and are composed of silt-loams and
silty clays. They are highly acid and poor in organic matter
(Annex 4).
(c) The intermediate slope lands cover about 2 million ha and are
of metamorphic rock origin. They are reddish-yellow, have low
natural fertility and are subject to severe erosion.
(d) The soils of the mountainous areas cover around 7 million ha,
of which about 6 million ha are forest lands. These soils are
subject to severe erosion and, since their parent rocks include
granite, schist and shale, they are highly acid and of low
fertility. Extensive erosion control through reforestation
would reduce the flood damages in the low lands through reduc-
tion of floods and of siltation of the river beds. There is
evidence (Annex 5) that the reforestation programs of the last
decade have had these effects.
Land Use
8.        About 23% of Korea's land area is cultivated, 13% being used for
paddy and 10% for upland crops. Although 67% of Korea's area is classified as
forest, most high-grade timber production comes from the 840,000 ha (9%) of
National Forests. Private forests consist of small trees and shrubs and are
important only for fuelwood production (Annex 5).
9.        Rice and barley are the major crops, accounting for two-thirds of
the total crop area, and they are grown throughout the country, with a con-
centration in the western and southern coastal areas (Map 10378). Rice yields
in Korea are much higher than those in South and Southeast Asia, reflecting



ANNEX 1
Page 3
a high level of input use and good farm practices. However, yields are still
20% below those in Japan, indicating a margin for improvement. Other food
crops (soybeans and other pulses, potatoes and miscellaneous cereals) grown
mainly in upland areas account for about 18% of the cropped area. Fruits,
vegetables, tobacco and ginseng are high-value crops, accounting for 11% of
land area but almost one-quarter of crop value. Only small areas are used to
grow maize and other feed crops. Livestock depend on crop residues, grazing of
wastelands, rice bran and other by-products, as well as imported feeds.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
10.       Korea's 14.7 million farm people (or 2.5 million farm households)
live mainly in the 35,000 or so villages (Map 10377). In 1971, cropland
per farm household averaged 0.92 ha, of which 0.51 ha was paddy and 0.41 ha
was upland. Farm households were classified as follows according to their
principal source of income: rice farms 72%; upland farms, 18%; agricultural
laborers with little or no land, 4%; and the remaining 6% as fruit, vegetable,
special crop, livestock, sericulture and other types of farms. The national
farm size distribution in 1971 is shown in Table 3. Nearly two-thirds of the
farm households have less than 1 ha of cropland and they account for almost
400 of all cropland. Individual paddy fields average only 0.2 ha, which makes
mechanization of farming operations difficult.
11.       Most farmcrs own thc land they cultivate.  In 1965, almost 701 were
Qlassified as full owners, 23% as part owners, who operated some rented land
in addition to land they owned, and only 7% as tenants. This contrasts sharp-
ly with the tenure situation in 1945 before land reform took place, when only
14% were full owners, 50% were tenants and the remainder part owners. Under
the revised Farmland Reform Law of 1950, individual holdings cannot exceed
3 ha of cultivated land but there are no limitations on the areas of reclaimed
land, undeveloped slope land or forest that an individual can own. The amount
of cultivated land operated per household did not change as renters became
owners.
12.       Almost 75% of forest land is in private hands (Annex 5), with 54% of
the woodlots being less than 1 ha and 94% less than 10 ha. About 1.5 million
farm nouseholds own some forest land but the remaining 1 million have customary
user rights for gathering fuel, forage and compost materials.



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Mean Monthly Temperatures 931-1970) (0C)
Station            Jan      Feb     Mar     Apr      Mav     Jun      Jul     Aug      Sep     Oct     Nov      Dec    Annual
Seoul             - 4.9   - 1.9      3.6    10.5    16.3    20.8    24.5    25.4    20.3    13.4        6.3   - 1.2    11.1
Incheon           - 4.0   - 1.6      3.L      9.7    15.3    19.6    23.9    25.1    20.6    14.2        7.2   - 0.4    11.1
Gangneung         - 1.0      0.3     4.7    11.5    16.7    19.9    23.5    24.3    19.7    14.4        8.8      2.4    12.1
Jinju             - 1.7      0.2     5.0    11.3    16.9    21.4    25.7    25.9    20.6    13.9         7.8     1.7    12.14
Gwangju           - o.6      1.1     5.7    11.4    16.8    21.4    25.6    26.1    20.9    14.0        8.2      2.4    12.8
Mogpo               1.0      2.1     5.9   11.5    16.5    20.6    24.8    26.1    21.7    16.1    10.3          4.3    13.4
Yeosu               1.5      3.0     6.8    12.3    16.8    20.2    23.9    25.8    21.9    16.6    10.9         4.5   13.7
Chupungryeong     - 3.1   - 0.7      4.5    11.0    16.7    20.6    24.5    24.7    19.4    13.0        6.7      0.2    11.5
Pohang              o.6      2.2     6.1    12.1    16.8    20.1    23.6    25.0    20.6    15.2         9.9     3.4    13.8
Daegu             - 1.6      o.6     5.7    12.1    17.6    21.6    25.3    25.9    20.5    14.2         7.8     1.4    12.6
Busan               1.8      3.6     7.3    12.5    16.7    19.8    23.7    25.4    21.6    16.6    11.1         5.0    13.0
Tlsan               0.4      2.1     6.o    11.5    16.3    20.0    24.3    25.1    20.5    14.8         9.0     3.2    12.8
Ulnung Is.           o.6     1.1      4.5   10.2    10.2    18.4    22.1    23.9    19.9    15.0         9.7     0.9    11.4
Arithmetic average -0.8      1.2     5.3    11. 4    16.1    20.3    24.5    25.3    20.6    14.8        8.8     2.7    12.2
I 



KOREA
RURAL. INFRXISTRUJCTURE PfIOJECT
liean Mlonthly Precipitation (1936-1570) (mm)
StatLon           Jan     Feb      Mar    Apr      May     Jun      Jul    Aug       Sep     Oct     Nov      Dec    Annual
eo.lu            17.1    21.1    55.6    86.1    86.3   169.3   358.0   224.2   142.3    49.2    36.o    32.0  1,277.2
.richeor          15.8    17.9    49.9    66.3    72.5   139.4   303.8  180.4   136.7    45.0    35.1    30.0  1,092.8
rujwecn           20.6    19.2    53.7   71.8    81.9  168.9   333.8   219.3   156.8    50.0    37.7   3).1  1,247.8
iangneung         36.9   73.li    73.1    70.4    6.1.   13L.9   212.1   190.7   197.5    87.8    88.o    53.2  1,282.1
Th siriheon       18.9    20.6   42.2    71.7    8L.2  121.4   362.6   244.2  138.5    45.0    39.8    25.8  1,214.9
,heongi u2.2    26.0    38.3    82.8    79.5    142.7   322.2   214.3   134.3    43.3    37.4    28.1  1,171.1
lJeonju           26.6    32.8   01.0    76.4    84.7   154.6   279.7   239.6  156.l    51.5    41.7    35.5  1,240.5
Seosan            18.1    2 L.     32.3    76.6    80.0  123.3   297.8   226.3  154.1    38.1    47.8    36.1  1,155.0
Daejen            2L.1   30.0    38.1    82.5   8202   146.9   300.0   222.0  117.9    45.5    39.7    34.6  1,163.7
Kunsan            22.8    21.9    33.8   78.0    76.7  154.3   227.8   201.5  143.3    47.3    48.2    33.5  1,089.1
Gwang,ju          31.5    34.4    69.1    82.2    92.0   168.8   222.6   201.2   139.5    51.9    42.9    36.8  1,172.9
M4ogpo            37.Li   L0.2    58.4    82.9   101.6   136.o   187.8   187.8   156.0    55.4    44.2    43.3  1,131.0
Yeosu             17.1    40.2    80.2   124.2  19.7   179.9   262.6   157.0   188.3    45.3    29.1    30.0  1,303.6
Chupungryeong     25.4    30.1    56.5    71.9    75.4   167.4   267.6   190.8   154.9    40.4    36.5    29.9  1,146.8
Pohang            29.5    40.5    57.4    67.4    74.5   139.3   157.7   134.1   173.0    59.2    59.7    35.6  1,027.9
Daegu             15.8    27.1    L5.5   64.6    67.4   132.7   200.2   165.5   161.8    44.o    30.1    24.8    979.5
Pusan             25.8    44.1    88.5   113.5   139.3   197.5   247.6   165.0   205.1    73.1    43.9    38.5  1,381.9
'Jlsan            24.2    46.3    68.o    88.L   106.3   154.1   203.7   166.9   208.7    65.o    46.3    39.8  1,217.7  
'llnung is.      177.4   107.0    89.4    80.1    69.9   128.7   146.0    98.2   189.7   U2.2   120.5   166.1  1,485.2 t A
CJeongju          24.3    33.7    68.1   119.0   153.6   194.0   274.9   159.2   166.7    71.4    46.6    36.3  1,347.8  r-H
Te,j)             59.2    75.6    73.1    82.3    88.8   158.1  209.8   226.6   249.5    87.5    69.2    60.2  1,439.9
SE?ogipc          32.4    58.5   146.o   150.8   232.3   262.0   224.6   196.7   260.2    97.0   120.0    35.8  1,816.3
Arithmetic Average  32.9   39.3    62.6    85.9    97.4   157.9   254.7   1 91.4   -i69.6    59.*    51.8    41.8  1,246.9



ANNEX 1
Table 3
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
National Farm Size Distribution
(1971)
Size of          Percent of Total        Number of Paddy        Average Size of
Farm            Number      Area        Fields per Farm          Paddy Field
(ha)                                                                 (ha)
o - o.5         33.6       11.i              2.9                    0.11
o.5 - 1.o         31.7       27.3              4.L                    0.17
1.0 - 2.0         26o        411.1             7.0                    0.21
2.0 - 3.0          4.8       13.4              9.3                    0.25
Over  3.0          1.5        6.8              8.4                    0.35
Total       100.0 -    100.0
Source:  Agriculture Sector Survey, IBRD,
November 13, 1973.
a/ Includes 84,000 farm households with no cropland.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
The Saemaeul Movement
Background
1.        The Saemaeul Undong (New Community Movement) was initiated late in
1971 by the President of Korea as a nationwide comprehensive self-help pro-
gram to improve living conditions in rural areas, achieve greater decentra-
lized economic growth, and slow the influx of rural people to the large
metropolitan centers. The Movement is a successor to the "Self-Help Works
Program" (1964-1972), which in turn was based on the "National Construction
Service" (1961-1964). These programs were relatively modest in scope (US$10
to 20 million per year) and were financed from counterpart funds generated by
the sale of foodstuffs provided by USAID under PL 480. Needy rural people
were employed, mainly on upland reclamation (Annex 4), tidal land reclamation,
irrigation, flood control, reforestation and road projects, and were paid
partly in cash and partly in food. These earlier programs, with their emphasis
on social welfare, were administered by the Ministry of Health and Social
Affairs.
2.        The Saemaeul Movement is broader in scope than these earlier efforts
and includes a greater degree of self-help and decentralized decision-making.
It has three main objectives:
(i) physical and environmental improvements by cooperative
group action;
(ii) increased productivity and incomes, principally by
creating more non-agricultural jobs in rural areas
but also by raising agricultural productive capacity
through more effective use of land and water resources; and
(iii)   "spiritual enlightenment", that is, the modernization of
thinking and social patterns to motivate rural people
to improve their living conditions.
3.        In 1972 and 1973, emphasis was placed on village improvement projects
carried out mainly with voluntary labor during periods of the year when labor
requirements for farm work are low.  In 1974, however, the Government expanded
the Saemaeul Movement to include rural development projects carried out with
hired workers and the movement was also expanded to encompass projects in
urban areas. The Government now includes under the Saemaeul Movement,
programs for creating new employment opportunities by public works projects
in urban as well as rural areas. Many of these programs are not new but have



ANNEX 2
Page 2
been reoriented to give the rural people a greater say in project planning and
execution (para 9).
4.        Villages are classified into three groups, as follows:
(a) Basic Villages - These lack organization and leadership as
well as the resources required to carry out community
improvement projects and therefore require guidance and
financial assistance from the Government to initiate self-
help projects;
(b) Self-Help Villages - These have acquired sufficient leader-
ship and organizational ability to identify and carry out
village improvement projects but lack the full financial
resouces to implement them and therefore require some Govern-
ment technical and financial support; and
(c) Independent or Self-Reliant Villages - These have carried out
environmental improvement projects, significantly raised
rural incomes, and achieved some degree of financial viability,
so that they can finance additional rural development projects
from their own resources or from loans.
5.        Table 1 shows the numbers of villages in each group at present.
About 60% of villages fall in the "self-help" category. The Government ex-
pects that, as the Saemaeul Movement continues, villages will move from one
category to the next and official planning shows all villages in the
"independent" category by 1981. While there do not appear to be hard and fast
rules as to the types of projects to be undertaken by each category of villages,
the pattern seems to be that "basic" villages undertake only simple environ-
mental improvements, such as roof improvements, kitchen improvements, village
community halls, laundries, drains and the like. Such projects are low cost
and may have only a limited economic impact but they do serve to train the
village leaders and to build a sense of community. Self-help villages are
expected to concentrate on infrastructural projects, such as roads, bridges,
minor irrigation systems, water supplies and electrification. Most such
projects have a subsidy element but self-help, either in the form of communal
labor, or a loan obligation, is still significant. Finally, the "self-reliant"
villages undertake directly productive, or "income", projects such as livestock
raising, silk production, specialty crops and cottage industries. These
projects are normally financed by credit, with little if any subsidy element.
Organization
6.        The organizational structure of the Saemaeul Movement has two
main characteristics:
(a) Within the government, Saemaeul activities are channeled
through the existing government agencies and through the
existing technical review and budgetary approval procedures.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
This arrangement does create a problem of adapting agency
priorities to development needs (as perceived by the
villagers) but, on the other hand, it ensures the integra-
tion of Saemaeul activities into the established government
programs and operating procedures.
(b) Within the villages, the Saemsaeul Movement attempts to
build new institutions and to train a new generation of
village leaders.
7.        At the national level, general policy issues for the Saemaeul Move-
ment are dealt with by a Vice-Ministerial Coordinating Committee, chaired
by the Minister of Home Affairs, and with representatives from all Ministries
dealing with Saemaeul activities (principally the Economic Planning Board,
and the Ministries of Home Affairs, Education, Agriculture, Commerce and
Industry, Construction, and Health and Social Affairs). A Saemaeul Coordina-
ting Committee of senior officials from each Ministry translates these general
policy directives into sectoral targets and planning guidelines for the
Ministries. Each Ministry then prepares a detailed program and budget request.
There are also Saemaeul Coordinating Committees, consisting of representatives
from all the government agencies concerned, at the Provincial, county and
district levels. These committees receive requests from the level below and
allocate funds to the highest priority projects, within the overall guidelines
set by each Ministry. In allocating funds between Provinces (and thus between
counties, and so on) some Ministries pro-rate the available funds on the basis
of population. However, in most cases, there is a rational plan to complete
the coverage of a particular service or to fully develop the potential for
a given activity and, in such cases, funds are allocated on the basis of the
volume of work remaining to be done. Further details for particular sectors
are given in Annexes 3 to 8.
8.        The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is responsible for fostering the
Saemaeul Movement, for training its leaders, and for administering many of the
more basic kinds of projects. The principal units in MHA responsible for
Saemaeul activities are shown in Annex 6, Figure 1. These units include the
Saemaeul Projects Bureau at the Central Government level, Saemaeul Guidance
Sections in the Provincial administrations and smaller units at Lhe couLty
and district levels. Each county has a technical guidance team of about
five members to assist villages in the design and supervision of roads, water
supplies, irrigation systems, buildings and other engineering projects.
9.        At the village level, each village has a Saemaeul Committee of about
15 members, elected by the villagers. At meetings of the committee, community
needs and objectives are discussed. Each village elects a Saemaeul
leader, who presides at Saemaeul Committee meetings and assigns work on self-
help projects. It also elects a woman leader, who helps get the participation
of women in household improvement projects. In most villages, the Saemaeul
leader is not the village chief, who is appointed directly by the Provincial
Government, but is a younger man with above-average education or skills.



ANNEX 2
Pale 4
Sub-Project Selection
10.       After the village decides on its priorities, it submits a request
to the District Saemaeul Committee (para 7) and thence to the County Com-
mittee. These committees examine the technical feasibility of the request,
for which they rely on the advice of the government agency concerned, and the
suitability of the proposed project for the state of development of the
requesting village (para 5). The past record of the village and its willing-
ness to contribute cash or labor to the project are also taken into account.
In some cases, projects are suggested by the officials comprising the district
or county committees rather than the villages itself but this appears to occur
mainly in the case of larger-scale projects (such as irrigation and upland
reclamation), which benefit several villages. There appears to be no diffi-
culty in persuading the village that such projects would be in their best
interest.
11.       Within the village, decisions are reached by majority rule.  Mino-
rity opposition is generally overcome by persuasion and the available evidence
indicates that few, if any, villagers refuse to participate in the selected
projects. The well-disciplined Korean social structure and the country's
Confucian heritage appear to faciliate this lack of dissension. For some kinds
of projects, for example, fuelwood plantations, benefits accrue proportionately
to the number of days of labor contributed. While it would be difficult to
believe that project initiation is always at the grass-roots level and that
participation is completely voluntary, there is no denying the apparent
enthuasiasm of the villagers for the Saemaeul Movement and the great amount
of work that has already been completed. In nearly all cases, the projects
selected appear to be appropriate to the needs of the village.
Government Assistance
12.       Each "basic village" is entitled to receive a contribution from the
Government of 500 sacks of cement (10 tons) and 1 ton of reinforcing steel,
plus some tools and moulds for tiles and building blocks. A majority of
Korea's villages have used up this basic allocation on roof improvements and
other environmental projects. Additional free materials are then available
for specific projects. The extent and form of government assistance for each
of the components of the present project is discussed in the appropriate Annex.
Scope and Achievements of the Saemaeul Movement
13.       The geographical and sectoral scope of Saemaeul Movement has evolved
and expanded since 1971. Initially conceived of as a self-help program for
rural areas, it has grown to include projects carried out with hired workers
and to encompass urban areas. The main thrust of the Saemaeul Movement remains
nevertheless directed toward rural areas and agriculturally-related activi-
ties. The national breakdown of Saemaeul activities by sector has changed
from year to year, reflecting the influence of three main factors:



ANNEX 2
Page 5
(a) the development priorities of the government;
(b) the number of village in each Saemaeul category; and
(c) the maturing organizational structure (at the Government
and village levels) and improving project selection procedures.
14.       Due to the changing nature of the Saemaeul Movement and its emphasis
on decentralized decision-making, small-scale projects and self-help, deter-
mination of the total investment in and the physical achievements of the
Saemaeul Movement is difficult. Available data are summarized in Tables 2
and 3. According to official figures, a total of Won 175 billion (approxi-
mately US$567 million) was invested in Saemaeul projects between October, 1971
and May, 1974 with Won 104 billion in 1974 alone. It is worth noting that
only 2?% of the total investment was provided by the central and local govern-
ment budgets. The remaining 78% was contributed by the villagers, in labor or
cash. Of this, the most important component was their labor input -- 65%
of the villagers' contribution (or 49% of the total gross investment) and
estimated to total 215 million man-days. For the present project, which
stresses less labor-intensive infrastructural programs, the Government con-
tribution would be higher, about 50%. A sampl2 survey conducted in 30
Saemaeul villages by the Korea Development Institute showed that an average
rural household contributed 39 man-days during this 32-month period. The
labor contribution increased with the stage of development of the village --
basic villages contributed only 21 man-days while self-reliant villages
contributed 59 man-days (Table 4).
15.       The physical achievements of the Saemaeul Movement up to 1974 in-
clude 28,000 km of village roads, 9,800 village water supply projects,
48,000 ha of land consolidation, and 52,000 ha of reforestation 11. It is
worth stressing that physical construction is only one objective of the
Saemaeul Movement -- institution building and the development of self-reliance
(para 2) are equally important, though more difficult to measure. Some
programs of particular interest are described below:
Roof Improvements
16.       At the end of 1974, straw-thatched roofs on 1.3 million farm houses
had been replaced with tiles or corrugated steel roofs. It is expected that
virtually all farm houses will have tile or steel roofs by the end of 1977.
The Government provides materials free for this program and the rural people
contribute their labor.
1/   In some cases, these totals do not correspond with the sector achieve-
ments described in Annexes 3 to 8. This is probably a definitional
problem. For example, the above total for village water supplies may
include wells in addition to simple piped systems. Saemaeul Movement
totals may include rehabilitation, as well as new construction.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
General Village Improvements
17.       These include improving and widening village lanes, clearing and
rearrangement of village streams, public laundry and bathing facilities,
village halls, post offices, village compost stations and the like. The
Government also supplies materials for these self-help projects.
Industrial Development
18.       Saemaeul factories range all the way from simple machines for making
sacks or rope out of rice straw to small plants for consumer goods, such as
textiles. Government assistance in this sector is in the form of credit to
private entrepreneurs.
Agriculture, Transport and Public Utilities
19.       The achievements of the Saemaeul Movement in these sectors are
discussed in Annexes 3 to 8.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Numbers of Saemaeul Villages by Type
Type of            Actual                    Targets
Village      1973             1974       1 976         1 9d1
Basic       18,415          1o,665         -              -
Self-Help   13,943          20,000      20,165            _
Independent  2,307           4,000      1h,500         34,655
Total    34,655          34,655      34,655         34,655



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTU.E PROJECT
Sae:naeul Movement
Physical Achievements in Selectedl Sectors, 1971-1974
Unit             up to 1971      1972      1973       1974           Total
RURAL ROADS
Village Roads                 k                  69o46       12.000   10,842       5,361         34,249
Farm Feeder Roads                               27,200         7,351    5,367    39,918          79,836
RURAL HOUSING
Roof Irrprovements         1000 Bldgs.            -413                    477        400          1,290
Housing Units                Each                                       4,407      3,043          7,450
RURAL WATZR SUPPLY
Water Supply Systems       Villages                235         2,6140    2,556     4,556          9,987
PUBLTC FACILITIZ3
Village Halls              Villagss             13,494        4,452    5,135       1,5145        24,626
Public Bath Houses                               2,111        2,063    1,390         351          5,915
Public Laundries                                24,129        9,035   1)4,.049    14,984         52,197
AGRICULTURAL 2NFFASTRU CTURE
Irrigation FAcilities      ProJects               -            4,l12    5,393      9,416         18,911
Public Warehouses              "                  -            ],699    1,601      5,9446         9,246
Public Corrpost )its           "                51,793         ,,097    1,522      3,590         6o,002
Common Use Barns              II                                 757      162        405          1,324
OTHIERS
Reforestatioi                ha               231,159           -      i2,385-   39,855         283,399
Nursery Stocks             mlllion trces          -             -          86        203            289
LblraJ  Electrif i cation  1000 hious eholds       8L49          164      308        177          1,,498



ADINEX 2
Table 3
KOREA
RIUJRAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Gross Investment under the Saemaeul Movement, 1971-74
(Won billion)
Source                           1971    1972    1973    1974      Total
Government support
All Programs                          4.1     4.4    21.5    30.8       59.7
Of l4iich: Environmental Improvement (4.1)   (3.3)   (4.8)   (4.8)    (17.0)
Contribution by Villages
Total                                 8.1    28.0    76.9   102.0      215.0
Of Ahich: Environmental Improvement (8.1)  (28.0)  (36.3)  (25.6)    (98.0)
Grand Total                            12.2    31.3    98.4   132.8      274.7
Of Which: Environmental Imrovement  (12.2)  (31.3)  (41.1) (30.4)   (115.0)
1/ Includes loans and voluntary labor contributions.



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Labor Contributions for Various Saemaeul Projects (1971-1974)
(man-days)
Per Household                          Per Village                            Per cent
Type of                            Self-  Self-                        Self-  Self-                        Self-  Self-
Project                    Basic  help   reliant Average   Basic  help   reliant Average   Basic  help   reliant Average
Village roads                 8.0   10.0   17.7       12.6        795    902   1,556   1,163          38.0   34.4    30.3    32.4
Farm feeder roads             3.2    7.1   12.1        8.0        320    644   1,066        731       15.3   24.5    20.8    20.4
Small bridges                 1.7    2.5    4.1        2.9        172    224       356      267        8.2    8.5      6.9      7.5
Repair of streams             1.1    0.8    3.2         1.9       106      74      280      177        5.0    2.8      5.5      4.9
Repair of brooks              0.2    1.1    3.8         2.0         24     96      337      182        1.2    3.7      6.6      5.1
Paddy rearrangement           0.1      -      0.8      0.4           7      -       56       27        0.3      -      1.1      0.8
Straw products                1.4    0.9    3.2        2.0        138      81      278      188        6.6    3.1      5.4      5.2
Reforestation                 1.1    2.3    2.6         2.0        113    211      227      187        5.4    8.0      4.4      5.2
Improvement of roofs          4.2    4.4   11.1        7.2        419    394       974      663       20.0   15.0    19.0    18.5
All projects                 21.2   29.0   58.6        39.0      2,094  2,626   5,130   3,585        100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
-                      _                                  =    =                     _         -
ox



ANNEX 3
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Minor Irrigation Component
The Irrigation Sub-Sector
1.        A brief summary of the role of agriculture in the Korean economy
and the Government's policy of achieving self-sufficiency in the staple grains,
rice and barley, is given in Annex 15. The development of irrigation has
played, and will continue to play, a major role in the expansion of rice
production during the summer season and of barley as a winter crop. Up to
1962, the total irrigated area was about 660,000 ha or 53% of the total area
grown to paddy (1,220,000 ha). Since 1962, new areas put under irrigation
varied from 10,000 ha to 70,000 ha per year, with an average of 34,000 ha per
year. By 1975, the total irrigated area had risen to 1,100,000 ha or about
86% of the total paddy area (1,280,000 ha). However, not all irrigated areas
have adequate water supplies.
2.        Over the last six years, the total investment in irrigation con-
struction has varied from Won 10 billion to Won 40 billion per year. Until
1970, investments were shared fairly equally between Central Government
(medium and large) projects and Provincial (small) projects. Since 1970,
major projects (assisted by external funding) have tended to predominate and
funding for Provincial projects (that is, those less than 50 ha) has dwindled.
Major projects include the Pyongtaek-Kumgang Project of 30,000 ha (assisted by
Loan 600-KO), the Yong San Gang (Stage I) Project of 33,000 ha (Loan 795-KO/
Credit 283-KO), the Kyongju Tourism Project (Loan 953-KO), which includes a
small irrigation component, the Imjin Project of 10,000 ha (financed by the
Asian Development Bank) and the Sapkyocheon and Gyewhado Projects of 18,000
and 2,600 ha, respectively, financed with assistance from Japan. Several
other large projects are in various stages of preparation.
3.        Since 1974, USAID has been providing assistance for the completion
of 66 medium-sized irrigation projects (from 200 ha to 6,000 ha in size),
benefitting a total area of 49,500 ha (average size of project, 750 ha).
US$23.7 million has been loaned by USAID to finance heavy equipment for con-
struction. Of the 66 projects, 21 were completed in 1974 and another 26 were
expected to be completed in 1975. However, mostly because of price escalation,
about US$18 million remains to be found to complete the 66 projects initially
included.
The Minor Irrigation Component
4.        The project component comprises 66 small or medium-sized irrigation
sub-projects covering about 13,500 ha, or an average project size of 200 ha.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
About 65% (43 sub-projects) would use small reservoirs, 22 sub-projects would
use pumping stations on perennial rivers, while the remaining sub-project is
based on a diversion weir. A full list of sub-projects is given in Table 1
and their Provincial distribution is summarized in Table 2.
5.        The planning of the minor irrigation component was based on a survey
made in 1968 by the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC). This survey
identified about 4,000 sites where minor irrigation would be technically
feasible, comprising a total irrigable area of 207,000 ha. Of these projects,
some have been built, some have been included in the USAID project (para 3)
and another 90 or so have reached the stage of final design.
Sub-Project Selection
6.        Sub-projects have been selected for inclusion in the project on the
basis of technical and economic factors. Where feasible, priority has been
given to sub-projects for which designs have already been completed, so as to
minimize the time needed to prepare the project. The following technical
criteria were used to eliminate infeasible reservoir sub-projects:
(a) Sub-projects should be greater than 50 ha but less than 700 ha
in size;
(b)  Dams should be less than 30 m in height;
(c) The ratio of the catchment area to the irrigated area should
be at least 2.5:1;
(d) The reservoir live storage should be at least 3,500 m3/ha
irrigated; and
(e) The ratio of the reservoir storage to the embankment volume
should be at least 5.0:1.
7.        The lower limit on sub-project size is to simplify the administra-
tive arrangements for the project (as projects under 50 ha come under the
Provincial jurisdiction) and to take advantage of economies of scale. The
upper limit of 700 ha reflects uncertainty over the reliability of the
standardized design methods used for larger projects, particularly for
reservoir volume and spillway capacity determination (para 15), and also the
difficulty of fitting larger sub-projects into the short project implementation
schedule. Criterion (b) was introduced so that standardized design methods
could be used without the need for individual feasibility studies for partic-
ular sub-projects. Criteria (c) and (d) are based on the results of the
UNDP study (para 15) and give a reasonable probability of filling the
reservoir each year and an approximate measure of the minimum storage require-
ment for paddy growing. Criterion (c) was reduced to 2.2 in a few cases where
additional storage is provided. Criterion (e) is intended to ensure that only
damsites with a reasonable storage potential are considered. It should be
emphasized that these limits are not design criteria. Sub-projects are being



ANNEX 3
Page 3
designed according to the standards described in paras 11 to 14. However,
these methods, being standardized, sometimes lead to anomalous results and the
above criteria are intended to strengthen the assurance that the water supply
for each sub-project will be adequate and reliable.
8.        For weirs and pumping stations, the technical criteria employed
were that the catchment area should be at least 150 times the benefitted area
and there should be no harmful effects on flooding conditions or on other
irrigation projects downstream.
9.        On the economic side, approximate rates of return have been calcu-
lated by ADC for each sub-project, using simplified assumptions about cropping
patterns, yields and prices. As there are considerable variations between
sub-projects in the pre-project production and the amount of upland to be
converted to paddy fields, a simple ranking by capital cost per ha would be
misleading. ADC has the services of a USAID advisor in project planning and
evaluation to assist in this work. While the results of the ADC analysis
have had to be refined for the overall analysis of the component, shown in
Annex 17, it was found to be an adequate means for indicating the relative
priorities of sub-projects and for selecting the most worthwhile for financing
at this time. Thus, following the application of the technical criteria
described in para 7, the sub-projects with the lowest rates of return were
eliminated until the remaining list could fit within the available budget.
10.       General criteria for sub-project selection include the agronomic
potential of the area, the need to maintain a balanced investment program
among the Provinces and the past record of the potential beneficiaries in
self-help activities under the Saemaeul Movement. Unlike most Saemaeul
projects, irrigation schemes usually serve more than one village (typically
one to 10 villages) and thus the usual mechanism for determining priorities
within the village, described in Annex 2, are not entirely appropriate for
this component (or for the upland reclamation component). However, the
potentially irrigable areas are known to the villagers and they do have means
(particularly the Farmland Improvement Associations (FLIA's)) to make their
views known to the project planners. Thus, public pressure is also a factor
in sub-project selection.
Design Standards
11.       About 65% of the irrigation sub-projects, accounting for 78% of
the total cost, involve the construction of small earth dams, generally of
less than 20 m height. Typically, a clay core and a cut-off trench are used
to ensure impermeability, sand is used for filter zones and drains and
relatively unselected local materials are used for the upstream and down-
stream shells. Due to the high cost of crushed rock in most areas, rock
is normally used only for riprap on the upstream slope. In most cases, a
gated concrete overflow spillway is located on one abutment and irrigation
water is diverted through a pipe outlet through the dam controlled by a slide
gate. Hundreds of similar small dams have been constructed in Korea during



ANNEX 3
Page 4
the last 20 years and are presently well maintained. 1/ The results of this
experience have been incorporated in standardized design methods and hand-
books and thus no major technical problems are expected in designing and
constructing this type of dam. However, some hydrologic problems remain
(para 15 and Annex 9). Pumping stations and weirs have also been constructed
at many sites and adequate standard methods of design have been evolved.
12.       Of the total of 66 sub-projects, final designs are available for
52 and ADC plans to complete designs for the remaining 14 by the end of
January, 1976. Some of the existing designs were completed some years ago
and required updating. Sub-projects for which large changes in land use have
occurred since the design was prepared or for which land acquisition would
be prohibitively expensive have not been included in the project.
13.       The project works normally include the water source, the main and
lateral canals and rough levelling of upland areas to be converted into
paddies. On-farm works, such as minor ditches and drains, and fine levelling
of converted uplands would be undertaken by the farmers themselves. There is
ample evidence that farmers in Korea are willing to carry out the needed on-
farm works, usually by manual methods. In many cases a system of ditches
for directing local runoff into the paddy fields already exists and this
would be upgraded into the minor canal system. Most of the sub-project areas
would be too small to require, or benefit from, Government-sponsored paddy
rearrangement (land consolidation) schemes and these are therefore not
included in the project. However, some of the larger sub-project areas may
be suitable for paddy rearrangement at a later date.
14.       Sub-project planning is based on 1:3,000 scale contour maps developed
from 1:15,000 scale aerial photographs, together with ground control. The
reservoir area is mapped at 1:1,200 with cadastral information, to allow land
acquisition to proceed. After the design has been approved by the MAF, FLIA
personnel negotiate with the landowners for the necessary right of way, using
Government estimates of land value. If an owner does not agree to the offered
price, compulsory acquisition procedures are begun. In such cases, three to
four months is required before construction can begin and six months are needed
for the process to be completed. Land acquisition proceedings for the selected
sub-project areas began in mid-1975.
Water Requirements
15.       It has been computed by the UNDP/FAO Upland Development and Water-
shed Management Project (AGL/ROK 67/522) that the total irrigation water
requirements for paddy in Korea would be around 7,000 m3/ha in an average
year and around 8,200 m3/ha in a drought year. The same study has shown
that the optimum reservoir capacity should amount to about 3,500 to 4,000
m3/ha. While the available evidence suggests that these criteria are
approximately correct and probably on the conservative side, they take no
1/   There are ten dams in Korea over a thousand years old, which are still
in use, including one built in 330 A.D.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
account of local variations in weather patterns and rainfall-runoff
relationships. Further investigation of these questions, using modern
hydrologic methods, would be warranted to produce design criteria to be
applied in specific localities and such studies have been included in the
project (Annex 9). Revision of the design methods could result in cost
reductions in many cases, though the results of the hydrologic studies
would not be available in time to benefit the present project.
Organization and Management
16.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF) would have overall
responsibility for the planning and execution of the minor irrigation compo-
nent of the project. A somewhat simplified organization chart of MAF is shown
in Figure 1. The Farmland Bureau of MAF was responsible for sub-project
selection. MAF also gives technical guidance to the Agricultural Production
Bureau in each Province, which includes a Farmland Section, and the Farmland
Sub-section in each county. These Provincial and county agencies, in turn,
supervise the Farmland Improvement Associations (FLIA's).
17.       FLIA's have been established in nearly every county of Korea, under
the Rural Modernization Promotion Law of 1969, to construct and operate farm-
land improvement works, which are mainly irrigation systems. Although, in
a formal sense, the FLIA's are voluntary associations of farmers, they are
under close supervision by the Provincial administrations, which appoint the
FLIA chairmen, and are under the indirect supervision of the MAF. Each FLIA
is headed by a chairman and two inspectors. The 127 FLIA's manage areas
ranging from 200 to 40,000 ha and aggregating 434,000 ha (34% of all paddy
area). The FLIA's have a total of 657,000 members and 3,700 employees.
Under the project, the FLIA's would award contracts, pay contractors from
funds forwarded from the Central Government and the NACF (Annex 14), and
operate and maintain sub-projects after their completion.
18.       Technical services to the MAP in project planning and to the FLIA's
in project execution would be provided by the Agricultural Development Cor-
poration (ADC), a semi-autonomous public corporation, supervised by MAF. ADC
is headed by a President, a Vice-President, a Director of Farmland Expansion
and Development (with the rank of Vice-President) and four Directors. As
shown in Figure 2, ADC is divided into seven departments, a special Farmland
Expansion and Development Corps (Annex 4), eight project offices, and eight
branch offices for irrigation and four for farmland expansion.
19.       Under the project, ADC would be responsible for surveys, preliminary
and final designs and construction supervision of irrigation sub-projects
through its Survey and Design Department and its (Provincial) Branch Offices,
respectively. ADC has a sufficient number of experienced engineers to supervise
the proposed program of works. At the end of each year, and upon completion of
each contract, a work performance appraisal would be made by an engineer desig-
nated by the MAF. ADC would rent construction equipment from its machinery
pool to those contractors lacking certain pieces of equipment but such renting
is expected to be used on only a minor proportion of the works to be constructed.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
20.       A flow chart showing the relationships between the various agencies
involved in minor irrigation (and upland reclamation) is given in Figure 3.
Sub-Project Implementation
21.       In all cases, construction would be by contract, with the basic
materials (cement and reinforcing steel) being supplied by the FLIA's to
the contractor.   The quantities of basic materials are given in Annex 11.
Implementation of the program of 66 sub-projects would take about two years,
assuming all designs are completed on schedule and all contracts are let
early in 1976. However, some spillover into 1978 has been assumed in
drawing up the Schedule of Expenditures (Annex 12).
Operation and Maintenance
22.       Operation and maintenance (O & M) of the main facilities (dams,
pumping stations, weirs and main canals) would be carried out by the FLIA's.
Estimated costs (in early-1976 prices) are shown below:
Cost of 0 & M
Won/ha             US$/ha
Reservoir       -    Lcs than 300 ha    27,800                 57
-    300 to 1,000 ha      25,600               53
Pumping
Station      -    Less than 300 ha    37,400                 77
300 to 1,000 ha      34,600               71
The above costs include the cost of administrative and extension services
provided by the FLIA's (Annex 16). In comparison with other Asian countries,
these costs are rather high, but appear to be reasonable, given the small size
of sub-projects, the generally high standard of maintenance and the relatively
high prevailing wage rates. Cost recovery charges are described in Annex 14
and analyzed in Annex 22.
Environmental Effects
23.       The development of irrigation would probably increase slightly the
incidence of water-associated diseases. However, it is understood that, ex-
cept in some places in the extreme south coast, malaria is not present in
Korea. Schistosomiasis is also not present. Encephalitis and gastro-enteritis
could be slightly increased but the concurrent development of sanitary village
water supply systems under the project (Annex 7) would tend to minimize any
ill effects of the irrigation component on public health.
24.       On the beneficial side, drainage would be improved under the project
and the formation of reservoirs and new paddy lands would reduce flood peaks
and sheet erosion and would result in less siltation of the rivers downstream
and, consequently, lessen flooding and streambed aggradation problems for the
lower lands.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
List of Minor Irrigation Sub-Projects
Identification    Province  Sub-Project  Water   Irrigable  Status of    Sub-Pro'ect
Number                       Name      Source    Area        DesignrC       Cost",
ha       (Yes or No)  (Won million)
REGION I
2        Gyeong-gi   Yong Dam  -   Dam          254          N               514
4                     Ma Ji          Dam        300          y               482
5                     Dai San        P.S.3/    321           Y               440
7                     Sam San        Dam        370          Y               691
8                     Weong Dang    P.S.        335          Y               202
9                     Han San        Dam        585          Y             1,122
10                     Gang Sang      P.S.       329          Y               372
11                     Hag Gog        P.S.       159          Y               191
12                     In San         Dam        100          Y               351
14                     Dae An         P.S.       430          Y               563
15                     Gug Hwa        Dam        175          Y               428
16                     Gi San         Dam        300          Y               423
17                     Geurm Ju       Dam        121          Y               328
22        Gang-weon   Og Wye          Dam        246          Y               723
23                     Jeong Yeon    P.S.        240          N               199
24                     Chu Dong       Dam         96          Y               320
25                     Nam Pyeong    P.S.        123          Y               136
27        Chungcheong Mun Gwang       Dam        270          N               732
29        Bug          Mai Jeon       Dam        120          Y               335
30                     Eom Jeong      Dam        700          Y             1,350
31                     Han Wye        Dam        202          Y               287
32                     Do Weon        Dam        124         Y                202
33                     Ha Dang        Dam         80          Y               204
34                     Ga Heung       P.S.       211          Y               264
REGION II
36        Chungcheong Gwang Cheon   Dam          258          Y               819
39        Nam          Deog San #2   Dam          95          Y               261
40                     Seo San        Dam        349          Y               489
41                     Gi San         Dam        213          y               616
42                     Wa Yong        P.S.        88          Y                97
43                     Hyun Bug       P.S.       292          Y               308
44                     Dai San        Dam        113          Y               301
45                      J tiog        Dam        397          Y               908
46                     Dai Sul        Dam        546          y             1,509
47                     Song Hag       P.S.       249          Y               241
1/  Indicates whether final design completed (at date of printing).
7/  In early-1976 prices.
3/ P.S. = Pumping Station.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 2
Identification    Province  Sub-Project  Water   Irrigable  Status of    Sub-ProJect
Number                      Name      Source      Area     Design_t       COstZf
(ha     (Yes or No)  (Won million)
50        Jeonra Bug  Su Dong        Dam        120         N               101
51                    Wan Ju         Dam        402         N               496
54                     Goe Mog       Dam        113         Y               225
56                     Sam Ga        Dam         88         N               189
57                     Deog San      Dam        300         N               486
59                     Sa Dong       Dam        165         Y               304
61                     Yu Deung      P.S.        58         Y                90
63                     Hwa Yang      Dam         75         Y               269
64                     Hwang Geum    Dam        101         Y               368
65        Jeonra Nam  Dal Seong      Dam         90         N               189
69                     Il Ro.        Dam        496         N               392
73                     Nam Pyeong    P.S.       190         Y               220
REGION III
75        Gyeongsang  Jeo Pyeong    Dam         108         N               108
76        Bug         Nai Chon       Dam         90         Y               402
77                     I An          P.S.       104         Y               196
78                     Bo Gyeong     Weir        52         N                93
79                     Dai Dong      P.S.       152         N               157
80                     Og San        P.S.       130         Y               242
81                     Chung Hyo     P.S.       282         Y               447
82                     Mai Gog       Dam         80         Y               237
85                     0 Ro          Dam        383         Y               681
86                     Yeon Gyrong    Dam        80         Y               274
87                     Jin Jul       P.S.       119         Y               141
88                     Og Gwan       Dam        130         Y               463
97        qtreongsang  Sa Cheon      Dam        130         Y               251
100        Nam          Du San        Dam        102         Y               286
102                     In Bo         Dam         87         y               249
103                     So Mun        P.S.        68         Y               121
104                     Hwa Sim       P.S.        72         Y               117
105                     0 Cheon       P.S.       150         N               577
1o6                     Hwa Jai       P.S.       146         Y               275
109                     Bong Eoi      Dam         58         N               251
Summary:  Dams :        3     9,212                      19,614
P.S. :       2     4,248                        5,596
Weir:        1         52                          93
Total :      66    13,512                       25,303
=                      =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 3
Table 2
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Provincial Distribution of the Minor Irrigation Component
Province                            Number of                      Irrigable
Sub-Projects                   Area (ha)
REGION I
Gyeong-gi                              13                              79
rang-weon                               4                             705
Chungcheong Bug                         7                           1,707
Sub-total                       24                           6,191
REGION II
Chungcheong Nam                        10                           2,600
Jeonra Bug                              9                           1,422
Jeonra Nam                              3                             776
Sab-total                       22                           4,798
REGION III
Gyeongsang Bug                         12                           1,710
Gyeongsang Nam                          8                             813
Jeju
Sub-total                       20                           2,523
Total                       66                          13,512



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
MINOR IRRIGATION AND UPLAND RECLAMATION COMPONENTS
Organization  Chart of the Ministry of Agriculture &  Fisheries (Simplified)
i Minser  
|Diwto -Gener        |                                Aunt. Vice Minister                                         Asst Vice Minister                                      Ast Vhe Minilt.r
- Budge Plnning                                     Agricultural                                                      nd                                               Spe    1        Po                                           Ass Vi"ew.fister
-Inspeci-n                                          Marketing                                                  Prod.cti-                                                 d 
-General Admnin.
-Personnel                   i          Agricultural                  Agricu1tural                                               AgrItural                   Specitl
- Legal Afturre       Deunlutamnur                  ~~~~Marketing                         n                    Production                  Income..t-                                                     F.                        mn
- dLegu Afftir;             *                                                                                                                                                                     ueu  3ureau  r3reau  Irome Bureau
A1i/. Offi,e                          .....B.- t                                                   Saennaeun l  Marketing                                                                                                                          B.".l Ri  P   S a  Livestockr
-  Oveall lanDinjtuenL                              DiviSin | r    lison                      |Diciuioc 1 /  i       n       Dicinion                         Division t               Divisiun      |     [          iiin        |     X|Dvso      
budgeting of rinur irrigaton                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Silk
and uplend rnclamation        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             . | -u n
Supervision ADC & FLIAst
-  Tehnial i,oevisiin   -           CnnrpraDevenicent                Wlrolenele                   Lan                            Uplan
-  Technical nupe,inun,                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
minor irrigationr;                          F     Micisio                                                                                                                                        L                          lncestigetDsi
supervision of ADC, fot      |
large scale co mprehension |
Dvisin                      Division 4in
*                                                              SEMI - AUTONOMOUS AGENCIES
gm m- -- m m - m   ---- mmm  p -- -mrn-p    --s-- riinn9n-m                                                                                                      --
N,li,nll Aglicllwi-al                 [c                                ~         ~~~~~~~~~~Agrnultuna 
Fkh.ft                   -1i i-f pe                     ooeIiI                                                                l,.  e-I-                                     .mPr incipal
ROural Deeloment                Cooperative FAderutiun        | en  o         C        o   | a 0    f lS ene Ceraw ce            c| rporn u|n                                                                           Project Unit
World Bank-9925            H   e
_ H



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
MINOR IRRIGATION AND UPLAND RECLAMATION COMPONENTS
Organization Chart of the Agricultural Development Corporation (Simplified)
|  Auditor           m            oa                              Presden
Office of                                                                                                                                       .
Planning oirector
Directors                                                           Farmland Expansion and Development
General Affairs          Agricultural Devel-          Survey and Design  |         Ge,erl Projectsc
artopment Dspartmen                               Deparmet                                      Department                ant]
Technica  Cooperation     Agricultural Engineering
Department                Laboratory
Central
tRegional and Local
Kumgang                                                            ncPyongtaek  1 Yon  San Gang  Waterhed      Kyngipal
Project Office             Project                    Projec Office                Fe e pPctUnits
|  Eight Branch (Provincial) Offices                                        l    l                   Four Regional Corps
let  2nd  3d rS  r    r X  rSSWr Bank-94t924
World Bank-9924~., f



ANNEX 3
KOREA                                                         Figure 3
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
MINOR IRRIGATION AND UPLAND RECLAMATION COMPONENTS
Project Implementation Diagram
|    Economic                                                        E         Budgeting  e.Ministry ofil
Planning                                        Finance<
lProgress
Planning      Reports                                     Funding
Ministry of Agriculture 
and Fisheries_
Extension Service
Irrigation                                     Agricultural                                     Office of
Sub-Projects                                    Development                                     Rural
< 50 ha                                        Corporation                                      Development
Provincial                                      Irrigation              Upland
Government                                      Sub-Projects            Reclamation
>  50 ha               Sub-Projects
Technical                                             I
Supervision..
Agriculture                                     m ADC Branch           ADC Regional             Provincial
Bu reau               Apoaof            11    Office                   Corps                    ORD Office
Pi ans
. Supervision
Government                                      Improvement                                     ORD Office
I     l                           L; i~~~~~~~~~~ssociaition                        LI
Tendering                 TenderinT
and Payment               and PaWment
[        1               ~~~~~Repayment
Contractor    I
|   Self-help
Project    l      
World Bank-9926



ANNEX 4
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Upland Reclamation -/
Background
1.        Upland refers to all cultivated or cultivable land other than
levelled rice paddies. Uncultivated sloping lands are classified as "forest"
(Annex 1). The total cultivated upland area in Korea is 1.0 million ha, most
of which has been developed by private initiative. In the late 1950's, the
Government became interested in upland development, as a means of providing
employment and of settling part of the large number of refugees resulting
from the Korean War. Land was given to those who worked (at less than market
wages) on its development. This program, the "National Construction Service"
(Annex 2), was financed by PL480 foodgrain aid from the United States and reached
its peak in the 1962-66 period, when a total of 110,000 ha were developed.
Since 1967, Government support for upland development has been modest. How-
ever, the need to reduce food imports (Annex 15), to compensate for farmland
lost to urban development, and to meet an increasing and more diversified
consumer demand for agricultural products, has led the Government to embark
on an ambitious five-year program (1975-80) for upland reclamation.
2.        A Farmland Expansion and Development Promotion Law was enacted in
1975, which gives the Government broad powers to designate "reclamation areas"
and to carry out the necessary development works, whenever the farmers are
financially unable to do so. A Farmland Expansion and Development Corps (FEDC)
lias been created within the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) to plan,
design and supervise the execution of "reclamation" projects, which include
tidal land reclamation as well as upland development (para 17).
3.        The ultimate potential for further upland development in Korea has
been estimated by ADC as 220,000 ha and present plans call for 112,000 ha to
be developed by 1981, or a rate of about 20,000 ha/yr. As the cost of
development is about US$2,000/ha (Annex 10, Table 3), this target represents
an expenditure of about US$40 million per year. However, as the results of
previous upland development have not been entirely satisfactory (para 4)
and the remaining areas will be inherently more difficult to develop, the
Government is examining closely its design and construction methods and
intends to proceed cautiously for the first few years.
1/   Detailed guidelines for'this component are given in Reference 1.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        No comprehensive evaluation of the large development program of the
early 1960's has been made but it appears that its results were somewhat dis-
appointing. Some areas were later abandoned and others have suffered from
severe erosion. The main causes appear to have been the following:
(a) Settlers were given upland only (no paddy land) and thus
were completely at the mercy of the weather and were not
able to take advantage of the Government's policy of high
rice prices;
(b) The developed areas were relatively remote. Only
minimal access was given and little social infrastructure
was provided. The settlers therefore found it difficult
to establish viable communities;
(c) Technical standards of upland development were sometimes
inappropriate, leading to deterioration of the works and
severe soil erosion; and
(d) Little technical guidance was available to the farmers
on how to maintain soil fertility and prevent erosion.
On the other hand, many of the uplands developed by private initiative, parti-
cularly those in areas of fertile soils and goods access to markets, have been
clearly successful.
Constraints on Developmentl
5.        Soil Fertility - Korean upland soils are rather highly leached and
low in organic content and cation exchange capacity. They are therefore
moderately to highly acid, the pH being less than 5.5 on more than half the
soils. This condition can be corrected with heavy applications of lime and
fertilizer. Although both these inputs are heavily subsidized by the
Government (Annex 15), lack of access is often a constraint on applying the
heavy doses needed (for example, 4.5 ton/ha of lime).
6.        Slope - Traditionally, upland development was concentrated on the
lower slopes (5 to 15%) but future programs will have to deal with much steeper
gradients (10 to 35%). Given that soil depth tends to decrease and coarseness
to increase as the slope steepens, the water holding capacity in the root
zone may be a serious constraint on cropping.
7.        Climate - The quantity and regularity of rainfall vary throughout
Korea and, for example, may restrict the development of soils of low water
holding capacity in the Southern Region. Lack of sunlight may limit the
development of north facing slopes.
8.        Erosion - Rainfall, soil, vegetation and topography all affect the
rate of erosion but, despite the fact that erosion is generally recognized
as a major national problem and the Government is spending large sums to
overcome it, there has been little research on the characteristics of rainfall



ANNEX 4
Page 3
intensities (Annex 9) or on the inherent erodibility of various soils. Erosion
prevention has been given too little attention in past development and lack
of basic knowledge is seriously hampering the design of future soil conserva-
tion works.
Past Practices in Upland Reclamation
9.        Upland development to date can be classified into three categories:
(a) Contour cultivation of row crops;
(b) Bench terraces, where the land is converted to a "staircase"
of near-level benches, with grassed risers between the cultivated
benches; and
(c) Semi-bench terraces, where the slope within the bench is reduced
to between 5 and 8%.
In the past, each conservation practice has been used widely. The more
intensive practice (bench terracing) has generally been used on the steeper
slopes and also in areas where higher-value crops are grown.
10.       A considerable amount of data on the costs and benefits of upland
reclamation was generated by two UNDP/FAO Projects:  "Agricultural Survey and
Demonstration Watersheds Project" (ROK 7)(1962-67); and "Upland Development
and Watershed Management Project" (ROK 67/522)(1967-73). Under these projects,
several hundred ha of uplands were developed, bench terracing being used
almost exclusively. The UNDP projects did not attempt to compare alternative
conservation practices but rather concentrated on optimising the design and
construction procedures for the selected practice, within the watersheds in
which they operated.
11.       The FEDC uses slope as the main design criterion and previously
recommended only variations of the contour cultivation method. Designs were
based on the Universal Soil Loss Equation, which combines a number of empirical
factors which, given the lack of research data in Korea, must be estimated.
The results of this method, therefore, are likely to have a large margin of
error. Under the project, a more flexible approach would be adopted (para
14) and research would be carried out and the results fed back into the
design process (para 20).
The Upland Reclamation Component
12.       Sub-project selection (para 13) was underway at the time of printing
and will not be finalized until after the appointment of the proposed upland
reclamation adviser (para 19). The following description of the characteris-
tics of the sub-projects is therefore rather general. The component would
include about 35 sub-projects, having a gross area of 4,500 ha. The sub-
projects would therefore average 130 ha, on a net basis. In order to avoid
small, isolated developments, which have not been successful in the past
(para 4), FEDC has adopted a minimum sub-project size of 50 ha. Sub-projects



ANNEX 4
Page 4
would probably be concentrated in Gyeong-gi and Chungcheong Nam Provinces,
as they have the largest potential for development, in the form of foothill
areas adjacent to central mountain range. The sub-project areas are presently
owned in small parcels by local villagers (Annex 1).
Sub-Project Selection
13.       Project initiation is described in para 18.  Sub-projects are
being selected from a list of 83 potential sub-projects using the following
criteria:
(a) Regional distribution - sub-projects are being selected
approximately in proportion to the provincial distribution
of the land available for development, while attempting
to cover a reasonable range of topographic and soil
conditions;
(b) Profitability - the potential for cash crops is an important
criterion and only sub-projects with a potential for high-
value crops (red pepper, fruits and vegetables) on at least
one-third of the area have been included;
(c) Farm Size - farm budget analysis (Annex 18) shows that only
small farms which can be intensively cropped and operated
by the family's own labor and animal power are likely to be
financially viable. In general, sub-projects have been
selected so that the average total farm size (including
existing area) does not exceed 1.5 ha. In cases where
this criterion is exceeded, special attention will be given
by the project management to the needs of the beneficiaries
for inputs, hired labor and credit; and
(d) Accessibility - except in extenuating circumstances, access
roads would be included to the degree that:
(i) at least 60% of the new upland plots would be located
within 500 m of the village and not more than 20% would
be located more than 1,000 m distant;
(ii) all villages would be accessible by truck;
(iii) at least 30% of the upland area would be accessible
to within 100 m by truck or oxcart; and
(iv) not more than 20% of the upland area would be
accessible only by footpath.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Design Standards
14.       The proposed design standards are summarized in Table 1.  Selection
of the appropriate conservation practice for a sub-project or portion of a
sub-project would begin with the cropping potential (taking into account
access, marketing and other factors, in addition to agronomic potential)
and then look at soil fertility, erodibility, depth and water holding capacity,
slope and topography, and climatic constraints. Unlike FEDC's past practice,
slope would not be a primary design criterion. Except for pasture development,
contour farming would be used only on soils of low erodibility and high water
holding capacity. Semi-bench terraces would be used on soils of shallow
depth but medium to high fertility and water holding capacity and low to
medium erodibility. Bench terraces would be used in all other cases. While
the proportions of each treatment will not be known until detailed surveys
(para 15) have been made, the following figures have been used for cost
estimating:
Contour farming      -    20%
Semi-benching        -    25%
Bench terracing      -    55%
Application of these criteria would require close coordination between FEDC's
engineering and soils/agronomy staff.
Design and Construction Procedure
15.       For each sub-project, a preliminary design would be made on a
1:1,200 map. The development area would then be cleared and smoothed to
allow a detailed survey and mapping at 1:600 to be made, including mapping
of soil characteristics, such as texture, erodibility, water holding capacity
and fertility. This would allow the benches, drainage ditches, roads and
other features to be laid out much more accurately than present methods
permit and would make full allowance for local variations in topography.
In order to fit in with the cropping calendar, the construction schedule
shown in Figure 1 is proposed. Following completion of the earthworks,
lime and fertilizer could be applied and a green manure crop sown, all
directed by the project management and charged to the project cost. After
plowing under the green manure crop, titles would be issued and the land
would be handed over to the farmer.
16.       Construction in all cases would be by contract, with cement, rein-
forcing steel, lime and fertilizer being supplied by the Government. In some
cases, ADC would rent construction equipment to successful bidders at standard
rates.
Organization and Management
17.       The counties would be responsible for implementation of the upland
reclamation component but would rely on ADC for technical services. The



ANNEX 4
Page 6
functions and organizational structure of ADC are described in Annex 3 and
shown schomatically in Figure 2 to that Annex. FEDC was created in 1974.
Its Director has the rank of Vice-President and reports directly to the
President of ADC. Surveys and designs would be carried out by FEDC's head
office and construction supervision would be the responsibility of the
appropriate regional corps.
18.       Project initiation is as follows.  Upon request from the villagers,
or on the recommendation of the Provincial Government, a reconnaissance sur-
vey and a feasibility study are made by FEDC. A basic development plan is
then submitted to Farmland Development Committees at the county and Provincial
levels. After approval at these levels, the plan is submitted to the Cabinet
and President and, if the plan is approved, the area is declared a "Designated
Area for Development" and the land owners are notified. Land owners are given
60 days to object to the proposed development. Those doing so are bought
out by the Government and the land is leased to another farmer, who is then
responsible for repaying the land improvement loan (Annex 14). The above
steps have been completed for most of the proposed sub-project areas.
Technical Assistance
19.       In order to establish the new design and construction standards for
upland reclamation (para 15) and to test them under various topographic and
soil conditions, the services of an adviser with broad international experience
in soil conservation would be required. As well as advising the Director of
the FEDC on the proper design and execution of the project works and on the
revision of FEDC's design handbooks, the adviser would also establish and
supervise a research program (para 20) and would make recommendations on staff
training. The adviser's services would be required for about two years.
Research Program
20.       Research would be needed to improve the planning of future up-
land reclamation projects and to refine and complete the proposed design
criteria and construction methods. The main areas of research would be as
follows:
(a) Systematic analysis of land development projects. The
evaluation studies completed in 1968 by the College of
Agriculture, Seoul National University, should be
resumed with the following objectives:
-    to identify existing upland areas where production
is low;
-    to study the changing patterns of land use;
-    to study the extent to which new upland projects
could contribute to agricultural production; and
-    to identify factors restricting upland development
and fields for future research.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
(b) Soil Erodibility Studies
Comparative soil erodibility studies should be carried out
using an artificial rainfall simulator.
The major piece of equipment for (b) is available in Korea and has been
calibrated. Other equipment would be procured under the project (Annex 11).
Research studies would be planned and supervised by FEDC and the soil con-
servation adviser but specialized work would be done by Seoul National Uni-
versity or the Office of Rural Development (ORD), as appropriate.
Extension
21.       As the upland reclamation sub-projects would require a high invest-
ment per hectare and their profitability would depend on the farmer's ability
and willingness to manage his soil correctly, special extension efforts would
be required. These are described in Annex 16.
Operation and Maintenance
22.       The small amount of work needed to maintain the access roads, the
diversion ditches and other common facilities to be constructed under the
project would be provided collectively by the farmers concerned. Maintenance
of bench terraces and other privately owned facilities would be undertaken
by the owners. Guidance and supervision would be provided periodically by
ADC and ORD.
Environmental Effects
23.       Provided adequate development criteria are adopted and rigorously
enforced and provided that the project works are properly designed, imple-
mented and maintained, there should be no significant increase in erosion and
siltation. In many cases, runoff would be retarded by the bench terraces and
thus flooding would be reduced.



RURAL TNFRASTRllCTURE PROJECT
Design Standards for Upland Reclamation
RECOMMENDED                                                                                                          PREFERRED CONDITIONS
CROP                                                                                                                                                                            _________          _
PRACTICE                                  Potential        Inherent                               Total
Soil            Soil           Soil depth        water holding       Slopes        Climatic Zone        Topographic           Trpos-phi'e R-tkhs
Fertility (1)  Erodibility(2)    (c)                 capacityfmm)                                            Aspect              -o lee
Bench Terrace             Orchard  (3)         high-           high-                 i 75              --100            5-35Z        Central Western       Sunth               all conditiona           a) Elevation betwee
medium          medium                                                              South Western                                                          benche- 100-120 rn
SouLther                                                           b) width of benches
3.0 n
Special Crops 14   ditto             high-                 -60                 8Y             5-35%       Central Western        all aspects        rolling and              a) Elevation between
Forage                                -edium                                                              Sooth Western                              regularly                   benches 80-120 cm
Southern                                  undulating               b) width of benches
4.0 n
Mulberry.            ditto           high-                  60                 -80            5-35%        Central Western       South               rolling and              a) Elevation between
Vine                                  nedium                                                              Sooth Western                              regularly                   benches 80-100 cm
Southern                                  undulating               b) Width of benches
2.50
Semi-Bench                Orchards             medi-m          medium-                 60               - 120           5-25%        Central               South               regular                  non-cuItivtion
Terruce                                                      low                                                                                                            c-ntuorn                 between trees
preferably
Special Crops       ditto            medium-                50                 100            5-25%       Central Western        all aspects         regular cnnt.urs        May require mulching
low                                                                 (lee note 5)                              p-efer.bly               practices
Soouthern                                 parallel
Mulberry,            ditto           medium-                50                  80            5-25%        Central Western       South               dicta                    non-cu1tivatien
Vine                                 lw                                                                   (See note 5)                                                       (no intercropping)
Winter barley.    ditto              ditto                  60                  60            5-15%        all regions           all aspects         ditto
summer grains (6)
Spring-fall         ditlo            ditto                  60                  60            5-25%       Central Western        all anpe-tu         ditta                   May require wglchla
vegetablen  (7)                                                                                           Southern                                                            practices
(See aate 5)
Contour fatsing           Orchards             medium-         lou                   100                 120           25-35%        Central Weastern      South               regular                  non-cnltivation
(diversion ditches                              lou                                                                                  Southern                                  parallel                 between trees
+buffer strips)                                                                                                                     (See nate 5)                              contours
Special Crops       ditto            ditto                  75                 100            5-15%       Central Weatern        all aspects         ditto                    requires mulching
Southern                                                           practices
(See note 5)
Muibery,             ditto           ditto                E 75                 100            5-25%        Central Western       South               ditto                    Na intercropping
Vine                                                                                                       (lee nate 5)                                                       peitrlCted
Winter barley -   ditto              ditto              50 to 70                75            5-15%        all regions           all aspects         ditto
su--er grains (6)
Spring-fall         ditto            ditto             40 to 60                 60            5-15%        Ill regions           all aspects         ditto                    reqoiren mulching
vegetables  (7)                                                                                                                                                               practicea
Pasture              litto          lo-median         30 to 50                 40           15-50%       all regions            all aspects         all relief,             nay not requie
high                                                                                                            even  rugied             lime  nd,fertili-e
applications
Notes           (I)  Based an sail series if other data not available
(2)  Determined by  mspirical  relationships unless comparative field data available
(3) Orchards: includes apples, peaches, pears
(4)  Special Crops:  includes winter barley- sesame or red pepper or tobacco  or watermelon
(5)  May be applicable to other climatic otn, if rainfal1  does not limit available soil moistore
during growing season or if longer growing season
(6) Alternative cropping practice: Winter barley - soybean
(7) Includes: Winter barley - white potato - chinese cabbage or sweet potatoes



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Proposed Design and Construction Schedule
JAN      FEB       MAR      APR       MAY      JUNE      JULY      AUG       SEPT     OCT        NOV       DEC
-PR        MPRELIMINARY SURVEY (1:1200) -     L
1    AND LAND ACCIUISI TION" "
TREE CLEARING      I
1ST                                                                                                    I
DETAILED    * ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ETJE
F FIELD iSTAKING CUT AND                    I
CONSTRUCTION7
2ND              SURVEY
YEAR                                                              jE      M GREEN MANURE CM
'N   REFARCELLATI ON AND
REGISTRATION
PLANTING         K
World Bank-15210



ANNEX 5
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Fuelwood Component
The Forestry Sector
1.        Of the land classified as forest (Annex 1), 73% is privately owned,
20% is in National Forests, while the remaining 7% is Public Forest (communally
owned). The National Forests are located mostly in Gang-weon Province (Map
10380), which is the more mountainous and sparsely settled part of Korea.
Therefore, the proportion of privately-owned forest land is correspondingly
higher in the other, largely agricultural, Provinces of the country. The
private forest-land holdings are for the most part very small, as shown in
Table 1. The average holding size is 2.6 ha but the median size is less
than 1 ha, with 96% of the holdings being less than 10 ha in size. Although
there are only 2,000 holdings greater than 100 ha, these account for nearly
10% of the private forest area.
2.        Private forest-land is used mostly for the gathering of fuel and is
therefore usually almost bare of trees or else carries impoverished pines
less than 2 or 3 m high. Such land is frequently most valued for its use as
a family burial ground. Given the high proportion of privately-owned forest,
it is clear that private forest land has to be used for the establishment of
village fuel wood plantations. As they are mostly small farmers, the owners
are usually not able to bear the cost of planting the land themselves. Under
the Forest Development Law of 1973, the Village Forestry Associations (VFA's)
are empowered to take over the planting and management of private forest land
under an agreement whereby the owner retains the ownership of the land and is
entitled to a 10% share of the fuelwood produced from the plantations established
upon it. The duration of the contract with the land owner equals the nominal
economic life of the species to be planted. This arrangement has paved the
way for the formation of compact blocks of land for fuelwood plantations.
The Need for Fuelwood
3.        Basic to the forestry problem in Korea is the long period of extreme
winter cold, when the mean daily temperature is below freezing for almost
three months. The need for protection against the severe cold has led to
the development of the "ondol" heating system, in which the flues from the
kitchen cooking stoves are led beneath the floors of the living rooms of the
house and thence to chimneys on the far side of the house. This under-floor
heating system requires large quantities of fuel (averaging 4.2 tons per
annum for a household of 6 persons), and in rural areas has led to the almost
total impoverishment of those areas of forest land which are adjacent to



ANNEX 5
Page 2
agricultural communities. Coupled with this voracious demand for fuel is the
fact that all areas of forest land have traditionally been regarded as freely
available for fuelwood gathering and, therefore, control has been almost
impossible to impose. The problem is further compounded by the fact that the
supply of fuelwood is now quite inadequate to meet the demand and thus leaves,
grass, and forest litter are raked up for fuel. Rice straw, maize stalks
and similar agricultural residues are also consumed in large quantities. The
removal of forest litter has led to serious erosion and flooding problems and
also to the lowering of soil fertility levels, whilst the use of agricultural
residues as fuel deprives the individual farmers of a potential source of
income, and the country of valuable raw materials (for composting, thatching
and the manufacture of rope and bags).
4.        In the past, major efforts were put into national reforestation
schemes but these had limited success because of the inability of the forest
authorities to control the collection of fuelwood. In many cases, seedlings
were cut and removed within six months of being planted. This situation,
together with proposed remedies, has been described in several FAO reports on
forestry in Korea.
5.        Recognizing the seriousness of the problem, the Government intro-
duced early in 1973 the following series of measures:
(a) The Office of Forestry was placed under the Ministry of Home
Affairs, thus effectively strengthening its authority, par-
ticularly in the field of forest protection. At the same
time, the status of the Provincial and County Forestry Offices
was increased, and their staffs strengthened;
(b) A strong extension and publicity campaign was mounted, to
inform the rural population of the vital necessity of
restoring forest cover to the land, and to induce them
to adopt the following fuel-saving methods:
(i) Conversion of cooking and heating units to coal burning,
where coal supplies are adequate;
(ii) Improvement of the design of cooking stoves, for more
efficient conversion of fuel;
(iii) Replacement (under the Saemaeul Movement) of thatched
roofs by tile, asbestos, and corrugated iron, thereby
reducing the consumption of rice straw for thatching;
(iv) Elimination of the practice of cooking all feed for
working oxen; and
(v) The introduction of methane gas producers (using animal
manure) and kerosene heaters;



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(c) Enforcement of regulations forbidding the raking of leaves,
grass and litter within forest areas; and
(d) The introduction of a national reforestation scheme to
create a well-managed fuelwood plantation for each village,
the reforestation work to be carried out by the villagers
themselves.
6.        Due, in part, to these new measures, standards of forest management
in Korea have been transformed in the last few years. The annual rate of
reforestation with fuelwood plantations has now built up to more than 30,000
ha per annum, with newly-established plantations clearly visible in all part
of the country. The restoration of ground vegetation, in the absence of
litter-raking is also clearly apparent, as is the widespread conversion of
roofing to materials other than thatch. The production of transplants has
been greatly increased and village production of nursery stocks has been
placed on a commercial basis, as an additional source of income to farmers.
The fuelwood plantations are well laid out, the survival rates of the planted
trees is high, weeding is well maintained, and protection against fire and
other forms of damage is good. Nursery stocks, their transport to the
planting sites, and the availability of labor for planting are also adequate.
There do not seem to be any problems of supervision, either at the technical
advisory level or at the village foreman level.
7.        Within its national 10-year program to reforest 1.0 million ha of
land, the Government is now giving top priority to the creation of village fuel-
wood plantations on 200,000 ha. As this work is labor-intensive, it is
entirely suited to the aspirations of the Saemaeul Movement.
The Fuelwood Component
8.        The establishment of village fuelwood plantations, on a total of
127,000 ha in all nine provinces of Korea, is proposed (Table 2). A survey
in late-1975 showed that new or supplementary fuelwood blocks were required
in about 11,100 villages and this survey is the basis for the proposed
fuelwood component. Sub-projects would vary from 3 ha to about 50 ha, the
smaller blocks being intended to supplement previously established planta-
tions. The average sub-project size would be 11 ha but one sub-project
might contain several separate blocks. While fuelwood production would be
the main purpose of the program, about 30% of the trees would be intended
primarily for timber production (mainly for local house building and, in
some cases, for commercial uses), with fuelwood as a by-product (para 15).
The main objectives of the fuelwood component would be as follows:
(a) To stabilize a sustained supply system of fuelwood for the
rural areas by the eventual production of 640,000 tons of
additional fuelwood annually;
(b) To supply fuel for both forest owners and non-forest owners;
(c) To protect the forest through self-policing by Village Forestry
Association members;



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(d) To enrich the national forest resource by the planting of
timber-producing species, as an admixture to the fuelwood
species;
(e) To build the productivity of the remaining forest land
throuCt.% the prevention of litter raking; and
(f) To boost the income of farm households through alternative
uses for agricultural by-products.
9.        In view of the size and success of the 1975 program (40,000 ha),
and the satisfactory establishment and protection of previous years' plant-
ings, the targets of 50,000 ha in 1976, and 77,000 ha in 1977, seem well
within practical attainment. Nursery stocks, transport, and technical
supervision also appear quite adequate for the proposed program and, most
important of all, the program appears to have the full understanding and
support of the villagers themselves.
Technical Description of the Fuelwood Component
10.       Planting Sites - The sites selected are on moderate to steep land
(all other land being given over to agricultural crops), close to the villages.
Sites may be either areas classified as "forest", which are preferred for
larger plantings, or consist of small pieces of unused "non-forest" land
such as roadsides, streambanks, strips adjacent to cultivated land, or
risers between bench terraces. As far as possible, communal land is selected
for the plantation but, as most forest land is privately owned (para 1),
arrangements are made for such land to be taken over by the Village Forestry
Association (VFA), whereby the VFA assumes all management responsibilities
(including the organization of planting) and the owner receives 10% of the
yield of the plantation. The inclusion of timber-producing species (which
have a cash value) eases any problems in obtaining the consent of the land-
owner and, in nearly all cases, there is no need to resort to the powers of
eminent domain in the Forest Development Law. In some cases, State Forest
land (National Forest) may be made available to the VFA's under long-term
lease but such instances are insignificant.
11.       Site preparation - In most cases, the areas selected for planting
carry only a light growth of shrubs and grass, with a few small and stunted
Pines or hardwoods scattered over the area. Clearance is therefore easy and
can be carried out with simple hand tools. There is burning before planting
and the planting pits, 30 cm in diameter, are made at the time of planting.
12.       Seed supplies and nursery stocks - All seeds are produced in Korea.
Seed collection is organized by the VFA's. Transplants are produced from a
variety of well-organized nurseries, including:
(a) State nurseries;
(b) VFA nurseries at Province, County and Village levels; and
(c) Private commercial nurseries.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
The largest production is from the VFA nurseries. Stock from these nurseries
is sold at a small profit to cover costs and to give a return to the VFA
members.
13.       Transport - The country has an adequate road network and therefore
primary transport of seedlings by truck is no problem, with secondary dis-
tribution being carried out by bullock cart and by human portage. There are
no serious problems of access to the plantation areas. Project supervision,
by the Office of Forestry and the VFA unions, is presently hampered by a
lack of suitable vehicles. Under the project, 140 pick-up trucks, one for
each county, would be procured.
14.       Planting - Planting takes place in March and April.  To obtain
maximum early yields, planting density is high, with 4,000 plants/ha being
used for "forest" areas, while 10,000 plants/ha are proposed for "non-
forest" areas where only low-growing shrubby species (such as LesRedeza) are
suitable, owing to the need to prevent shading of adjacent crops. While
research results show that these spacings are optimal from a yield point of
view, they may not give sufficient weight to cost factors and to soil and
site conditions. While the project remains economically sound (Annex 19),
given the present density, there may be additional benefits from less dense
spacing and therefore various spacings would be field tested under the
project. Planting is in straight lines up and down the hillsides, to facil-
itate weeding and later extraction of the produce. Open-rooted planting is
used and NPK fertiliser (at a rate which varies from zero to 80 g per plant,
with an average of 6 g) is applied at the time of planting.
15.       Species Selection - The selection of a particular species (or species
mixture) for an individual site is governed by its location in the country,
soil fertility, and other site characteristics. The main fuelwood species
used are Black Locust (Robinia pseudoacacia), Alder (Alnus firma and A.
hirsuta) and the leguminous shrubs Bush Clover (Lespedeza Sp) and Indigo
Bush (Amorpha sp). The main timber species are Poplar (Populus alba x
glandulosa) and Larch (Larix leptolepis) while Pine (Pinus rigida and P.
thunbergii) may be considered dual-purpose. An interesting development is
the use of Poplar in alternating lines with Bush Clover on relatively dry
mountain sites. This is the so-called "Sunchon" method of fuelwood pro-
duction. The Lespedeza gives fuelwood in the first year, plus a cash crop
from seed production, whilst the Poplar gives fuelwood from the pruning of
side branches, and can be grown on to produce pulpwood at nine years old,
or saw timber on longer rotations. Wherever site conditions permit, plant-
ations of mixed timber-producing and fuelwood-producing species are created.
For example, Poplar (for pulpwood production) is planted with Lespedeza or
Robinia. Pinus rigida (for fuel and timber production) may be planted
with Robinia on low-quality sites, where the nitrogen-fixing capacity of the
Robinia is valuable for site improvement, whilst the Pine is tolerant of
the low site quality.
16.       While the mixing of fuel and timber-producing species may not be
ideal, from an economic viewpoint, there are good sociological reasons for
its use. The main timber species are well understood by the villagers and



ANNEX 5
Page 6
produce significant amounts of fuel from pruning and thinning. High-yield-
ing fuel-producing species are more novel and may have problems, such as the
thorniness of Robinia. Und-r the project, about 30% of the project area
would be planted to dual-purpose species (such as pines), 30% would be
devoted to Lespedeza and Amorpha in "non-forest" areas, while the remaining
areas would grow Robinia and Alders (Table 3).
17.       Maintenance - The plantations are weeded for two or three years
after planting, until the trees are free from grass competition. Insect pests
pose some problems but control methods are well understood. If necessary,
fire breaks are constructed around the plantation. Losses from fire have
been low in recent years.
18.       Yields - The first yields of fuel are from the cutting of competing
shrub growth during the weeding operation (para 17). In the case of timber
species and Alder, pruning of side-branches commences at three or four years
old, and this forms the main yield of fuelwood throughout the early years
of the plantation, later to be replaced by the yield from thinning, and
eventually clear-felling. The average annual fuelwood yield varies from
1 ton/ha for poplar to 5.5 ton/ha for alder. Lespedeza can be clear-cut
every year for fuel, beginning at the end of the first year, with an average
yield of 5 ton/ha. Black Locust can be cut in the second year, as the species
will coppice vigorously, and from the fourth year onward an average yield of
10 ton/ha is obtained. In analysing the component (Annex 19), 5.0 ton/ha is
taken as the average yield. For the average village, the yield of forest
fuels forms only about 50% of its total demand for fuel, the other 50% coming
from agricultural residues.
Sub-Project Selection
19.       Arising out of the recent survey (para 8), the fuelwood needs of
every village have been assessed using a standard Fuelwood Forest Record.
Based on the number of households and fireplaces in the village, total
fuel demand is calculated. The forest resources of the village are assessed
and, based on the availability of suitable land and of alternative fuels
(such as coal and kerosene), a judgement is made by the district Office
of Forestry staff (para 20) on the size of fuelwood plantation needed. Prior-
ity in allocating government staff time and materials to particular villages
depends largely on the competence and enthusiasm of the VFA but also on the
village's own priorities, as expressed through its Saemaeul Committee.
Priority is also given to villages with particularly acute shortages of fuel,
which is the reason for the concentration of the program in the more densely
populated Provinces (Table 2). These selection criteria are reasonable.
Organization
20.       A Village Forestry Association has been formed within every village
in the country. The head of each VFA is elected by his fellow villagers for
a five-year term. He is directly responsible for organizing the planting
program, plantation maintenance and all other activities of the VFA, such as
the production of transplants from the village nursery, oak mushroom cultivation,
and so on. He obtains technical guidance in his work from the foresters of the
VFA Union at county level, and the district officers of the Office of Forestry.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
21.       The Office of Forestry, and the VFA field organizations, are fully
staffed at all levels, with the Office of Forestry having approximately 40
technically-trained foresters in each Provincial Office and 25 in each County
Office. These numbers are impressive and represent a very adequate forestry
organization for the country.
Research on Fuelwood
22.       The Office of Forestry includes a Forest Research Institute and a
Forest Resources Survey Institute, the activities of both of which will have
a bearing on the success of the reforestation program. Of particular importance
is that the Survey Institute is conducting a regular five-year review of Korea's
forest areas, by means of aerial photography of the whole country, thus pro-
viding a check on the progress and success of the reforestation effort. Re-
search efforts on fuelwood are mainly being directed at harvesting and
consumption rates. Further efforts are needed on the following subjects:
(a) Species suitability and new species;
(b) Spacing trials;
(c) Fertilizer trials;
(d) Thinning and pruning trials; and
(e) Optimum age for transplanting.
While existing knowledge is sufficient to establish the feasibility of the
proposed fuelwood component, additional research could lead to lower costs
and improved efficiency of resource use and thus is essential to the long-
term planning of fuelwood production. The Government has recognized this
need and is considering the preparation of a major project for forestry
research, including fuelwood.
23.       Funds would be available under the project (up to US$10O,000) to
support fuelwood research during 1976-8. These funds would be used for Lhe
purchase of vehicles, equipment and materials, and staff training. These
funds could also be used for any consultant services which might be needed
in the preparation of the Government's proposed Forestry Research Project.
24.       The Forest Research Institute includes training facilities, One
training program handles short courses for instructing Provincial-level
foresters in the type of training and knowledge required by village-level
supervisors and foremen. The Provincial staff, through similar courses, then
pass the knowledge on the county and district levels, until ultimately the
district foresters are able to hold training courses for all village VFA
chiefs in their areas. This seems to work well and supervision (and interest)
appear to be quite high at the level of the field labor gang, the evidence
being in the quality of the work produced.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Environmental Effects
25.       Reforestation by fuelwood plantations would improve the environment
through a reduction in erosion. It would also enable the surrounding forest
lands to recover from their previous over-use for fuel-gathering and become
productive and environmentally stable. Even on aesthetic grounds, most of
the plantations being established would be mixtures of conifers and hardwoods,
thereby avoiding any accusation of the plantations being "regimented lines of
somber firs."



ANNEX 5
Table 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Ownership Pattern of Private Forest Land
Holding Size        Number of       % of         Total     % of
(ha)      ~      _Holdings        Hoi gs    Area (ha) Aea
Less than 10        985,000          56.0         387,000   8.4
100 - 100           699,000          39.7       21275o000   49.2
1000 - 100l0          74,000           4.2      1l519,000  32.9
More than 100.0        2,000           0.1         441,000    9.5
Total        1,760,000         100.0       4,622s000 100.0



ANNEX 5
Table 2
KOREA
,iURkL INFRASTREJ,TURE PROJECT
Prov-incial Distiribution of the  Fuelwood Component
Province              No. of sub-projects           Area to be Planted (ha)
1976        1977         Total
Gyeong-gi                   1,220                2,400       7,000        9,h0o
Tane-weon                      943               2,300        7,000        9,300
'Thungcheong Bag               897                3,4oo       5,o00        8,400
Chungcheong Nam              1,674                8,100       7,900       16,000
uTonra 3uig                  1,077                4,Loo       7,000       11,)00
Jconra Nam                   2,24o               10,100       15,000      25,100
uyeongsang Bug7              1,796                8,600      1l,000       22,600
OyeongsanX Nam               1,231               10,200      13,600       23,800
Jeju                            51                  500          500        1 ,000
Total             11,129              50,000       77,000      127,000



ANNEX 5
Table 3
KOREA
RTJRAL INFRASTRTTCTTIRE PROJECT
Fuelwood Component: Species Distribution
Species                                               % of Area
"Forest" Areas - fuelwood species
Robinia pseudoacacia                                      22
Alnus firmus  >
18
Alnus hirsuta §
- dual-purpose species
Pinus rigida                                              29
Pinus thunbergii                                           2
"Non-Forest" Areas - fuelwood species
Lespedeza sp §
29
Amorpha sp
100
Note: The above distribution is based on preliminary surveys only and
has been used for cost estimating purposes only. A more detailed
breakdown wrill be available after final designs are completed and
this may include additional minor species.



ANNEX 5
Figure
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Organization Chart:1/  Fuelwood
| Minister of    l
| Home Affairs 
Level
L e v el  l   |                                |                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C h a irm a n ,  F e d e ra tio n
Director, Local                     Director-General,                       of Village Forestry
Administration                       Office of Forestry                      Association Unions
Provincial Branch,
Central                                                                      Ass~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orestryn Asocnions
I -lI
County ~    ~      Deut Directo
Saemaeul                                                                   Vilage Forestry
Saemaeul                Guidance                                Forestry      *m _F_e_d_erAssociation Union
Committee               Section                                  1eauo                              at County Level
District                                                                                                 IL
Saemaeu.  a maeul                            Forestry                             Village Forestry
Saemaeul         _      GSaemaeul                            Forestry Sub- id                        Association Union
Committee               Chief                                                                   1   at District Level
5                            | District Foresters
I~~~~~~~~
Village                         l
SacmaeulVillage                                                                                Villag  Forestry
Committee                Saemsoc at on
Leader
-   Principal project units only shown.
World Bank-9928



ANNEX 6
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Roads and Bridges Component
The Transport Sector
1.        Transport needs in Korea are served by all modes, which comprise a
good railway system (3,100 km), a rather dense highway network (44,200 km),
and important coastal shipping lanes. Priority was given to developing the
railways until 1967, when the Government began to place emphasis also on
highways and ports. In the Second Five-Year Plan (1967-71), capital invest-
ments in highways were about 50% higher than that of railways and, in
the Third Plan (1972-76), highway expenditures are expected to be more
than double those for railways. During the last decade, highway investments
included the construction of about 400 km of four-lane expressways and the
reconstruction and improvement (including paving) of over 1,500 km of the
national highway network, out of a total of 8,660 km. The Provincial and
county road networks were also improved and received about 40% of the total
invested on highways, although they carry less than 40% of the total traffic
in the country. Village roads received less attention from the Government
until 1971, when it began to launch the Saemaeul Movement (para 6), in which
it assists and organizes the farmers for building and improving those roads.
2.        The Provincial and county road networks are generally adequate in
density to satisfy traffic demands but many roads are badly constructed,
poorly maintained and in a state of disrepair. Together with the need to
improve the Provincial and county roads, the construction of local roads
giving access to the villages, where about 45% of the population live, is of
high priority, as shown in Annex 20. Unfortunately the data base is not yet
refined enough to make a precise ranking of priorities between the various
levels of the road system. Progress in strengthening the national transporta-
tion system has been assisted by the Bank Group with several loans, credits
and a grant, totalling US$401.7 million. This assistance comprised
five Railway Projects (Credits 25-KO and 110-KO, Loan 669-KO/Credit 183-KO
and Loans 863-KO and 1101-KO), two investment studies (a grant, and Credit
S4-KO), two Highway Projects (Loans 769-KO and 956-KO) and a Port Project
(Loan 917-KO). A Third Highway Project was recently approved by the Executive
Directors. The present project would be the first Bank Group operation to
finance village roads in Korea.
Background
3.        In 1969, an inventory of Korea's village roads was made and it was
found that about 12,500 km of such roads existed, having been built entirely
by the villagers themselves, without government support. At the same time



ANNEX 6
Page 2
it was estimated that a total of about 46,000 km of village roads would be
needed to give adequate access to all Korea's villages.  Progress since 1970
has been impressive with about 7,000 km being constructed in each of several
years (Table 1). It is estimated that, by the end of 1975, the roads
remaining from the original target will total about 4,700 km and out of these,
850 km have been scheduled for construction in 1976 and 1977, under the project.
4.        The achievements listed in Table 1 should be treated with a degree
of caution. It is probable that some of the road lengths included under new
construction were badly-maintained existing roads that were reconstructed
(para 21). Therefore, a new survey was undertaken to determine the remaining
high priority needs in this sector, taking into account population shifts and
agricultural development since 1969. The accomplishments listed in Table 1
for 1974 are much below the levels in earlier years because of the general
shortage of fuel, materials, and supplies following the sudden increase in oil
prices in late-1973.
5.        A survey to determine the needs for bridges on rural roads was
made in 1972 and 1,781 sites were identified. In addition, it was recognized
that additional bridges would be needed on roads to be constructed after 1972.
Over 700 of the smallest bridges (less than 10 m in length) were constructed
in 1974 and the 1975 target comprises 527 bridges between 10 m and 20 m in
length (Table 1). The 200 bridges to be constructed in 1976-7 under the
project would generally be longer than 20 m.
6.        Since 1971, construction of village roads and bridges has fallen
under the Saemaeul Movement, whereby the Government supplies materials, skilled
labor and construction supervision, while unskilled labor is provided by the
villagers themselves (paras 7 and 16). Roads and bridges fall under the second
category of Saemaeul projects directed at "self-help" villages (Annex 2).
7.        Village roads generally follow the natural topography, so as to
minimize earthworks. In flat country, the road usually follows a property
boundary, to avoid right of way problems, and is raised above the annual flood
level. In most cases, new roads also follow existing footpaths or tracks.
Construction is highly labor-intensive, with shovels used for excavation, hand
carts for hauling and with little attention given to compaction. Where
available, river gravel or broken stone is used for surfacing, giving a
rough and uneven (though durable) surface. Elsewhere, unselected soil is
used for surfacing and this may not always be traffickable in the wet season.
8.        Bridges are normally of a simple reinforced concrete slab (or beam
and slab) construction, with solid piers and abutments. Standard spans (3 to
5 m) are multiplied to give the required waterway area. Calculations of
waterway area are based on few data and outmoded design methods. River beds
generally consist of deep coarse alluvium and scour beneath the simple spread
footings used is a source of failure of some bridges. The design of
foundations does not take into account local conditions and there is inade-
quate supervision of the quality of concrete used for this work. The quality
of the concrete used in the superstructure is also often inadequate, due to



ANNEX 6
Page 3
poorly graded aggregates (obtained from the river), segregation during mixing,
excessive water use and, in some cases, skimping on the use of cement. The
result is a weak, porous concrete, subject to failure by f           >awlg and
corrosion of the reinforcing steel. The average life of such bridges would
be no more than five to ten years. Measures to correct these deficiencies
in concrete construction would be incorporated in the project (paras 10,
16 and 20).
The Roads and Bridges Component
9.        The roads and bridges component of the project comprises approxi-
mately 850 km of roads (about 440 sub-projects) and about 200 bridges. Most
of the roads would serve to link isolated villages to the county road network
or, in a few cases, to complete links in that network. Preliminary sub-
project identification and selection has been completed for the 1976 work
program and a final list of sub-projects, taking into account the Bank's
comments on the preliminary list, will be available by the end of February,
1976. Selection of the 1977 program will be completed before October, 1976.
A breakdown of the proposed program by Provinces is shown in Table 2. The
roads would be constructed over two years (1976 and 1977). The Government
proposes to complete the whole bridge program in 1976 but, as some of the
bridges are up to 50 m in length, this may not be feasible, particularly
since the working season for Saemaeul projects is limited to a feg;- months
per year (para 19).  Allowance has therefore been made for the bridges
program under the project to overlap into 1977.
10.       The roads would be constructed to about 5.0 m width, with geometric
standards such as to minimize construction costs. Present standards regarding
drainage and bank protection are satisfactory and would be continued.  However,
better supervision (para 20) would ensure a higher standard of compaction
and better surfacing. Village roads would have a graded surface of crushed
stone or river grdvel. Bridges would be designed for single-lane traffic
only and would normally have a 4.0 m travelled width. The design loading
would be the Korean equivalent to the HS-20-44 loading of the American Society
of State Highway Officials.
11.       The cost of road construction is estimated to be about US$5,400/'km,
based on detailed engineering of sample road sections representative of all
terrain conditions. The cost of bridge construction is estimated to be
about US$10,000 for a bridge 30 m long, based on a satisfactory standard
design. The total cost of the roads and bridges program is estimated to
be about US$6.8 million (Annex 10, Table 5).
Sub-Project Selection
12.       Roads and bridges sub-projects are proposed by the Village Saemaeul
Committees, vetted successively by the county and Provincial governments and
then sent up to the Central Government for approval (Annex 2). The unfor-
tunate feature of this procedure is that the Planning Divisions in the Pro-
vincial Governments, the MOC and the EPB do not participate, beyond the
issuance of general guidelines. The roads and bridges program is coordinated



ANNEX 6
Page 4
with other Saemaeul activities by the Saemaeul Planning Division in the MHA
(Figure 1).
13.       Varying criteria are applied to the selection of roads.  Priority
seems to be given to villages that are self sufficient and active in helping
themselves, those requiring extensions to existing roads and those whose
past performance has been good. Until recently, there has been no use of
quantitative sub-project selection criteria.
14.       MHA has now introduced the following set of selection criteria for
roads: road length; construction cost; population served; farmland served;
and estimated traffic volume. A procedure for relating these factors to the
economic rate of return is described in Annex 20, which also gives limiting
combinations of road length and farmland served for economic viability. A
simpler version of this procedure has been used to select the road sub-projects
included in the present project. Moreover, some of the sub-projects included
in the 1976 program do not strictly meet the above quantitative selection
criteria but have been included because of unusual local conditions of heavy
local support, which indicate a high priority.
15.       The data base for sub-project selection is barely adequate, as
few measurements of benefits (or even of traffic volumes) have been made
at this level of the road system. This topic would therefore be of high
priority for inclusion in the proposed program of evaluation studies included
in the project (para 5.17).
Construction Methods
16.       For road construction, the present labor-intensive methods (para 7)
would continue. For bridges and minor structures, hand-mixing of concrete
would be discontinued and replaced by the use of simple concrete mixers,
powered by hand or by small gasoline engines. These mixers would not displace
a great amount of labor but would make possible concrete of adequate strength
and durability (para 8). One mixer per bridge, or a total of 200, would be
procured under the project. When not needed for bridge construction, this
equipment would be used for water supply sub-projects (Annex 7) or other
Saemaeul activities. The ungraded stone or gravel presently used for sur-
facing is not entirely satisfactory and therefore provision has been made in
the project for the procurement of nine small stone crushers. These crushers
would also be used to produce concrete aggregates. One crusher per Province
would be procured, so as to test their applicability to Korean conditions.
Execution
17.       The roads and bridges program would be implemented by the Ministry
of Home Affairs (MHA), through its Local Administration Bureau. MHA would
supply basic materials such as cement, reinforcing steel and aggregates.
Actual construction would be carried out by the villagers themselves without
any payment in cash or kind. The works would be maintained by the Village
Saemaeul Committee also at no cost (para 21).
18.       Saemaeul Guidance Divisions have been established in the MHA and
the Provincial and county governments to approve programs, supply materials



ANNEX 6
Page 5
for and monitor the execution of Saemaeul road projects. The county govern-
ments, in addition, provide some technical assistance to survey new road
alignments. The deficiency in this organization at present is that the
Ministry of Construction (MOC) and the Construction Bureaus in the Provincial
and county governments, which are responsible for the construction of major
roads and have the necessary expertise and laboratory and survey facilities
to assist the rural roads program, are not involved. Only one engineer is
available in each county to help with the planning and execution of Saemaeul
projects (including electrification, water supply, and irrigation, as well
as roads and bridges). He lacks the time and facilities to supervise
adequately the roads and bridges program.
19.       The works are executed under a contract with the Village Saemaeul
Committee, which also prepares work plans and programs. The Village Saemaeul
Leader (Annex 2) is in charge of the works, which are usually carried out
from February to May and from September to November. Work is often inter-
rupted by the exigencies of the crop calendar. Skilled laborers are hired
by the village or provided by the county administration for some activities
in bridge-building, such as carpentry and steel bending.
20.       To improve the effectiveness of supervision and the quality of
workmanship, the Government has agreed to the following changes in project
management:
(a) The Provincial Construction Bureau would be responsible
for the planning and execution of bridgeworks;
(b) The County Construction Division would be responsible for
the planning and execution of the roadworks; and
(c) The construction work schedules would be prepared by the
Provincial Construction Bureau for bridges and the County
Construction Division for roads, in agreement with the
Village Saemaeul Committee.
In each case, lower-level officials would be used for day-to-day activities,
as at present. However, ultimate responsibility would be at the levels
indicated, in order to ensure that adequate standards are maintained.
Maintenance
21.       Maintenance of the facilities constructed under the project would
be the responsibility of the Village Saemaeul Committees. As maintenance
normally involves only labor and local materials, cash outlays would rarely
be required. Road maintenance is not satisfactory at present but this is
due to a lack of supervision by and advice from the responsible district and
county officials. Supervision would be strengthened under the project by
involving engineers from the County Construction Division, who would inspect
the village roads periodically, point out maintenance deficiencies to the
village leaders and advise on any unusual problems. Villages with a poor



ANNEX 6
Page 6
record of maintenance would be given low priority in future development
projects. Adequate maintenance would require an average of 180 man-days/km/yr.
Environmental Effects
22.       The roads and bridges components of the project would have only
minor effects on the physical and human environment. During construction
there would be a temporary increase in erosion and sedimentation in some
areas but the methods to be employed for bank protection should minimize
this. The roads and bridges program would provide many villages with
vehicular access for the first time and would thus greatly improve the
villagers' access to health and other social services.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
KOREA
_ RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Construction Progress:  Rural Roads and Bridges
Achievements
Year          Roads (k)       Bridges (No.)
Up to  1969           12,507
1970            7,167             -
1971            7,526             -
1972            7,351             _
1973            5,367             -
197h          Repairs only       761
1975            1,540            527
Source: Ministry of Home Affairs.



ANNEX 6
Table 2
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Provincial Distribution of the Roads and Bridges Componen14/
Province                                 Roads                          Brid-es
No.            Lenath                   (No.
-           ~~~~(km)
3yeong-gi                        419              1o5                      15
Cang-weon                        29                88                      17
:hungcheong 3ug                  34                60                      34
-hungcheong Nam                  33               127                      22
Jeonra Bug                       51                76                      30
Jeonra Nam                       81               128                      21
Gyeongsang Bug                   61               142                      22
'3yeongsang Nam                  94               11235
Jeju                              7                 12                      L
Total                   439               850                    200
1/ This is an approximate distribution based on the 1976 program. Final
figures iill be available only after the 1977 program has been selected.



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Organization Chart: Roads and Bridges Component
Minister of
Home Affairs
Vice-tvtinister                                                                               [111111               Principal
Project Units
Director-General,           Director,           Director,             Director,
Office of                   Police              Local Admin-          Planning and
Forestry                    Bureau             istratiori Bureau      Management Offic
See Chart 9928                                                                                                                                          rovincial
_  I_________________                                               Governor
Deputy Director,        Deputy Director,       Deputy Di rector,
Saemaeul Projects       Local Finance          Local Administration|
_                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vice-Governor
| ~~~~ ~~Saemaeul |              Fme         rban Admin- | | Saemaeul Educ-|                                                                               _tI
t PlaningDivison | Guidance Divisioni      ' strtin  ivsin Division      Dison                    .                                                                   Director, Health
Director, Agr-       Direct or Construc-       Director, Home        and Social Affairs           Other
{Comprehensive        (Guidance of Rural      (Guidence of Urban       (Education and               culture Bureau         on Bureaus               Affairs Bureau        Bureau                       Bureaus
Saemaeul Plan)        Saemaeut Projects)      Saemaeul Projects)       Public Relations)
Projects  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~ninn ~~~~~Responsible
*   i             *                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~for Bridges)     _
Saemaeul Project |     Saemaeul Income         Housing Guidance                                              Director, Planning and                 emacul Guidanc           Local Affairs            Tax Affairs
Guidance Section |  Projects Section  - - Section   |                      | Management Office    l              ISection           |   |MSection           |   |   Section         l
(Includes Responsibility                                                                                                  I                                                     (City-county
for Roads and Bridges)                                                                                           (Provincial Budget)                                             Budgets)
Plning Off icer
County Chief
(Responsible
for Roads)                                                        World Bank-9923



ANNEX 7
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Water SupPly Component
The Water Supply Sector
1.        As in most countries, a greater effort has been made in Korea to
supply urban populations with potable water as compared with rural centers.
The larger cities have generally adequate water supply systems. The Third
Five-Year Plan (1972-76) includes a program to serve about 8,000 villages
out of a national total of about 35,000. However, by the end of the fourth
year of the Plan in December 1975, only about half the target had been met,
owing to budgetary constraints. Even with the project, these constraints
would remain and the planned rate of progress for 1976 and 1977 is about 1,000
villages per year.
2.        The extent of water supply service in various sized communities is
shown in Table 1. It will be noted that the rural centers with populations
between 1,000 and 20,000 have a much lower percentage of population served
(3%) than the smaller rural villages (26%). This is because the simple and
inexpensive systems used in villages cannot be used for these larger centers
and also because the program of the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MHSA)
is limited to villages, while the Ministry of Construction (MOC) has given
priority to the larger cities. The Government's targets for 1981 are to
increase the proportion of the urban population served from about 67% to
81% and, in the rural sector, to provide piped systems in about one-half of
the 35,000 villages and to 35% of the rural centers. These targets appear
to be attainable, given adequate budgetary support.
3.        Korea is not a water short country, the rainfall averaging about
1,000 mm in the north and about 1,400 mm in the south (Annex 1). The
country is mountainous with many narrow valleys containing alluvial deposits.
It is not difficult to get small quantities of groundwater and in all villages
(and even larger cities) there are many dug or driven wells, the latter having
suction hand pumps. These wells commonly belong to individual households,
although communal wells are also used, particularly for laundry purposes. A
detailed description of the status of water supply and sewerage in Korea may
be found in the "Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Study"', 1975, prepared by
the iHO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
The Saemaeul Movement in Water Supply
4.        Village water supplies fall under the second category of Saemaeul
projects (Annex 2) and are directed at "self help" villages, which are able



ANNEX 7
Page 2
to provide all the necessary unskilled labor and, occasionally, a small
cash contribution. Materials, skilled labor and supervision are provided by
the Government, through the county administrations (para 15). The number
of systems constructed in recent years has averaged about 900 per year
(Table 1) and these now serve about 13% of all villages. As the proportion
of population served is twice this figure, one may assume that the program
to date has concentrated on the larger villages.
5.        The simple piped water systems are either gravity supplies frqm a
spring or are pumped from a nearby well. The wells or springs are protected
and the system is normally provided with a concrete storage reservoir on
adjacent high ground or else a hydro-pneumatic tank is used to provide pres-
sure. Small diameter polyvinylchloride (PVC) pipes are used for the distri-
bution system, which serves individual houses. Concrete is mixed by hand,
which leads to unsatisfactory quality in some cases (para 16). However,
the overall quality of workmanship is adequate.
6.        The program has been assisted by funds from several international
agencies. UNICEF provided materials for 219 systems between 1971 and 1974.
In 1972, the Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere provided materials
for 9 systems. An Asian Development Bank loan supplied US$480,000 for 100
systems in 1975. Apart from the proposed project, and continuing UNICEF
funding of training, demonstration projects and technical assistance, no
other international funding is in prospect for 1976-77.
The Water Supply Component
7.        The project would include about 2,000 water supply systems.  The
approximate distribution of sub-projects by Provinces is shown in Table 2.
The rate of construction would be similar to that reached in recent years,
though the systems would be somewhat more complex, as the spring sources
are nearly exhausted, and would therefore require more survey and design
effort. For the same reason, unit costs of supply are increasing.
Water Supply Organizations
8.        At the national level, the project component would be supervised
by the Sanitation Facilities Sub-section of the Environmental Sanitation
Section of the Environmental Health Bureau, within the Ministry of Health
and Social Affairs (MHSA) (Figure 1). As well as having general responsibi-
lities in the field of health, MHSA is also responsible for sanitary inspec-
tions, pollution control, vermin control and nightsoil disposal. The Sanita-
tion Facilities Sub-section is responsible for rural water supplies and waste
disposal.
9.        The Sanitation Facilities Sub-section prepares standard designs and
specifications and helps prepare training materials for the engineers and
sanitation personnel at the Province and county levels and also for the
village leaders. Training courses are given by the National Institute of
Health, also under MHSA. National Ministries generally have bureaus in



ANNEX 7
Page 3
each Province, under the administrative control of the Provincial Governor.
Each Provincial Bureau of the MHSA has either a Public Health Section or a
Sanitation Section, with an engineer who reviews and approves all plans for
village water supplies prepared by the county sanitarians. The Province
sanitary engineer is assisted by three or four sanitarians and two or three
technical assistants, trained by the National Institute of Health. Each
county has a health center with three to four sanitarians. The average
county has about 250,000 people and is divided into about ten districts
(myons). Each district, which contains about 25 villages, has two social
affairs personnel but they have had no special training in water supply.
The total number of technical staff dealing with rural water supply is about
550, which would be adequate for the proposed program.
Sub-Project Selection
10.       Projects are proposed by the Village Saemaeul Committees and
reviewed by the district and county committes (Annex 2). Before final
approval is given, the county Saemaeul Committee visits the village to see
if it is capable of constructing the proposed water supply. Meanwhile, the
national budget process (Annex 14) has detemined the amount of money that can
be expended in a given year for village water supplies. The cost of an
average supply is about Won 1.8 million or US$3,800 (or about US$50 per
household), excluding the imputed cost of volunteer labor (Annex 10, Table 6).
The funds available are distributed to each Province on the basis of popula-
tion. The Province then allocates funds to each county, also on the basis
of population. The county office decides how many water supply projects
can be financed and reviews the list of projects proposed by the villages.
The final selection of the water supply program is made by the sanitarians
of the county health center, using the following criteria:
(a) The institutional capacity of the village, as demonstrated
by its past record in Saemaeul activities and its willing-
ness to undertake the sub-project;
(b) The size of the village (which must be greater than 20
households);
(c) The incidence of waterborne diseases, particularly
of typhoid;
(d) The state of the village's existing water services; and
(e) The cost of a simple piped system (which depends largely
on the available source, spring sources being preferred).
These criteria are satisfactory and would continue to be used under the
project.  A preliminary list of sub-projects, selected according to these
criteria, has been drawn up and is being revised in accordance with the
Bank's comments. The list of about 1,000 sub-projects for the 1976 work
program will be finalized by the end of February, 1976 and the 1977 work
program will be submitted to the Bank before October, 1976.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
11.       After the villages to be supplied have been selected, the sanita-
rians inspect all available water sources, check the reliability of the
yield and collect samples for chemical and bacteriological tests. The final
selection of a source is based on this information and a preliminary cost
estimate. After the source has been decided upon, the county engineering
office under the Ministry of Construction (the Construction Division) is
notified to proceed with the preparation of detail designs, bills of materials
and other engineering documents, including a work schedule. The county Con-
struction Division has four or five civil engineers and one is responsible for
water supplies, with several technicians to assist him. A team visits the
village to prepare a map to scale, measure the differences in elevation
between the source and the village, lay out the distribution system and locate
the storage reservoir. This data is taken to the office where the design is
finalized and a detailed report and cost estimate is prepared for each village.
This report is then reviewed and approved by the Provincial sanitary engineer.
The village is given the final design report and construction is scheduled
with the help of the county sanitarians. The work is usually done from
September until the end of December and must be coordinated with agricultural
activities and other village projects. Some villages have completed water
systems in two to four weeks but other have taken up to four months.
12.       It is estimated that the county engineering office will take about
18 weeks to prepare the water supply reports for each year's program for the
county. Under the project, each Province would set up a one-day training
session for its county water supply engineers and sanitarians to emphasize
the importance of selection of the best and lowest cost source, refinements
of design to eliminate contamination, and the importance of making dense
concrete that will not leak (para 16).
13.       Village water system layouts generally follow standard patterns
from an NHSA design manual. The manual includes spring and well protection;
design of storage reservoirs, with sizing based on population served; required
pipe sizes, based on volumes of flow, frictional resistance and head; methods
of joining pipes and specials; and installation and operation of a solution
feed chlorinator. The standard plans for concrete works include placement
of reinforcing steel and sanitary design of manholes, vents, overflow pipes
and similar details. The distribution networks are straightforward in design
and provide for a 13 mm unmetered house connection to each dwelling. Normally
a single faucet in the courtyard is supplied, which is an appropriate standard
of service for existing rural income levels in Korea. A per capita consumption
of 80 1/day is allowed for in design and the systems are designed for con-
tinuous pressure. The standard design methods used are adequate for the
simple systems to be constructed.
14.       The project cost estimate (Annex 10, Table 6) is based on detailed
designs for a sample of sub-projects and on standardized estimating methods,
derived from past experience with similar work, which take into account varia-
tions in the number of houses served, type of water source, and length of



ANNEX 7
Page 5
pipe required. A final cost estimate would be prepared when all systems
have been designed (early in 1976).
Sub-Project Execution
15.       Construction of the sub-projects would be done by organized
volunteers from the village, instructed and supervised by the sanitarians and
technical assistants from the county offices. Since all the sub-projects
would be under construction during the same four-month period in the Fall, the
amount of supervision available to each sub-project would be quite limited.
However, inspection of past projects shows satisfactory workmanship and mainte-
nance. There are a number of skilled and semi-skilled workers in each village,
as a result of the fact that all men undergo military training and during this
time they also must learn a civilian trade. The villagers are trained in the
proper jointing of PVC pipe, the mixing and placing of concrete, the construc-
tion of formwork and the positioning of reinforcing steel. When pumps are
installed, the village usually hires an electrician and a plumber at their
own cost to do the installation.
16.       As all concrete is mixed by hand at present, its quality is only
marginally adequate. Aggregates are badly graded, the concrete is usually
inhomogeneous and excessive water is used. This could result in leaking
storage tanks. Satisfactory concrete could be produced using small manual
or gasoline engine powered mixers and these would be provided to the county
offices under the project. Although intended mainly for the bridge program
(Annex 6), the 200 mixers would also be used for the water supply program and
other Saemaeul activities.
Operation and Maintenance
17.       As each water supply system is completed, a water supply mainten-
ance committee would be formed in the village to operate and maintain the
system. For systems which include pumping or water treatment, a regular
monthly contribution would be collected from each villager to cover the
costs of electricity, chemicals and so on. For simpler systems, contributions
are collected at the time major repairs or replacements are made. In many
villages, the amount collected exceeds the operation and maintenance cost.
Surplus funds go to the village development fund. The county-sanitariums
are responsible for monitoring operational standards and water quality. This
system has been in effect for some years and works satisfactorily.
Environmental Effects
18.       The water supply component would improve the rural environment in
Korea, as more water would be available to each household from one or more
convenient outlets in the house or courtyard. Water would no longer be
obtained by the tedious method of a bucket and a rope or a hand pump, so more
water would probably be used for washing. In villages with poor quality



ANNEX 7
Page 6
water sources at present (such as streams and open wells), the project
would improve the level of public health. It is not anticipated that water
flush toilets or other water using appliances would be installed in the
foreseeable future. The amount of waste water from food preparation and
washing would probably be greater than before. Villages with water systems
dispose of waste water through surface drainage ditches that usually drain to
rice paddies or other planted areas. The water extraction from aquifers would
not be enough to change ground water levels. Thus, no deleterious environ-
mental effects are anticipated.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Population Distribution and
Status of Water Supply Service
Number
Served by             Number
Number of     Total      House                  not yet
Category of            Commun-     Population   Connection      %       served
CoMLunitY             ities        (million)    (million)    Served   (million)
above             6        12.1          10.1        84        2.0
I.    Cities     300,000
II.   Cities      50,000 to       29          3.7          2.4         65        1.3
300,000
III. Towns        20,000 to       160         4.5          1.2         26        3.3
50,000
IV.  Rural         1,000 to    1, 339         5.8          0.2          3        5.6
Centers     20,000
V.   Villages    less than   35,000           7.6          2.0         26        5.6
1 ,000
Total                       .,         33.7         15.9        47        17.8
Progress inVillage Water Supply
Year                                 Number of Simple
Ppzed Water Supplies
Constructed
before 1972                                      589
1972                                       1,1402
1973                                         949
19714                                        725
1975 (target)                                900
Total                  4,565



ANNEX 7
Table 2
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Provincial Distribution of the Water Supply Componentl/
Province                 Number of          Number of         Population
Sub-Projects      Houses Served      Served
Gyeong-gi                     258               18,900         i0o,ooo
Gang-weon                     218              15,h00           86,000
Chungeheong Bug               1h6              10,6oo           63,000
Chungcheong Nam               218              16,200           96,000
Jeonra Bug                    198              11,800           73,000
Jeonra Nam                   318               21,800          127,000
Gyeongsang Bug               3h6               27,000          157,000
Gyeongsang Nam               278.              33,700          180,000
Jeju                          20                  h00            2,000
Total               2,000              155,800          888,ooo
1/ This is an approximate distribution based on the 1976 program. Einal
figures will be available only after the 1977 program has been selected.



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Orpnization Chart:  Wtr Supply Component
Minister of                                                                                                                                     Mininer of
Health and
Social Affair
|                                                                                                        * S e f he~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rt 9MW23
I   _                                                                                                             |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|  Vj eMinije                                                                                                                                            U
I  _                                                                                                              |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|Director.              Diractor                                         Dh-ector             Dirrclor               Director,B
r    1          DrectortI                                                              ir     Io
|  Admrninstration    Phm nnate tiral         Health Bureau            Affairs uh Bren u                           Welran                                                                       Grovrnor
ue  Bureau           Bur                   Eur_
Pihning ad              Office of                                                                       Net onal
Ms   a" mnt                   o    l                                                                    Institute   I                                                                        ViceGovernor
Office        l         Affairs                                                                         of Health
Other                  Director, Home           Director, Heath and           Diretor Con-
Bureaus                Affairs Bureau           Social Affairs Bureau         stiructon Bureau
|Pdllution              Environmental | |        Food                                                                                  *               _      *    * 
Environmental §        Sanitation     |       |   Sanitation    I                                                                       tSeerneaul Guid ens    3         Public Health
SctionSuction | | Sectio|Section  _ i Section
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
|   diitFn| | Fwcilities  |                                                                                                            L z   Countv l
Subcin                   Subcmtio     I                                                                                                                                    Chf         |
| RSuralv    |   |eter  Aedhnieral       |     Ditpoal     I|    S ennteaul    l                                                                                   l      Health      |        |  Construction
j_                *    |                    IJI                                                                                             t    Section      l         l     Center      |         |  Saction
____ ___ ___ ___PrIncipal
Project Units
World Bank-9927               ;l



ANNEX 8
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Rural Electrification Component
Sector Background
1.        Electricity consumption in Korea has been growing at more than 20%
per annum over the last decade and reached 14,000 GWh in 1974 (excluding a
small amount generated by self-producers). This is equivalent to a per
capita use of 425 kWh. By the end of 1975, about 73% of households will have
an electricity supply, 93% of urban dwellers and 59% in rural areas. Close to
80% of the total consumption was accounted for by industry and the remaining
20% by residential and commercial users. The rapid growth of the Korean
economy is expected to continue, though at a somewhat slower rate than in
the past, and the corresponding electricity consumption growth rate is
expected to be about 14-15% per annum through the early-1980's.
2.        The Korea Electric Company (KECO) is a public corporation (with
stock exchange listing) in which the Government holds a 50% interest. KECO
is the sole distributor of electric power in Korea and presently owns and
operates about 90% of the countryts total generating capacity. KECO also
purchases power from a 200 MW hydro-project, operated by the Ministry of
Construction (MOC), and the Kyongin Energy Company, a private generating
company with a 325 NW thermal power plant. Except for hydro-projects, which
are under MOC's jurisdiction, KECO is presently responsible for the planning
and construction of all power projects, from nuclear power plants to rural
electrification. The Ministry of Commerce and industry (MCI) supervises
KECO's activities. MCI decides the basic policy for power development,
sanctions all power projects, approves KECO's budget and advises the Govern-
ment on electricity tariffs.
3.        KECO is, in most respects, a strong organisation, which is operating
efficiently a rapidly expanding power system. At the end of 1974, KECO had
an installed generating capacity of 4,500 MW, as well as 6,800 km of trans-
mission and 55,000 km of distribution line facilities. During the past
decade, KECO's thermal efficiency of generation improved from 24% to 33%
and system losses declined from 20% to 11%. KECO's organization chart is
shown in Figure 1. Its 11,600 employees are well trained, capable and highly
motivated. Although KECO makes use of consultants' services for large
projects (such as nuclear plants or extra-high-voltage transmission lines),
it is fully capable of designing conventional projects and supervising
construction works.
4.        KECO's financial situation has gradually deteriorated over the past
several years, particularly since 1971. A critical stage was reached in 1973,



ANNEX 8
Page 2.
with a rate of return on operating assets of about 62 and a debt service
coverage of only 0.7, leaving no internal contribution to invest-ent. The
main reasons for this unfavorable trend have been: (i) a temporary over-
investment in generating facilities; (ii) tariff adjustments which were
insufficient to offset rising costs; and, as a consequence, (iii) excessive
short-term borrowing at high interest rates. In order to recover financially,
use should be made (to the greatest extent possible) of long-term funds with
a built-in concessionary element, the Government should continue its practice
of subsidizing local loans, and KECO should pursue a prudent, cost-oriented
tariff policy.  A tariff increase of 42% in December, 1974 and a further
increase in December, 1975 were steps in the right direction.
Rural Electrification
5.        Rural Electrification in Korea started in the early 1960'. and,
accelerated by the Rural Electrification Law of December, 1965, it ha8 nov
reached an advanced stage. About 60% of rural households in the country are
now electrified. The Law specifies that funds required for village electri-
fication be provided by a combination of government loans, KICO'. owm invest-
ment and consumer contributions. Government loans finance 812 of the total
investment in the past (compared to 90% proposed under the projeet). Loans
are made to consumers through the Korea Development Bank (KDB). Terms and
conditions are discussed in Annex 14. KECO is responsible for collecting
loan repayments from the consumers, together with the electricity bills.
The average amount of monthly repayment is about Won 250 per consumer, com-
pared to the monthly electricity bill of about Won 750. The Government loans
are said to be guaranteed by the county chiefs, but this does not require the
local government to make payments for delinquent rural customers - the county
chief is committed only to use his influence and pressure to obtain payment
from the customer.
6.        Consumer reaction to electrification is very strong.  Once electri-
city is brought into a village, most households are rapidly connected. The
average annual consumption of electricity per domestic consumer is about
250 kWh in rural areas, compared to a national average of 620 kWh, but the
rural rate of growth is quite encouraging. Most of the rural customers are
domestic consumers, being served by single-phase, low voltage systems.
Electricity is used mainly for lighting, home appliances and some productive
uses, such as crop processing, chicken hatcheries, water pumps and small
greenhouses. A few large customers use power for agro-industries and are
supplied by three-phase connections at higher voltages. These customers,
numbering only about 0.3% of total rural consumers, contribute about 15-20%
of the total power demand in rural areas. All consumers are metered, with
readings and collections made monthly. The national standard tariff schedules
are applied: there is no cross-subsidy to rural consumers.
7.        As of the beginning of 1975, some 1,493,000 households in rural areas
were electrified and another 150,000 will be completed in 1975. The Govern-
ment plans to electrify 890,000 households during 1976-78. This will vir-
tually complete the electrification of the country, as the remaining 301,000



ANNEX 8
Page 3
households without electricity are in remote mountain areas or on small
islands and thus could not be economically connected.
The Rural Electrification Component
8.        The proposed project would help finance the government program for
1976, which aims to electrify 305,000 households. The final selection of
sub-projects rests with the county government and has already been made.
The proposed program would include all Provinces of Korea (Table 1). The
2,700 or so sub-projects would electrify 6,075 villages, with an average of
50 houses per village. The estimated construction cost per household is
Won 56,600 (US$117), not including Won 10,000 for house wiring (para 11).
This unit cost is about 40% higher than the actual cost in 1974. This is
mainly due to the rising costs of materials but also to the fact that most
of easy-to-connect villages have already been electrified and future sub-
projects will include smaller and less-accessible villages.
9.        A typical village would be supplied by extending, from an existing
22.9 kV or 6.6 kV primary feeder, a 4-wire three-phase or a 2-wire single-
phase branch on concrete poles to a pole-mounted 10 kVA transformer. The
secondary system within the village would be 220 V, single-phase 3-wire.
Voltage regulation would be + 10% maximum. Aluminum Conductor (Steel Rein-
forced) (ACSR) is the most commonly used conductor for primary circuits, which
provide a capacity of not less than 4 MW. The design standards follow gene-
rally accepted standards for rural electrification and should result in a
least-cost solution.
Sub-Project Selection
10.       KECO would be responsible for the design, construction and operation
of the component. The criteria for selection of individual sub-projects
include: (a) the proximity of the village (or group of villages) to KECO's
existing transmission system; and (b) the density of population. Even though
village selection is not strictly based on economic development priorities, it
must be remembered that most of the remaining unelectrified villages in Korea
will be connected in about three years. Therefore, economic criteria do not
appear to be too significant and the decisions as to which villages should be
done first should probably be made on purely practical grounds.
Sub-Project Implementation
11.       The areas to be electrified having been selected by the county
government, KECO then makes the necessary surveys and prepares the designs.
The final decision to proceed is then made by the county. Procurement
documents for equipment and material would be prepared by KECO, the tendering
would be carried out by OSROK, and the erection of poles and stringing of lines
would be done by small contractors under KECO's supervision, using relatively
labor intensive methods. Since almost all materials and equipment will be
furnished by KECO, the contractors are really supplying only labor and erec-
tion tools. There are more than 1,000 contractors in Korea capable of hand-
ling this work and no problem is anticipated in carrying out the construction



ANNEX 8
Page 4
within one year. However, as some procurement delays may develop, it has
been assumed that the component would carry over into the first quarter of
1977. The villagers would be required to make a labor contribution to
the works within the village, amounting to about 50 man-days per sub-project.
In-house wiring would be the responsibility of each consumer. The actual
work is normally done by registered contractor and KECO inspects the work
before energizing to ensure safety.
12.       KECO's Rural Electrification Department is responsible for overall
planning and coordination of the project (Figure 1). Detailed design and
construction supervision will be done by KECO's 17 branch offices. KECO has
about 3,000 engineers and technicians engaged in the distribution sector,
which includes rural electrification. These staff carried out a rural
electrification program for 280,000 households in 1973 and, therefore, they
would be sufficient for executing the project component. After completion
of the component, the facilities would be operated and maintained as a part
of the KECO's integrated system and thus no special organisational provisions
are required.
Environmental Effects
13.       The rural electrification project would not cause any significant
environmental problem and would have no effect on air or water quality. The
low voltage used would not require an exclusive right of way for the distri-
bution lines and would therefore not take any land out of production.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Provincial Distribution of Rural Electrification Component
Electrified
Households
as at end      No. of Sub-    No. of      No. of        Benefitted
Province           of 1975        Projects        Villages   Households    Population
Gyeong-gi             230,987           248          377       18,500         110,45
Gang-weon              99,646           169          330       22,261         132,898
Chungcheong Bug       11o,680           178          336       22,807         136,158
Chungcheong Nam       169,151           481          606       39,600         236,412
Jeonra Bug            175,382           165          710       28,940         172,772
Jeonra Nam            266,194           348        2,010       73,56h         439,177
5yeongsang Bug        284,301           728          945       57,303         342,099
'Gyeongsang Nam       236,481           357          753        41,728        249,116
Jeju                   30,229             8            8          297           1,773
Total               1,642,006         2,682        6,075      305,000       1,820,850



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Korea Electric Company
President
retariat
Executive Vice-
President
Vice-President
|Planning and     |         |      Safety                    General                        Finance      |         |Material                         rperty
|Engineering Dept. |        |      Dept.       |         | Affairs Dept.  |           |     Dept.        |         |Supply Dept.  ||Custody Dept.|
|  Busine55  |        |  System Oper-                   Power Gener-               Transmission &               Per Develop-                    -tmic Power                 Rural Electrifi-
|  Dept.     |        |  ation Dept.                   ation Dept.                 Substation Dept.               et Dept                      Dept.                        cation Dept.
17)     112)                          (6 I
m                 lPrincipal
Project Unit
OQ
World Bank-9929         F 
(D



ANNEX 9
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Improvements in Hydrologic Services
Present Situation
1.        Primary responsibility for hydrologic measurements (rainfall and
streamflow) rests with the Ministry of Construction (MOC), through the Water
Control Division of the Water Resources Bureau. General climatological data
(rainfall, temperature, evaporation, wind velocity and so on) is recorded at
a relatively small number of major stations by the Office of Meteorology in
the Ministry of Science and Technology. The Office of Meteorology's program
is being assisted by the World Meteorological Organization, mainly in staff
training. MOC has at present 240 rain gauges, of which 110 are of the record-
ing type, and 181 stream gauging stations, of which 54 are recording stations
and the remainder staff gauges read twice daily. ADC also maintains a number
of stations in connection with major irrigation projects. Suspended sediment
load is recorded by MOC at 22 stations, mainly on major rivers. There are no
measurements of bed load.
2.        MOC is responsible for publishing rainfall and streamflow records
for all its stations on an annual basis. These records are published more
quickly than in most countries. However, rainfall intensity data are pub-
lished only for a few cities and stream gauging records are published in terms
of water levels only, even for the 30 to so stations that have rating curves.
These records are thus not in a very useful form for potential users. Evi-
dently, empirical formulae are used to derive streamflows when needed. MOC
would like to use a digital computer to process rainfall and streamflow
records but they lack the necessary equipment (such as a digitizer) and trained
personnel. Sedimentation data are not published on a regular basis.
Problems
3.        The existing networks appear to be adequate in terms of numbers of
stations but nearly all of these are located at population centers, situated
generally at low elevations. There is a need for additional rain gauges at
higher elevations, for stream gauges on small watersheds and for sediment
measuring stations in order to improve surface hydrology and sedimentation
analyses in Korea. The gauges in use are of types widely used internationally.
However, some gauges, which have been in operation ten to twenty years are
nearing the end of their useful lives and many require replacement. There is
also a need for additional surveying and flow measuring equipment, so that
rating curves can be developed for all streamflow stations.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        While the needs for additional equipment are of high priority,
they are perhaps overshadowed by the need to advance the analytical methods
for hydrological aspects of design now used in Korea. Due to the lack of
data in past years, reliance had to be placed on empirical formulae and
highly simplified methods and these are still in used for the spillway design
flood peak. With the data now available, these methods could be replaced with
more accurate modern techniques, such as computer simulation for predicting
the complete hydrograph. Such techniques would allow streamflow volume to be
calculated, as well as assisting in flood studies. A small start was made
on this by the UNDP/FAO Upland Development and Watershed Management Project 1/
but this work has not been followed up and has thus had little impact. In-
dications are that present methods lead to conservative designs and that
improvements in hydrologic analysis could lead to cost savings on many pro-
jects. Simulation techniques could also be used to analyse sediment problems
in estuaries and reservoirs.
Proposed Assistance
5.        Under the project, funds would be provided to the MOC to purchase
additional equipment and to hire consultants. Equipment (Annex 11) would
include new and replacement recording rain and stream gauges, equipment for
establishing rating curves and for measuring sediment loads, survey equip-
ment and vehicles (para 7(c)). If recommended by the consultants, a digiti-
zer would be purchased to allow chart records to be converted to digital
form.
6.        The services of a conulting firm specialized in hydrology (or a
consortium of firms, one of which is specialized in hydrology) would be
required for a period of two to three years. Outline terms of reference are
given below. It is expected that about 35 man-months of expatriate manpower
would be required. The cost estimate for these services is given in Annex 10,
Table 8. It is envisaged that a full-time project manager would be assisted
by short-term specialists in instrumentation, computer simulation, training
and so on. However, because of the specialized nature of the required ser-
vices, it would be appropriate to allow the final scope of the work to be
defined only after consultant proposals are received.
Outline Terms of Reference
7.        The consultants shall:
(a) Review the existing network of rain gauges, stream gauges
and sediment measuring stations operated by various agencies
in Korea and recommend appropriate additions, replacements,
modifications and changes in operating procedures, with
particular reference to mountain areas and small watersheds;
1/   B. Samuelsson, A. Yamamoto and D.P. Carr, "A Computer Study of the Role
of Upland Reservoirs in the Management of Water for Rice", Working
Paper No. 5A, AGL/ROK 67/522, FAO, Seoul, August 1973.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(b) Assist MOC in accelerating its efforts to obtain rating
curves for its stream gauging stations;
(c) Advise on the procurement of equipment needed for (a) and (b);
(d) Review the MOC's proposals to computerize its publication
of daily rainfall and runoff records and, if necessary,
advise on the procurement of hardware and assist in the
production of software for this purpose;
(e) Advise on the appropriate scope and format of published
records;
(f) Identify areas in which improved analytical methods are
needed by the user water development agencies in Korea,
rank these in order of urgency and select some high
priority items for intensive study ('analytical studies") 1/;
(g) Carry out the selected analytical studies, making full use
of existing Korean data (including that available from
several LTNDP studies) and modern analytical techniques in
hydrology, including (if appropriate) computer simulation;
(h) Following each analytical study, recommend appropriate design
methods for Korean conditions and collaborate with the
principal user agencies (MOC and ADC) in producing design
handbooks, in the Korean language, to replace those now in use;
(i) Prepare, about six months after beginning work, a detailed
plan of work for the remainder of the assignment and discuss
and agree this with MOC and the Bank,
(j)  Propose administrative procedures aimed at keeping MOC and
the other user agencies fully informed at all times on the
progress of the assignment;
(k) Prepare, at the conclusion of the assignment, a technical
report (in English) summarizing the work done, identifying
future needs for improvement in hydrologic services, and
giving the theoretical basis for the handbooks produced
under (h), worked examples of their use, and case studies
to show the effect of the new methods on project costs,
safety and so on for a few selected projects; and
1/   Present indications are that these would include reservoir size
determination, spillway design and prediction of sedimentation rates,
with an emphasis on small watersheds.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
(1)  Make recommendations on staff training needs (for MOC, ADC
and any other user agencies), advise on the selection of
personnel and supervise the in-service training of staff,
both for hydrologic measurements and for design.
Coordination
8.        A Hydrology Steering Committee would be required to coordinate the
efforts of the various agencies (MOC, ADC, the Office of Meteorology and so
on) involved in hydrologic measurements and design.  The committee would
probably be chaired by the Director of the Water Resources Bureau in MOC
and would include representatives from the above agencies, semi-government
research bodies such as the Korea Institute of Science and Technology, the
major universities, and possibly some private consulting engineers. The
Steering Committee would facilitate coordination between agencies, review
the work of the consultants and assist the agencies in the adoption of the
findings of the study.



ANNEX 10
Table 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJEJCT
Cost Estimates : Summary
Foreign
Item                   Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Exch
Won billion --US$  illion----- 
1.  Minor Irrigation        15.1     10.2    25.3    31.3      20.9    52.2        40
2.  Upland Reclamation       2.6      1.7      4.4     5.4       3.6     9.0       40
3.  Fuelwood                 6.5      0.3     6.8    13.3       0.7    14.0         5
4. Roads and Bridges         2.1      1.2      3.3     4.3      2.5      6.8        37
5.  Water Supply             2.2      1.5      3.6     4.5      3.0      7.5       40
6.  Rural Electrification   6.5      10.4    17.3    14.2       21.4    35.6        60
7.  Project
monitoring and
evaluation               0.15     __      0.15    0.3       --       003        5
8.  Training                 0.05     0.05    0.1      0.1      0.1      0.2        30
9.  Technical assistance    0.1       0.15    0.25    0.2       0.3      0.5       60
Sub-total               35.7     25.5    61.2    73.6      52.5   126.1        42
Price Contingencyl/      4.8      3.6     8.4      9.9      7.5    17.4        43
Total Project Cost          40.5     29.1    69.6    83.5       6o.o   1L3.5        42
1/  Physical contingencies are not included, due to the program nature of the project.
Any rise or fall in quantities or unit prices (other than the effects of inflation)
would be compensated by an increase or decrease in the number of sub-projects
included in the project. The price contingency is computed in Annex 12, Table 1.



ANNX 10
Table 2
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Cost Estimates   Minor Irrigation
Item                    Unit Costa/    Number of        Area         Total Cost2/
Won '000/ha      Sub-Projects    ha '000      Won billion
A. Small Dam (typical)
Land Acquisition            430
Dam                       1,070
Canals                      200
On-Farm Development         1ji/
Materials : Cement
and steel      150
Miscellaneous               100
Supyey and Design            40
Supervision                 130
Sub-Total             2,130            43           9,212          19.6
B.  Pumping Stations          1,320             22          4,248           5.6
C.  Weir                                         1             52           0.1
D. VehiSles (for ORD)
Total                             66          13,512         25.3
or US$52.2 million&'
a/ Based on January, 1976 price levels.
b/ Major part of on-farm development cost would be borne directly by the
farmers and would be equivalent to about Won 200,000/ha.
c/ The estimated foreign exchange component is 40%.



ANNEX 1 0
Table 3
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Cost Estimates : Upland Reclamationi/
Conservation Practice
Contour         Semi-bench          Bench
Item                                Farming          Terraces            Terraces
---------------Won'000/ha-/_______________
Preparation and Design                 145                11h5               145
Clearing                                80                 80                 80
Earthworks for Farmland                 90                165                220
Access Roads                            55                 55                 55
Farm Roads                              iso                40                 40
Drainage                                75                 75                 75
Miscellaneous Works                     l45                25                 25
Materials: Cement and Steel             20                 20                 20
Fertility Improvement Work             155                155                155
Fertilizer and Lime                     40                 140                40
Supervision and Management             120                150                160
Total: Won'000/ha                   865                950              1,015
US./ha                     1,780             1,960              2,090
Assumed proportion of project           20                 25                 55
area (%)
Average unit cost (US$/ha)                    1,995 (say 2,000)
Total Cost: Upland Reclamation Component (4,500 ha2/)
Won 4.4 billion
US$ 9.0 million3/
1/ Based on January, 1976 price levels. Further details are given
in Reference 1.
2/ Areas are net developed farmland areas.
3/ The estimated foreign exchange component is 40%.



ANNEX 1 0
Table 4
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Fuelwood
Nverage Unit Cost of Fuelwood Blocks1/
"Forest" Land           "Non-Forest" Land
(85,836 ha)             (h1,164 ha)
-(Won 1000/ha).---------------
Financial Costs
Materials - Seedlings                              30.5                          35.0
- Fertilizers                            3.6                           9.0
Transport - Seedlings                               1.3                           3.2
- Fertilizer                             0.1                           0.2
iy.scellaneous                                      7.0                           8.7
Sapervision                                         3.2                           6.3
Total financial cost:                       45.7                          62.4
Imputed Village Costs (labor)
Site Preparation                                    5.3                            -
Planting                                           28.3                          70.7
Fertilizing                                         7.1                          17.7
NJeeding                                            8.5                           8.5
Sub-total                      49.2                         969
Total imputed cost:                         94.9                         159.3
Weighted average financial cost:
Vehicles (Annex 11)             US$500,000                Won 51.2/ha
Research Eui pment              US$100,000         or      Won 6.5o billion
TotaI financial cost:  Fuelwood blocks component (127,000 ha)
Won   6.8 billion
USt- 14.0 million_2/
1/ 3ased on January, 1976 price levels and on unit prices listed in Table 9.
2/ The estimated foreign exchange component is 5%.



ANNEX 10
Table 5
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTaRE PROJECT
Cost Estimates : Roads and Bridges
I.    Roads: Average unit costl/
Financial Costs                                Won '000/km     US$kra
Culverts and minor structures                   2,470         5,090
Engineering & construction supervision            18o           370
Total financial costs                       2,650         5,46o
Imputed Village Costs
Right of Way                                      61o         1,260
Unskilled labor                                 1,750         3,610
Total imputed cost                          5,010        10,330
Total financial cost: Roads program (850 km)
Won 2.25 billion
US$ 4.64 million
II.   Bridges: Average unit cost-/
Average
30 m length
Financial Costs                                Won '000   US$
Materials                                       3,650   7,530
Equipment operation                               190     390
Skilled labor                                     720   1,48o
Engineering & construction supervision            310     640
Total financial costs                       4,870  10,040
Imputed Village Costs
Unskilled labor                                 1,o80   2,230
Total imputed cost                          5,950  12,270
Total financial cost: Bridges program (200)
Won 0.97 billion
US$ 2.00 million
III. Equipment
Won million     US$ t'00
Stone crusher (9 @ US$15,000)                        65           135
Concrete mixers (200 @ US$200 each)                  20            40
Sub-total                                    85           175
Total financial cost: Roads and Bridges Component
Won 3.3 billion
US$ 6.8 millionr/
1/ Based on January, 1976 price levels and on unit prices listed in Table 9.
7/ The estimated foreign exchange component is 37%.



ANNYE 1 0
Table 6
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Water Supply
Cost of a Typical SysteMi/:
Won '000
Financial Costs
Piping, specials  valves                                1,037
Electric pumps2/                                           54
Cement (250 sacks)                                        1ff5
Chlorinator                                                60
Ti mber                                                    30
Power installation                                        200
Reinforcing steel                                         125
Miscellaneous                                             165
Total financial cost:                      1,o25
Imputed Village Costs
Agregates                                                  65
'Jnskilled labor                                        1,135
Sub-total                              1,200
Total imputed cost:                        3,025
Total financial CDst:  water supply component  (2,000 systems)
obn    3.6 billion
U&041   7.5 million._/
1/ Based on January, 1976 price levels and on unit prices listed in
Taole 9.
2/ kssumed to be required in 50% of sub-projects.
3/ The estimated foreign exchange component iQ hO-.



ANNEK 10
Table 7
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Cost Estimatess Rural Electrification i/
Financial Cost
Materials                                        Won million
Poles                                                 3,091
Conductors                                            2,534
Hardware                                                272
Insulators                                              777
Pole Transformers                                       944
Switches, Fuses                                         353
Others                                                4,109
Sub-total:                                12,080
Erection                                              2,589
Overhead                                              2,589
Total financial cost                                   17,25d
or US$35.6 miliio >
Imputed Cost
Voluntary Labor                                           111
Total Imputed Cost:                                    17,369
1/ Based on January, 1976 price levels and on unit prices listed
in Annex 11.
2/ The estimated foreign exchange component is 60%.



ANN:E 10
Tableo
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Improvements in Hydrologic
Services and other Technical Assistance
Improvements in Hydrologic ServicesV/
Foreign
Local         Foreign         Total            Exchange
-Won million----------                            %
Equipment                      10             40             50                 80
Consultant Services            4o             60            100                 60
Computer Services               5             20             25                 80
Counterpart Staff              25              -             25                  -
Total                    -Sf             120            -f                  60
Other Technical Assistance
lUpland Reclamation            20             30             50                 60
Adviser
Grand Total               100            150            250                60
1/ This is a preliminary cost estimate which would not be finalized until
after consultant proposals had been received.



ANNEX 10
Table 9
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Cost Estimates: Unit Prices!/
Item                                       Unit               Unit Price
Won
Basic Items
Cement                                         ton              22,500
Reinforcing Steel                               ton            153,000
Excavation (hand)                               m3             250-500
Compacted fill (hand)                            m3                275
Transport (by truck)                         ton-km                125
Bulldozer hire                                 hour              5,200
Minor Irrigation
Excavation and fill                              m3            150-300
Ditch (2m wide)                                  m                  420
Upland Reclamation
Clearing                                        ha              37,000
Sodding                                          Tr                230
(rave removal                                   each           6,600-13,1400
Access road                                      m                  340
Concrete pipe culvert (0.5 m /)                  m               2,800
Plowing and harrowing                            ha             84,000
Fuelwood
Seedlings                                       each                11.6
Fertilizer                                       kg                  77.2
Roads and Bridges
Formwork                                                         1,300
Concrete Mixer                                  each           100,000
1/ All prices at January, 1976 levels.



ANNEX 1 0
Table 9
Page 2
Water Supply                                 Unit                Unit Price
Won
PVC pipe- 75 mm                              m                         901
-65 mm                              m                        780
-50 mm                              m                        632
_25 mm                              m                        306
-13 mm                              m                         98
Pump and Electric Motor
- 1 hp                            each                    78,000
- 2 hp                            each                   108,000
- 3 hp                            each                   138,000
Rural Electrification (See Annex 11)
Labor
Unskilled                                   man-day                  1,800
Skilled                                    man-day                  3,000
Land
Paddy                                        ha                 4,070,000
Upland                                       ha                  2,400,000
Forest                                       ha                   510,000



ANNEK 11
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
List of Vehicles, Equipment and Materialh!/
Item                             Quantity         Unit    Unit      Total    Method of
Price    Cost     Procurement
(TJS$)    (US$
million)
1. Minor Irrigation Component
Cement                             59,200        ton     46.5       2.75         ICB2/
Reinforcing Steel                    7,200       ton    315         2.27         ICB
Pumps                                 .          LS         .       1.88         ICB
Motorcycles                            100       each   800         0.08         ICB
Sub-total                                                    6.96
2. Upland Reclamation Component
Cement                                           ton     46.5 1                  ICB
Reinforcing Steel                    ..          ton    315   §    0.19          ICB
Fertilizer                                       ton                             LSH3/
Lime                                ..           ton       ..    1 0.38          LSN
Research equipment                    .          LS         .       0.05         ICB
Sub-total                                                    0.62
3.  Fuelwood Component
Seedlings                     730 million        each     0.011    8.28          LSH
Fertilizer                          4,300        ton    308         1.35         LSH
Research Equipment                    .          LS         .       0.10         ICB
Vehicles (Light pick-up)              140        each 3,600         0.50        ICB
Sub-total                                                  ro.23
4. Roads and Bridges Component
Cement                              ..           ton     46.5I                   LSH
Reinforcing Steel                    ..          ton    315  }      5.83         LSH
Stone crusher                           9        each 15,000        0.14        ICB
Concrete mixer                        200        each   200         0.04        ICB
Sub-total                                                    6.01
5.  Water Supply Component5/
Cement                             20,000        ton     46.5       0.93         LSH
Reinforcing Steel                    2,000       ton    315         0.63         LSH
PVC Ripe - 75 mm                1,000,000        m         1.86     1.86         TCB6/
- 50 mm                1,000,000        m        1.30      1.30        ICB6/
- 25 mm                1,000,000        m        0.63      0.63        IC{/
- 13 mm                  6oo,ooo        m        0.20     0.12         ICBO/
PVC Fittings                      400,o00        each     0.42      0.17         ICBT/
Valves                              4,000        each    19.7      o0o8          LCB/
Chlorinator                         2,000        each   150         0.30         LCB
Timber                                .          LS         .       O.o8         LSH
Electric llotor and Pump           1,000        each   300         0.30         ICB6/
Sub-total                                                    6.4o



AMNE 1 1
Page 2
Item                            Quantity        Unit    Unit      Total    Method of
Price    Cos t    Procurement
(US$)   (US7
million)
6.  Rural Electrification
Concrete Pole                     22j,000       each    28.4       6.36        LCB
Cross Arm - angle                  12,000       each    10.8       0.13        LCB
- square type          119,000        each     3.6      0.43         LCB
GTroundincg Rods                  146, 000      each     4.1       O.60        LCB
Pole Transforrmers - 6.3 kV         5,6oo       each   167         0.93        ICB
- 22.9 kV        4,aoo        each   208        1.01         ICB
2on(luctors - copper           601 million      m        0.20      1.24        ICB
- insulated        24.1 million      m        0.16     3.98         ICb
- aluminum         14.0 million      m        0.17      2.34        ICB
.ires                           1.9 million     m        0.18      0.34        LCB
Hardware - clamp                   45,900       each     2.4       0.11        LCB
- sleeve                 17,300        each     1.1      0.02         LCB
- connector              66,400        each     1.7       0.11        LO'B
- others                    .          LS        .        0.43        LCB
Insulator - pin                   217,000       each      2.9      o.63        ICB
- suspension            63,000        each    10.7      0.68         ICB
- shackle              568,000        each     0.27     0.15         ICB
Switch - oil sw-Titch               1,200       each   120         0.14        IC!3
- cutout switch            17,000        each    34.41      0.58        ICB
Fuse - fuse link                   16,800       each     0.74      0.01        LCB
- low voltage                70,500        each     o.o6      0.01        LCB
- catch holder              147,000        each     0.39      0.05        LCB
Concrete Block                    375,000       each     2.7       1.02        LOB
Others                               ,          LS         .       3.51        LCB
Sub-total                                                 21
7.  Hydrologic Services Component
Vehicles                             .          each       .                   ICB
Gauging equipment                    .          LS         .                   ICB
Digitizer                            .          each       .                   ICB
Office equipment                     .          LS         .                   LSH
.Miscellaneous Supplies              .          LS         .                   LSH
Sub-total                                                   0.05
Grand Total:                                              55.10



ANNE 11
Page 3
Method of Procurement                                            US $ Mifllion
International Competitive Bidding                               23.01
Local Competitive Bidding                                       13-51
Local Shopping                                                  18.58
1/  To be revised when sub-project designs are completed.
2/  ICB = International Competitive Bidding
3/  LSH = Local Shopping
j/  LCB = Local Competitive Bidding
5/  Tentative list, subject to completion of designs.
6/  Materials in these categories required before June 30, 1976 would be
procured through LSH (Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement).



ANNEX 12
Table 1
KORBA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Schedule of ExpEnditures
Item                              Total       Calendar Years
Cost       1976       1977      1978
--------   Won billion--------------
1.  Minor Irrigation                     25.3      11.0       11.5       2.8
2.  Upland Reclamation                    4.4       1.0        3.0       0.4
3. Fuelwood                               6.8       2.7        4.1        -
4. Roads and Bridges                      3.3       2.3        1.0        -
5. Water Supply                           3.6       1.8        1.8        -
6.  Rural Electrification                17.3      15.3        2.0         -
7.  Project Coordination, monitoring
and evaluation                     0.15       0.05      0.05       0.05
8.  Training                              0.1       0.05       0.05        --
9.  Technical Assistance                  0.25      0.1        0.1       0.05
Sub-total                                   2      34.7                  3.
Price contingencies
- annual rate(%)                       .       15         10        10
- compounded rate (%)                14         7.5       20        34
- amount (Won billion)                8.4       2.6        4.7       1.1
Total Project Cost - Won billion         69.6      36.9       28.3       4.4
- US$ million       143.5      77.5       56.9       9.1



ANNEX 12
Table 2
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
Category                            Estimated       Proposed        Disburse-
Total Cost     Allocation       ment %
-US$ million--
CIVIL -WORKS-a/
(1)      Minor Irrigation                  52.2
Price contingency (part)         5.6
Sub-total:                   7.7
Less: Vehicles and materials       7.1
subject to ICB
Sub-total:                          50.7        15.9              30
(2)      Upland Reclamation                 9.0
Price contingency (part)         1.0
Sub-total:                   10.0
Less: Materials subject to ICB   0.2
Sub-total:                           9.o         3.8              4o
(3)      Fuelwood                          14.0
Price contingency (part)         1.2
Sub-total:                   17.2
Less: Vehicles                     0.5
Research Equipment          0.1
Sub-total:                          144.                          30
(4i)     Roads and Bridges                  6.8
Price contingency                o.4
Sub-total:                    7.2
Less: Equipment                    0.2
Sub-total:                           7.0        2.5               36
(5)      Water Supply                       7.5
Price contingency (part)         o.8
Sub-total:                    8.3
Less: i4aterials subject to ICB   3.3
Sub-total:                           5.0         1.5              30
(6)      Rural Electrification             35.6
Price contingency (part)         1.2
Sub-total:                   36.7
Less: M4aterials subject to ICB  11.7
Sub-total:                          25.1         6.4              25
Sub-total (carried forward)                      112.2        34.5        (31% average)



ANNEX 12
Table 2
Page 2
Category                           Estimated      Proposed        Disburse-
Total Cost    Allocation      ment_ %
Sub-total (brought forward)                     112.2       34.5
MATERIALS AND EQTJIPMENT SUBJECT TO ICB
For MInor Irrigation                7.0
Upland Reclamatd.on             0.2
Fuelwood                        0.1
Roads and Bridges               0.2
Hydrologic Services              --
Sub-total:                          775                         10oC/
(8)        Water Supply                           3.3        2.2                d/
(9)        Rural Electrification                 11.7       11.7             iooa/
(10)   VEHICLES
For Minor Irrigation                0.1
Fuelwood                        0.5
Hydrologic Services              --
Sub-total:                          0.6         o.6             10ooC!
(11)   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                0.5
Price con-tingency              0.1
Sub-total:                          0.6         0.3                e!
(12)   TRAINING                                   0.2        0.1                e/
(13)   PROJECT COORDINATION, MONITORING
AND EVALIJATION                     0.3
Price contingency               0.1
Sub-total:                          O0.1                           fl
(14)   UNALLOCATED
Remaining price contingency            7.0        3.0
Total                                           143.5        60.0            (42)
a/  Includes the cost of equipment and materials procured under local procedures.
-/  Includes US$3.8 million of local cost financing.
c/ The Loan would finance 100% of the cif cost of imported goods, or 100% of the
ex-factory price of locally-manufactured goods.
d/  The Loan would finance 100% of the cif cost of imported goods or 30% of the
ex-factory price of locally-manufactured goods.
e/  The Loan would finance 100% of foreign cost.
T/  The Loan would finance 50' of the actual costs of studies carried out by non-
government or semi-government bodies.



ANNEX 12
Table 3
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
-Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                           Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                US$ million equivalent
1976
3rd
4th                                              1.5
1977
1st                                              9.0
2nd                                             21.0
3rd                                             30,0
4th                                             35.5
1978
Ist                                            43.0
2nd                                             51.0
3rd                                             55.0
4th                                             57.5
1979
1st                                            59.5
2nd                                             60.0
Closing Date: June 30, 1979



ANNEX 1 3
Page 1
RURAL IN   STUC1TJ:  ?IOJECT
Schedule of Cr1,$gal Events
Activity                                    Fesponsibility             Critical Date
Sub-Project Selection
i)    Minor Irrigation                      KAF                        Completed
ii)   Upland Reclamation                    MAF                        April, 1976
iii)  Fuelwood                              OOF                        Completed
iv)   Roads and Bridges                      *'1A, Provinces           February, 1976
v)    WTater Supply                         mHSA, Provinces            Completed
vi)   Rural Electrification                  KECO, Provinces           Completed
Selection of 1977 program
i)    Roads                                 MHA, Provinces             Sept. 30, 1976
ii)  Water Supply                           isSA, Provinces            Sent. 30, 1976
C*ompletion of Design
i)   Minor Irrigation                       ADC                        January, 1976
ii)   Upland Reclamation                    ADC                        vlay-Dec. I976a/
iii)  Fuelwood                              OOF                        ;Aarch, 1976
iv)   Roads and Bridges                     Provinces                  March, 1976
v)   W,,ater Supply                         Provinces                  February, 1976
vi)   Rural Electrification                 KECO                       February, 1976
Procurement
A.  Goods subject to International
.ompetitive Bidding
Translate specifications              | KECO                       Completed
3 MHSA, others              March, 1976
Advertise bids                          OSROK                      Feb/Mar, 1976
Evaluate bids and award contract        OSROK                      Mar/April, 1976
Receive goods                           KEO, P4HSA, others         July, 1976W
B.  Goods subject to Local
Comvpetitive Bidding
Advertise bids                          0SF.0K                     February, 1976
Receive goods                           All executing agen4es   May, 1976
.oods subject to Local Shopping
Subi-tit list of ceiling prices         OSROK, !rSA                February, 1976
a/ See .tnnex 4, Figgure 1 .
b/  3oods not available at the strt ot the 1976 construction season wouild be
borrowed from stock.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
Activity                                    Responsiblity              Critical Date
Condition of Disbursement
Execution of Subsidiary Loan            KECO, KDB i EPB           March, 1976
Technical Assistance
Appointment of TJpland
Reclamation Adviser                   ADC                        March, 19762/
Hydrologic Studies
Establish Steering Committee            MOC                       February, 1976_/
Invite proposals                        MOC                        April, 1976
Negotiate contract                      MOc                        June, 197Lb/
Project Monitoring
Establish Unit                          EPB                        February, 1976J/
First quarterly report
_ from Ministries                     All Ministries            April 30, 1976
- from EPB to Bank                    EPB                       May 31, 1976
Project Auditing
Submission of name and qualifi-
cations of proposed auditor           EPB                       Sept. 30, 1976
Submission of audit report              Auditor, EPB              April 30, 1977
Project Evaluation
Submit program of studies to
Bank                                  EPB                       *June, 1976_/
Agricultural Supporting Services
Appointment of additional               ORD, FLIA's                March, 1977
extension agents
Appointment of soil conser-
vation officers                       ORD, ADC                  March, 1977
a! Proposed legal deadline: July, 1976.
b/ Proposed legal deadline: September, 1976.
c/ Proposed legal deadline: June, 1976.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Financing
1.        This Annex describes the internal financing arrangements between the
government agencies concerned with the various project components. The funds
to be supplied by the Bank would be mainly disbursed to the Ministry of Finance
as a reimbusement for completed work (except as noted below). The financing
arrangments described below for each component would, in each case, continue
past practices.
Budgeting Procedures in Korea
2.        The fiscal year in Korea is January 1 to December 31.  Preliminary
budget submissions are prepared by the various Ministries in the period
February to May of the previous year. The Economic Planning Board (EPB)
prepares guidelines and standards, including standard unit prices for cost
estimating, and distributes these to the Ministries in April. The Ministries
submit their requests to EPB by the end of June. EPB's review lasts until
the end of August. Ministry requests are normally updated to the projected
price levels for the following year during the July/August review by EPB.
During September, the draft budget is reviewed with the Prime Minister and
President and sent to the National Assembly by October 3. The Assembly
normally grants final approval by the end of November. In recent years,
supplementary budgets have been found necessary. These are normally approved
about October. One reason for supplementary budgeting is the moderately
rapid inflation which Korea has experienced in the last two years.
3.        Approved budget amounts are disbursed by the Ministry of Finance
to the responsible Ministry in four equal installments at the beginning of
each calendar quarter. At the end of the quarter the Ministries report
back on their actual expenditures. These reports show expenditures both on
a conventional line item basis and on a project-by-project basis. This
reporting system would be used under the project as a means of monitoring
the progress of the project (para 5.15).
Minor Irrigation Component
4.        Minor irrigation sub-projects would be planned by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP) and financed entirely from the central
government budget. Of the total project cost, 70% would be financed through
a subsidy, transferred from the MAF budget to that of the Province and thence
to the Farmland Improvement Association (FLIA), which would be responsible
for payments to suppliers and contractors. The remaining 30% of the project



ANNEX 14
Page 2
cost (US$15.7 million) would be loaned by the Government to the National
Cooperative Federation (NACF) at 2% interest, with repayment over 35 years,
including a five-year grace period. NACF, which is the channel for all
govermuent lending to agriculture (Annex 16), would on-lend these funds to
the FLIA's at 3.5% interest and with the same repayment terms. The FLIA's
would repay NACF by collecting from the beneficiaries a uniform charge per
hectare, which would be included in the water charge (para 5.11).
Upland Reclamation Component
5.        This component is also planned by MAF and 90% of the cost would
be financed from the central government budget, of which 60% would be in the
form of a subsidy, transferred from the MAF budget to that of the Province
and thence to the county, which would be responsible for payments to suppliers
and contractors. An additional 30% of the project cost (US$2.7 million)
would be loaned by the Government to the NACF at 8% interest, with repayment
over eight years, including a three-year grace period. NACF would on-lend
these funds to the farmers (in practice, funds would be released directly to
the county) at 9% interest and the same repayment terms. Repayments by the
farmer would be made directly to the NACF. The remaining 10% of the project
cost is a notional amount representing the farmers' contribution (in labor)
for final landshaping and the application of fertilizers.
Fuelwood Component
6.        For the fuelwood component, the Government would finance materials
(mostly seedlings and fertilizer) and supervision and these costs would be
fully subsidized. Labor to establish and maintain the plantations would be
provided by the villagers. About 90% of project financial costs (for materials)
would be allocated to the Office of Forestry, under the Ministry of Home
Affairs (MHA), then to the Federation of Village Forestry Association Unions
and finally to the Village Forestry Association Unions at county level, who
would pay the suppliers. The remaining 10% (for supervision costs) would come
from the Provincial budget.
Roads and Bridges Component
7.        The roads and bridges component would be planned by MRA, at the
central government level. The government would fully subsidize materials
for this component (mostly cement and steel) out of funds allocated to the
Provincial governments through a general revenue-sharing arrangement.
Materials for bridges would be purchased (through OSROK) at the Provincial
level and for roads at the county level, with funds allocated by the Province.
Labor to construct and maintain the roads and bridges would be provided by
the villagers.
Water Supply Component
8.        Funds for the water supply component would be allocated to the
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, thence to the Provincial governments



ANNEX 14
Page 3
and finally to the counties, who would pay the suppliers of materials.
Materials would be provided to the villages in the form of a subsidy. In
previous years, the Provinces were expected to contribute part of the cost
of village water supply. There were several years when these Provincial
funds were not available and cash contributions from the villagers were used
instead. Under the proposed project, all necessary funds would be provided
in the central government budget and the village contribution would be limited
to labor for construction and maintenance and a cash contribution for opera-
tion. However, the Government intends to study ways in which the contribu-
tion of the villagers could be increased over a period of years.
Rural Electrification Component
9.        The rural electrification component would be planned by the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry. The government would finance 90% of the cost of
this component through loans t6 the Korea Electric Company (KECO). The
remaining 10% would be an investment by KECO from internally generated funds.
The villages would also contribute some labor for construction, normally 50
man-days per village (Annex 8). IBRD disbursements for the rural electri-
fication component (US$18.1 million) would be on-lent to KECO through the
Korea Development Bank (KDB) under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, at 7.5% in-
terest and would be repayable over 35 years. Government disbursements
(US$13.1 million) would be lent to KDB (as the legal channel for Government
lending to "industry") at 6% interest and would be repayable over 35 years,
including a five-year grace period. These funds would be on-lent to KECO
at 7.5% interest and under the same repaymert terms. KECO would procure all
materials through OSROK and would pay all suppliers and contractors. KECO
would recover the project capital cost from the consumers by means of a
fixed monthly assessment, based on the average cost of connecting each
household to the svstem but differentiated according to the number of light
bulbs used.
Other ComE!npet
10.       The other components included in the project, namely, monitoring
and evaluation, training, technical assistance, and improvements to hydrologic
services would be carried out by central government agencies and the local
costs would be met by regular budgetary allocations to these agencies. For-
eign costs of training and consulting services would be financed directly
from the Loan. The Bank would also reimburse local costs (up to US$100,000)
of the project evaluation unit (para 5.18), disbursements being made as a
percentage of the cost of studies carried out by non-government bodies (such
as universities) or semi-government agencies (such as the Korea Development
Institute).



ANNEX 15
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Agriculture
1.        In this Annex, some basic information is given on the recent per-
formance of the agriculture sector in Korea 1/, in order to demonstrate the
high priority of the minor irrigation and upland reclamation components of
the project.  A description is then given of general agricultural conditions
in the proposed sub-project areas and of the agronomy of the major crops.
Finally, constraints on production, the extent to which these would be
removed by the minor irrigation and upland reclamation components of the
project, and projected agricultural conditions at full project development
are discussed. Information on agricultural supporting services is given in
Annex 16, while farm budgets and economic analysis are discussed in Annexes
17 and 18.
A. The Agriculture Sector
Agriculture's Role in the Economy
2.        Agriculture plays a major role in the economy of Korea, as shown
by the following table (in which forestry and fisheries are excluded):
Agriculture's Share of the Economy
Share of      Share of    Agricultural        Agricultural Share
Year      Employment        GNP       Trade Balance    of Total Imports
(M)           (%)        (US$ million)             (M)
1961         66.7          40.0           -82                   32
1966         57.5          36.0           -95                   20
1971         48.5          28.8          -230                   12
1974         49.0          27.3          -623                    9
Agricultural employment has stabilized in recent years at about half of all
employment, though its share of GNP is considerably lower.  While agricultural
imports (mainly of foodgrains) have greatly expanded in absolute amounts, they
have declined as a proportion of total imports.
1/   More detailed information is given in the Bank's "Agricultural Sector
Survey" of 1973 and in the Economic Report of 1975.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
3.        Although the economic growth of Korea in recent years has been very
high (para 2.03), progress in agriculture has been less dramatic, with an
average real growth rate of value added in this sector of about 3.5% during
1962-72. Growth accelerated in 1973 and 1974 to 5.5% and 6.9%, respectively,
but this was mainly due to rapid growth in the livestock and fisheries sub-
sectors. Total foodgrain production (including potatoes and soybeans) has
grown little in the last decade, standing at about 7.2 million tons, the
steady rise in rice production being counterbalanced by declines in the
output of barley, wheat and potatoes. Land devoted to the latter crops has
been gradually converted to rice paddies, to high-value cash crops (fruit,
vegetables, tobacco and mulberry for silkworms) or to urban uses.
Agricultural Self-Sufficiency
4.        As a result of Korea's inability to increase its domestic production
of basic foodstuffs, total imports of the major food grains have increased
from 500,000 tons in 1962-4 to 2.7 million tons in 1972-3 (Table 1), equiv-
alent to a decline in the degree of self-sufficiency from 90% to 70%. The
cost of imported grain in 1974 was US$640 million. Prospects for reversing
this trend are only moderately good, as demand is increasing at 2.5% per
year and the supply of cultivable land is quite limited. Increased domes-
tic production thus implies increased yields and cropping intensities and
the conversion of uplands into cultivable land.
5.        The Government's policy is to achieve a greater degree of self-
sufficiency, particularly in the staple grains, rice and barley, and thus
free Korea from dependence on unstable world markets. For rice and barley,
this goal appears attainable within a few years, as the degree of self-
sufficiency is already high (about 907%) and per capita demand is levelling
off (Table 1). However, consumer demand is becoming more diversified, as
shown by the rapidly rising consumption of wheat, and there is little like-
lihood of achieving self-sufficiency in this grain, due to climatic limita-
tions (para 25). For the remaining crops (potatoes, soybeans, vegetables,
fruits and others), growth in production will depend primarily on pricing pol-
icy and the development of upland areas. There is also a need to increase
the cropping intensity on upland areas, which actually declined from 171% in
1961 to 140% in 1971. The probable reasons for this are the low prices for
barley during this period and the technical design of upland development
(discussed in more detail in Annex 4).
Development Policies
6.        The Government's planning in the agricultural sector includes both
intensification of production on existing cropland, through improved and
expanded irrigation and drainage and a greater use of inputs, and also ex-
pansion of the cropped area. The Government's targets for 1981 are as
follows:



ANNEX 15
Page 3
(a) Development of new water resources -- an additional
150,000 ha are scheduled to be irrigated by 1981;
(b) Construction, or improvement, of drainage systems on
about 140,000 ha of low-lying paddy lands, suffering
from drainage problems;
(c) Land rearrangement and land consolidation on about
290,000 ha, to improve productivity and facilitate
mechanization;
(d) Development of new lands (upland reclamation and
reclamation of tidal flats) totalling about 120,000 ha;
(e) Intensification of the use of inputs, such as, fertilizers,
farm machinery, and high-yielding varieties; and
(f) A policy of high prices to provide incentives to the
farmers.
The Project Components
7.        The proposed minor irrigation and upland reclamation components of
the project would form an integral, though relatively small, part of the
Government's overall program to increase food production. The irrigation
component is equivalent to 8% of the total planned investment in new
irrigation systems by 1981, while upland development forms 4% of the 1981
target.
8.        The present agricultural conditions in the sub-project areas are
described in the following paragraphs. As both components consist of fairly
small and widely scattered areas and no agro-economic survey has been made,
the discussion is necessarily fairly generalized and national averages will
frequently be used to represent sub-project area conditions. An important
exception to this approach is the division of the minor irrigation component
into three geographic areas, as follows:
Area      Name            Provinces
I        North           Gyeong-gi
Gang-weon
Chungcheong Bug
II        Southwest       Chungcheong Nam
Jeonra Bug
Jeonra Nam
III        Southeast       Gyeongsang Bug
Gyeongsang Nam



ANNEX 15
Page 4
The location of these areas can be seen from Map 10375. Where necessary,
separate assumptions are made about present and future cropping conditions
in each area (para 17). For the upland reclamation component, most of the
sub-projects would be located in the west coastal areas and the projections
of future conditions are more uncertain than for irrigation, because of the
proposed adoption of new design standards (Annex 4). For these reasons, no
attempt was made to analyse the impact of the upland component by regions.
B. Present Conditions
Land Use
9.        Land use for Korea as a whole is described in Annex 1.  As paddy
lands in the coastal plains and the more accessible areas have already mostly
been irrigated, the minor irrigation sub-project areas tend to be in the
smaller and more remote valleys. Canals which are laid out to serve these
smaller valleys can also conveniently command some upland areas adjacent to
the paddy lands. Such uplands (which are nearly all cultivated at present)
would be terraced into paddy fields, when less than 6% slope. This conver-
sion has been allowed for in evaluating the minor irrigation component. For
upland reclamation sub-projects, on the other hand, the present land use is
mostly as forest for fuelwood production.
Climate
10.       The general features of Korea's climate are discussed in Annex 1,
which also gives average monthly temperatures for a number of cities. The
following four climatic factors have an important bearing on the cropping
potential:
(a) The number of frost-free days varies from 175 to
220, as one travels from the north to the south of
the Republic of Korea. Therefore, two crops of
rice are not possible;
(b) The cold winter season allows cropping of only tolerant
crops such as winter barley or wheat and a few minor
crops, such as onions and rape;
(c) The total rainfall is generally sufficient but its
distribution tends to be erratic (particularly in the
South), demonstrating a need for supplemental irrigation;
and
(d) Light intensity during the warm, cloudy summer season may
be a limiting factor for maximum yields.



ANNEX 15
Page 5
Agricultural Techniques
11.       As the average farm size is only 0.9 ha in Korea (including 0.5
ha of paddy land), agriculture is highly labor intensive, despite relatively
high wage rates. Land preparation is done mostly by draft bullocks or by
hand. Four-wheeled tractors are practically unknown (there being less than
300 in the whole of Korea in 1974) and the number of power tillers is not
great (38,000 in 1974). However, these tillers are used far more extensively
for pulling trailers than for cultivation. The reason for this appears to
be that the purchase of power tillers is subsidized whereas conventional
haulage vehicles are heavily taxed. Pesticides are mostly applied by hand
sprayers or hand dusting but powered and hand-operated pump sprayers are
increasing. Neighbors cooperate in the purchase and use of these. Threshing
is done mostly by foot-pedal or powered rotational threshers, though small
stationary powered threshers are now coming into wider use. Input use is
discussed in the following paragraphs. The assumed rates of use were
assumed to vary with climatic zone and with farm size. A typical example
(Area II, Farm 2) is shown in Table 7.
Fertilizers and Lime
12.       As a result of a national policy of subsidizing the cost of
fertilizer, consumption in Korea has almost doubled to about 2 million tons
during the last decade. The Government has made large supplies available
at low prices (whcih are uniform throughout the country). In 1974, the
subsidy element averaged 40% of total costs. In December 1975, however,
prices were increased by an average of about 70%. Due to limited credit funds
(Annex 16), credit is available only for one-third of the total fertilizer
sold. Transportation and storage are adequate to ensure timely distribution
of fertilizer.
13.       Urea is widely used as a source of nitrogen and ammonium sulphate
is also used. Rock phosphate would be useful on the highly acid upland soils
and its use may increase if prices become more favorable, compared to pro-
cessed phosphate. Several mixed NPK fertilizers are available. Most of
these contain equal amounts of each element but some vary -- being usually
lower in K than in N or P. Average present rates of fertilizer use for the
sub-project areas are shown in Table 2, which also includes projected use at
full development. Under the pricing structure which was obtained in 1975, a
yield response of as little as 2 to 3 kg rice/kg nutrient was profitable
and thus there is little doubt that farmers will continue to apply the
additional amounts forecast. Progressive farmers already use fertilizers
heavily, for example, 200 kg N/ha for rice, plus other nutrients. For up-
land crops, prices are not as favorable and therefore rates of use have
been projected at lower levels than recommended by the extension service.
Composted agricultural residues are a significant source of fertilizer,
especially for the smaller farms. One result of the fuelwood component of
the project would be an increase in the amount of residues available for
composting (Annex 5).



ANNEX 15
Page 6
14.       The acidity of most upland soils in Korea reduces the yields of
barley, wheat, legumes (especially soybeans) and some vegetables (Annex 4).
Correction of soil acidity is required before proper response can be obtained
from fertilizers, particularly for phosphate on legumes. The use of agricul-
tural lime to correct soil acidity was 500,000 tons in 1971, which was an
almost three-fold increase over the usage in 1966 and the result of a govern-
ment program in which lime is supplied free of charge. However, the high
cost of transport and the difficulties of access have limited the use of lime
on upland areas to about half the desirable rate (Annex 4). The access
constraint would be removed for the sub-project areas, as access roads would
be an integral part of the minor irrigation and upland reclamation components.
Plant Protection
15.       The use of chemicals to control plant diseases and insects has
increased greatly in recent years, parallel to the growth of fertilizer use.
The quantity of pesticide used in 1973 was about three times as large as in
1967. Insect pests and diseases of crops are monitored by research personnel
and recommendations for control are released to the extension workers. The
amount of plant protection undertaken varies greatly from crop to crop. Rice
farmers use four to six applications per season for control of stemborers and
blast disease. Chemicals are applied preventively rather than as a response
to outbreaks of pests or diseases. Other high-income crops, which also have
a high disease potential, such as chinese cabbage, red peppers and fruit
trees, receive a moderate degree of plant protection. On the other hand,
some low-value crops (such as barley, wheat, garlic and sesame) receive little
or no pest control. Soybeans receive very little care as far as plant
protection is concerned, despite potentially serious insect problems. If
soil acidity were fully corrected and fertilizer used on soybean, improved
yields would result, and more attention would be given to the use of plant
protection chemicals. Chemicals for weed control are not widely used in Korea.
There is a need for more herbicides on upland crops, for which the hand
weeding commonly used in the rice fields would not be economic.
Seeds
16.       The present system for multiplying and distributing seeds, as well
as improvements now under way, is described in Annex 16. The availability of
quality seeds is not expected to a major constraint on increased production
in Korea.
Present Cropping Pattern - Minor Irrigation
17.       Because the cropping pattern and the cropping intensity vary in
different parts of Korea, three regions were used for analysis (para 8). The
regions differ in the number of frost-free days, as well as in the hours of
sunshine and the average temperature. The most striking effect of these
climatic differences is on the present degree of double cropping of rice
with barley, which varies from 5% in Area I (North) to 20% in the other two
Areas (Map 10447).



ANNEX 15
Page 7
18.       The assumed present cropping patterns for Areas I, II and II are
shown in Tables 3, 4 and 5 respectively. The cropping pattern for the project
area as a whole is given in Table 6. The cropping calendar is shown schema-
tically in Figure 1. The analysis is based on whole farms and thus includes
not only the paddy land to be irrigated and associated upland areas to be
converted to rice paddies as a result of the project, but also other upland
areas owned by the project beneficiaries. The latter areas would not be
physically affected by the project but would experience a change in cropping
pattern (para 39). Thus the gross project area is assumed to be 21,700 ha,
of which 9,400 ha is presently in rice paddies. The overall cropping
intensity varies from 129% in Area I to 156% in Area III, or an average of
141%. The slight discrepancy between the total irrigable area, as described
in this Annex and that shown in Annex 3, Table 1 is due to changes in the
sub-project list after the evaluation was completed. Data on cropping patterns
were obtained from MAF national and provincial statistics, MAF estimates for
the sub-project areas and field observations.
19.       Cropping in Korea is very diversified and the use of ten crops in
the project economic and farm budget analyses is actually an underestimate
of the diversification on most small farms. The crops shown should there-
fore be thought of as representing groups of crops with similar growing
conditions and returns per ha. "Traditional rice" comprises a variety of
local types, including some improved varieties, but excluding high-yielding
varieties, which are labelled "Improved rice."  "Barley" includes both the
common and naked types (para 26), both of which are widely grown, and also
wheat. "Chinese cabbage" also represents radishes and a variety of other
vegetables, such as cucumbers, melons, garlic and onions. Specialized cash
crops, such as mulberry and ginseng, while widely grown and very profitable,
require special agronomic and marketing conditions and thus were not con-
sidered in the cropping pattern. Some important agronomic data is given
below for each of the major crops considered in the cropping pattern.
20.       Rice - Korea has about 1.2 million ha of paddy land (Annex 1).  As
the return from rice growing is much greater than from any other cereal,
Korean farmers tend to grow rice wherever climatic, topographic, soil and
water control conditions permit. Planted area has increased little in the
last decade but yields have steadily increased, due to improving management,
increasing irrigation and the release of high-yielding varieties. As rice
is Korea's staple food and the country is a net rice importer, no marketing
problems are foreseen. Processing facilities are expected to expand in line
with project output.
21.       Yields of rice in Korea are double those in Southeast Asia but
about 20% less than in Japan, leaving some margin for improvement. Korean
farmers use moderate to high rates of fertilizer, high levels of plant pro-
tection chemicals and good management practices. Some very good yields of
rice are obtained with high-yielding varieties (HYV's). Constraints on yields
are discussed in para 37. There are many traditional rice varieties culti-
vated in Korea, almost all of which are variants of Japanese varieties. These
varieties are medium in height and have a fair yield potential and good grain
quality. Five of these traditional varieties predominate, with "Akibare" the



ANNEX 15
Page 8
most popular, especially in taste and quality. About 4% of the rice area is
taken up by glutinous or "sticky'" rice used for making rice cakes.
22.       In 1971-72, one of the new short, stiff-strawed and nitrogen-
responsive rice varieties was made available to farmers in Korea. Indica
(tropical) HYV's had been introduced earlier but this was the first of the
Japonica (temperate zone) HYV rices. The variety, which is a cross involving
IR8 and TN-1 of the Indicas with Yukara, a Japonica type, was designated
IR 667 but became popularly known in Korea as "Tongil". By 1975, Tongil was
reported to have spread to 25% to 30% of the total paddy area. Higher rates
of fertilizer are used on this type than on the older varieties. Some farmers
report a 30% increase in yield. National goals are for Tongil and other new
HYV's to occupy two-thirds of the rice area by 1980. Considering the good
reception Tongil has experienced with Korean farmers and the continuing
improvement of irrigation, this goal is realistic.
23.       Rice researchers are working on other HYV's for future release.
Tongil does not have the quality of the local varieties. Future varieties
will be developed for higher quality and better disease resistance (Tongil
does show good blast resistance in Korea). Early maturity is also a goal
of the plant breeders, so as to increase the potential for double cropping.
Four new rice varieties were released to farmers in 1975. One, called
"Tongilchal", is glutinous and should replace the old lower-yielding
glutinous rices. The others are listed below:
Variety              Peatures                  Area of Use
Early Tongil         Two weeks earlier maturity    Whole country
than Tongil
Yushin               Highest yield                   Southern area
Milyang 21 or 23    Early maturity                   Southern area
24.       Korean farmers are well informed on new developments in rice
production. Local experimental plots exhibit the new varieties, as well as
demonstrating proper spacing and other cultural practices. These plots have
billboards describing the demonstration, as well as the objectives of the
sponsoring county or district.
25.       Barley - The dominant winter crop is barley, though wheat is grown
on about 10% of the grain area in the southern parts of the country. Barley
is grown both on paddy land and as an upland crop. Despite the better yield
potential of wheat, and the higher consumer demand, its later maturity
limits its use in rotation with rice. The potential for double-cropping
on paddy land is not only a function of climate but also requires reasonably
early-maturing varieties of both rice and barley. Early-maturing rice
ensures that barley can be planted before the first frosts. An early-
maturing barley is needed to permit harvest before the onset of the rainy
season. An additional constraint in much of Korea is the difficulty of
draining the paddy fields to allow land preparation for barley. This often



ANNEX 15
Page 9
results in inadequately prepared seedbeds and, consequently, uneven germina-
tion, growth and yield. Despite moderately high rates of fertilizer use,
barley yields are lowered by the fact that irrigation water is always con-
served for the rice crop, rather than being used to assist the barley crop
in the critical growing and ripening phases. For these reasons, and also
a price which gives the farmer little incentive to use inputs, barley yields
in Korea are not high.
26.       There are two types of barley used in Korea:  regular or common
winter barley, with the husks attached to the kernel after threshing; and
naked barley, where the husk is removed in threshing. Naked barley is grown
in the central and southern regions. As the inputs used on both crops are
similar and yields, when expressed on a polished basis, are also similar,
the two barley types have been combined in the present analysis. By Govern-
ment regulation, polished or "pearled" barley is mixed with rice in the
Korean diet (up to 30%). About 350,000 tons of barley is imported, so in-
increased production due to the project would pose no marketing problems.
As storage and processing requirements of this crop are "opposite season" to
the main crop of rice, they would be easily handled.
27.       Varietal improvement on barley is conducted at three experiment
stations. The objectives of the programs are for early maturity, stiff
straw, disease resistance and wet soil tolerance, among other things. The
following varieties were recently released:  "Olberi" ("Barsoy"), which has
early maturity and a yield potential of 5 ton/ha; "Cannon 89", a wet soil
tolerant variety; and "Sukai 175", an early maturing variety with stiffer
straw and a good yield. It is expected that there will be 200,000 ha of
Sukai 175 planted in 1976.
28.       Soybeans - Production of soybeans ranks only behind rice, barley
and potatoes in Korea. Soybeans are important in the Korean diet and over
70,000 tons are presently imported each year.  Yields are low, varying by
Province from 0.8 to 1.1 ton/ha. Soybeans are mostly planted after barley
on upland soils but they are also planted in many "fill-in" areas such as
along roads, rice levees, and canal banks. There is a national program to
increase soybean production and become self-sufficient but this is unlikely
to be successful if present low yields continue and other crops remain more
profitable.
29.       The plant breeder's goals for soybeans are to improve existing
varieties with regard to oil content, versatility of use, disease and insect
resistance, and growth characteristics. Several hundred introductions are
being tested and wild species are being used for crosses. There are 13
recommended varieties in Korea and these cover all the varied climates and
soils. In 1974, 95% of all the crop area was sown either with developed or
introduced varieties and the remainder with local types. Some improved
varieties have a potential yield of 2.5 ton/ha. With the present varieties
and cultural knowledge, a national average soybean yield of 1.5 ton/ha is
attainable. The main problem with soybeans in Korea is soil acidity (Annex



ANNEX 15
Page 10
4). When this is corrected with lime, fertilizer responses can be realized.
At present the use of fertilizer on soybeans is negligible. When lime and
fertilizer have been used on the available improved varieties, more atten-
tion will be paid to insect and disease control and moderate to high yields
obtained.
30.       Potatoes - The cropping pattern includes both white (Irish)
potatoes and sweet potatoes. A breeding program was started in 1965 to
develop improved white potato varieties with early maturity, high yield,
disease resistance and a high starch content. Yields average about 11 ton/
ha now. The current yield potential is 15 ton/ha but breeding targets plan
to achieve 20 ton/ha. White potatoes are grown in all Provii:ces, especially
in Gang-weon Province.
31.       The sweet potato has gained prominence in the agricultural economy
only since about 1960. Formerly unused uplands were dug up and planted to
sweet potatoes in the summer and barley in the winter. This form of culti-
vation accounted for 30% of the increase in the cultivated upland areas in
the 1960-70 decade (Annex 4). Consumption of sweet potatoes helped build
up the caloric intake and alleviate food shortages following the Korean War.
More recently, the government has erected factories to manufacture starch
and glucose, with sweet potatoes replacing molasses (from imported sugarcane)
in the manufacture of alcohol. There are 24 such factories in the country.
An expanded output of both potato crops could easily be utilized in Korea.
The Government is negotiating with USAID for a crop research project, which
would have potatoes as a major focus.
32.       Chinese Cabbage and Radish - About half Korea's vegetable pro-
duction consists of Chinese cabbage and long white radishes. Both are used
for making kimchee, a staple pickled food consumed by all Koreans at all
meals. The yields and returns for these crops are good and thus they receive
high rates of fertilizer and plant protection chemicals and are well cared
for by the farmers.  A steady growth in demand, paralleling population growth,
may be expected.  Both cabbages and radishes are short-duration crops and they
are usually planted in the mid- to late-summer months, following a spring vege-
table or another crop. They can also be planted in early-spring and two crops
obtained in the summer season.
33.       Red (chilli) Pepper - Red peppers are widely grown in Korea and
occupy about 20% of the upland area. They are used in makingp "kimchee" and
to season many other foods in the diet. The crop has the problem of wide
variations in production from year to year, with corresponding price fluctua-
tions. The return on the crop is good if the price is not depressed. A
recently released variety, that has greatly reduced "blossom drop" compared
to former varieties, gives promise of marked yield increases. Farmers use
good fertilizer rates with red peppers and the crop receives good management.
Many fields are "bedded-up" and the beds covered with plastic, for moisture
conservation and erosion control. Red peppers use almost a full summer
season in the cropping calendar but sometimes can be followed by a crop
of cabbage or radishes.



ANNEX 15
Page 11
34.       Sesame - This is another crop that is grown widely in Korea,
occupying about 30% of the upland area. The area shown includes a few minor
oilseed crops (such as rape, sunflower and castor). There is a good demand
for sesame, the seed being used as an edible seed and its oil as a valued
cooking oil. The price for sesame is good but yields of this crop are
inherently low, with little potential for increase.
35.       Tobacco - This crop can only be grown under a contractual arrange-
ment between the farmer and the Office of Monopoly. It is usually grown by
the larger farmers and occupies about 8% of the upland area. It requires
large amounts of inputs and labor but is a profitable crop to the farmer.
As the demand for tobacco is good, production is expected to increase gradually
over the next decade (national goals are for an 11% annual increase). Korea
is one of the few countries which grows a light Virginia-type tobacco. In
the late 1960's, Korea built up tobacco exports in addition to supplying its
growing domestic market for cigarettes. Production is now over 32,000 tons
and Korea ranks behind only the USA, India, Rhodesia and Canada in the world
tobacco trade.
Present Cropping Pattern - Upland Reclamation
36.       The sub-project areas for upland reclamation are uncultivated at
present, being covered with grass and forest of low productivity. Their major
value at present is for fuelwood production.
C. Constraints on Production
Minor Irrigation Sub-Project Areas
37.       Present production on these rainfed rice (plus associated upland)
areas is constrained by the following major factors, several of which would
be removed by the project:
(a) Lack of Water Control means that droughts before and during
the rice planting season often lead to reduced and delayed
plantings, reduced yields and possible elimination of a
following barley crop, because of the onset of cold weather.
Droughts during the grain filling period also reduce yields.
Lack of water control may reduce the potential yield of HYV s
of rice. The water control constraint would be largely re-
moved for the sub-project areas by the provision of irriga-
tion and the improvement of local drainage. Irrigation of
upland crops is practiced at present only on small areas
in Korea and not included in the project.
(b) Constraints on Double Cropping include poor drainage, which
delays barley planting and reduces yields and the very tight
cropping calendar (para 25). The latter constraint would be



ANNEX 15
Page 12
eased by the expansion of earlier-maturing HYV rice, facili-
tated by the project. However, further research on early-
maturing rice and barley varieties will also be needed. The
development of an early-maturing high-yielding wheat variety
would be invaluable in helping to meet the strong demand for
this grain. Irrigation of barley would improve yields but,
heretofore, farmers have been reluctant to release irrigation
water before the rice planting season. Improvements in the
design of storage reservoirs resulting from the hydrologic
studies included in the project may result in water being
available for barley irrigation at a future time.
(c) Labor Availability is only a constraint at the peak seasons
at present. Although the development of minor irrigation would
increase the total labor demand, some easing of peak demands
could result, as the cropping pattern would become more diverse,
since some of the traditional rice varieties would be replaced
with earlier-maturing HYV's. With the project, planting dates
for rice would be much more under the control of the farmer
and could thus be adjusted to suit local labor conditions.
Labor constraints are likely to be more significant for low-
value crops (such as barley and soybeans), for which hired
labor is not financially justified. No immediate increase in
mechanization is assumed but it might be expected that, in
five to ten years' time, wage rates in Korea will have risen
to the point where small-scale mechanization (similar to that
used in Japan) will be appropriate. Sprinkler irrigation of
uplands is also likely to develop.
(d) Extension and Credit appear to be only minor constraints
(Annex 16).
Upland Reclamation Sub-Project Areas
38.       The very low present productivity of these areas is the result of
the following factors:
(a) Lack of Land Development. Due to their slope and acidity and
low water-holding capacity of their soils (Annex 4), success-
ful cropping of these areas requires extensive land develop-
ment, which is generally beyond the financial capability of
the owners. Bench terracing, under the project, would allow
a diverse cropping pattern and would help to retain soil
moisture. Lime treatment to correct acidity would be
included in the project.
(b) Lack of Access eliminates the growing of high-value crops
such as fruits and vegetables, which are heavy and perishable.
Such access would be provided under the upland reclamation
component.



ANNEX 15
Page 13
Even with the project, the following constraints would remain to some degree:
(c) Labor Availability will be a critical constraint where farm
sizes are large. Farm size has therefore been used as a
factor in sub-project selection (Annex 4).
(d) Extension and Credit needs would be much greater than in the
minor irrigation component. Improved extension is provided
for in the project (Annex 16). The availability of credit
would be assessed during the selection and design of each
sub-project.
D. Future Conditions
Future Cropping Pattern - Minor Irrigation
39.       The projected future cropping patterns for Areas I, II and III,
and for the project area as a whole, are shown in Tables 3 to 6. The
future cropping calendar is shown schematically in Figure 1. The effect
of the minor irrigation component would be to increase the paddy area (due
to conversion of upland) and the proportion of HYV rice. For the reasons
outlined in para 37, double cropping with barley would increase (to 20% of
the paddy land in Area I and to about 60% in the other two areas). In the
associated upland areas, which would be reduced in size following the proj-
ect, it has been assumed that farmers would attempt to maintain the areas
of their high-value crops (such as tobacco and vegetables) and reduce the
area of upland barley, soybeans and sesame. The overall cropping intensity
at full project development would range from 140% to 164%, or an average of
151%.
Future Cropping Pattern - Upland Reclamation
40.       The projected cropping pattern for the upland reclamation component
is shown in Table 8. Two alternative patterns -- with and without fruit --
are shown. The projected cropping pattern is similar to that for the upland
portion of the minor irrigation component, with the provision that high-value
crops constitute at least 35% of the area (which is suggested as a sub-project
selection criterion in Annex 4) and with the addition of pasture and fruit as
additional crops, for the steeper areas. Apples have been used to represent
all orchard crops (which actually include pears, peaches and grapes).
Yields 1/
41.       Present yields were derived from MAF records, checking with Provin-
cial and County ORD and ADC offices plus farmer interviews. Additional
1/   All yields of rice or barley are expressed on a milled or polished basis.



ANNEX 15
Page 14
sources were used in assessing rice yields. With this crop, the long range
effects of droughts on rainfed yields were taken into consideration, following
work done by a consultant (Tahal, Israel) for the proposed Ogseo Irrigation
Project. Under this approach, the probability of drought at each stage in
the growth cycle of rice is assessed from historic records and combined with
data on the effect on yield of water deficiencies at these periods. The
result for an area under rainfed cultivation (with possibly some crude local
irrigation) is a long-term average yield of 2.5 ton/ha for traditional
varieties, which is somewhat below previously published figures. Some
variation between regions was assumed.
42.       Present yields and projected future yields, with and without the
project, are shown in Tables 3 to 6 and 8. It was assumed that, without
the project, yields would show a modest increase, due to continuing extension
work and the release of improved varieties. With the project, projected
yields are based on general conditions (plus a small increasing trend) in
irrigated areas of Korea, for the minor irrigation component, and for well-
designed and maintained upland reclamation projects. All yields are substan-
tially below those obtained by the best farmers, indicating a margin for
future improvement.



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Production, Net Imports, and Consumption of the Major Food Grains
1961        1966         1970         1971        1972         1973         1974
---------------------------- -------'000 ton--------------------------------
Production
Rice                         3,047       3,501        4,090        3,939       3,954        4,211        4,445
Barley                       1,478       2,018        1,974        1,858       1,971         ...           .
Wheat                          280          315         357          322         244         ...          ...
Total                     4 uo5        5,83         6,421        6,119       6,169        6,164        6,296
Net Imports
Rice                           -             31         541        1,004         495          437          206
Barley                         123         -            -            -           387          350          200
Wheat                          355          503       1,254        1,672       1,900        1,835        1,592
Total                       477 534                 1,795                    2,782  2,62      2        1,998
Per Capita Consumption         ---------------------------------------kg-------------------------------_
Rice                           119         127          130          150         144          143          139
Barley                          60          64           6o           62          64         ...
Wheat                           24           21          50           55          73
Total                       203          212          240          267         281          270         T18
ID .



ANNEX 15
Table 2
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCT1URE PROJECT
Fertilizer App1ication Rates for Selected Crops!-
Nutrient Use
Crop                  Present Use                   Future with Project
N                  K K20         N        P902
- -------- E225 --------kg/ha--------
Improved Paddy          137       75         55           150       80         60
Traditional Paddy       116       55         35           128       65         45
BarleyY.                115       50         45           125       60         6o
White Potato            107        70        70           125       70         80
Soybean                  20       30         20           60        90         60
Tobacco                  90      110        120           105      115        125
Red Pepper              160       70         70           185       80         80
Sesame                   40       30         20            60       40         30
Chinese Cabbage         18o      100        100           205      120        125
Sweet Potato             4o       30         20            90       70         45
1/ Average for the three areas.
2/ Same figures for common and naked barley.



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Minor Irrigation Component
Cropping Pattern, Yield and Production - Area I (8,700 ha)
Present                                Future Without Project                         Future With Proect
Crop                          Cropping  Pattern  Yield!!  Production    Cropping  Pattern  Yield_   Production    Cropping  Pattern  Yield_c Production
%     '000 ha  ton/ha    '000 tons           7,    '000 ha  ton/ha    '000 tons7 %                '000 ha  ton/ha    '000 tons
Paddy Land
Improved Rice                      5         0.4      2.8         1.1           15         1.3      3.0         3.9           50         4.3      3.9        16.8
Traditional Rice                  40         3,5      2.4         8.4           30         2,6      2.6         6.8           20         1.7      3.4         5.8
Barley                             2         0.2      1.9         0.4            4         0.4      2.0         0.5           15         1.2      2.2         2.6
Sub-total: Land Area            45         3°9                                45         3°9                                70         6.0
Sub-total: Cropped Area         47         4.1                                49         4.3                                84         7.2
Cropping Intensity (Paddy)   105                                             110                                           120
Upland
Barley                            23         2.0      1.9         3.4           26         2.2      2.0         4.4           20         1.8      2.2         4.0
White Potato                       3         0.3    11.0          3.3            3         0.3    12.0          3.6            3         0.3    14.0          4.2
Soybean                           16         1.4      0.8         1.1           16         1.4      0.9         1,3            5         0.4      1.1         0.4
Tobacco                            4         0.3      2.0         0.5            4         0.3      2.0         0.6            3         0,3      2.0         0.6
Red Pepper                        10         0.9      0,8         0.7           10         0.9      0.9         0.8             8        0,7      1.0         0.7
Sesame                            14         1.2      0.5         0.6           14         1.2      0.6         0.7            4         0.3      0.7         0,2
Chinese Cabbage                    7         0.6    14.0          8.4            7         0.6    16,0          9.6            7         0.6    18.0         10,8
Sweet Potato                       5         0.4    16.0          6.4            5         0.4    17.0          6.8            5         0.4    19.0          7.6
Sub-total: Land Area            55         4.7                 34.3           55         4,6                 39.0           30         2.4                 53.7
Sub-total: Cropped Area         82         7,1                                85         7.3                                55         4.8
Cropping Intensity (Upland)  149                                             157                                           183
Total: Land Area                    100         8.6                               100        8.5                                100         8,6
Total: Cropped Area                 129        11,2                              134        11,6                                140        12,0
Overall Cropping Intensity          129                                           134                                           140
1/  Rice and barley yields are on a milled and polished basis respectively, .                                                                                                .



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Minor Irrigation Component
Cropping Pattern, Yield and Production - Area II (8,600 ha)
Present                              Future Without Prsiect                        Future With Pro ject
Crop                           Cropping  Pattern  Yield-   Production    Cropping  Pattern  Yield-L  Production    Cropping  Pattern  Yield-   Production
%     '000 ha  ton/ha    '000 tons          %      '000 ha  ton/ha    '000 tons          7      '000 ha  ton/ha    '000 tons
Paddy Land
Improved Rice                    5         0.4     3.1         1.2           15         1.3     3.3         4.3           40         3.4     4.2        14.3
Traditional Rice                40         3.4     2.7         9.2           30         2.6     2.8         7.3           20         1.7     3.5         6.0
Barley                           9         0.8     2.0         1.6           11         1.0     2.2         2.3           23         2.0     2.5         5.0
Sub-total: Land Area          45         3.8                               45         3.9                               60         5.1
Sub-total: Cropped Area       54         4.6                               56        4.9                                83         7.1
Cropping Intensity (Paddy)  120                                           125                                          140
Upland
Barley                          33         2.6     2.0         5.2           28         2.4     2.2         5.3           26         2.3     2.5         5.7
White Potato                     3         0.3    12.0         3.6            3         0.3    14.0         3.4            3         0.3    15.0         4.5
Soybean                         16         1.4     0.8         1.1           15         1.3     1.0         1.3            7         0.6     1.2         0.7
Tobacco                          4         0.3      2.0        0.6            4         0.3     2.0         0.6            4         0.3     2.0         0.6
Red Pepper                      10         0.9     0.8         0.7           10         0.9     1.0         0.9           11         0.9     1.1         1.0
Sesame                          15         1.3     0.5         0.6           15         1.3     0.6         0.8            6         0.5     0.7         0.3
Chinese Cabbage                  7         0.6    15.0         9.0            8         0.7    17.0        11.7            9         0.8    19.0        15.2
Sweet Potato                     5         0.4    17.0         6.8            5        0.4    18.0          7.2            5         0.4    20.0         8.0
Sub-total - Land Area         55         4.6                39.5           55         4.5                44.9           40         3.3                61.4
Sub-total - Cropped Area    101          7.8                              104         7.6                               71         6.1
Cropping Intensity (Upland) 169                                           169                                          178
Total: Land Area                 100         8.4                              100         8.4                              100         8.4
Total: Cropped Area              145        12.4                              149        12.5                              157        13.2
Overall Cropping Intensity       145                                          149                                          157
1/ Rice and barley yields are on a milled and polished basis respectively.
p. X-.



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Minor Irrigation Component
Cropping Pattern, Yield and Production - Area III (4,400 ha)
Present                               Future Without Project                         Future With Pro ect
Crop                           Cropping  Pattern  Yieldl/  Production    Cropping  Pattern  Yield_!  Production    Cropping  Pattern  Yield_/  Production
%     '000 ha  ton/ha    '000 tons           %      '000 ha  ton/ha    '000 tons            %     '000 ha  ton/ha    '000 tons
Paddy Land
Improved Rice                       5        0.2      3.1         0.7           15         0.7      3.3         2,3           44          2.2     4.2          9.2
Traditional Rice                  40          1.8     2.7         4.9           30         1.3      2.8         3.9            23        0.4      3.5          1.5
Barley                              9        0.4      2.0         0.8           11         0.5      2.1         1.0            38         1.3     2.5          3.2
Sub-total: Land Area            45         2.0                                45         2.0                                67         2.6
Sub-total: Cropped Area         54         2.4                                56         2.5                               105         3.9
Cropping Intensity (Paddy)   120                                             125                                           150
Upland
Barley                            40         1,8      2.0         3.6           39         1,7      2.1         3.6            40         123     2.5         3.4
White Potato                        5        0.2    12.0          2.4            5         0.2    13.0          2.6             5        0.2    15.0          3.0
Soybean                            15        0.7      0.8         0.6           15         0.7      1.0         0.7             5        0.3      1.2         0.4
Tobacco                             3        02.      2.0         0.3            3         0.1      2.0         0.2             3         0.1     2.1         0.2
Red Pepper                          8        0.4      0.8         0.3            8         0.4      1.0         0.4             8        0.4      1.1         0.5
Sesame                             12        0.5      0.5         0.3           12         0.5      0.6         0.3             3        0.2      0.7         0.1
Chinese Cabbage                   12         0.5    17.0          8.5           12         0.5    18.0          9.0             9        0o6    21.0         12.6
Sweet Potato                        6        0.3    18.0          5.4            6         0.3    19.0          5.7             6        0M3    21.0          6.3
Sub-total: Land Area            55         2,4                 27.8           55         2,4                 29.7           33         1.8                 40.4
Sub-total: Cropped Area        103         4.5                               105         4.4                                62         3,4
Cropping Intensity (Upland)  185                                             183                                           188
Total: Land Area                    100         4.4                               100         4.4                               100         4,4
Total: Cropped Area                 156         6.9                              156          6.9                               164         7,3
Overall Cropping Intensity          156                                           156                                           164                                     H >
1/  R
1/ Rice and barley yields are on a milled and polished basis respectively,



£OrtEA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Minor Irrigation Component
Agricultural. Production - Total Area (21,700 ha)
Present            Future Wlthout Proj.    Future With Project
Crop                    Area    Production       Area    Production       Area    Production        Incremental
-      -                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Production
'000 ha  '000 ton        '000 ha  '000 ton        '000 ha  '000 ton           '000 ton
Improved Rice                 1.1        3.2           3.3        10.3         10.0       140.7              30.4
Traditional Rice              8.7       22.4           6.5        17.7          3.9        13.5              -4.2
Barley (on Paddy Land)        1.1         2.8          1.5         3.8           4.5       10.8               7.0
Barley (on Upland)            6.7       12.6           6.7        13.6          5.5        13.2              -0.4
White Potato                  0.7         8.6          0.7         9.3          0.7        10.2               0.9
Soybean                       3.4        2.7           3.3         3e2          1.3         1.5              -1.7
Tobacco                       o.8        1.6           0.8         1.6          0.7         1.5              -0.1
Red Pepper                    2.1        1.7           2.1         2.0          1.9         2.1               0.1
Sesame                        3.0        1.5           3.0         1.8          1.0         0.7              -11
Chinese Cabbage               1.7       26.            1.8        30.9          2.0        37.7               6.8
Sweet Potato                  1.1       19.0           1.1        20.2          1.1        22.4               2.2
Cropped Area               7T                       31.0                    732.7
Land Area                  21.7                     21.7                     21.7
Cropping Intensity (%)      141                      143                      151



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Agricultural Data : Area 2 (8.600 ha)
Imp.    Trad.   Common White       Soy-   To-      Red               Chinese Sweet
Rice    Rice    Barley  Potato    bean   bacco   Pepper  Sesame   Cabbage Potato
Present
Yield (t/ha)                        3.1      2.7     2.0      12.0    0.8      2.0     0.8       0.5    14.0    17.0
Seed Reqirement (kg/ha)            43.0    48.0    90.0   1,140.0   43.0       0.5     o.6       5.0     o.6   200.0
Fertilizer Requirement (kg/ha)
Nitrogen                        140.0   120.0   110.0      110.0   10.0    90.0   160.0    40.0   180.0    45.0
Phosphate                        75.0    55.0    50.0       70.0   20.0   110.0    70.0       30.0   100.0    35.0
Potash                           55.o    35.o    50.0       70.0   10.0   120.0    70.0       20.0   110.0    25.0
Pesticide (kg/ha)                  14.5     9.0      2.0       4.0    0.0    10.0    12.0        3.0    20.0      0.0
Labor (man-days/ha)               115.0   110.0   110.0      120.0   90.0   235.0   232.0    100.0   135.0   143.0
Animal Draft (animal days/ha)      10.0     9.0      8.0       7.0    6.o      9.0     9.0       8.0    10.0    10.0
Future Without Project
Yield rt/ha)                        3.3      2.8     2.2      14.0    1.0      2.0     1.0       o.6    15.0    20.0
Seed Requirement (kg/ha)           43.0    48.o    90.0   1,140.0   43.0       0.5     o.6       5.0     o.6   200.0
Fertilizer Requirement (kg/ha)
Nitrogen                        140.0   122.0   115.0      115.0   15.0    90.0   170.0       45.0   185.0    60.0
Phosphate                        75.0    60.0    50.0       70.0   30.0   110.0    80.0       35.0   110.0    40.0
Potash                           55.0    40.0    50.0       80.0   15.0   120.0    75.0       25.0   115.0    30.0
Pesticide (kg/ha)                  14.5      9.0     2,0       4.0    0.0    11.0    14.0        4.o    22.0      0.0
Labor (man-days/ha)               120.0   115.0   112.0      130.0   92.0   235.0   237.0    105.0   140o0   143.0
Animal Draft (animal days/ha)      10.0      9.0     8.o       7.0    6.o      9.0     9.0       8.o    10.0    10.0
Future With Project
4.0     3.3     2.5       16.0    1.2      2.0     1.2       0.7    17.0    21.0
Seed Requirement (kg/ha)           43.o    48.0    90.0   1,140.0   43.0       0.5     o.6       5.o     o.6   200.0
Fertilizer Requirement (kg/ha)
Nitrogen                        150.0   128,0   120.0      125.0   25.0    90.0   180.0       50.0   190.0    65.0
Phosphate                        80.0    65.o    6o.o       70.0   60.0   110.0    85.0       35.0   120.0   40.0
Potash                           60.0    45.0    60.0       8o.0   20.0   120.0    80.0       25.0   125.0    30.0
Pesticide (kg/ha)                  14.5     9.0      3.0       8,0    2.0    14.0    17.0        6.o    25.0      0.0
Labor (man-days/ha)               130.0   126.0   122.0      140o0   95.0   235.0   239.0    110.0   150.0   143.0
Animal Draft (animal days/ha)      10.0      9.0     8.o       7.0    6.o      9.0      9.0      8.o    10.0    10.0  CD



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Cropping Pattern, Yield and Production, Upland Reclaimed Area (4,500 ha)
Future Without Projectl/              Future with Project (w/out apples)            Future with Project (with apples)
Crop                           Cropping  Pattern  Yield    Production   Cropping  Pattern  Yield_   Production   Cropping  Pattern  Yield_   Production
Z     '000 ha  ton/ha   '000 tons           %     '000 ha  ton/ha   '000 tons           %      '000 ha  ton/ha   '000 tons
Forest                                100       4.5      2.5         11.2            0      0.0       2.5         0.0             0      0.0      2.5          0.0
Apples                                   0      0.0                   0.0            0       0.0     25.0         0.0            20      0.9    25.0          22.5
Pastpre                                  0      0.0                   0.0           20      0.9      22.5        20.2             9      0.4    22.5          10.1
Common Barley                            0      0.0                   0.0           45.     2.0       2.4         4.9           40       1.8      2.4          4.3
Naked B*rley                             0      0.0                   0.0           25       1.1      2.4         2.7            20      0.9      2.4          2.2
White Potato                             0      0.0                   0.0            8       0.4     16.0          5.8            9      0.4    16.0            5.8
Sweet Potato                             0      0.0                   0.0           15       0.7     18.0        12.1            15      0.7    18.0          12.1
Tobacco                                  0      0.0                   0.0            4      0.2       2.0         0.4             4      0.2      2.0          0.4
Red Pepper                              0       0.0                   0.0           10      0.4       1.2         0.5             9      0.4      1.2          0.5
Chinese Cabbage                          0      0.0                   0.0            8      0.4      17.0         6.1             9      0.4    17.0           6.1
Soybean                                  0      0.0                   0.0           25       1.1      1.2         1.3            20      0.9      1.2          1.1
Sesame                                  0       0.0                   0.0           10      0.4       0.7         0.3             5      0.2      0.7          0.2
Total:                                       4.5                  11.2                   7.6                  54.3                    7.2                  65.3
Cropping Intensity                    100                                          170                                          160
1/ Also represents present conditions.                                                                                                                                 0 s4
2/ Barley yields are on a polished basis.



ANMl 1 5
Figure 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTMUCTURE PROJECT
Schematic Diagram of Cropping Patterns
(Composite of Areas 1, 11 and 111)
Percentage                                                                                                               Percentage
of                       PRESENT                                        FUTURE WITH PROJECT
Project                           ___                                                                                 Project
Area                                                                                                                Area
VWinter                   Summer                      Winter                     Summer
100                                                                                                                100
F Cabbage
90                                                                                                                90
Fa!lo,                     Toac                                              Cieewabg
',  70  W                 -                        -70
80                                                                                              Sesame            80Ss
Tobacco
U)~X
LO
70                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70
rieV<             Swee<t Pota2
60                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~60
50                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50
40                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40
30  -130
.<~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
20  -                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
10  -                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
Not to Scale
World Bank - 15304



ANNEX 16
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Agricultural Supporting Services
1.        To maximize production and project benefits, the agricultural
supporting services need to be functioning well and to be coordinated in
their activities. This can be expected in Korea, as the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Fisheries (MAF) supervises all agricultural services in the
country. Each Provincial administration has an Agriculture Bureau that
administers MAF functions in the Province. Nearly all functions found at
the national level are also found at the Provincial level and communication
between them is good. The county administration provide a well-coordinated
effort at that level. Except in the provision of motorcycles (para 7), the
project would not provide for direct financial support of any of the agri-
cultural services but the government has plans to increase its activities
so as to properly support the project. The major agricultural supporting
services are now discussed in turn.
Research and Extension
2.        Both research and extension are more advanced in Korea than in
most developing countries. Research and extension are discussed together
since both are under the Office of Rural Development (ORD), a specialized
agency of the MAF (Annex 3, Figure 1). ORD was established under the Rural
Development Law of 1962 and has the following functions:
(a) Research and experimentation on agricultural techniques;
(b)  Agricultural guidance and dissemination of agricultural
techniques;
(c) Training of technical personnel and farmers; and
(d) Fostering of rural organizations for improving rural
living standards.
ORD has a total staff of 8,250, comprising 317 at headquarters, 472 at
the Provincial level, 2,357 at the 173 county offices, and 5,104 at the
1,473 district offices.
3.        The national headquarters of ORD at Suweon, 40 km south of Seoul,
consists of the following units:
Crop Improvement Station (breeding and agronomy of
field crops);



ANNEX 16
Page 2
Horticulture Research Institute (fruit and vegetables);
Agricultural Technical Research Institute (soil surveys,
fertilizers, liming and pest control);
Rural Guidance Bureau (Extension);
Training Bureau (for extension workers); and
Farm Machinery Training and Irrigation Bureau (farm
mechanization and water management).
4.        Research on rice and barley is carried out at Suweon and also at
field stations in Honan and Milyang. Research on rice, discussed in Annex
15, has concentrated on increasing yields and improving disease resistance.
Research on barley is aimed at improving its resistance to cold weather and
to developing earlier maturing varieties. Some improved barley varieties
have recently been released. Extensive soybean research is conducted at
Suweon. The Horticulture Station has developed a cold-resistant, early-
maturing variety of a green pea, that can be planted early enough to be
harvested before transplanting rice. Potato research is concentrated at
the Alpine Station in Gang-weon Province. Breeding work there is aimed
at resistance to virus disease and a new higher-yielding variety is being
released. The horticulturalists are working on a pre-sprouting system for
potatoes, using plastic covering to enable an early-Spring start with this
crop to make better use of the available time before transplanting rice.
The type of ORD research programs that would be directly beneficial to the
minor irrigation and upland reclamation sub-project areas include: irriga-
tion of upland crops; liming requirements; irrigation of barley and wheat;
early-maturing wheat varieties; chemical weed control methods; and the use
of mechanical equipment. Work is presently being done in some of these
areas but further efforts would be desirable.
5.        Each Province has an ORD branch which carries out local experimental
trials, field demonstrations, multiplication of foundation seed and agricul-
tural extension. The seeds function will soon be turned over to the newly-
formed Office of Seeds Production and Distribution under the National Seeds
Program just getting underway (para 13). Each county has an extension office
staffed with about 15 extension officers. A typical county office would in-
clude specialists in the following areas: rice; upland crops; orchards; vege-
tables; mulberry/sericulture; livestock; soils and fertilizers; plant protec-
tion; farm management; agricultural engineering; household improvement; com-
munity development; 4-H Clubs; training and extension materials, and admin-
istration.
6.        Each district extension office has a staff of four or five extension
workers.  They spend the summer months in the field working with the farmers
and conduct meetings during the winter.  The available pamphlets and illus-
trative materials for use by the farmers are adequate at present but will
require revision and expansion to cover more subjects in the future. The



ANNEX 16
Page 3
number of farm families covered by each extension worker varies from area to
area but averages about 350 to 500 families (or about 500 ha of cultivated
land), which is satisfactory. The existing extension system functions well,
as illustrated by the rapid spread of Tongil rice and the technology asso-
ciated with it (Annex 15). A recent ORD survey shows that farmers using
Tongil rice have an average of 52 contacts per year with the district and
county ORD staff, while farmers not using Tongil rice have an average of
38 contacts.
7.        In districts containing minor irrigation sub-projects, the Govern-
ment plans to add at least one additional extension worker. Motorcyles for
these additional workers are ?ncluded in the project. An additional rice
specialist at the county level is also recommended in areas of increased
activity. Young farmers (4-H) Clubs are found throughout Korea and they
could perform a useful role in development projects, as part of the Saemaeul
Movement, as well as facilitating the introduction of new farming practices.
Agricultural Credit
8.        The Government-sponsored cooperative system, the National Agri-
cultural Cooperative Federation (NACF), is the main source of institutional
credit. Interest rates for NACF credit range from 3.5% for long-term irri-
gation facility loans (Annex 14) to 15.5% for certain kinds of medium-term
production and investment loans. However, the largest volume of loans is
at 9%. These rates may be compared with Korean Development Bank industrial
loan rates of 7.5% to 16.5% or commercial bank rates which are mainly in the
6% to 15.5% range. Farmers get about half of their credit from non-institu-
tional sources, at rates of 4% to 6% per month. The funds available to the
cooperative system from the Government budget and from its own cash genera-
tion fall far short of meeting the demand at the terms offered, so rationing
of available credit by NACF is necessary. There are no precise estimates
of the aggregate credit needs of the project farmers but it appears that
lack of credit has not greatly retarded growth in the use of fertilizers or
pesticides generally in Korea and it is not expected to do so in the sub-
project areas. It is estimated that farmers in the sub-project areas get
about 50% of their production credit needs from NACF. NACF also sells fer-
tilizers, pesticides and farm machinery and operates warehouses and process-
ing plants.
Farmland Improvement Associations (FLIA's)
9.        The FLIA's are self-supporting associations of farmers formed
under the Rural Modernization Promotion Law of 1970, though predecessor
organizations date back to 1908. In 1974 there were 127 FLIA's in the
country, covering 434,000 ha of irrigated land out of a national total
of 1.2 million ha of paddy land. FLIA's have been established in all
counties of Korea with significant agricultural production. Further
details on their organization are given in Annex 3. Their main respon-
sibilities are: operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage
facilities; agricultural improvement and land consolidation; assistance



ANNEX 16
Page 4
to members in increasing production, through extension and training; and
collection of repayments from the farmers for land improvement loans. FLIA's
are an important element in the success of agriculture in areas where the in-
troduction of irrigation or land consolidation has been accomplished. They
hire their own extension workers to assist their members, primarily in rice
production. These extension workers are well qualified and are recruited
mostly from ORD staff. They generally receive higher pay than in ORD.
Hung Nong Gae
10.       Hung Nong Gae ("Farmers' Action Groups") are water user groups,
which may be constituent units of a FLIA, or may operate small irrigation
systems outside the jurisdiction of a FLIA. In the latter case, the Hung
Nong Gae is established by ADC to manage a newly established small system
and its chief is appointed by ADC, on the recommendation of the district
chief or county ORD office. Each Hung Nong Gae has about 100 members and
is responsible for about 50 ha of irrigated land. As irrigation develops
in a county, the Hung Nong Gae may form a new FLIA or merge with an existing
one. In these cases, the Hung Nong Gae remain responsible for water distri-
bution at the local level and act as a point of contact for the extension
workers. They are also involved in small-scale improvement works, collection
of water charges, hiring out of farm machinery and yield surveys.
Seed Production and Distribution
11.       Present System - The Agricultural Production Bureau of the MAF is
presently responsible for the planning and implementation of agricultural
development programs, including the national field crop and potato seeds
program. Seed varieties to be multiplied and distributed are determined by
the Provincial governments. ORD multiplies the breeder and foundation seeds
of these varieties and provides foundation seeds to the Provincial ORD seed
farms. In the next stage, registered seed produced on the ORD seed farms,
is distributed by each Provincial government to its selected seed growers
located in most villages for reproduction as "certified" seed. The seed
growers distribute this seed to village farmers under an ad hoc system and
receive varying incentive payments from the Provincial government for their
seed production and distribution operations.
12.       Overall policy direction of the seeds industry is the responsibil-
ity of the MAF, advised by the National Seeds Council, which consists of the
Vice-Minister of Agriculture as a chairman and representatives of MAF, ORD,
the National Agricultural Products Inspection Organization and the Univer-
sities. The council has not had as much influence on the national seeds
policy as originally intended. The Provincial governments and the seeds
industry are not represented on the council, which has not bad a role in
guiding minimum regulatory standards and procedures nor been concerned with
the effect of crop improvement research on the seeds industry. The National
Agricultural Products Inspection Organizations has had only a limited role
in seeds inspection, due to lack of equipment and staff and the reluctance



ANNEX 16
Page 5
of the Provincial Governments to use its services. As a result of these
problems, non-recommended varieties with relatively poor performance con-
tinue to be multiplied and distributed by the Provincial Governments, with-
out adequate control of seed quality. Some of the seeds produced have been
consumed as food rather than used for crop production. Seed production in-
centive payments and staff operations cost the government over US$1.0 mil-
lion per year. In spite of the above shortcomings, shortages of seed have
not been a constraint to crop production, though inadequate seed quality
has reduced average yields below what they would otherwise have been.
13.       Seeds Project - Recognizing the above problems, the Government
has decided to reorganize its seeds multiplication and distribution system,
with Bank assistance (Loan 942-KO). In March, 1975, a revised National Seed
Law was passed, which sets out the steps and regulations necessary for a cer-
tified seed program to function. Under the revised law, the newly-formed
Office for Seed Production and Distribution will operate the seed produc-
tion, processing, and storage facilities and will distribute seeds. The
project aims to establish a modern seeds industry in Korea, and to strengthen
the agencies responsible for crop research and for seed certification. Facil-
ities will be provided so as to be able to procure, process, store and dis-
tribute the following tonnages of certified seed per annum:  paddy, 11,000;
barley, 5,000; wheat, 1,000; soybeans, 500; and seed potato, 10,850. The
project also includes a revolving fund for seed improvement, laboratory
testing equipment, staff training and technical assistance.  USAID is pro-
viding parallel financing to ORD for crop research. When completed in 1978,
this project will provide the farmers of Korea with seeds of known purity,
germination and freedom from weed seed in each of major crops. Thus, avail-
ability of adequate seeds would not be a constraint on the agricultural devel-
opment of the Rural Infrastructure Project.



ANNEX 17
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Evaluation - Minor Irrigation
1.       The minor irrigation component would benefit directly 14,000 ha of
farmland by improving irrigation on some 9,400 ha and by converting some
4,600 ha presently in upland crops to rice cultivation. Including the re-
maining upland areas of the sub-project beneficiaries, the total farm area
affected by the project would be 21,700 ha or some 24,000 farms.
2.        For the purposes of both economic and financial analysis, the total
area farmed by the sub-project beneficiaries was considered, for the follow-
ing reasons:
(a)  The project involves a substantial amount of upland
conversion. As a result of this conversion, the
farmer will have to adjust his cropping pattern on
the remaining upland. It was assumed that he will
try to preserve the area of high-value crops and
reduce accordingly the proportion of low-value
crops; and
(b) Historical evidence shows that minor irrigation
brings about a general improvement in cultivation
practices which will thus positively affect crops
other than rice. It was therefore assumed that
other crops would benefit from the component.
3.       For the purposes of the project, the country was subdivided into
three regions. Main criteria for division were climatic conditions, result-
ing in different cropping patterns, intensities and yields. Details of the
assumed cropping patterns, yields and production costs for the three regions
are provided in Annex 15.
Farm Income Analysis
4.        For the purposes of the analysis, three farm sizes were considered:
0.5 ha, 0.9 ha (the national average farm size) and 1.8 ha. Prices for rice,
barley, tobacco, and soybeans used in this section are domestic farm-gate
prices in early-1975 adjusted to January, 1976 levels by assuming a 20% in-
crease during 1975. Prices for crops such as potatoes, red pepper, sesame
and chinese cabbage (which are notably subject to price fluctuations) were
derived by using a deflated average of prices from 1970 to early 1975, ad-
justed to January 1976 levels. Present and projected prices are shown in



ANNEX 17
Page 2
Table 1. Production costs are based on the input levels shown in Annex 15.
Water charges and production taxes are discussed in Annex 22. The calcula-
tion of farm income is presented in Tables 2, 3 and 4, was made before the
increase in fertilizer prices in December 1975. Thus, net farm incomes,
with or without the project, would be slightly lower than the amounts shown
and discussed below.
5.        From a financial standpoint, the minor irrigation component is
judged to have sufficient incentives to attract the farmers' participation.
A farmer with a 0.9 ha holdinR, the national average farm size, has at pres-
ent a farm income of Won 540,0O0 (UTSSI,100). This is 12% lower than the
national average farm income, which is Won 622,000 (US$1,280). As a result
of the project, the average farmer's income would increase 1y 64% to Won
885,000 (US$1,820) at full development.
6.        Srall farmers, with holdings of 0.5 ha or less, would greatly benefit
from the project. The present farm income of a farmer with a 0.5 ha holding
is estimated at lon 340,000 (US$700).  The national average farm income for
a farm of this size is Won 389,000 (US$800). As a result of the project,
the income of small farmers would increase 63% to Won 555,000 (US$1,140).
This increase in crop income of the small farmer probably underestimates
the total benefits of the project to him, as the small farmer will also be
the main beneficiary of the additional demand for farm labor generated by
the project (para 17).
Income Distribution Impact
7.        There are no precise figures on the farm size distribution of the
rural households affected by the project. Assuming a distribution similar
to the national farm size distribution, the proportion of population living
on a farm of 0.5 ha or less, is 33% or 11% of the land area. According to
a recent Bank estimate, 25% of the total rural population are at or below
the "minimum consumption level" or poverty line. The available evidence
(para 6) suggests that the project area population, on average, have lower
incomes than the national rural average. An approximate estimate would be
that 35% of the beneficiaries of the component live below the level of
absolute poverty and that 15% to 20% of the benefits of this component
would accrue to this target group.
Economic Analvsis
8.        Prices - Shadow pricing has been used to evaluate the major inputs
(fertilizer and labor) and internationally traded outputs (rice, barley,
soybean and tobacco). It appears that price distortions are not severe
for the other inputs and outputs of the component.
9.        The farm-gate price of rice for the economic analysis is calcu-
lated as follows:



ANNEX 17
Page 3
US$/ton (milled basis)
Forecast 1985 world market price
(in early 1976 constant dollars) /1                    335
Ocean freight and insurance                              35
Import price cif Incheon/Busan                          370
Effective import price                                  370
Value of by-products (8%)                                30
Farm-gate Price /2                                      400
(Won 225,000/ton) /3
/1   The commodity price forecast for Thai 5% broken rice fob Bangkok
in 1985 (in terms of 1973 constant dollars) is US$240/ton. This
price was adjusted to an early 1976 unit value by using a con-
version factor equal to 140.3 (1973=100). Most of Korea's rice
imports are of U.S. origin and are equivalent to or better than
Thai 5% broken in quality.
/2   The value of port handling charges is taken as equal to the value
of inland transport co§ts. The cost of milling has been assumed
to be offset by the value of bran produced.
/3   Using shadow foreign exchange 560 won = US$1.
10.       Since no world market price projection is available for barley
intended for human consumption, polished barley was assumed to be worth
85% of the value of the wheat flour, based on observed trends. This ratio
reflects the taste preference of Korean consumers for wheat flour. Prices
for soybean, tobacco and fertilizer are world market prices, as supplied by
the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department. For the remaining
crops, which are not traded internationally, recent average farm-gate prices
were used, as for the farm budget analysis (para 4). All commodity prices
were converted from an fob price at the port of export to a farm-gate basis
by adding US$35, to represent the average value of insurance, shipping and
inland transport to the major market centers minus the cost of transporting
the farm produce to the market centers.
11.       Foreign Exchange.  Due to the existence of import taxes and export
subsidies, the official exchange rate understates the value to the economy
of the foreign exchange used in carrying out the project and earned by the
incremental production of internationally traded commodities. According
to studies by the Korea Development Institute, the effective exchange rate
(the one that would prevail in the absence of any impediments to trade) is
approximately 15% higher than the official exchange rate. Consequently,
a shadow foreign exchange rate (Won 560 - US$1) was used to evaluate in-
ternationally traded commodities and the foreign exchange component of the
inputs and construction costs.



ANNEX 17
Page 4
12.       Labor Analyssis - The demand for labor in the rural areas of Korea
is highly seasonal in character. During the crop season (April to October),
there is no widespread unemployment. During the peak months (June and
October), labor shortages may develop in some areas. As the rural labor
force is relatively mobile, the labor market works fairly efficiently and
it is appropriate to use the observed market wage rate for hired labor as
a measure of the opportunity cost of all labor during the crop season. Thus
labor has been evaluated at Won 1,800/man-day for April, May, July, August
and September and Won 1,900/man-day for June and October. During the winter
months, there is little wage employment. There is, however, some self-employ-
ment, notably the weaving of bags from rice straw. The net income from this
activity is approximately Won 450/man-day and this value has been used to
represent the opportunity cost of unskilled labor in the winter months,
November to March.
13.       Project Costs - To avoid the problem of projecting costs and bene-
fits far into the future, an evaluation period of 35 years was used and it
was conservatively assumed that the project facilities would have a salvage
value of 25% of their original cost at the end of the evaluation period.
The construction and recurrent costs of the minor irrigation component are
given in Annexes 3 and 10. Construction costs were adjusted for the econo-
mic analysis. As the minor irrigation component is to be constructed by
contract, it is not possible to determine precisely the income and sales
taxes and import duties paid by the contractors and to exclude them from
the project cost estimate. For economic analysis, an adjustment should be
made for these transfer payments and, accordingly, all construction costs
were reduced 10% on this account. A further adjustment was made for the
opportunity cost of the unskilled labor used in construction. It was
assumed that such labor accounts for 20% of the construction cost and that
an annual average shadow wage rate of 75% would be appropriate for such
labor, following the reasoning of para 12. Thus, construction costs have
been reduced 5% on this account. Even though the project cost estimate
does not provide for physical contingencies, for the reasons given in
para 4.13, it would perhaps be incorrect to perform an economic analysis
on this basis, which could put the project at an advantage, compared to
alternative irrigation projects. Therefore, construction costs were in-
creased 10% as a physical contingency allowance. The rather low figure of
10% is believed to be appropriate for these small-scale standardized works.
Finally, an adjustment was made to reflect the effective cost of foreign
exchange. The resulting construction cost for economic analysis is approxi-
mately equal to the financial cost.
14.       The cost estimates used do not include any specific allowance for
the farmers' own investment in on-farm development (para 4.15), as this is
generally a small proportion of the total cost, highly variable between
sub-projects and difficult to quantify. As the work would be spread over



ANNEX 17
Page 5
several months and would be done at times when the farmer would otherwise be
unemployed, the opportunity cost of this labor would be very small and has
been neglected.
15.       Rate of Return - The internal economic rate of return for the whole
minor irrigation component was found to be 12.6% (Table 6). The rates of
return for the three areas are shown below:
Area                      Rate of Return
M..
I                             11.9
II                             13.4
III                            12.4
The lower rate of return for Area I reflects the more rigorous climate and
the more restricted opportunities for double cropping in that region.
16.       Sensitivit_Tests - The following tests were made to test the sen-
sitivity of the rate of return to the more important assumptions made in deriv-
ing it:
Test                      Economic Rate of Return
(x)
Mean value                                 12.6
Cost overrun of 20%                       10.8
Slow build-up of benefits - full
development delayed to Year 8           11 .8
Price of rice - 20% reduction               9.3
The rate of return is sensitive only to the price of rice but that removal
of the premium for self-sufficiency does not reduce the rate of return
below an acceptable level. In order to assess the impact of price fluc-
tuations more precisely, a risk analysis was performed. It was assumed
that the probability of the price of rice being close to the estimated
value would be 40% and that the probability of its falling from 10% to 25%
below the estimated value would be 60%. Under these assumptions, the expected
value of the rate of return would be 11.3%, with a standard deviation of 2%.
Under these assumptions, the risk of lower prices appears acceptable.



ANNEX 17
Page 6
Employment Impact
17.       The minor irrigation component would generate an incremental labor
demand equivalent to 2,600 full-time jobs. On the smaller farms, the addi-
tional labor would be provided by the family members. Farms of 1.8 ha and
above would require additional hired labor, however, and this is likely to
be equivalent to about 700 full-time jobs.



ANNE( 1 7
Table 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Minor Irrigation : Prices of IMputs and Ouitputs
(won '000/7ton)
P r e s e n t                  Fu tu  r e
Financial    Economic         linancial    EconomIc
Crops
Improved Xice                266          266               266          225
Traditional Fice             266          266               266         225
Common Barleyr               145          131               145         131
White Potato                  66           66                66          66
Soybean                      182         153               182          185
Tobacco                      630          784               630         784
Red Pepper                 1,215        1,215             1,218       1,215
Sesame                       720          720              720          720
Chinese Cabbage               38           38                38          38
Sweet Potato                  53           53                53          53
Apples                       145          145               145         145
Fertilizers (per nutrient ton)
Nitrogen                     168          350               168          195
Phosphate                    140          355              1)40         173
Potash                        54           68                54          55
Pesticides
Pesticides                 1,425        1,455             1,425       1,455
Seeds
Improved Rice                180          180               180         180
Traditional Rice             180          180               180         180
Common 3arley                100          100               100         100
White Potato                 100          100               100          100
Soybean                      200          200               200         200
Tobacco                   20,000       20,000            20,000      20, 000
Red Pepper                18,000       18,000            18,000       18,oo0
Sesame                       720          720               720         720
Chinese Cabbage           23,500      23,500            23,500       23,500
Sweet Potato                  55           55                55          55



ANNEX 17
Table 2
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Farm Income Statement for 0.5 ha Farm
(Won '000)
-___________________ _YEAR---------------------
1       2       3       4        5       6       7-35
Crop Value          351      351     424     496      568     592      592
Water Charge          0        0      10       10      10      10       10
Tax                   0        0       0        0       5       5        5
Debt Service          0        0       7        7       7       9       10
Farm Income          351     351.    407     479      546     568      567
Hired Labor           0        0       0        0       0       0        0
Hired Animal         10       10      10       11      11      12       12
Net Income          341      341     397     468      535     556      555



ANNEX 17
Table 3
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Farm Income Statement for 0.9 ha Farm
(Won '000)
----------------------------YEAR-----------------------
1        2         3        4        5         6        7-35
Crop Value          558       558      681       803      925       966      966
Water Charge           0        0        18       18        18       18        18
Tax                    1        1         2        6        20       24        24
Debt Service           0        0        13       13        13       17        19
Farm Income         557       557      648       766      874       907       905
Hired Labor            0        0         0        0        0         0         0
Hired Animal          17       17        18       19        20       20        20
Net Income           540      540       630      747      85h       887       885



ANNEX 17
Table 4
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Farm Income Statement for 1.8 ha Parm
(Won '000)
--------------------------YEAR-------------------------
1      2       3         4        5         6      7-35
Crop Value          969   *969    1,189    1,409    1,629    1,703    1,703
Water Charge           0      0       37        37       37        37       37
Tax                  17      17       20        29       53       61        61
Debt Service           0      0       25        25       25        32       39
Farm Income         952    952    1,107    1,318    1,5114    1,573    1,566
Hired Labor           34     34       410      416       53        55       55
Hired Animal           0      0        0         0        0         0        0
Net Income          918    918    1,067    1,272    1,1461    1,518    1,511



ANNEX 17
Table 5
KOREA
RURAL INPRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Minor Irrigation - Economic Analysis (Total Project)
Year            Construction            Operation and             Benefitsl/
Cost                 Maintenance
Cost
---------------------Won million-----------------------
1                  12,600                      0                        0
2                  12,600                       0                       0
3                       0                    420                      665
4                       0 o420                                      1,330
5                       0                    420                    2,565
6                       0                    420                    4,560
7-34                    0                    420                    4,845
35                 -6,100                    420                    4,6L5
Economic Rate of Return   12.6%.
1/ Benefits w Incremental value of production minus inputs minus
economic cost of labor.



ANNEX 18
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Evaluation - Upland Reclamation
1.        The uplILLJ reclamation component would benefit an area of 4,500 ha,
by c(nverting previously unproductive sloping land to cultivable land.  After
conversion, these lands would Orow a variety of upland crops, including barley,
soybeans, high-value cash crops and fruits. For the purposes of evaluation,
it was assumed that the upland reclamation sub-projects would not affect the
cropping pattern of the present farmland. Thus the evaluation was performed
only for the converted land.
2.        Preliminary studies showed that the economic viability of upland
reclamation might be sensitive to the assumed cropping pattern, in particular,
to whether orchards are included. Orchards affect the benefit estimate in
two ways:
(a) At full development, orchards are very profitable
and have a much higher value added than any other
crop; but
(b) Orchards have a long build-up period, during which
they have negative returns.
Therefore, two alternative cropping patterns were considered: with and with-
out apple orchards. Cropping patterns, crop budgets, and production estimates
are given in Annex 15.
3.        The price assumptions used (including wage rates), both for farm
income estimates and economic analysis are identical to those used for
the minor irrigation component (Annex 17). For the price of apples, the
average 1970-1975 price, adjusted to January, 1976 levels, was used.
Farm Income
4.        Table 1 shows that, as a result of the project, an additional
amount of upland of 1 ha will generate an additional net income of:
(a)  Won 931,000 (US$1,920) at full development for the
cropping pattern with apples; or
(b) Won 542,000 (US$1,118) at full development, for the
cropping pattern without apples.
While the additional farm income is considerably higher in the case of crop-
ping patterns with apples, there will also be four years of negative cash



ANNEX 18
Page 2
flow in this case. This implies that medium-term credit should be made
available to farmers who intend to grow apples.
Economic Analysis
5.        An economic analysis was performed for each cropping pattern
(Table 2). The internal economic rate of return was found to be:
(a) 21.2% in the case of the cropping pattern including
apples;
(b) 20.8% in the case of the cropping pattern without
apples.
These results suggest that both cropping patterns are economically viable.
The choice between them should consequently be made on a basis of technical
and financial (availability of credit) considerations.
6.        Sensitivity tests show that the economic rate of return is not
affected seriously by foreseeab;e changes in costs and benefits. For the
cropping pattern with apples, a 20% decrease in benefits, would bring the
rate of return to 18.9%. For the cropping pattern without apples, a similar
decrease in benefits would yield a rate of return of 17.4%.
Employment Impact
7.        The upland reclamation project would generate an incremental farm
labor demand of:
(a) 1,258 man-years, for the cropping pattern including
apples; and
(b) 996 man-years, for the cropping pattern without
apples.
It is estimated that the bulk of the additional labor would have to come
from hired workers and this is reflected in the farm income projections.



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Upland Reclamation - Partial Income Statement for 1 ha Farm
Case A (with Apple Orchards)
---------------------------------------------Y E A R.------------.--_--____________________________
1    2       3     1      5      6      7     8      9       10      11        12       13      i14      15
Crop Value      15    15   -100    15    66   130   336   4614  824   1,056   1,184   1,300   1,300   1,300   1,300
Tax              0      0      0      1      4     8    20    28    49         63       71       78       78       78       78
Debt 3ervice    0       0     26    26    26    74    714   74    714          74        0        0        0        0        0
Farm Income    15    15   -126   -12    36   148   262   362   701            919   1,113   1,222   1,222   1,222   1,222
Hired Labor      0      0      0      0    214    10    68    95   172        221      248      273      273      273      273
Hired Animal    0       0      0      0      1     1      4      6    11       114      16       18       18       18       18
Net Income      15    15   -126   -12    11    37   189   261   518           684      849      931      931      931      931
Case B (without Apple Orchards)
Crop Value      15    15    244   473   587   664   740   778   778           778      778      778      778      778      778
Tax              0      0     15    28    35    40    44    47    47           47       47       147      47       47       147
Lebt Service    0       0     26    26    26    74    74    74    74           74        0        0        0        0        0
Farm Income    15    15    203   447   561   590   666   657   657            657      731      731      731      731      731
Hired Labor      0      0     50   101   126   143   i60   i68   168          i68      168      168      168      168      168
Hired Animal    0       0      6    12    15    17    20    21    21           21       21       21       21       21       21
Net Income      15    15    147   333   419   428   486   468   468           468      542      542      542      542      542
F3 .
p1



ANNEX 18
Table 2
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Upland Reclamation - Economic Analysis
Cr = ing Pattern A                       Cropping Pattern B
(with apples)                          (without apples)
Year       Construction Costs        Benefits         Construction Costs        Benefits
------------------------------Won million------------------------------
1                  2,200                   0                 2,200                    0
2                  2,200                   0                 2,200                    0
3                      0                -300                      0                  .oo
4                      0                   0                      0                 800
5                      0                 100                      0               1,000
6                      0                 300                      0               1,100
7                      0                 800                      0               1,300
8                      0               1,100                      0               1,300
9                      0               2,000                      0               1,300
10                     0               2,600                      0               1,300
11                     0               2,900                      0               1,300
12-35                  0               3,200                      0               1,300
Economic rate of return:                21.2                                       20.b



ANNEX 19
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Evaluation - Fuelwood
1.        The principal benefits of the fuelwood component would be:
(a) an increase in farmers' incomes, as a reduction in
the use of agricultural residues for heating pur-
poses would allow them to be used for composting
and other productive purposes;
(b)  conservation of Korea's scarce mineral energy
resources (principally coal);
(c) creation of permanent timber-producing forests,
as a secondary purpose of the fuelwood component;
(d) a reduction in soil erosion and flood damages; and
(e) institution building at the village level, leading
to increased self-reliance.
An attempt is made to qualify benefits (a) and (b). Benefits (d) and (e)
will be discussed only in qualitative terms. As discussed in Annex 5, many
of the fuelwood plantations would have an admixture of timber species. As
the returns from timber production are known to be at least as attractive
as those from fuelwood, only the latter type of plantation has been eval-
uated. This should provide a minimum estimate of the rate of return of the
fuelwood component.
Valuation of Fuelwood
2.        The precise estimation of the benefits of the fuelwood component
is difficult, since at present (given the scarcity of fuelwood), the latter
is not traded and therefore there are no reliable data on its market value.
Consequently, it was necessary to value the fuelwood at its opportunity cost,
that is, in terms of the resources that it would replace. At present, there
is a severe shortage of fuelwood. The Office of Forestry estimates that,
in 1974, fuelwood satisfied only about half of the domestic fuel require-
ments in rural areas. An average rural household required 4.2 tons of
fuelwood for heating purposes and was able to obtain only 2.2 tons. The
balance of its requirement was supplied by agricultural residues and coal.
Therefore, additional fuelwood production would be used to replace agricul-
tural residues and coal, the value of which could be used to estimate the
opportunity cost of fuelwood.



ANNEX 19
Page 2
3.        Field observations suggest that 80% of the additional fuelwood pro-
duction would replace agricultural residues and 20% would replace coal. The
calorific value of agricultural residues is about 90% that of fuelwood, while
that of Korean coal (which is very low grade) is about equal to fuelwood.
Thus 1 kg of fuelwood would replace 0.9 kg of agricultural residues plus
0.2 kg of coal. The price of both fuels, delivered to the village, is about
Won 12/kg (in early-1976 prices) and thus the opportunity cost of fuelwood
is Won 13,000 (US$27)/ton.
Project Benefits
4.        Assuming plantation establishment in Year 1, full yield would be
reached in Year 8 and would equal 5.0 ton/ha for a typical fuelwood stand
(Annex 5). Yields would build up as follows:
% of Full
Year          Yield            Development
(ton/ha)
1-3              0                  0
4            0.5                  10
5            1.0                  20
6            2.0                  40
7            4.0                  80
8-20           5.0                100
It is assumed that the plantation would be clear-cut in Year 21, yielding
125 ton/ha of fuelwood. During Years 1 to 3, there would be a certain
amount of grass and weeds produced but it is assumed that the economic
value of this would be merely equal to the opportunity cost of labor used
in collecting it.
Project Costs
5.        The cost per ha of plantation establishment is given in Annex 10,
Table 4. Materials, transport, supervision and overhead are evaluated at
their financial cost and total Won 51,200/ha. Planting takes place in March
or April, which is on the borderline between the crop season and the off-sea-
son (Annex 17). Village volunteer labor has therefore been valued at Won
1,150/man-day, which is a weighted average of the main-season (Won 1,800)
and off-season (Won 450) opportunity costs of labor. An average of 61 man-
days/ha of unskilled labor would be required. The total cost of establish-
ment is therefore Won 116,000 (US$240)/ha.



ANNEX 19
Page 3
6.        Recurrent costs include:  weeding; management; and harvesting.
The cost of weeding would be offset by the fuelwood value of the grass
collected (para 4). Management by Office of Forestry and Union of Village
Forestry Associations personnel has been set at 0.1 man-day/ha/yr and val-
ued at Won 2,500/man-day. Other supervision costs (fire prevention, insect
control, and so on) would total about Won 2,200/ha/yr. Harvesting would
take place in the off-season months and village labor is therefore valued
at Won 450/man-day. It is assumed that one man can harvest and transport
(by A-frame) 120 kg/day. Thus the harvesting cost would be Won 3,750
(US$7.75)/ton.
Project Evaluation
7.        The cost and benefit streams are shown in Table 1.  The rate of
return is estimated to be 19%, which indicates that the investment is
attractive. The rate of return is not unduly sensitive to any of the
assumptions made in deriving it.
8.        Besides the direct benefits of the fuelwood component, which are
evaluated above, there are several indirect and intangible benefits, for
which few data are available. Concentration of fuelwood production close
to the village would ease the pressure on the natural "forest" around the
village as a source of fuelwood and would enhance its potential for commer-
cial timber production, or for conversion to cropland or pasture. The non-
removal of forest litter in such areas would retard erosion and reduce flood
peaks.
9.        A major intangible benefit of the fuelwood component would be its
contribution to the strengthening of village institutions. That is one rea-
son why fuelwood projects are often among the first to be undertaken by
"Basic" villages under the Saemaeul Movement. Fuelwood plantations, while
technologically simple, give a very tangible demonstration to the villagers
of the benefits of cooperative action.



KOREA
RURAL IN'RASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Eco)iomi: Analysis of Fuelwood Flantation
(IJS$Vha)
Year            1        2       3        4       5        6         7         8     ...    20          21
COSTS
Establishment      240      -       -        -        -       -         -
Supervision         -       5.2     5.2      5.2      5.2     5.2      5.2       5.2  . . . .  5.2
Harvesting          -       -       -        3.9      7.7    15.L    30.8       38.7  . . . . 38.7       1,932
Total Costs        213      5.2     5.2      9.1    12.9    20.6    36.0        43.9  . . . . 43.9
BE'NEFITS
Fuelwood.                   -       -       13.l    26.8    53.6   107.2    134    . . . .13L            3,350
NET BE'CE9IT,S    -2b3    -5.2    -5.2       4.3    13.9    33.0    71.2        90.1  . . . . 90.1       1,018
Economic Rate of 'teturn = 18.6%
Ia3 
"0H



ANNEX 20
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Evaluation - Roads and Bridges
l.        The main benefits of the proposed rural roads component would be:
(a) time savings and a reduction in transportation
costs, which arise from the use of trucks rather
than mancarried A-frames (chigae) to transport
agricultural inputs and outputs; and
(b) increased farm income as a result of a shift from
low-value crops, such as pulses, to high-value
perishable crops, such as vegetables and fruits.
This Annex attempts to quantify those benefits. The benefits of bridges
cannot be so readily quantified, as a new bridge may affect the traffic
pattern in a wide area. However, if the area served is known and the cost
of the bridge and the time savings by its use converted to an equivalent
length of road, the results shown below could be used also for bridges.
2.        The importance of the benefits related to agricultural production
is highlighted by a number of empirical studies. For example, a survey of
17 villages by C.H. Kim 1/ on the influence of roads on farm enterprises
showed that, as road conditions improved (from footpath and cart track to
truck and bus roads), farmers reduced the percentage of their land devoted
to cereals and potatoes in favor of fruits and vegetables. Thus, the area
under cultivation for vegetables was 123% greater in a village served by a
truck road than in a village served by a footpath, and 65% greater than in
a village served by a cart track. Furthermore, according to the same study,
a large proportion of farmers intended to switch to production of higher-
value crops if access roads were built and/or improved - 80% of the farmers
in footpath villages, and 75% of those in the cart track villages expressed
this intention. In another study, K.W. Lee argued that improved roads resulted
in a higher Gross Value of Product (GVP) for the farmers. 2/ According to this
1/   Kim, Chung Ho, "Influence of Road Class and Means of Transportation
on Farm Enterprise Distribution - Hwasung Gun, Kyonggi Do," MAP,
Korea, September, 1970.
2/   Lee, Kyung Won, "Some Effects of Roads on Agricultural Production
and Rural Life," Dept. of Agricultural Economics, Seoul National
University, May 1969.



ANNEX 20
Page 2
study, the average GVP/ha in a village with good road access was 75% higher
than the GVP/ha in a village without a good road.
3.        Field observation and interviews tend to confirm those findings.
Villagers place a very high priority on roads among their development proj-
ects.  In some cases, road construction has been undertaken by the villagers
themselves without any prior consultation with the authorities. Farmers in-
variably mention better access to the market and substitution of trucks for
A-frames as the main benefits of an access road. They also expressed will-
ingness to switch to higher-value perishable crops, should transportation to
the market be improved.
4.        The trucking industry in Korea is dynamic, versatile and competi-
tive. It is reasonable to assume that it would respond quickly to new oppor-
tunities and serve villages with a newly built road. This appears to have
been the case for rural roads already completed, provided that such roads
were longer than 2 km.
5.        An attempt was made to estimate the benefits in time savings and
increased income accruing from a village road. In order to make the eval-
uation applicable to the evaluation of specific sub-projects, benefits were
standardized for a unit of cultivated land (para 7).
Reduction in Transportation Costs
6.   (a)  Without the project, the agricultural inputs and
outputs would be transported on an A-frame. A
man can carry an average of 60 kg in an A-frame
at a speed of 3.5 km/hr (3 km/hr in winter). There-
fore, to transport 1 ton-km by A-frame, 4.75 man-
hours (5.5 man-hours in the winter) are required.
At present, no monetary value is attached to this
mode of transportation, which is usually done by the
farmer and members of his household. It is there-
fore necessary to estimate the opportunity cost of the
farmer's time. This cost would differ according to
whether the transportation takes place during the
farming season or the off season. During the
farming season, the farmer's time is valued at
the average market wage rate of Won 1,800/day
(Won 200/hr) (Annex 17). During the off season,
the farmer's time is valued at the shadow wage
rate of Won 450/day (Won 64/hr).- 1/ Thus, the cost
of transportation of 1 ton-km would be Won 950 in
the farming season and Won 355 in the off season.
(b)  With the project, agricultural inputs and outputs
would be carried by a truck, at the rate of Won 125/
ton-km, based on field observation.
1/ Assuming a seven hour workday during the off-season.



ANNEX 20
Page 3
(c) The net cost savings from substituting truck for
A-frame would be:
in the farming season, Won 825 (US$1.70)/ton-km;
in the off season, Won 230 (US$0.47)/ton-km.
7.        In order to estimate the reduction in transportation costs result-
ing from time savings, it is necessary to compute the tonnage transported
from the market to the farm and vice versa. This was done on the basis of
a unit of cultivated land comprising 1 ha of paddy plus 0.83 ha of upland. 1/
The marketable surplus was estimated by subtracting from the total production
the domestic consumption (Table 1).
8.        The total tonnage to be transported was estimated at 7.3 ton per
1.83 ha unit of land (1.2 ton of inputs; 6.1 ton of outputs). It was assumed
that 60% of this tonnage would be transported in the farming season and 40%
during the off season. Field observations suggest that only a small part of
output is stored, apart from that needed for domestic consumption, as farmers
are usually hard-pressed for cash and prices, being controlled by the govern-
ment, do not show a pronounced seasonal variation. The transportation cost
savings per km were estimated at Won 4,290 (US$8.84) per unit of cultivated
land. These savings per land unit are equivalent to 20.8 man-hours (or 2.3
man-days) during the farming season, and 16.2 man-hours (2.3 man-days) in the
off season.
9.        Field observations suggest that a significant portion of the land,
in particular of the paddy land, lies between the village and an existing
provincial or county road. This is more true for the shorter roads up to
3 km. Consequently, it was decided to adjust an average length of a round
trip for agricultural input/output transportation. For the roads up to 3 km,
the effective length was assumed at 0.75 of, and for the longer roads, at
0.9 of, the actual road length.
Increases in Farm Income and Production
10.       Better and quicker access to the markets both for inputs and out-
puts and greater availability of labor freed from A-frame transport servi-
tude, are likely to result in a changing cultivation pattern. In particular,
a farmer is likely to increase the relative share of high-value crops, requir-
ing higher labor inputs, better access to marketing services and a quicker
delivery to the market. These are primarily vegetables (chinese cabbage,
1/   Data supplied by the Ministry of Home Affairs provides information
only on the amount of paddy land affected by the road. The associated
amount of upland was derived by applying national average: 1.2 ha of
paddy for 1 ha of upland.



ANNEX 20
Page 4
raddish, tomatoes and so on) and fruits (apples, pears, peaches, or water-
melons). The shift from low to higher-value crops was estimated on the
evidence of farmers' responses to road construction in the past. For the
purposes of evaluation, data published by C.H. Kim were used. It was
assumed that, as a result of road construction, the percentage of area
devoted to vegetables would increase by 65% and the area devoted to fruits
by 35%. These increases are lower than those observed by Kim as the sub-
project villages probably have a lower comparative advantage than those
connected earlier. Two additional assumptions were made:
(a) The shift would occur rather quickly. For vegetables,
the full increase would be achieved in the second year
after construction and for the fruits, in the seventh
year (due to the longer period before fruit trees come
into full bearing); and
(b) the increase in area planted to vegetables would be at
the expense of pulses. Fruits, which are grown on steeper
slopes, would be planted on previously uncultivated areas.
11.       On the basis of a cropping pattern similar to that assumed for the
minor irrigation component (Annex 15), a farmer would increase the area of
vegetables from 0.09 to 0.15 ha and, accordingly, reduce the area of pulses
from 0.25 ha to 0.19 ha, per land unit. Upon the completion of the shift,
the increase in the net value of production would be US$10.2/land unit. 1/
The net value of production is reduced to US$8.2/land unit, when an adjust-
ment is made for the transport cost of the additional tonnage produced. 2/
The benefit buildup rate was assumed to be 50% in Year 1 and 100% in Year 2.
12.       The area planted to fruit would increase from 0.08 ha to 0.1 ha.
Additional costs incurred would equal on the average US$40 for this 0.02 ha
increase. 3/ The additional income from the sale of fruits at the full bear-
ing would equal US$100 (after deducting additional transportation costs).
The following buildup rate was assumed:
1/   Values added per crop are based on data presented in Annexes 15 and
17.  The following NVP's were used:  US$438/ha for vegetables; US$268/
ha for pulses. As vegetables are more labor intensive than pulses,
the NVP includes the incremental cost of farm labor (3 man-days)
valued at the market wage rate (US$3.71).
2/   Assuming an incremental production of 0.78 ton and an average round
trip length of 10 km, the additional transportation cost would be US$2.
3/   Labor = 6.2 mandays x US$3.71 - US$23.  Other inputs = US$17.  Data
is derived from Annexes 15 and 18.



ANNEX 20
Page 5
Year           % of benefits
1                  0
2                  0
3                 12.5
4                 25
5                 62.5
6                 87.5
7                100
The corresponding increases in net value of production would be:
Year           Net value added
(US$)-
1               - 40
2                - 40
3               - 27.5
4                - 15
5               + 22.5
6               + 47.5
7-20              + 60
Evaluation of Costs
13.       The following assumptions on costs were made:
(a) Construction Costs. Monetary outlays (for materials,
skilled labor, and supervision) were estlmated at
US$5,460/ki (AAnex 10). The unskilled labor, which
would be supplied by the villagers, was valued at
the shadow wage rate for off-season work of US$0.93
(Won 450)/day for a requirement of 1,458 man-days/km.
Thus the unskilled labor cost is US$1,356/km. Adding
15% of the monetary cost for the donated rights-of-way
and miscellaneous costs, we have an estimated economic
cost of road construction of US$7,575/kmn
(b) Maintenance Costs. Maintenance requirements were esti-
mated at 180 man-days/km/yr- Of this, 120 man-days would
be required for gravelling and repair work to be done
in the farming season (July and August, following the
rainy season) and 60 man-days would be for routine
maintenance in the off season. Maintenance would be
done manually by the villagers. Using the shadow wage
rates of para 6, the imputed costs of maintenance were
therefore estimated as US$500/km/yr.



ANNEX 20
Page 6
(c) Salvage Value. The salvage value after 20 years was
assumed to be 50% of the original construction cost.
14.       The economic analysis of rural roads was carried out for road
lengths from 2 to 6 km, and for different sizes of agricultural areas
affected - from 50 to 200 ha of paddy (or from 91.5 ha to 366 ha of cul-
tivated land). The lengths of roads considered were estimated to be suf-
ficiently long to be worthwhile for trucks to visit the village yet not
so long that they would be beyond the capacity of a village to construct.
The results of the analysis are shown in Table 2 and Figure 1. The rate
of return varied from 1.6% for a 6 km road serving 50 ha to 21.8% for a
2 km road serving 200 ha.
15.       The above evaluation procedure can be used for the selection of
economically feasible sub-projects. For each sub-project, the length
of the road and the agricultural area served are known. Assuming a
certain minimum level of economic rate of return, the economic feasibil-
ity of the given sub-project can be rapidly ascertained. For example,
assuming 8% as the cutoff rate of return, one can see that, for a 2 km
road to be feasible, it should serve at least 55 ha of paddy; a 3 km road,
at least 75 ha; a 4 km road, at least 80 ha; a 5 km road, at least 85 ha;
and a 6 km road, at least 95 ha. Thus, given a specified level of the
minimum economic rate of return and information about the agricultural
area served, one can determine approximately if a proposed sub-project
would be economically feasible and should be undertaken. In actuality,
several other features, such as the development potential of the village
and the actual construction cost of the sub-project, should also be taken
into account (para 18). As will be shown below, non-agricultural benefits
may also be significant and thus a fairly low cutoff rate of return has
been used in the above discussion.
Additional Benefits
16.       The above estimates provide only a partial picture of the benefits
of the road component. Other benefits that are likely to accrue from better
access are:
(a) A general increase in agricultural output. This would
result from better farming technology, more intensive
use of fertilizers and other inputs, more frequent
contacts with extension agents, better exposure to
regional markets and the adoption of innovations
generated in the outside world;
(b) Better access to health and educational facilities.
In the case of serious illness, the absence of an
all-season road may result in a loss of life. Simi-
larly, the absence of regular transportation may
force teenage children to live in the towns, where



ANNEX 20
Page 7
the High Schools are located, which may be 15 to 20
km from the village. This generates additional costs
for board and room, may loosen family ties, and may
preclude High School education for some students; and
(c) Better access to alternative employment opportunities.
When there is no public transportation between villages
and nearby towns, the search for off-farm employment
becomes a choice between staying in the village working
on a farm, or migrating to the town. A road that would
bring a bus to the village would make commuting to work
in a nearby town possible. On the basis of field inter-
views in Gang-weon Province, it appears that, in some
areas, between 2% and 3% of the village labor force
would take the opportunity to commute, either on a
year-round basis, or more likely, in the off-season months
only. This kind of benefit seems applicable mainly
to the more remote villages located at least 4 km
from the existing road where time savings from sub-
stituting a bus for walking will be significant.
17.       An attempt was made to quantify the benefits associated with better
access to alternative employment opportunities, for roads 5 and 6 km long,
assuming a town with non-farm employment opportunities, 20 km from the vil-
lage. The following assumptions were made:
(a) The village is 4 km from the present bus route;
(b) The walking speed is 5 km/hr and the bus speed is
30 km/hr;
(c) The total rural population served by the new road
was determined by the agricultural area, using the
ratio 12 persons/1.83 ha of cultivated land (para 7);
(d) The commuting population would constitute 1% of the
total population;
(e) Off-farm work in the nearby town would be for the
off-season, from December to March. A rural com-
muter would work on the average 100 days/year. The
daily wage would be Won 2,000 (US$4.12), with an
opportunity cost of Won 450 (US$0.93);
(f) The cost of bus transport would be Won 10/person/km; and
(g) The build-up rate was assumed to be 50% in Year 2 and
100% in Year 3.



ANNEX 20
Page 8
When these additional benefits were added to the basic agricultural benefits,
the rate of return varied from 3.4% for the 6 km, 50 ha, 6 commuters, road to
26.7% for the 5 km, 200 ha, 24 commuters road. The results of the analysis
are shown in Table 2 and Figure 1.
Conclusions
18.       The foregoing analysis demonstrates that the proposed road construc-
tion component is likely to yield sizeable benefits and it proposes a method
for their evaluation. However, it should be noted that the estimates of ben-
efits are not only partial but also crude, in the absence of sufficient empiri-
cal evidence. The selection procedure also needs further refinements, in par-
ticular to take into account local variations in cropping patterns, topography
and regional equity considerations. The project evaluation studies (para
5.17) should yield further empirical evidence of the impact of roads on the
rural economy and help to refine and test the proposed sub-project selection
procedures.



ANNEX 20
Table 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTLURE PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Raral Roads
Agricultural Input and Output Volumesl/
Area     Yield      Production    Domestic         Tranportable
(ha     a) (tona)      ()          Consummtion    Volume (ton)
(ton)-
INPUTS
-fertilizer                                                            0.67
-lime                                                                  0.50
OUTPUTS
Paddy Land      1.0
-Rice           1.0        3.5          3.50           1.50             2.00
-Barley         0.2        2.0          0.40            -               0.40
Upland          0.83
-Barley         0.45       2.0          0.90           0.60            0.30
-Pulses         0.25      0.9           0.23           0.01            0.22
-Potatoes       0.12      15            1.80           0.45             1.35
-Vegetables     0.09      13            1.17           o.96            0.21
-Fruits         0.08      20            1.60           0.18             1.42
-Tobacco        0.08       1.8          0.14            -               0-14
-Other crops    0.16       1.0          0.16           o.o6            0.10
7.31
Source:  Yearbook of Agriculture and Forestry Statistics, MAF, 1973 and 1974
Agricultural Sector Survey, Korea, IBRD, November, 1973.
1/ per 1.83 ha unit of farming land, comprising 1 ha of paddy plus 0.83 of
upland.



ANNEX 20
Table 2
KOREA
RJRAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Rural Roads
Rates of Return (%)
Road Length                          Paddy Land Served (ha)
(km)                 50         75          100          150         200
2                   6.6        10.7        14.3        18.5        21.8
3                   3.6         8.0        11.2        16.1         20.1
2.7         7.1        10.7        16.3        20.6
5                   1.5         6.o         9.6        15.2         19.7
6                   o.6         5.0         8.6        ith.5        19.1
Including Benefits from Non-Farm Employment
5*                  4.7         9.9        14.1        20.9         26.7
6*                  3.4         8.4        12.6        19.4         25.1



ANNEX 20
Figure 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF RURAL ROADS
24
5 km*  6 km*
22                                                    //            2 km
/ / 
_/                 4 km
20                                                                     3 km
/1             ~~~~~~5 km
6 km
16 ~~            ~        ~        /
14
16 0
6~~~~~~~~~
14/
12
Paddy Area Served (ha)
World Bank- 15245



ANNEX 21
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Evaluation - Rural Electrification
1.        The main benefits of the rural electrification component would be:
(a) an improvement in the quality of life in rural
areas; and
(b) an increase in productivity, output and oppor-
tunities for new productive activities in rural
areas.
2.        In order to improve the quality of life in rural areas it is nec-
essary to reduce the disparity in infrastructure endowment between urban
and rural areas. This disparity has been particularly evident in access
to electricity supply. In 1964, 51% of urban households had electricity,
compared to 12% of rural households. As a result of rural electrification
efforts undertaken since the enactment of the Rural Electrification Law in
1965, the number of electrified households increased dramatically. Between
1965 and 1974, 1.175 million rural households were supplied with electricity.
By the end of 1975, 59% of rural households were electrified, in contrast to
93% of urban households.
3.        While there is no evidence that rural electrification by itself is
able to stem out-migration from rural areas, its indirect influence on the
latter cannot be dismissed. Besides improving living conditions and provid-
ing access to such amenities as radio and television, electrification also
has a direct stimulus to income-generating activities in the countryside,
both by increasing the productivity of existing developments and by opening
up opportunities for new activities, such as cottage industries.
4.        There have been no systematic studies on the impact of rural elec-
trification in Korea. Available evidence suggests, nevertheless, a strong
and rapid response by rural households, particularly in the use of small
power tools. A study of electricity consumption between 1969 and 1974,
conducted by KECO in 200 randomly selected villages, showed that average
monthly consumption per household has grown at an annual average rate of
13% increasing from 13.2 kWh in 1969 to 24 kWh in 1974. The increase in
small power use has been even more impressive    from a total of 537 kW of
contracted demand in 1969, to 4,586 kW in 1974 - a 750% increase. In 1974,
only about 0.3% of electrified rural households were classified as power
consumers but they were responsible for 15-20% of rural power demand.



ANNEX 21
Page 2
5.        In the absence of empirical data, it is difficult to estimate the
full economic benefits accruing to electricity consumers. It was therefore
decided to adopt a "willingness to pay" approach to benefit measurement and
to consider the actual monetary outlays by consumers (that is, KECO's reve-
nues plus taxes) as a measure of benefits. Benefits derived this way are
a minimum estimate of the total economic benefits of the project, as it is
assumed that the consumers would have been willing to pay somewhat more than
the actual charges for electricity and thus a consumers' surplus remains un-
measured.
6.        The following general assumptions underlying the evaluation are
made:
(a) Size of the pro4ect - 300,000 households, which will
begin to use electricity in 1977; and
(b) Evaluation period - 35 years (1976 to 2011), cor-
responding to the amortization periud for the Gov-
ernment's loans to the consumers.
Project Costs
7.        The following costs were included in the analysis:
(a) Construction costs - KECO's estimates of the project
costs (Annex 10, Table 7) were used. Transfer pay-
ments (taxes and import duties) were deducted.
Capital costs include the necessary distribution
facilities and the cost of house wiring. It was
assumed that, in addition to the major construction,
minor investments in distribution capacity would be
undertaken by KECO every five years, in order to
meet the projected growth in electricity demand;
(b) Generation and Transmission Costs - In order to
simplify the analysis, bulk power costs were esti-
mated using KECO's tariffs for large power consum-
ers; and



ANNEX 21
Page 3
(c) Operation and Maintenance Costs - These include
distribution costs, and administrative and general
expenses. They were estimated on the basis of pro-
rated actual system-wide 1974 expenditures, 1/ ad-
justed to early-1976 prices.
Project Revenues
8.        As discussed in para 5, the project benefits are measured by the
actual monetary outlays by the benefitting households, which is the sum of:
(a) Revenues from electricity sales -- estimated
separately for domestic and small power con-
sumers;
(b) Electricity tax - paid by consumers and equal
to 15% of electricity sales;
(c)  Loan repayments by t7  beneficiaries; and
(d) Payments by householders for house wiring.
Demand Forecast
9.        The forecast of the future demand for electricity was based upon
measurements of demand following past rural electrification investments,
KECO's study of 200 villages provided the basic data. It was assumed that
the demand would follow an S-shaped curve. The rate of growth would in-
crease rapidly during the first five years of the project, as newly con-
nected customers install lights and simple appliances. The peak of the
growth rate is assumed to be reached in the fifth year, with a declining
rate of growth thereafter and a constant rate from the eighth year. For
the purposes of analysis, it was assumed that growth in demand would cease
after twenty years. It was also assumed that small power use would grow
more rapidly than the domestic use. The percentage of small power use was
estimated to increase from 23% of total consumption in 1976 to about 36%
in 2011. The average initial load for domestic use was estimated at 9.5
kWh/month/household. It was assumed that the number of domestic consumers
would remain constant throughout the life of the project. The domestic use
load in Years 22 to 35 was therefore computed at 81 kWh/month/household. The
1/   (a)  Distribution costs for the project = KECO's total distribution costs x
Net fixed assets of the component
Net fixed assets of KECO's system
(b) Administrative and general expenses = KECO's total expenses x
No. of customers served by the component
No. of customers served by KECO



ANNEX 21
Page 4
average initial load for small power use was estimated at 1,200 kWh/month for
1,500 consumers - 0.5% of the number of households electrified by the project.
The small power load in 2011 was estimated at 6,000 kWh/month. The number of
power consumers would then reach over 3,100 or 1% of households electrified
by the project. These demand forecast data are summarized in Table 1. The
initial load assumed for both domestic and small power use is lower than the
actual load for sample villages in KECO's study mentioned above. The long-
term rate of growth is below forecasts for the total system made both by
KECO and by the Bank's Power Sector Review, because the project villages
are smaller and more remote than those previously connected and opportuni-
ties for industrial use will be fewer.
Revenues
10.       Revenues from sales of electricity were derived by estimating the
average monthly consumption per household and per small power user and mul-
tiplying these by the current KECO tariffs for domestic and small power use
(Table 2). According to the level of consumption, prices for domestic use
vary from Won 35.9/kWh to Won 28.3/kWh; and from Won 31 to Won 23.8/kWh fdr
small power using the 1975 tariff schedule. Tax payments were added and
loan repayments estimated using the amortization plan discussed in Annex 14.
The payment for house wiring merely offsets the cost of that item in Year 1
and therefore does not appear in Table 2.
Rate of Return
11.       Based on the assumptions listed above and using a 35-year period
of evaluation, the minimum estimate of the economic rate of return was
found to be equal to 10% (Table 2). The following sensitivity tests were
carried out:
(a) a 15% increase in construction costs - the resulting
economic rate of return was 9%;
(b) a 20% increase in tariffs - the resulting economic
rate of return was 16% (neglecting price elasticity,
which is normally low for domestic power use); and
(c) a 10% decrease in sales revenues, corresponding
approximately to an 8.5% decrease in demand - the
resulting economic rate of return was 6%.
These results indicate a moderate sensitivity to forecast demand and price.
12.       It is believed that the above estimate of the economic rate of
return is a conservative one, for the following reasons:



ANNEX 21
Page 5
(a) No attempt was made to evaluate the consumers'
surplus.  The evidence of a rapid build-up in
demand when electricity is provided suggests
that consumers' surplus is sizeable; and
(b) A sensitive variable for the estimation of
benefits is the level of tariffs. The tariff
structure used was that adopted in December, 1974.
The cost estimates, on the other hand, have been
adjusted to early-1976 levels. Tariffs have
subsequently been adjusted (December, 1975) to
allow for cost increases in 1975. According to
the recent Power Sector Review, tariffs, espe-
cially for domestic use, are still probably too
low and do not reflect the full economic cost
of electricity supply. Sensitivity analysis
(para 11) shows a significant improvement to
the rate of return estimate following from an
increase in tariffs of 20%.



A1NEX 21
Table 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Rural Electrification
Demand Forecast
Consumption (GWh)                      Rate of Growth (%)
Year      Domestic Use  Small Power  Total        Domestic Use  Small Power  Total
2             70.0           21.6      91.6            8             12         8.7
3             75.8           24.1     100.0           10             12        10.5
4             83.4          27.0      110.0           12            13 5       12.3
5             93.4           30.7     124.1           13.5           15        13.7
6            106.0           35.3     141.3           15             18        15.6
7            121.9           41.7     163.6           10             13.5      10.9
8            134.1           47.3     181.4            8             12         9.0
9            144.8           53.0     197.8            6             10         6.8
10           153.5           58.3     211.8            6             10         7.1
11           162.7           64.1     226.9            6            10          7.1
12           172.5           70.6     243.1            6             10         7.2
13           182.8           77.6     260.5            6             10         7.2
14           193.8           85.4     279.2            6             10         7.2
15           205.4           93.9     299.4            6             10         7.2
16           217.7          103.3     321.1            6             10         7.3
17           230.8          113.7     344.5            6             10         7.3
18           244.7          125.0     369.7            6             10         7.3
19           259.3          137.6     396.9            6             10         7.4
20           274.9          151.3     426.3            6             10         7.4
21-35        291.4          166.4     457.9            -              -



KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Rural Electrification
(Won billion)
Year                        1     2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21   22-35
BENEFITS
Sales Revenue
- Domestic Use               -    2.5  2.6  2.8  3,1  3.4  3.7  4.0  4.3  4'.6  4.8  5.1  5.3    5.7   6.0   6.3   6.7   7.2   7.7   8.3   9.0   9.0
- Small Power                -    0.7  0.8  0.8  0.9  1.0  1.2  1.3  1.4  1.5  1.6  1.7  1.8    1.9   2.1   2.3   2.5   2.7   2.9   3.1   3.4   3.4
Electricity Tax                -    0.5  0.5  0.5  0.6  0.7  0.7  0.8  0.9  0.9  1.0  1.0  1.1    1.1   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.5   1.6   1.7   1.8   1.8
Loan Repayment                 -    1.2  1.2  1.2  1,2  1.2  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3    1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3
TOTAL BENEFITS                 -    4.9  5.1  5.3  5.8  6.3  6.9  7.4  7.9  8.3  8.7  9.1  9.5   10.0  10.6  11.2  11.9  12.7  13.5  14.4  15.4  15.5
COSTS
Investments                   15.5  -    -    -    -    0.8  -    -    -    -    0.8  -    -           -      -     0.8   -       -     -      -     0.8   -
Operation and Maintenance    -    2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1  2.1    2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1
Generation and Transmission  -    2.0  2.2  2.4  2.7  3.1  3.5  3.9  4.2  4.5  4.8  5.1  5.5    5.9   6.4   6.8   7.3   7.8   8.4   9.0   9.7   9.7
TOTAL COSTS                   15.5  4.1  4.3  4.5  4.8  6.0  5.6  6.0  6.3  6.6  7.7  7.2  7.6    8.0   8.5   9.7   9.4   9.9  10.5  11.1  12.6  11.8
NET BENEFITS                 -15.5  0.8  0.8  0.8  1.0  0.3  1.3  1.4  1.6  1.7  1.0  1.9  1.9    2.0   2.1   1.5   2.5   2.8   3.0   3.3   2.8   3.7
Economic Rate of Return = 107



ANNEX 22
Page 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Cost Recovery - Minor Irrigation and Upland Reclamation
1.        This Annex examines the implications for the project area farmers
of alternative policies towards the recovery of the capital and recurrent
costs of the minor irrigation and upland reclamation components.
A. Minor Irrigation
Assumptions
2.        As in the evaluation of the minor irrigation component (Annex 17),
three farm sizes, 0.5 ha, 0.9 ha and 1.8 ha, have been used to represent
small, average and large farms respectively. As no surveys have been made
in the actual sub-project areas, national average data has been used in
determining the numbers of project area farms in each category. Farm budget
data (Annex 17, Tables 2, 3 and 4) has been used to derive the net incre-
mental income due to the project for each farm size (Table 1). Production
taxes have been calculated, using the present rate of 6% of all grain pro-
duction in excess of 1.4 ton/farm. This tax structure exempts the estimated
subsistence output and is thus progressive with farm size. Indirect taxes,
such as import duties and sales taxes have not been considered, due to a
lack of data.
Alternative Water Charges Policies
3.        The alternative measures examined are listed in Table 2.  As Korea
already has a well-established mechanism for cost recovery on irrigation
projects (which treats capital and recurrent costs separately), the alterna-
tives chosen consist of different levels of charges within this mechanism.
Alternative 1 is the collection of operation and maintenance (O&M) costs
only. Recovery of less than this amount would be impracticable as the
Farmland Improvement Associations rely on water charges to finance the O&M
costs of the system. Alternative 2 is the present Government policy, re-
covery of O&M costs plus 30% of capital costs at 3.5% interest over 35 years,
including a five-year grace period (Annex 14). Alternative 3 represents
the Government policy prior to 1973 (recovery of O&M costs plus 40% of
capital costs), which the Government has undertaken to follow for the on-
going irrigation projects financed by the Bank Group. 1/ Alternatives 4 and
1/   A reduction in the rate of cost recovery is appropriate for the present
project, as the minor irrigation sub-projects do not include paddy
rearrangement and would benefit poorer and more remote villages than
the previously-assisted large-scale projects.



ANNEX 22
Page 2
5 provide for recovery of 60% and 100% respectively of all costs, at the
low 3.5% interest rate currently used in Korea. Alternative 6 provides for
recovery of all costs at 10% interest, which represents the estimated oppor-
tunity cost of capital in Korea. Given the fairly low economic rate of re-
turn, recovery rates above this level would be unrealistic from a farm income
point of view.
4.        The cost recovery ratio (defined as the ratio of the present worth
of the stream of direct government revenues from water charges divided by
the present worth of the cost stream, both discounted at 10%) for each alter-
native is shown in Table 2. The ratios vary between 12% and 100%. The bene-
fit recovery ratio (defined as the ratio of the present worth of the stream
of direct government revenues from water charges divided by the present worth
of the stream of incremental farm income net of production taxes) for each
alternative and farm size is also shown in Table 2. For Alternative 2, the
cost recovery ratio would be 23% while the benefit recovery ratios vary from
24% to 31%.
Ability to Pay
5.        As volumetric measurement of water consumption for irrigation is
not yet practicable in Korea, water pricing would have little effect on the
efficient allocation of the water resource. Pricing policy therefore is more
concerned with equity (between irrigated and non-irrigated farmers and between
the rural and urban sectors) and ability to pay. The incremental farm income
due to the project is shown in Table 1 for each farm size. For the average
size farm (Farm 2) the increment equals Won 323,000 (US$670), or about US$100
per capita. This income represents a return to the project investment (the
"project rent"), a return to the farmer's own investment in farm equipment,
land imprcvement, farm storage and so on, a return to the additional family
labor used to produce the incremental income, and a return to the management
skill of the farmer. These factors cannot be evaluated precisely for the
following reasons:
(a) As agriculture in Korea, even without irrigation,
is quite intensive, the increment of labor due
to thct project is relativel,y small (about 20
man-days/ha) and difficult to determine very
accurately, without survey data;
(b) Management skill cannot be easily quantified in
monetary terms; and
(c) The farmer's investments in equipment and farm
improvements can only be estimated approximately,
without detailed socio-economic surveys.
6.        Incremental family labor was separated from the total incremental
labor due to the project and valued at Won 2,000/man-day, which is 10% above
the market wage rate for hired labor during the crop season (which assumes
that family labor is slightly more productive). The value of management was



ANNEX 22
Page 3
assumed to be 15%, 25% and 35% of incremental income for the three farm sizes,
reflecting the increasing complexity of managing larger farms. These figures
are rather higher than would be appropriate in most other countries, reflecting
the high level of management and heavy use of inputs in Korea. The return to
the farmer's own investment was assumed to be 10% of net incremental income.
The remaining incremental income varies from Won 122,000 (US$250) for Farm 1
to Won 276,000 (US$570) for Farm 3.
7.        The remaining incremental income, after deducting the returns to
the other factors of production, is subject to a high degree of uncertainty,
due to year to year fluctuations in gross income (due to weather, pests and
diseases and other sources) and the "certainty equivalent" of the residual
incremental income (the guaranteed annual sum which would have the same
utility to the farmer) would be significantly less than the mean value
computed above. Surveys in many countries have shown that, if the farmer
is to assume the risk inherent in purchasing inputs with credit and in
planting a crop, he will require the prospect of a financial return above
the strict compensation for his labor, management and investment. In addi-
tion, allowance should be made that the above estimates are averages only
and based on uncertain estimates of the many variables involved -- individual
incomes may vary widely from these averages. For these reasons, the project
rent has been estimated at 50% of the residual incremental income for the
average-sized farm. As risk is more significant for a small farmer, the
project rent has been assumed to vary with farm size, from 40% of residual
incremental income for Farm 1 to 60% for Farm 3.
Optimum Level of Water Charges
8.        Assuming that all project rent is spent for consumption and not
saved, the optimum rates of water charges would be zero for those households
with income below the "critical consumption level" and 100% of the project
rent for those with incomes above that level. According to recent Bank esti-
mates, the critical consumption level (or relative poverty level) for Korea
includes 25% of the rural population. As the sub-project areas are known to
be somewhat worse off than the national rural average, it has been assumed
that all the 34% of sub-project area farms represented by Farm Model 1
(Annex 17) have incomes before the project below the critical consumption
level.
9.        0.. the above reasoning, the optimum level of water charges would
be close to Alternative 4 for farms over 0.5 ha (Table 2) and zero for those
0.5 ha and below (para 8). The Government's present policy (Alternative 2)
represents about 70% of the project rent for the larger farmers and 50% for
the small owners which is much more than the theoretical optimum of zero.
Dividing total revenues from taxes and charges by the total project rent,
the Government's proposals would imply an overall rent recovery index of
about 80%. This is regarded as a reasonable practical solution for the
following reasons:



ANNEX 22
Page 4
(a)  The Government's policy is uniform for the whole
country and is laid down by law. Adopting a
different policy for this project would be
politically and administratively difficult;
(b) The theoretically optimum cost recovery would be
highly progressive with farm size -- the Government's
proposals are mildly so. Highly progressive rates
would be difficult to administer and would invite
evasion by sub-division of holdings;
(c) The deviations between the proposed charges and the
optimum level are not great enough to cause serious
inequities in income distribution;
(d) Part of the O&M charge in Korea is used to pay for
extension services. In most countries, these serv-
ices are fully subsidized by the Government. If
this cost were omitted from the costs to be recov-
ered, the cost recovery ratio would be higher; and
(e) In comparing Korea's performance with other coun-
tries, credit should be given to the fact that
collections of water charges in Korea are com-
monly greater than 98% of assessments.
Conclusion
10.       For the above reasons, the proposed water charges appear satis-
factory.
B. Upland Reclamation
11.       For the upland reclamation component, credit is provided for 30%
of the project cost, with interest at 9% and repayment over eight years
(Annex 14). The proposed terms imply a cost recovery ratio of 28% (using
a discount rate of 10%), compared to about 23% for the minor irrigation
component. As the beneficiaries of both components are at similar income
levels, a similar level of cost recovery appears appropriate. While the
rate of return for upland reclamation would be higher (Annex 18), the risk
of crop loss is also higher (as the upland areas are fully dependent on
rainfall) and a higher allowance for risk and uncertainty would need to
be made. Therefore, it may be assumed that the maximum feasible cost
recovery charges would be similar for both components.



ANNEK 22
Table 1
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Effect of Cost Recovery on Farm Income
Farm Model                               1              2               3
Farm area (ha)                           0.5            0.9               1.8
% of farms                              34             32                34
% of area                               11             27               62
Farm Income (Won '000)
Present                                341           540               918
Future Without Project                 393           622             1,O56
Future With Project                    580           945             1 649
Increment due to Project               T87            323
Production Tax ('Won '000)
Present                                  0              1                17
Future Without Project                   0             8                26
Future With Project                      5            24                 61
Increment due to Project              -7             -17                35
Water Charges (Won '000)
Operation and Maintenance               10            18                37
Debt Service (Year 7)
- 41ternative 1                        0             0                 0
- -lternative 2                      10             19                39
- Alternative 3                       14            26                51
- Alternative 4                       21            40                77
- Alternative 5                       36            64               128
- Alternative 6                       91           175               300
Total 9h.arges and Taxes
- Alternative 1                       15            42                98
- Alternative 2                       25            61               137
- Alternative 3                       29            68               1h9
- Alternative 4                       36            82               175
- Alternative 5                       51            1o6              226
- Alternative 6                      106           217               398



ANNEX 22
Table 2
KOREA
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Cost Recovery and Project Rent
Alternative No.                          1      2       3        4       5       6
% Recovery of
- O&M Costs                            100   100      100      100     100     100
- Capital Costs                           0    30      40       60     100     100
Interest rate (%)                         -     3.5     3.5      3.5     3.5    10
Cost Recovery Ratio    (%)               12    23      27       34      49     100
Benefit Recovery Ratio (%) - Farm 1    12    24        28       36      51     108
- Farm 2    13    27       31      41       55     126
-Farm 3    14    31        35      45       63     123
Charges and taxes as % of
incremental income - Farm 1               8    13      15       19      27       57
- Farm 2             13    19      21       25      33       67
- Farm 3             16    23      25       29      38      67
F a r m
1        2       3
Project Rent
Total Incremental Labor (man-days)                      9        26      42
Incremental Family Labor (man-days)                     9        26      25
Incremental Income (Won '000)(From Table 1)           187       323     593
Less: Return to Labor (Won '000)                       18        52      50
Less: Return to Management (Won '000)                  28        81     208
Less: Return to Own Investment                         19        32      59
Sub-Total: Residual Incremental Income   122        15F    276
Certainty Equivalent (%)                               40        50      60
Project Rent (Won '000)                                49        78     166
Actual Total taxes and charges - Alternative 2         25        52     109
- Alternative 4        36       73      147
Rent recovery index - Alternative 2 (%)                51        67      66



IBRD 10375
¼ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                                          29'                             APRIL 1973
:  -  - t -  /  _\  N'O  R T H    K .                      R E A
.                 .    ...      I'     o7          -                            .                                                       15 
'/ e    /l l o w   0' e                                                                   <                                                            jS uCe
,,-  KOREA
T2~~ JEPOF
K- KOREA                                                                                                                           K
Ye/low                                                   _  .                                                                                                                                             38!   7
Sea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Groi   rignebundaie
Pac5-                                                                                                               . - Nio    bou eongudr-.e
Chisa  Sea9i,iea
17Y9 s764     o    2n 7                                   17s'                                     129
37'-
Ye/tow    S e                                     S                -         e                           Gmceo
35,
5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
Y          N,dng    -
-Expressways
-Expressways under construction
~~~~                                            -~~~~~- nrmary roads
-Raiways
34,
Qa lways under conlstruction
Ports
RiHvers
hI    special cities
Provincial boundaries
jeju4l                                                                         b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Itent on u nsdaries
3       20       40       60      tO       100       120      140     150
KILOMETERS
s             20            40            60             tO            100
123'                                    126'                                      I27'                                    12 8'                                    139'






113KL) IUJ/0
APRIL f973
12V;                                2q,
QR T   K 0 R E
0    H ,,L  A                                                                                       . ..   ... ..    . ..
r
Eo s t.,  Sea
KOREA
W. Of
KCftA
Yi4zow
Seo                   zv,                  11                                                          Chuncheon
GaVnft":
0
r      pa c i fi c                                              C)E,Jlieongbu
GANG  WEON
Oc On
grv g
V, 4
SEOUL
CWeonju
osuweon
GYEONG.,,Gl
37--
-37'                                                                     'c-
"j Churgju
Q,--H    U   -'N          G
AV
W                                    B'  U
C H U N G
Cheongju                           5
9                                              Andon6
N: A M
G Y' E 0 N G
0                                                    B u
Daejeor
ohan,
Ye //0  w           5  e  o                                                                         e   OGimcheon %                             p
36-
0
36'
(3yowlju
Jeonu,,                                             Daegu
0                                  N-
J E & N  B 0 G
uisa
V,                                                 .  ... ...
G 'Y E 0 N,G    N A M
V,
Jinju
0
cwangj
SUSAN
;jncneo,,                      Sumcheonpo
o
J            N  N A M
MO                                                  Yeosur
r
KORE
J,                                             TOPOGRAPHY AND RAJNFALL
t,,500 and 4ver
100-600                                      3e-
0- too
bo"daries
--loterrI000001 boundciries
iei
J E                                                     20      40      6C
$0     100      V20     140    IV
XiL   -Z    .  .    .   .   .  .
'O          20                                      0           100
125-






127                                            12w                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD -103 77
't.,uSSR /                                                                                                 A                                                     APRIL. 1972
F '                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NO0R TH  KODREA
CH IN A          I,,
YANGGUG
do an  K                                p      OAALWEON   gN..,j    K YANG               -Q~~~~~~~HVVA-E5NEas5t                   C   a
.I~~~RE                                        /       ',~~~~'        oWACHECA       S.j                                                  '.2e~~PCHE
IVO                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN   CH NSEC. ,0                    --
/K~~~~r""'      1~~~~' GPNN '   "   '
4                        /  -,   <~~~~~~~~~~~CHIN-NHEf <V
Ocean                                                                                                                   NENJ
ch~~~~na  Sea,                                                                                           kPYEONGGHANG~~~~~~Au32'N"N.4PAON
17"NQ2'Kr~~~~~~~.    ,J                                        IGEONAG GSA  p      N~IYNGPEON -'
Ut-)                    HO~~~~~~~~AENGEONG C
A
GWANS A 
'tfltc'.j-r-TT'                      E .  NJ      '0           JENG\  O
IC /O                            YEONGAGAN    .2  "-'. E
f\ ,                                                                GANECHEO
ANVASES>    NG      s                                 G
.1t0/'  U.,.ry    /          '3  >.' )  > GAN'AN
Ye  Ilo   w  5ea                                                     -_-,(U~~~-  '4Njl'NCHEC%'  T0-&...>            'YEONGGAA    N              OLI
Ye//ow   Sea                  <F~~~~~~~~~~~~"('A§G-~~~~~ANGJ                      ¾'-Y                                                        - PNAl
'I'- SE 'A                 " SANN   (<O4'                                      A
AGING~~~~~~~~~~WYDG
"'N2   i'.'>       /               0"YEd (CEOGJ  _l/%             l" "CHO
<AG     k'')                  NE UAJOENU ->,  3                                                  EEYAOGDJEICCG
C-OGY%                                                                  kY\-ENOO  t-N.~        NOS  '
KOREA                                                                                   -)-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~? N    '    5    CAAGA
CIEONAYAAG 7  ?J~~~~3?~~~/'~.  SANONSA
POPULATION                                                                                                                                     y 3  OGS GUSA  'N'LG'YFNA'v  %. - 3311   5
35.84  MILUON     N4EGCHE45'(               1-.                         '4MCAE 221'  '9 'N-~~~~~~~~~~~~YEONCHE
(AS OF 1970                            ~AA    "UNA5  A                                                                 C  02          YAGAS   S          )s/4'
2?  -                                                    ?          "''>~~~~~~~~~~~~~         /30      N          F    >"'~~~~~~~~~GUN EN9
Pbpuokflan density (per squors kllomer) by Guns.                'j3     45       wNJUu              SP                  202 UJ5tU                                ~P '
-   f- 'C*f-\o                                                                          4   030M                                   --\GYENGSAW1
IALGEOPO  )    -AlibI
[7 0 - 300                                                   y\                                     EOHNG'          IE   \.f
I I    01-200       5 ~~~~~~"           ',sj~~~~K>.,~~'    -             'I ~~~~s'   --'c-' N  *~~~~~~k  LIECNAGQ%>
JEONG EUB S   " TIL'I,    IA  3361'    "(0                         '-V'j NII
YAPCFAIN   N1"-   MILYAN     1
1  SNA         ["'sift            ?'NAMWE )N                                  Y
--- District bountoriess Gun)                                                                        SANCHEGlfiN <- <  YAAGE  P1E2  N         <YACYA>           5
---rovincial boundaries                          ('W Y£ NSEIOssf                                                J K'o'rN y / 4  ' - A    4,t         Xtou
----International boundaries                   YGlGSAAGNG'IUMYAEA_ JINY%'0\, 'lAMANR /   ASIANt                                                     [ASN  s
N N
N'             N~~~~~_l'AN,                                                        --
'.__     '-SAG-GONAk
~~~~  VS ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     I
'K534.<Qt ~~~HAItlAK)N-K/PN-~~~?                   ______________________GWAN_A_______N
"'SU      PU            OUAINNYCTCNDPOICHSA  2                                           otlpnlp.. AO
EONGANI i"L ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     lGL  IT
'N                                            SUSAN CITYNN                                     19
-1-                                                                   CI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PPLTUOG SA CTYADGRVIC
7\.IJA\  r"'5                > 0150kG AUG             -~~~~~~~~~~~18                    IM     t. pp..-~170
0  20  40  60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 NO                                               O       3M  V...  "'Oo
F                                  i'- JENNS                                                          ½A,coo,sry~, oA',~. I,.ozo, n. aos.,,A
5l50M50550      '-.---'-'..r                                           OT~~~~~~~~~~~EOULONAM
9  ,  20                       PASS/IA                                           '   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BSA    ITY
MOORS               2'->--- 'N-""'                                                   "2 _______        _________________________________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3-  GEON   G
GANGWE2                                  '32 ON                3G      22
12$'-                                             127'-                    JK,a       1~~~~~~~~~~~~~CUN   BUG   4






IBRD-10378
b   \   : t                   2                             12.t        \                   12t                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 1973
~~,   -  -a            ~~N 0s R T H   K O RE A  -                          - j'
,<=  Sea of       X                                                                F                       .              ast        Se 
N. KOREA        1                                     <>,15             /       s        _>>t    .-
Yellow        ~       -)APAN                                 (J4 (             SAYOr (r             r9       _            _                                      38- 
f-ast    *            Oc e a n                                 .u         Vn.   .v,<
.China 5ea,                                         -s                     agvr                             \z11.Ht    r j
_37'"   , ,;J3
i  J2%)|>l¢@Pf      \ '   S6   Z
Yellow           Sea L=; <s
e ! E  s. r a  d   6 9 8; ,._ j s . c iA  ;< r * g > ;   X    a    >~~~~~~~~~~36
V~~~~~~V
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K>31
/ s{gv **t I LAND USE
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   Of 1.6  971)
34- '                                                                                                                      Poddy ond u&plnd nce
:                                                  W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bairleyt, wbreat and rye
tone, doat represenTts 4000r hrctaires)
----Distrct boundridsest(6uns)
------DreinckYl boundrtrles
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. - W,  ernoftra   bundaries
125-                            126't                            i27'i2'19






Bik) 1038U
.                                        -  :    j  S S |  17'               -                         1 W28'  .    \    r:   Z 9  APRIL i973
,   ,sfN /0, R T H   KORA O                                          A;
~HINA    ~ - 
R KOREA                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~ast  Se a
'NORE 
t Ht NA-    $    '--  .                                                                                               K    v  , 
ftc   t K0EA    JAAX                                                      f                                                                                         38  g,,5w t<   
A.~~~~A
Yo) f-c wN   i'<u 
[?   !4 ,,,;                            -                         <9 NG                    !.
C,          Poc~f, c
Cina 5eaA, 
y e I  i o 5                                       S                         e                       O                      X                    373
SAWMILLS BY PROVINCES                      -    .     -                               Et                     .. g,
S I r                      30                                             eongju AIn
SEJOAULCTYL 9U
G AGtntGGNOODO                         A              1+      (NIA  thA      YEO NG|
CHANO DEONO BAGDC" '&S..|0'I                             .I/-           lv : .-U                            1      -         {/>
(H UNGCFIBCNCNAM D-     "'V        rG_                          /                            7                       <                         G  
DOC NGIAJDOHDO
JEONLA NADOG
GYEONGSANG BUG DD                                                            eo2           P;h y
tOCATtONS OF MAJOR fOREST 'NDUSTRIES BY CtTES                                     J   E    0    N '
I  PLY  | ELP rFAPEE |~ CL E      B               °9_cng\1Soll         Itl=                                         Deu       
C TY       S M    S  FD Ls   BOARD  BOA BDi'                                                                               Daeq
!CEO'             3      7           L   PD}
-                                                      25  -   ,S i w I <   / ~   iH 4.       t g 0 a C h D r                 '2
A~~~~ ;                IAI,  7                                             -3!$  1t rL'  ' Ef
DIE EON'                   
JE0N  I                                ;  D. lp                                                  N   G ;-
{ESU      6               2                         7       --
35'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
iii, -                      A B                                   ~~~~~~KOJgEA    O
MAO  F REST INDUSTRIES
,    -   :               g \, } ,  - .............   "  " - i:, S    : :.   -    ¢.,i3   ft* fore*r irasrs- 
N :   0   ,        ,at .             .                          fiSaoioo2 fwe>BtB5   -34
,34''                                                            v                                     -,             REa1JFnuYa   
.  -  N   ,       _   Lr-,   ',    ,   ,, ,         SPri    rr it'r  O
u -  tj . . .  -  P   bomnit4les.
.      i         t        '         : '~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ -          -  :      -- ,.,   ;,   '' J4
J                  r                 E J                           f 40   e40    flt        1    2JIZ  140    40e
SDD                1271.  '                     .'                         . O5i  BE ; [       40          100  b  ; l o
1757                             154&'                     -       2        1 -                       .  .i24           ,' 124' MTC
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ne60r  bow.war.W  E.  






IBRD-10447
^_ ,2US.S.R                        17~~~~~~~~127'             128'       -                 Z9.                     vYl7
,/   --    ~~~N O R T H  KO0R E Aj'
C H I N A                             
,v,    >tf  Ja,oan Sea                                      <                                          ,        Eas      
>s,   tKOREA                                           J         g>>a
. ' REP OF   
,z     ,    KOREA   JAPAN                            /                                                           .3e
4        :   ~~~~Pacific          S          S^l                                       
4   eesi   4    Oc ean                     - -::.7' 
1"                   . -<- SaEJRR.:  gM  ~~~~~~~~~~GANG  WEON   >
. -.G YE O NG   G I , 
-3,7~~'                                                                 rw
r          -i   ;     ~~~B U G    w.-
-    ~C  H  U  N  G     >         i, 
KO~~~~~~~~ A                      NM ._
KOREA.s                                                                 G Y E O N G    B U G
rtKOREAN SEED PROJECT--                                             
CULTIVATED AREA PER CROP  .- J E  O N  B U G r 
E  A.EO BARLEY                                                                          LiBPf <;     
- OEANS.,                                                                 G Y E O  N G    N A M           ( 
--PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                      -              _        ,   ,
_   NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIE nr./0;s  .r--,
J  E O   N 1N  AvM C> b<t>gy4;g
.341   Ye //o w   Se C
JCl.N VATWa R/ 7NLM0 TISCNthATA4S
J E J U    J                  °~~~~~~~~ 20    40   4,0   soto 10    2ITO   140, IfO
.  . .                       °         X~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  40    , 60    ao       100
t   t2 5                       12 6                          T21.i2 3                                                  1 2 9 



