CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1216 KO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Rural Infrastructure Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
KOREA ELECTRIC COMPANY
Dated March 19, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 19, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and KOREA ELECTRIC COMPANY (hereinafter called KECO).
WHEREAS by an agreement (hereinafter called the First Loan
Agreement), of even date herewith between the Republic of Korea
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount (hereinafter called
the First Loan) in various currencies equivalent to twenty million
dollars ($20. 20,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the said First Loan Agreement, but only on condition that KECO
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter
set forth;
WHEREAS by a second agreement (hereinafter called the Inter-
mediate Term Loan Agreement) of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower under the Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window
established by Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors
of the Bank an amount (hereinafter called the Intermediate Term
Loan) equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the said Intermediate Term Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that KECO agree to undertake such
obligations towards the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Korea Development Bank and KECO, part of the proceeds
of the loans provided for under the First and the Intermediate


﻿-2-
Term Loan Agreements will be made available to KECO on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS KECO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the First and the Intermediate Term Loan Agreements with the Bor-
rower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
First Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
0


﻿ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. KECO shall carry out Part E of the Project de-
scribed in Schedule 2 to the First Loan Agreement with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for Part E of the Project to be financed out of
the proceeds of the First and the Intermediate Term Loans, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Schedule 4 to the First Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) KECO undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of that part of the proceeds of the First and the Intermediate
Term Loans relent to it by the Borrower through KDB against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by KECO
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, KECO shall cause
all goods and services financed out of that part of the proceeds
of the First and the Intermediate Term Loans relent to it by the
Borrower through KDB to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. (a) KECO shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) KECO: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to iden-
tify the goods, works and services financed out of that part of
the proceeds of the First and the Intermediate Term Loans relent
to it by the Borrower through KDB, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest concerning the Project, the expenditure of that part of the
proceeds of the First and the Intermediate Term Loans so relent
to it and the goods, works and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds.
(c) KECO shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of KECO and such relevant records and documents as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 2.05. KECO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall


﻿- 6 -
otherwise agree, KECO shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiv-
ing the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) KECO shall, at the request of the Bank, ex-
change views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the First and the Intermediate Term Loans.
(b) KECO shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the First and
the Intermediate Term Loans, or the performance by KECO of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KECO
Section 3.01. KECO shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. KECO shall at all times manage its affairs,
plan the development of its properties and facilities and maintain
its financial position all in accordance with appropriate engi-
neering, public utility, financial and business principles and
practices under the supervision of experienced and competent man-
agement; and shall cause its plants, equipment, properties and
facilities to be maintained and all necessary renewals and repairs
thereto to be made, all in accordance with appropriate engineering
and public utility practices.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. KECO shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. KECO shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of KECO and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the First and the Intermediate Term Loan
Agreements become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of KECO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
(i)       the date on which the First and the Inter-
mediate Term Loan Agreements shall termi-
nate in accordance with their terms; or
)         (ii)      a date 25 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the First and the Intermediate Term Loan Agreements
terminate in accordance with their terms before the date specified
in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly
notify KECO of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the First or the Intermediate Term Loan Agree-
ments.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, ca-
ble, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For KECO:
5 2-KA Namdaemoon-ro
Chung-ku
Seoul, Korea
Cable address
KELECCO
Seoul


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of KECO may be taken or executed by the
President of KECO or such other person or persons as the President
of KECO shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. KECO shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority an the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of KECO, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by KECO pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ G. B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
KOREA ELECTRIC COMPANY
By /s/ Yoon Sae Yang
Authorized Representative


