                          Document of
                       The World Bank




                                             Report No:ICR-000065




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                   ( IDA-34160 IDA-3416A )

                            ON A

                CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                      US$ MILLION 61.77

                     (SDR 43.59 MILLION)

                             TO

                          ETHIOPIA

                             FOR

             MULTISECTORAL HIVAIDS PROJECT




                       October 27, 2006




Human Development 3
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           ( Exchange Rate Effective 05/31/2006 )

                                Currency Unit = Birr

                                     Birr 1.00 = US$ 0.12

                                     US$ 1.00 = Birr 8.7


                                        Fiscal Year

                                      July 1 - June 30
                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AAC       Anti-AIDS Clubs
ACTAfrica AIDS Campaign Team for Africa
AIDS      Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
APL      Adaptable Program Loan
ARV       Antiretroviral (drugs)
BC       Beneficiary Community
BCC       Behavior Change Communication
BPA      Birr Project Account
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO       Community-Based Organization
CSW      Commercial Sex Worker
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DHS       Demographic and Health Survey
DO        Development Objective
EAF      Emergency HIV/AIDS Fund
EMSAP    Ethiopia Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Project
GFATM    Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
GO        Governmental Organization
GOE       Government of Ethiopia
HAPCO     HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Office
HIV       Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDA       International Development Association
IEC       Information, Education and Communication
IPAA      International Partnership against AIDS in Africa
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MAP      Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program

MDG    Millennium Development Goals
MOFED  Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MOH    Ministry of Health
MTR    Mid-Term Review
NAC    National AIDS Council
NGO    Nongovernmental Organization
NS     National Secretariat
OI     Opportunistic Infections
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PCU    Project Coordination Unit
PEPFAR The President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (US)
PIM    Project Implementation Manual
PLWHA  People Living with HIV/AIDS
PMR    Project Management Report
PO     Private Organization
RAC    Regional AIDS Council
SOE    Statement of Expenses
STI    Sexually Transmitted Infection
TB     Tuberculosis
TTL    Task Team Leader
UNAIDS Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS
UNFPA  United Nations Population Fund
UNHCR  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
USAID  United States Agency for International Development
VCT    Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WA     Woreda Administration
WAC    Woreda HIV/AIDS Advisory Committee


                                 Vice President: Gobind T. Nankani

                              Country Director: Ishac Diwan

                               Sector Manager: Laura Frigenti

                           Project Team Leader: Gebreselassie Okubagzhi

                                                    Ethiopia
                                Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Project




                                                CONTENTS



1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 3
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 4
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 16
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 20
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 21
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 22
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 28
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 29
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 31
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 36
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 37
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 39
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 40
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 41
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 42
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 50
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 51

1. Basic Information

                                                                   Multisectoral
Country:             Ethiopia               Project Name:
                                                                   HIV/AIDS Project

                                                                   IDA-34160,IDA-
Project ID:          P069886                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                   3416A

ICR Date:            10/31/2006             ICR Type:              Core ICR

                                                                   GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:  APL                    Borrower:
                                                                   ETHIOPIA

Original Total
                     XDR 45.2M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 43.6M
Commitment:

Environmental Category:B

Implementing Agencies


HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Office (HAPCO)

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process           Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                            Date(s)

Concept Review: 05/15/2000         Effectiveness:     01/05/2001       01/05/2001

Appraisal:                         Restructuring(s):                   12/22/2003

Approval:        09/12/2000        Mid-term Review:                    02/21/2003

                                   Closing:           06/30/2004       12/31/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory

Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate

Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory

Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory




                                           1

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators   QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:

Potential Problem Project at any
                                 No           Quality at Entry (QEA):         None
time (Yes/No):

Problem Project at any time
                                 Yes          Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None
(Yes/No):

DO rating before
                                 Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual

Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)

Central government administration                                     15              15

Health                                                                80              80

Other social services                                                  5                5
                                                        Original Priority Actual Priority

Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)

Participation and civic engagement                       Primary           Primary

Gender                                                   Primary           Secondary

Population and reproductive health                       Primary           Primary

Rural services and infrastructure                        Primary           Secondary

HIV/AIDS                                                 Primary           Primary




                                             2

5. Bank Staff
                    Positions             At ICR       At Approval

                                     Gobind T.       Callisto E.
Vice President:
                                     Nankani         Madavo

                                                     Oey Astra
Country Director:                    Ishac Diwan
                                                     Meesook

Sector Manager:                      Laura Frigenti  Arvil Van Adams

                                     Gebreselassie   Gebreselassie
Project Team Leader:
                                     Okubagzhi       Okubagzhi

                                     Gebreselassie
ICR Team Leader:
                                     Okubagzhi

ICR Primary Author:                  Paul Geli




                                 3

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


In 1999, the World Bank had prepared a new Africa regional AIDS strategy,
"Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDS in Africa", and created an AIDS campaign team
for Africa (Act Africa) to guide the region in implementing this strategy. EMSAP was
one of the first two projects under the new Multi-Country AIDS Program for Africa
(MAP). In addition, HIV/AIDS components were integrated into new or restructured
projects in other (non-health) sectors.

HIV started to spread in Ethiopia in the early 1980s. HIV/AIDS prevalence was low in
the 1980s, but increased quickly through the 1990s, and rose from an estimated 3.2
percent of the adult population in 1993 to some 10.6 percent by the end of 1999. The
impact of HIV/AIDS on health had been devastating. At the time of appraisal, an
estimated 2.9 million Ethiopian adults and 150,000 children were living with HIV/AIDS,
more than in any other country except South Africa and India. In many urban areas, half
of the hospital beds were occupied by AIDS patients. Stigma, fear and denial were
common among the population and HIV/AIDS was perceived as a health issue. Globally,
Ethiopia had the 16th highest HIV/AIDS prevalence rate of any country and the third
largest population of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). HIV/AIDS posed the
foremost threat to Ethiopia's development.

To satisfy the Banks eligibility criteria for EMSAP, the government established in early
2000 a national AIDS Council (NAC) and a National AIDS Council Secretariat (NASC)
placed within the Prime Ministers Office. The NASC assumed responsibility for
coordination of HIV/AIDS programs, a responsibility previously assigned to the Ministry
of Health.

The Strategic Framework for the National Response to HIV/AIDS for 2000-2004 was
prepared. It consisted of a Five-Year (2000-2004) Federal Level Multi-sectoral
HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan and accompanying regional Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS
Strategic plans. The 2000-2004 strategic plans were comprehensive and multisectoral in
scope, but activities were not prioritized. The plans did not take into account either
financial or non-financial constraints (such as institutional capacity and weaknesses in
health systems performance) that could affect implementation.

EMSAP was prepared and negotiated in only six weeks because Bank management
considered that the AIDS crisis warranted an emergency response and was committed to
seeking Board approval by the time of the annual meetings in September 2000.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)




                                               4

Overall Development Objective of the MAP

The Project was part of the first phase of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP)
for the Africa Region. The MAP was designed and structured as a "horizontal" adaptable
program lending instrument, which was to consist of individual operations in African
countries that met certain eligibility criteria. The overall development objective of the
MAPs was to dramatically increase access to HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment
programs, with emphasis on vulnerable groups (such as youth, women of childbearing
age, and other groups at high risk).

Specific Development Objective of the Ethiopian Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
(EMSAP)

In collaboration with other members of the International Partnership Against AIDS in
Africa (IPAA), the project was to help accelerate implementation of the Federal and
Regional Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Strategic Plans, particularly through the provision of
HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment services at all levels and in a number of
sectors. The project was to prioritize support for community-driven initiatives.

Key Performance Indicators. The following constitute the summary indicators for
outputs, process, and impact of the project.

Output Indicators:

1. Access to treatment for opportunistic infections increased from 30 to 50 percent.

2. The number of national surveillance sites will have increased by 2 in the first year and
by 10 by the end of the project.

3. The number of blood banks will have increased by 25 percent by the end of the
project.

4. At least 70 percent of the participating woredas have implemented their agreed action
plans.

5. EAF disbursements are at least 70 percent of plan level:

Process Indicators:

1. Functional HIV/AIDS councils will have increased as follows: regional from 1 to 11
by the end of the year 1; zonal from 0 to 20 and woredas from 0 to 165 by the end of year
3 of the project.

2. Councils at all levels (in participating woredas) have defined work programs in year 2
of the project.




                                                5

3. The number of affordable VCT services incorporated into ANC, TB, and STI clinics
will have increased by 10 percent by the end of the project.

4. Increase in the number of anti-AIDS clubs in high schools: a 25 percent increase in
year 1, and a 20 percent increase in each of the subsequent two years of the project.

5. Funds distribution and financial management mechanisms will have been installed
within three months of project effectiveness at the national level.

Impact Indicators:

1. Eighty percent of the population will be aware of HIV/AIDS and its prevention in
participating woredas by the end of the project.

2. Use of condoms at last sexual contact among young people (14-19 years) will increase
by 20 percent by the end of the project.

3. Prevalence of HIV and STIs will be reduced.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The original objective was not revised.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The project development objective was quite general and focused on accelerating the
implementation of federal and regional multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS strategic plans, with
priority given to support for community-driven initiatives. The impact indicators referred
to the "population" with respect to awareness of HIV/AIDS, and to "young people" with
respect to the use of condoms at last sexual contact.

According to the project appraisal document (PAD), however, the project was designed
to benefit not only groups at increased risk of HIV infection such as young people,
pregnant women, commercial sex workers, long-distance drivers, members of the
defense forces and traders, but also will address key sectors such as agriculture,
industries, road construction, power and energy, and others. The PAD also stated that in
addition to helping local communities reduce the adverse effects of HIV/AIDS, the
project will improve the capacity of communities for involvement in other community-
based development programs.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)




                                             6

The project was to finance a US$ 63.4 million, three-year part of the government's 2000-
2004 HIV/AIDS strategic plans and included about US$28 million for community-driven
HIV/AIDS initiatives. The project included four components.

Component 1. Capacity building for government agencies and civil society (US$8.8
million). The purpose of this component was to enhance the institutional capacity of
governmental agencies, civil society, and the private sector at the national, regional,
zonal, woreda, and kebele levels, to plan and execute multi-sectoral activities to combat
the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Capacity-building support included the deployment of skilled
and experienced manpower to staff essential structures; the provision of equipment and
materials; and training and technical support, especially in areas essential to
implementation (such as program development, expansion and outreach, financial
management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation).

Component 2. Expanding governmental multi-sectoral response (US$19.7 million). The
purpose of this component was to support a major expansion of HIV/AIDS activities
implemented by Government entities. Ministries, agencies and NGOs with formal links
to the Government which had prepared sound HIV/AIDS plans and budgets as part of
Government's strategic planning process were eligible for support under the project. The
plans were to encompass the full spectrum of activities in prevention, treatment, care and
support, targeted both at the staff and the clients of the implementing agencies.

Component 3. The Emergency HIV/AIDS Fund (US$28.1 million). The Emergency
HIV/AIDS Fund (EAF) aimed to expand the response of communities, NGOs and the
private sector to better manage the epidemic crisis. The demand-driven fund was to
channel funds, on a cost-sharing basis, to finance multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS programs
through two windows: one for NGOs and the private sector, the other for local
community initiatives in woredas and kebeles. Eligible HIV/AIDS activities were to
include prevention, care, support, treatment and behavior change.

Component 4. Project coordination and management (US$6.8 million). The overall
management and coordination of the project was entrusted to a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) in the National AIDS Council (NAC) Secretariat. Management of most day-to-
day activities were the responsibility of executing line ministries, regional secretariats
and bureaus, and zonal / woreda administrations.

6.6 Revised Components

The original components were not revised.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

In December 2003, in connection with an increase from US$7.5 million to US$10.5 million in
the aggregate amount of the authorized allocations for the two special accounts and with a



                                               7

reallocation of the proceeds of the credit, the Borrower and the Bank agreed to raise the share of
Component 2--Expanding Governmental Multi-sectoral Response. The objective of this change
was to better integrate HIV/AIDS with basic health services by strengthening and expanding the
services, and to target the youth and, thereby, reduce their vulnerability. The change involved
civil works, which were not included originally in the categories of items to be financed by the
credit and which were added in the revised table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the
Development Credit Agreement. The additions included the construction, rehabilitation or
expansion of 70 health posts that can provide VCT services, one hospital (TB center), 11 youth
centers, 124 educational centers, 30 factory centers and 100 anti-AIDS clubs.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Under the MAP concept, the first phase of a 12-15 year program would emphasize
scaling up existing programs and building capacity. Since EMSAP was one of two
initial projects under the MAP, there were no lessons from earlier operations that could
be taken into account. The emphasis was on learning by doing rather than identifying
what would be funded up front as in most other investment projects funded by the Bank.
Another element of the MAP concept was to contract out key aspects of program
administration, such as financial management and procurement. Under EMSAP, many
activities were to be contracted out but, unfortunately, during negotiations of the IDA
credit the Government rejected the Bank's suggestion to contract out financial
management as a means of accelerating financial flows and ensuring transparency and
efficiency in the management and utilization of financial resources. The Bank's senior
management accepted the Government position. This decision may have been
responsible for the slow initial project implementation as well as the delays in audits and
in the flow of funds.

The project was prepared under the emergency operation preparation guidelines. Under
the fast-track preparation, the design of the project was too ambitious and unrealistic.
The establishment, staffing, and start of an operation to coordinate institutions at
different levels, such as HAPCO, are big undertakings; the time required for the whole
process was underestimated by the Bank. Such expectations could not be met. At the
time of appraisal, the list of risks did not include the possibility that the establishment of
the administrative structures would be slow (although the overall risk rating for the
project was "substantial," thereby partially reflecting that risk).

The Bank's eligibility criteria not only influenced the creation of the institutional set-up
for a multi-sectoral response (HAPCO), but also the nature of that institution, which put
almost exclusive emphasis on the process of coordinating, implementing and financing of
HIV/AIDS activities. The responsibility and oversight for the technical components
(content) of the HIV/AIDS program were not sufficiently defined during project
preparation. However, a number of guidelines were developed during project
implementation (see the list of supporting documents in Annex 12) to guide the
implementation process.



                                                  8

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

Strong government commitiment was evidenced by the development of key legislation, policies
and strategies supporting the fight against HIV and the establishment of decentralized
administrative structures (councils and boards) with the involvement of authorities at all levels.
The Federal and Regional Government also provided HAPCOs with staff and budgets.

The size of the country and the difficulties of communication were important constraints, with
implications for the speed of implementation and costs. In such a context, the fact that HAPCO
has been able to serve 266 woredas and 7,350 kebeles is a tremendous achievement.

The lack of both capacity and discipline of the implementing partners, whether NGOs or GOs,
turned out to be a problem, despite all the efforts made towards capacity building. On the other
hand, HAPCO was able to build on the existence of strong community organizations at the grass
root level (idir).

Cultural aspects, regarding stigma and discrimination, were major problems, particularly in the
early stage of the project.

The high turnover of staff has been and is likely to remain an important issue, since staff cannot
be prevented from looking for better job opportunities. However, it seems that in some regions
certain employment benefits (such as medical insurance and provident funds) included in the
Administrative Manual for the project were denied.

Although the mainstreaming of HIV activities in sector offices was widely advocated and
guidelines developed, the mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS was effective in only a relatively small
number of sector offices due to conceptual misunderstandings and lack of proactive leadership in
sector offices.

On the positive side, it is worth noting the very constructive role played by the Bank Country
Office in Addis Ababa and the AIDS Campaign Team for Africa (ACTafrica) at Headquarters.
The fact that there was only one Bank task team leader during the whole project period
undoubtedly helped as well.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E system development has moved forward in Ethiopia.#The M&E Program from the
Ministry of Health is effectively mature to be able to provide essential information for individual
case management at the health facility level.#However, the M&E program from the Ministry of
Health focuses primarily on health and not prevention (social mobilization). The
operationalization of the National M&E Framework, which has been achieved for the health
sector, remains to be achieved for the non-health sectors.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)




                                                  9

At appraisal, the project was rated category "C" by the Bank's Environmental Assessment Group,
implying that the activities of the program would not have or result in an adverse environmental
impact. There were some delays in the submission of financial audits (a systemic problem in
Ethiopia, not an issue specific to EMSAP), but no fiduciary problems have been associated with
the execution of EMSAP.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

EMSAP made an important contribution to the establishment of satisfactory administrative
structures and a framework for the fight against HIV/AIDS. The continuation and scaling-up of
activities seems to be assured with the financing already available from other donors (GFATM
and PEPFAR) and the likelihood of additional financing from the Bank (EMSAP II).

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project's original development objective is consistent with current development priorities and
with country and sectoral strategies as expressed in the PRSP and the CAS for Ethiopia.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

Overall, the project delivered on its development objective. The project did help
accelerate implementation of the Federal and Regional Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS
Strategic Plans through the provision of HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment
services at all levels and in a number of sectors, and it did prioritize support for
community-driven initiatives.

Since 2000, and to a large extent because of EMSAP, there has been a major change in
the way Ethiopia is responding to the HIV epidemic. Critical achievements include the
following:

(i) Not only has the persistent silence on HIV/AIDS been broken, but EMSAP has facilitated a
generalized response to the epidemic with participation from all levels and sectors of Ethiopian
society. Social mobilization against HIV/AIDS has become a commonly used term and an
important tool that is appreciated by communities.

(ii) For the first time Government engaged civil society organizations (particularly NGOs) and
private sector in scaling up its response to HIV/AIDS under EMSAP with results satisfactory to
government as well as civil society and private sector.

(iii) Under EMSAP, awareness campaigns covered the whole country, and other interventions
such as civil society sub-projects reached about half of the woredas and kebeles, including some



                                                10

in the remotest areas.

(iv) Through EMSAP, the response to HIV/AIDS has sparked a critical examination of existing
traditions and customs by traditional leaders themselves. It has contributed to the "community
conversations" and similar initiatives that have been duplicated throughout the country. By
extending financial support directly to communities, EMSAP has gone beyond the traditional
"giving a message" approach to the more empowering "giving a voice" approach.

(v) The scope of direct community support has been enormous and includes youth groups,
women groups, networks of people living with HIV/AIDS, faith-based organizations, worker
unions and private sector organizations. The Emergency AIDS Fund has disbursed about US$23
million to 1,934 eligible beneficiaries for sub-projects on prevention (35% of sub-projects),
care/support (35% of sub-projects), advocacy (25% of sub-projects ) and other interventions (5%
of sub-projects).

(vi) Under EMSAP, the support for public sector entities has resulted in some remarkable
successes that go beyond basic workplace interventions and the creation of awareness: 15 federal
ministries have now established AIDS Funds to which employees contribute 0.5 to 2 percent of
their salary for activities related to HIV prevention, care and treatment for infected or affected
fellow workers; six regional governments have also started to undertake this initiative.

(vii) The awareness and knowledge about HIV/AIDS has seen a positive trend, and the demand
for services, from VCT and STI services to support for OVCs, has seen a dramatic increase to the
extent that the existing systems can hardly cope with the demand. This inability to meet the
demand occurred despite an equally dramatic increase in the number of some facilities: the
number of VCT sites increased from 17 in 2002 to 658 in 2005, and 129 PMTCT sites were
established. The expansion of VCT and PMTCT services paved the way for GFATM and
PEPFAR supported ART program. The EMSAP funds disbursed through the woredas have been
and still are, to a large extent, among the few resources available for community-based
interventions including home-based care.

(viii) EMSAP has been instrumental in the establishment of a wide ranging coordinating
structure for the national response to HIV/AIDS, from central level to community level. Despite
being a new structure, it has functioned remarkably well. The gradually improving quality in
project management at HAPCO level as well as kebele and woreda level testifies to capacity
improvements facilitated by EMSAP at all levels. The institutional arrangements have generated
donors interest in supporting the national response and enormous resources have been made
available, mostly earmarked for HIV/AIDS treatment.

An assessment of the project indicators is presented in Annex 1 and discussed in some more
details in the next paragraphs. It should be noted that, in retrospect, some of the indicators were
not appropriate for a MAP.

The objectives of phase one of the 12-15 year Africa-wide MAP were to scale up
existing programs and to build capacity. However, at the project level, indicators were
introduced that went beyond measuring the above mentioned objectives and reached into
the areas of "outcome" and "impact" that were beyond the scope of the project and for
which the project should not be held accountable (the most that could be expected from




                                                 11

the project would be "to make some kind of contribution" towards those outcomes).

Output indicators

1. Access to treatment for opportunistic infections increased from 30 to 50 percent. There
were no baseline data, and there is no reliable information on access to treatment.
However, large quantities of drugs for treatment of opportunistic infections have been
procured and distributed to health institutions.

2. The number of national surveillance sites will have increased by 2 in the first year and
by 10 by the end of the project. The number of surveillance sites which was only 35 (26
urban and 9 rural) in 2001 has now increased to 84 (38 urban and 46 rural).

3. The number of blood banks will have increased by 25 percent by the end of the project.
The number of blood banks in the country, which was only 9 at the beginning of the
project, is now 14, an increase of 5 or 56 percent. Of the 5 new blood banks, 2 were
financed by IDA and 3 by the Global Fund. Substantial support was given to ensure
safety of blood for transfusion, mainly through the Ethiopian Red Cross Society. All
blood transfusions are reportedly 100 percent free from HIV.

4. At least 70 percent of the participating woredas have implemented their agreed action
plans. Currently, EMSAP supports 266 woreda AIDS councils and their respective
prevention and control offices (the set target of 165 woredas was achieved within the first
two years of the project).

5. EAF disbursements are at least 70 percent of plan level. At the end of 2005, EAF
disbursements were about 100 percent of plan level.

Process indicators

1. Functional HIV/AIDS councils will have increased as follows: regional from 1 to 11
by the end of the year 1; zonal from 0 to 20 and woredas from 0 to 165 by the end of year
3 of the project. The NACs system is now firmly set at the federal level, in the 11
regions, 266 woredas and 7,350 kebeles, with functional HIV/AIDS prevention and
control offices (HAPCOs), although some may be more functional than others. Zonal
councils have not been established because of changes in the government administrative
structure.

2. Councils at all levels (in participating woredas) have defined work programs in year 2
of the project. Councils had defined work programs in every project year.

3. The number of affordable VCT services incorporated into ANC, TB and STI clinics
will have increased by 10 percent by the end of the project. The number of VCT sites
which was only 17 in 2001 has increased to 658 by the end of 2005. Remarkably high
progress was made in expanding VCT services, especially in urban areas. Demand for
services was created substantially through community involvement and campaigns to



                                             12

reduce stigma. The number of individuals receiving voluntary counseling and testing has
risen sharply during the last year, and this trend is likely to continue unabated with the
acceleration of ART. Up to now, about 450,000 people have been tested, of which about
10 percent have been found to be positive.

4. Increase in the number of anti-AIDS clubs in high schools: year 1, 25 percent
increase, and 20 percent increase each in subsequent two years of the project. There was
no baseline, but the achievement is definitely substantial. Over ten thousands anti-AIDS
clubs have been established all over the country both in school and out-of-school
settings.

5. Funds distribution and financial management mechanisms will have been installed
within three months of project effectiveness at the national level. Installation was already
done by credit effectiveness.

Impact indicators

1. Eighty percent of the population will be aware of HIV/AIDS and its prevention in
participating woredas by the end of the project. Nationwide, about 90 percent of the
population are aware of HIV/AIDS and its prevention. IEC activities were widely
conducted and successfully created awareness in all population groups. Public and
private media are heavily engaged in transmitting regular HIV/AIDS related messages on
TV, radio and newspapers. HIV/AIDS has almost become a household word because of
these intensive campaigns by the media and other forums. However, less progress has
been made on behavior change.

2. Use of condoms at last sexual contact among young people (14-19 years) will increase
by 20 percent by the end of the project. There was no baseline, and there is no current
data available for the use of condoms by the age group 14-19 years. There has been an
increase in condom distribution from 4 million in 2000 to 61 million in 2004, mostly
in urban areas and among the military. However, the use of condoms is still very low. A
study indicated that consistent use of condoms is weak among high risk groups (among
the persons who engage in higher risk sex, only 40 percent in urban areas and 3 percent
in rural areas use condoms).

3. Prevalence of HIV and STIs will be reduced. There was no baseline, and the reduction
target was not quantified. Facilities and drugs for the management of STIs were
improved. However, the problem is of such magnitude that the improvement is not
sufficient to meet the demand. As to the HIV prevalence, unfortunately figures are not
available for 2004 and 2005. The two sets of available data for 2001, 2002 and 2003 need
to be interpreted with caution because of the increase in the number of national
surveillance sites and changes in the methods used in the computation of data. However,
both sets show a downward trend:

        (i) According to the AIDS in Ethiopia report by the Ministry of Health,
        the adult prevalence rates for 2001, 2002 and 2003 were 7.3%, 6.6% and



                                              13

        4.4%, respectively.

        (ii) HIV prevalence rates in Addis Ababa among ANC attendants for
        2001, 2002 and 2003 were 15.6%, 13.2% and 12.4%, respectively.

        Not captured in the above indicators is EMSAP's remarkable
        achievement, considering the high level of stigma and discrimination still
        prevalent in the country, with respect to persons living with HIV/AIDS
        (PLWHAs): three national associations of PLWHAs have been
        established with regional branches and number over 100,000 members in
        different regions and towns.

In EMSAP, the emphasis was mainly on process and outputs, which have been
substantial. A great disappointment is the failure of HAPCO to set in place a fully
functioning M&E system. Donors should share some responsibility for this shortcoming,
since it appears that there are still unresolved differences in approach and system choice.
In 2005, the health sector operationalized the National Multi-Sectoral M&E Framework
that was developed in 2003, but the operationalization for other sectors is on progress.

Up to now, the coverage of interventions has been low compared to the number of people
affected by HIV. The level and quality of interventions must be incresed substantially to
make a meaningful impact on the epidemic. Many of the services are limited to urban
areas and to higher economic levels.

The latest sentinel surveillance report indicates that HIV is spreading into the rural
population at a slow but steady rate. While the urban epidemic has peaked at a high
plateau of 12.6% in 2003, the prevalence rate in rural Ethiopia has increased from 0.8%
in 1995 to 1.9% in 2000, 2.1% in 2001, 2.4% in 2002 and 2.6% in 2003. The objectives
of EMSAP II would be to support a multisectoral enabling environment especially in the
rural areas (over eighty five percent of the population) for priority groups,
complementing other donor supported programs.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

There are no recent studies or data that could be used to carry out a meaningful a posteriori
economic and financial analysis of the implementation of EMSAP.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the project outcome is satisfactory. Not only has the project development objective been
met, but EMSAP has been instrumental in bringing about cultural changes in the population#s
perception of HIV/AIDS and other major changes in the Ethiopian response to the HIV epidemic.
In addition to the establishment of well performing coordinating structures at different levels, the



                                                14

project has been able to harness the talents and energy of all sectors of Ethiopian society,
including NGOs, associations, and the private sector. Awareness and knowledge about
HIV/AIDS are now quite high, and there has been a significant expansion in the demand and
delivery of VCT and PMTCT services. EMSAP#s achievements generated interest in supporting
the national response on the part of GFATM, PEPFAR and other donors.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

EMSAP has dealt with the gender aspects of HIV infections. The following few
examples are worth mentioning:

            · The "Handbook for HIV and AIDS Mainstreaming" for a scaled
                 up gender-sensitive multisectoral response, jointly prepared by
                 HAPCO and the UNDP Ethiopia Country Office, includes a tool
                 on gender analysis. This is a specific tool for outlining gender-
                 based differences and the implications of these on the HIV/AIDS
                 vulnerability of women and young girls.
            · A program to enable women and girls to protect themselves from
                 sexual and other violence (including the "virgin girls association")
                 has been planned and executed.
            · The Ethiopian Women Lawyers Association (EWLA) is
                 supporting women in their efforts to fight violence and forced sex.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The establishment of HAPCO at different levels and the creation and development of many civil
society organizations are significant institutional developments. Improved management skills in
planning and implementation of projects have been developed through training and learning by
doing. Although there is still room for improvement, effective mechanisms and instruments for
coordination and management are now in place, creating a favorable environment for a
substantially increased absorption capacity and a scaling-up of activities.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

There are interesting examples of the positive unintended outcome of EMSAP. In one region
(Oromia), the traditional leaders publicly announced that the practice of widow inheritance would
no longer be accepted unless the widow and her new husband undergo HIV testing. In some
youth clubs, the members contributed to a fund in order to help finance the education of orphans.

EMSAP paved the way for the support provided by the Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and
Malaria (GFATM) and the US#President#s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). World
Bank, GFATM and other donors# funds are managed by HAPCO which has become the sole
entity in Ethiopia to coordinate the national response to HIV/AIDS.




                                                 15

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

As this is a Core ICR, there has not been any beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop to
discuss the ICR results. However, during the course of project implementation, there have been a
number of studies and reviews, including stakeholder consultations, which have contributed to a
better response to HIV/AIDS (see the list of supporting documents in Annex 12). The
conclusions and recommendations of those studies and reviews have been used in the
preparation of this ICR.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate


A number of factors will reduce the risk that the development outcome will not be
maintained. First key legislation, policies and strategies supporting the fight against
HIV/AIDS have been issued. Second, organizational structures for multisectoral
responses with a great degree of decentralization have been established with the
involvement and commitment of authorities at all levels. Third, mechanisms have been
designed and tested to make funds available to civil society and communities on a large
scale. Fourth, a start has been made for mainstreaming HIV/AIDS into government
ministries and agencies. Together, those achievements contributed to raising the profile
of HIV/AIDS as a development issue and allowed the Government to mobilize
substantial additional resources from donors.


The demand for services keeps increasing, and the amount of funds required to meet the
demand in the future will be very large. It is clear that the Government alone cannot
guarantee that sufficient funds will be available. However, the implementation of
EMSAP by Government has created a favorable enabling environment for the
continuation of the financing of the HIV/AIDS program by donors, including IDA.
Substantial amounts will be made available by the Global Fund and PEPFAR to finance
specific activities, but may not be sufficient to finance the continuation and expansion of
community-based activities by members of civil society. Since this is an area where,
despite the delays and problems, Government/HAPCO have been responsive to the
Bank's suggestions and have collaborated closely with the Bank, there is a compelling
case for additional financing from IDA to support an EMSAP II. As a matter of fact, it
would be quite irrational for the Bank not to continue its support for activities that it has
been instrumental in getting started, but which required more time than originally
estimated to put in place the necessary infrastructure and to be fully developed.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance


                                                16

(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank deserves credit for opening a frank dialogue about HIV/AIDS at the highest
level of government in 1999, particularly with the President, the Prime Minister, and the
Minister of Economy and Finance. Three results of these efforts were: the Government's
agreement to borrow IDA funds for HIV/AIDS, the willingness of the highest levels of
government to raise the issue in public speeches, and the incorporation of HIV/AIDS in
the government's poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP).

The fast-track project processing was truly amazing.Project preparation and negotiations
were carried out in a record six weeks. A large (25-person) identification mission started
its work in Ethiopia on June 26, 2000, collaborating with a rapidly assembled National
Preparation Task Force. On July 12, with the team still in the field, a video-conference
decision meeting approved the start of the appraisal process on July 17. Negotiations
were completed in Washington on August 4, 2000. A $59.7 million credit was approved
for Ethiopia (along with a $50.0 million credit for Kenya) by the Board of Executive
Directors on September 12, 2000, as part of the overall $500 million MAP operation.

In line with the MAP approach, the EMSAP was conceived as a financial support to the
implementation of the Ethiopian national policy adopted in 1998 and the 2000-2004
Strategic Framework for the National Response to HIV/AIDS, on the contents of which
the Bank did not have a significant impact. The EMSAP committed to support whatever
activities were already in the national strategic plan without engaging in a discussion of
priority activities. Preparation focused on setting up implementation arrangements that
would accelerate the flow of funds to a multiplicity of implementers, with 44 percent of
the credit allocated for grants to civil society and communities. The project preparation
period was so short that the Bank could not undertake a thorough appraisal of the
Government's five-year strategic framework from technical, economic, financial, social,
or institutional perspectives. Baseline data were not established before the start of the
project, nor was a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system developed. In-depth capacity
assessments of the multiple coordinating and implementing institutions were not
undertaken. The only exception was a rapid review of NGO capacity that provided an
inventory of NGOs but insufficient analysis of their implementation capacity. The
preparation was incomplete, with unrealistic expectations as to the time required for
implementation.

There is no question that the fast-track preparation was in itself an extraordinary
achievement. To the extent that the quality at entry of EMSAP has to be judged within
the context of the AIDS crisis and the need for urgent action by individual countries and
the international community including the Bank, the remarkable speed of project
preparation would justify a rating of "highly satisfactory". However, the shortcomings of
the fast-track preparation process cannot be ignored. A number of preparation tasks were


                                               17

in fact postponed to the implementation phase of the project. The time saved at the
preparation and appraisal stage was in part offset by the difficulties and delays of getting
the project started and implemented, as evidenced by the two-year extension of the
closing date. The lack of baseline data and the absence of a performing M&E system has
remained a problem for the whole life of the project. In addition, during negotiations of
the IDA credit, the Bank's senior management accepted the Government's refusal to
contract out financial management as a means of accelerating financial flows and
ensuring transparency and efficiency in the management and utilization of financial
resources. That decision to compromise the "fiduciary infrastructure" that was part of the
MAP concept may have been responsible for the slow initial implementation of the
project and for some of the subsequent problems regarding audits and the flow of funds.
On balance, the quality at entry is rated "moderately satisfactory".

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The role played by the Addis Ababa Country Office (with the same task team leader
during the whole project period) in the supervision of the project was very positive and
has been greatly appreciated by the Government and HAPCO. In addition, the Bank
Headquarters, particularly the AIDS Campaign Team for Africa (ACTafrica) and the
Global HIV/AIDS Monitoring and Evaluation Team (GAMET), provided valuable
implementation assistance during the course of project execution.

The Bank could have shown more flexibility on disbursements. Because most
implementing partners cannot pre-finance activities, they receive an advance (first
tranche payment) under their financial grant agreements with HAPCO/PCU.
HAPCO/PCU cannot claim replenishment of the special account for the amounts
disbursed as first tranche payments under the financial grant agreements with
implementing partners, as long as HAPCO/PCU has not received from the implementing
partners their SOEs for the amounts of the first tranches. This requirement is in line with
the disbursement handbook for HIV/AIDS projects and with the PAD. However, this
requirement has turned out to be a problem because many implementing partners have
been slow in submitting their SOEs, although the situation has improved in recent years.
Apparently, the Bank has waived, or has not enforced this requirement for some
HIV/AIDS projects in other countries. The same exception could have been made for
EMSAP.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Because of the speed of project preparation and approval and the implementation assistance
provided by the Bank, its performance is rated as "satisfactory" overall, despite some
shortcomings.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance



                                                18

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency               Performance

HIV/AIDS
Prevention and
Control Office
(HAPCO)

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Government assembled a National Preparation Task Force and, to the extent possible,
tried to collaborate with the Bank Team on project preparation. However, the preparation
process was essentially led by the Bank; the Government's contribution was limited,
because this type of project was something new for Government.

At the implementation stage, the government performance was satisfactory in many
respects. Although it took longer than planned, the establishment of HAPCO and its
decentralization to the 11 regions and the woredas was quite an achievement. Top
authorities at all levels of the structures for multi-sectoral response took key leadership
positions in these organizations. However, mechanisms to ensure accountability remain
weak.

Domestic resources have been made available: the Federal Government contributed about
$3 million, and Regional Governments covered the salaries of most of the staff of
regional HAPCOs. The Government produced key legislations, policies, and strategies to
support the fight against HIV. Sector offices have assigned focal persons for
HIV/AIDS,HIV /AIDS mainstreaming has begun.

The Emergency HIV/AIDS Fund (EAF) has been a success, albeit with room for
improvement. For example, HAPCO could have had regular calls for proposals
announced through public media and the processing time could be reduced. The
diversification of proposals could be encouraged through technical support and by
developing priority areas for proposal development based on the critical elements of the
strategic plan and annual plans. Review boards could have wider organizational
representation/mix and technical skills, and display greater commitment.

As discussed in Section 8 on outcomes and in Annex 4 on outputs by component, the two
main weaknesses of the Government/HAPCO implementation performance relate to
M&E and accounting and finance. Since the M&E Component was not implemented,
HAPCO was not able to collate its own statistics on the HIV prevalence rate in Ethiopia.



                                                19

It had to rely on surveillance sites instead of biological surveys. The number of
surveillance sites has more than doubled during the project, but statistics provided by the
Ministry of Health were not made available in a timely manner. The most recent official
figures date back to 2003-2004. HAPCO has given money to the National Health
Research Institute to undertake a national biological survey which will be linked to
hepatitis B; this survey should be done as soon as possible.

Although the Government commitment was good, the establishment of administrative
structures adequate, and the decentralization of activities successful, in view of the
prementioned shortcomings, the overall borrower performance is rated as moderately
satisfactory, rather than satisfactory.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

As one of the first two projects under the new Multi-Country AIDS Program for Africa
(MAP), EMSAP has been the focus of many studies and reviews which have contributed
a very long list of lessons that can be learned from the design and implementation of the
project. Most of the lessons on that long list are dealt with in other sections of the ICR.
This section 8 on "lessons learned" presents only a shorter list of the most important
lessons that are relevant not only for a follow up operation (EMSAP II) in Ethiopia, but
also for new HIV/AIDS projects in other countries.

Lesson No. 1: The establishment of an HIV/AIDS coordinating institution, with
significant decentralization within a country, is a major undertaking; one should not
underestimate the time required for its creation, staffing and effective start of operation.

Lesson No. 2: Financial allocations and disbursements are necessary but insufficient
conditions for successful NGO participation in the fight against HIV/AIDS. A number of
factors can undermine NGO contributions, even when funding is accessible, including:
the absence of a capacity building strategy based on in-depth assessments, the lack of
baseline knowledge about the numbers and coverage of target populations, inadequate
monitoring and evaluation of NGO activities.

Lesson No. 3: There is a need to increase funding for community level activities
substantially to meet the demands created through community mobilization, to reach
more woredas with a focus on rural populations and to support income generating and
sustainable activities that encourage self-reliance.

Lesson No. 4: Adequate emphasis needs to be given to expansion of prevention and care
and support services, particularly in rural areas where over eighty five percent of the
population lives (the latest sentinel surveillance report indicates that HIV is spreading
into the rural population at a slow but steady rate).

Lesson No. 5: Failure to establish key baseline data and to design and install a monitoring
and evaluation system was a missed opportunity for creating a targeted, results-based



                                              20

approach. A functional M&E system is essential for prioritizing and targeting.

Lesson No. 6: The role of HAPCO in the multi-sectoral response is crucial and needs to
be strengthened, rationalized and streamlined at different levels, with emphasis on
accountability and efficient financial and information management systems.

Lesson number 7: The capacity building for government agencies and civil society has
been substantial and generally successful. On the negative side, however, high turnover
of staff at all levels affected effective and timely implementation of projects. Appropriate
incentives and a comprehensive plan for capacity building should be drawn to retain the
trained and experienced staff and improve the skills of professional assigned in
HIV/AIDS prevention and control offices, particularly regional and woreda level
HAPCO offices (RHAPCO & WHAPCO).

Lesson 8: More recently, the support for public sector entities has resulted in some
remarkable successes that go beyond basic workplace interventions and the creation of
awareness. The Ethiopian Road Authority (ERA) is a good example of successful
mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS activities, involving both the ERA staff and the workers
employed by road contractors. The activities include: advocacy, awareness, voluntary
testing, and peer educator training Staff contributes 1% of their salary for PLWHAs and
special efforts to find suitable job re-assignments for its staff who become infected and to
provide employment to orphans of its staff. The Ethiopian Road Authority has become a
model for others and is participating in exchange of experiences with other organizations
to address effective sectoral interventions.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


No comments on HAPCO's ICR included in Annex 10.


(b) Cofinanciers


Not applicable.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

No comments.




                                                21

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

Overall Development Objective of the MAP

The Project was part of the first phase of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP)
for the Africa Region. The MAP was designed and structured as a "horizontal" adaptable
program lending instrument, which was to consist of individual operations in African
countries that met certain eligibility criteria. The overall development objective of the
MAPs was to dramatically increase access to HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment
programs, with emphasis on vulnerable groups (such as youth, women of childbearing
age, and other groups at high risk).

Specific Development Objective of the Ethiopian Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
(EMSAP)

In collaboration with other members of the International Partnership Against AIDS in
Africa (IPAA), the project was to help accelerate implementation of the Federal and
Regional Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Strategic Plans, particularly through the provision of
HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment services at all levels and in a number of
sectors. The project was to prioritize support for community-driven initiatives.

Key Performance Indicators. The following constitute the summary indicators for
outputs, process, and impact of the project.

Output Indicators:

1. Access to treatment for opportunistic infections increased from 30 to 50 percent.

2. The number of national surveillance sites will have increased by 2 in the first year and
by 10 by the end of the project.

3. The number of blood banks will have increased by 25 percent by the end of the project.

4. At least 70 percent of the participating woredas have implemented their agreed action
plans.

5. EAF disbursements are at least 70 percent of plan level:

Process Indicators:

1. Functional HIV/AIDS councils will have increased as follows: regional from 1 to 11
by the end of the year 1; zonal from 0 to 20 and woredas from 0 to 165 by the end of year
3 of the project.




                                               22

2. Councils at all levels (in participating woredas) have defined work programs in year 2
of the project.

3. The number of affordable VCT services incorporated into ANC, TB, and STI clinics
will have increased by 10 percent by the end of the project.

4. Increase in the number of anti-AIDS clubs in high schools: a 25 percent increase in
year 1, and a 20 percent increase in each of the subsequent two years of the project.

5. Funds distribution and financial management mechanisms will have been installed
within three months of project effectiveness at the national level.

Impact Indicators:

1. Eighty percent of the population will be aware of HIV/AIDS and its prevention in
participating woredas by the end of the project.

2. Use of condoms at last sexual contact among young people (14-19 years) will increase
by 20 percent by the end of the project.

3. Prevalence of HIV and STIs will be reduced.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The original objective was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                                                        Actual Value Achieved
   Indicator       Baseline      Original Target           Formally

                    Value     Values (from approval Revised Target         at Completion or
                                    documents)              Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 : Population to be aware of HIV/AIDS and its prevention in participating woredas

Value
(quantitative or 0            80%                                      90%
Qualitative)

Date achieved 01/05/2001 06/30/2006                                    06/30/2006

Comments         Nationwide, about 90% of the population are aware of HIV/AIDS and its
(incl. %         prevention. IEC activities were widely conducted and successfully created
achievement) awareness in all population groups.

                 Use of condoms at last sexual contact among young people (14-19 years) to
Indicator 2 :
                 increase by 20 percent by the end of the project.

Value            n. a.        +20%                                     n. a.



                                                23

(quantitative or
Qualitative)

Date achieved 01/05/2001 06/30/2006                                       06/30/2006

Comments
                 There is no current data available for the use of condoms by the age group 14-19
(incl. %
                 years.
achievement)

Indicator 3 : Prevalence of HIV and STIs to be reduced

Value
(quantitative or n.a.                                                     4.4%
Qualitative)

Date achieved 01/05/2001                                                  06/30/2006

Comments         According to the "AIDS in Ethiopia" report by the Ministry of Health, the adult
(incl. %         prevalence rates for 2001, 2002 and 2003 were 7.3%, 6.6% and 4.4%,
achievement) respectively.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                    Original Target          Formally     Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator         Baseline
                     Value           Values (from         Revised Target     at Completion or
                                 approval documents)          Values           Target Years

Indicator 1 : Access to treatment for opportunistic infections increased

Value
(quantitative or 30%            50%                                       n.a.
Qualitative)

Date achieved 05/01/2000        06/30/2006                                06/30/2006

Comments         There is no reliable information on access to treatment. However, large quantities
(incl. %         of drugs for treatment of opportunistic infections have been procured and
achievement) distribute

Indicator 2 : The number of national surveillance sites will have increased

Value
(quantitative or 35             +49                                       84
Qualitative)

Date achieved 01/05/2001        06/30/2006                                06/30/2006

Comments         The number of surveillance sites which was only 35 (26 urban and 9 rural) in
(incl. %         2001 has now increased to 84 (38 urban and 46 rural).



                                                24

achievement)

                 The number of blood banks will have increased by 25 percent by the end of the
Indicator 3 :
                 project.

Value
(quantitative or 9                                                       14
Qualitative)

Date achieved 01/05/2001                                                 06/30/2006

Comments
                 The number of blood banks in the country, which was 9, is now 14, an increase
(incl. %
                 of 56%.
achievement)

                 At least 70% of the participating woredas have implemented their agreed action
Indicator 4 :
                 plans.

Value
                 165 existing
(quantitative or                70%                                      100%
                 woredas
Qualitative)

Date achieved 01/05/2001        06/30/2006                               06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %         EMSAP supported 266 woredas AIDS councils.
achievement)

Indicator 5 : EAF disbursements are at least 70 percent of plan level

Value
(quantitative or 0%             70%                                      100%
Qualitative)

Date achieved 01/05/2006        06/30/2006                               06/30/2006

Comments         More than 7000 kebeles and a substantial number of NGOs, Cs, PLWHAs,
(incl. %         Private sectors, AIDs clubs and associations participated HIV/AIDS
achievement) interventions in 276 EMSA-supported woredas

Indicator 6 : Increase in functional HIV/AIDS councils (regional, zonal, and woredas)

Value
(quantitative or 0              11, 20, 165                              11, __, 266
Qualitative)

Date achieved 01/05/2001        06/30/2006                               06/30/2006

Comments         All 11 regions and 266 woredas have established functional HIV /AIDS councils.
(incl. %         Zones are no longer active administrative units



                                                 25

achievement)

                 Councils at all levels (in participating woredas) have defined work programs in
Indicator 7 :
                 year 2 of the project.

Value
(quantitative or n.a.           each year                                  each year
Qualitative)

Date achieved 01/05/2001        01/05/2003                                 06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %         Councils had defined work programs in every project year.
achievement)

                 The number of affordable VCT services incorporated into ANC, TB and STI
Indicator 8 :
                 clinics will have increased

Value
(quantitative or 17             +10%                                       658
Qualitative)

Date achieved 01/05/2001        06/30/2006                                 06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %         The number of VCT sites increased by +3,870% by end 2005.
achievement)

Indicator 9 : Increase in the number of anti-AIDS clubs in high schools:

Value
(quantitative or n.a.                                                      10,000
Qualitative)

Date achieved 01/05/2001                                                   06/30/2006

Comments
                 Over 10,000 anti-AIDS clubs have been established both in schools and out of
(incl. %
                 schools settings.
achievement)

                 Funds distribution and financial management mechanisms will have been
Indicator 10 :
                 installed within three months of project effectiveness at the national level.

Value
(quantitative or 0              complete                                   complete
Qualitative)

Date achieved 01/05/2001        06/30/2001                                 06/30/2006

Comments         Done by credit effectiveness.



                                                   26

(incl. %
achievement)




                27

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at
Restructuring   Board                      Amount Disbursed        Reason for
                            Restructuring
    Date(s)    Approved                    at Restructuring in Restructuring & Key
             PDO Change      DO       IP        USD M            Changes Made

12/22/2003                     S       S                 23.66




                                       28

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


            Components                 Appraisal         Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                   Estimate (USD M)   Estimate (USD M)      Appraisal

CAPACITY BUILDING FOR GOV.
                                               8.80                11.10          126.14
& CIVIL SOCIETY.

EXPANDING GOV. MULTI-
                                              19.70                20.20          102.54
SECTORAL RESPONSE

THE EMERGENCY HIV/AIDS
                                              28.10                28.80          102.49
FUND

PROJECT COORDINATION AND
                                               6.80                  8.80         129.41
MANAGEMENT

               Total Baseline Cost            63.40                68.90

Physical Contingencies                         0.00

Price Contingencies                            0.00

                Total Project Costs           63.40

Front-end fee PPF                              0.00                  0.00           0.00

Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00                  0.00           0.00

         Total Financing Required             63.40                68.90



(b) Financing


                                              Appraisal
       Source of Funds            Type of                   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                               Cofinancing  Estimate (USD
                                                 M)       Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

  Borrower                                           2.00              2.20       110.00

  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                        59.70              65.10       109.05
ASSOCIATION


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                          29

30

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Capacity building for government agencies and civil society

Rating: satisfactory.

The capacity to respond to the epidemic was greatly facilitated by strengthening
HAPCOs at all levels and establishing councils and committees that involve major
stakeholders. These structures facilitated greater political commitment and community
participation. EMSAP provided financial, material and technical assistance to enhance
performance and build capability to respond rapidly and effectively.

The IDA-supported National AIDS Council (NAC) system is now operational at the
federal level, in the 11 regions, in 266 woredas (far exceeding the set target of 165
woredas) and in 7,350 kebeles. All of the secretariats/HAPCOs from the federal to the
woreda level are staffed with the minimum required manpower.

Human resource capacity building efforts were numerous: 388 public sector and 671 civil
society staff were trained under EMSAP. Professionals from governmental and non-
governmental partners at different levels have gained technical skills in various fields
(e.g. project formulation and management, counseling, home-based care, etc), which
enabled the emergence and participation of various partners in the response to HIV at all
levels and participation of people infected and affected by HIV.

Essential material and equipment (vehicles, computers, furniture, etc.) have been
provided to regional and woreda HAPCOs, sector offices and civil society organizations.

HAPCOs at all levels are now enabled to provide better guidance, coordinate the multi-
sectoral response, develop and put into operation guidelines and manuals, and manage
the funds.

Expansion of health facilities, mostly in rural areas, increased geographic access to
integrated prevention, treatment and care services. IDA resources were used to procure
drugs for opportunistic infections and purchasing of testing kits, CD4 and Viral Load
machines that are essential in monitoring antiretroviral therapy.

In conclusion, the capacity building for government agencies and civil society has been
substantial and generally successful. On the negative side, however, high turnover of
staff at all levels affected effective and timely implementation of projects.

As to the future, capacity building initiatives need to be strengthened at all levels to
ensure sustainability. Based on an assessment of needs and priorities, a comprehensive
plan for capacity building activities must be developed and implemented to strengthen
the technical competence of professionals assigned in HIV/AIDS prevention and control
offices, particularly in regional and woreda HAPCO offices ( RHAPCO & WHAPCO).
There is also a need to focus on community capacity building, integrating HIV/AIDS



                                              31

with poverty reduction and gender programs to address most vulnerable and
disadvantaged groups in the society (women, youths, PLWHA).

Component 2. Expanding governmental multi-sectoral response.

Rating: moderately satisfactory.

Forty-seven line ministries and agencies at federal level and 125 at regional level
established workplace committees / task forces, appointed focal persons and received
financial support.

Initially, mainstreaming concepts were not widely known and not enforced in the sectors
properly. Lack of effective mainstreaming led to the concentration of activities in only a
few areas. Basic institutional budgets are very low and cannot support capacity
developed through external grants; facilities run down fast and many trained staff leave
in search of better opportunities. Sectoral responses were weak due also to
misconceptions in mainstreaming, and the lack of follow-up and evaluation mechanisms.
In an attempt to address the issues, HAPCO developed a mainstreaming strategy and
manual. The partnership forum included a sub-forum for sector ministries.

Finally, the support for public sector entities resulted in some remarkable successes
going beyond basic workplace interventions and the creation of awareness: 15 federal
ministries established AIDS Funds to which employees contribute 0.5 to 2 percent of
their salary for activities related to HIV prevention, care and treatment for infected or
affected fellow workers; six regional governments also started to undertake this initiative.

The Ethiopian Road Authority (ERA) is a good example of successful mainstreaming of
HIV/AIDS activities, involving both the ERA's staff and the workers employed by road
contractors. Activities, coordinated by task forces at Headquarters and in the different
workplaces, includes advocacy, awareness, voluntary testing, peer educator training, etc.
Every month, staff contributes 1% of their salary for PLWHAs. The Authority is making
special efforts to find suitable job re-assignments for its staff who become infected and to
provide employment to orphans of its staff. Also, all road contracts include an additional
amount of 2% of the contract to finance HIV/AIDS activities by an experienced NGO or
Government Organization for the benefit of the contractor's workers. The Ethiopian Road
Authority has become a model for others and is participating in an exchange of
experiences with other organizations including some from other countries.

Generally, the involvement of sector offices in the HIV response needs to be
strengthened in the future by allocating adequate budget (2 percent of total budget, for
example) and authority for HIV-related activities. This would require successful
advocacy work with high-level officials to ensure mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS as one of
the core activities of sectoral offices.

Component 3. The Emergency HIV/AIDS Fund (EAF).




                                              32

Rating: highly satisfactory.

The Emergency HIV/AIDS Fund (EAF) was designed innovatively as a recipient-
executed fund for community-level HIV/AIDS interventions, focusing primarily on
awareness, prevention, care, and support. Nearly 50% of the IDA Credit was allocated to
this component. Funds were to be channeled through two windows: one NGO and PO
window for channeling funds directly to non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and
private organizations (POs); and one community window for channeling funds directly to
communities and organizations operating at the woreda and kebele level. At appraisal,
the cost estimate of that component was US$28.1 million.

The EAF covered a large number (266) of woredas across the country, and reached more
kebeles (7,350) than any other HIV prevention initiative. The number of sub-projects was
1,934, of which 158 financed by the Federal HAPCO and 1,776 financed by the Regional
HAPCOs. Of the 1,934 sub-projects, 35% were for prevention, 35% for care and support,
25% for advocacy and 5% for other interventions. The total amount disbursed (Special
Account A) was US$16.1 million for the 1,934 sub-projects, of which US$6.6 million
through the NGO and PO windows.

The EAF highly popularized HIV/AIDS activities, reduced stigma and discrimination
associated with HIV/AIDS, promoted participation of people living with HIV/AIDS
(PLWHAs), and encouraged the participation of the private sector in the fight against the
HIV epidemic. It contributed to establishing and strengthening CBOs like Anti-AIDS
Clubs (AACs) and PLWHA associations and enhancing their grant utilization and
management capacity. High demand for prevention services, such VCT and PMTCT,
was created.

Much of the care and support activities in the country are initiated and supported by
grassroots level organizations. Through the EAF, the participation of the community and
civil society reached the target beneficiaries (about 35,000 PLWHA and about 80,000
orphans and vulnerable children) directly in many woredas.

Although there was some improvement in recent years, the capacity of the implementing
partners (NGOs and CBOs, as well as GOs and POs) to manage funds and report on their
utilization was low. Delays on the submission of SOEs to HAPCO resulted in delays of
IDA replenishments to the Special Account A.

Lack of financial management skills by CBOs prompted the allocation of a large
proportion of the funds to NGOs. The fragmentation of projects, together with the
irregular flow of funds, barred a continuous support of activities. Furthermore, the lack
of regular monitoring and evaluation to check the physical performance of the
implementing agencies was a drawback. Finally, there is a danger of developing
dependency syndrome on community-based institutions.

One of the lessons learned is that financial allocations and disbursements are necessary
but insufficient conditions for successful NGO participation in the fight against



                                             33

HIV/AIDS. A number of factors can undermine NGO contributions, even when funding
is accessible, including: the absence of a capacity building strategy based on in-depth
assessments, the lack of baseline knowledge about the numbers and coverage of target
populations, and inadequate monitoring and evaluation of NGO activities.

For the future, funding for community level activities needs to be increased substantially
to meet the demands created through community mobilization, to reach more woredas
with a focus on rural populations, and to support income generating and sustainable
activities that encourage self-reliance.

Component 4. Project Coordination and Management.

Rating: moderately satisfactory.

The national AIDS Council (NAC) held seven meetings to review the overall national
situation, the performance of the Managing Board, HAPCO, and other stakeholders and
to give policy guidance that enhanced the working condition and environment for
HAPCO. The Management Board met 38 times, deliberated and passed resolutions on
basic issues that include reviewing monthly and annual reports, providing guidance to
HAPCO, approving annual plan and budget, reviewing project agreements, etc. The
multi-sectoral composition of the board enabled it to entertain issues that are of major
concern for all sectors. A National Partnership Forum against HIV/AIDS (NPFAAE) was
formed and is serving as an effective platform for its constituent members to enhance the
multi-sectoral response. Membership of the Forum is open to all stakeholders
contributing to the fight against HIV/AIDS in Ethiopia. The Forum contributed to a
progressive improvement in the level of coordination.

It took longer than originally estimated for the establishment of HAPCO/PCU at different
levels and the start of operations. Therefore, at the beginning of the project,
disbursements were slow, which is one of the reasons why the Bank rated the project
"unsatisfactory" in the early years. The PCU was hard put to recruit qualified experts,
develop operational manuals, establish regional and woreda offices, mobilize/organize
the community and implementing partners, disburse funds to implementing partners all
the way down to the woreda and kebele levels, procure and distribute essential
equipment, material, drugs and supplies, and provide services. The PCU and the
RHAPCOs were continually short of technically qualified staff, and there was a high
turnover of experts, which affected the continuity of services. Key posts like the head of
Finance, Program and Training, and M&E were often vacant for long periods of time.
These conditions undoubtedly had an impact on the performance of the PCU. Periodic
reports were not prepared and submitted on time.

The two main weaknesses of project coordination and management relate to monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) and to accounting and finance.

Regular follow-up and support systems are important to achieve wider and effective
participation with the establishment of functional monitoring and evaluation systems at



                                             34

all levels, based on good documentation and timely reporting. With respect to M&E,
a National M&E Framework was developed in a participatory manner and launched
officially in December 2003. The framework contains a total of 54 indicators, of which
28 were to be monitored routinely. The health sector implemented the Framework in
2005, but implementation of the Framework in other sectors is still pending. For this
project, therefore, development of a fully functional M&E system was not achieved. The
failure to establish key baseline data and to design and install a monitoring and
evaluation system was a missed opportunity for creating a targeted, results-based
approach. A functional M&E system is essential for prioritizing and targeting.

With respect to accounting and finance, there were substantial delays in the submission
of audit reports, which is another reason why the project had been rated "unsatisfactory"
by the Bank. It should be noted that the late submission of audit reports is a systemic
problem in Ethiopia and not an issue specific to the project. In the case of EMSAP, a
major problem was the settlement of accounts by beneficiaries of EMSAP financing.
Implementing partners were late in submitting their statements of expenses (SOEs) to
HAPCO, which could not, in turn, claim replenishments of the Special Account from
IDA. To remedy the situation, HAPCO employed university students to go to rural areas
to help communities prepare their SOEs. The situation improved in the last two years.




                                             35

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

The Ethiopia HIV/AIDS Project and the Kenya HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project
were the first two projects under the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP). In the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the MAP, the discussion of economics costs and
benefits was general, with very little information specific to Ethiopia or Kenya. With
respect to Ethiopia, there are no recent studies or data that could be used to carry out a
meaningful a posteriori economic and financial analysis of the implementation of
EMSAP.




                                             36

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                  Unit       Responsibility/Specialty

Lending

Supervision/ICR

Eleni Albejo           Team Assistant           AFC06             ASSISTANT

Paul Geli              Consultant              MNSHD              EVALUATION

Endashaw Tadesse       Senior Operations
                                               AFTH3              OPERATIONS
Gossa                  Officer

Samuel Haile Selassie Procurement Spec.         AFTPC             PROCUREMENT

Nadeem Mohammad        Sr Operations Off.       AFTHV             OPERATIONS

                       Lead Operations
Bassam Ramadan                                 AFTH3              OPERATIONS
                       Officer

Albertus Voetberg      Lead Health Specialist  AFTHV              HEALTH

                       Sr Financial
Eshetu Yimer                                   AFTFM              FINANCE
                       Management Specia


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived          DO               IP         Actual Disbursements (USD M)

1   03/13/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             0.00

2   06/22/2001              Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory                           7.50

3   12/27/2001              Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory                           9.67

4   05/30/2002              Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory                          11.34

5   10/15/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            13.80

6   06/17/2003              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            18.86

7   12/22/2003              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            23.66

8   05/18/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            32.47

9   06/09/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            32.64

10 06/28/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            32.69

11 12/16/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            42.55

12 05/19/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            48.79

13 09/23/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            54.34


                                             37

14 06/29/2006              Satisfactory  Satisfactory                             60.68


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands
                                               No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                     consultant costs)

Lending

                    FY01                                        21                31.43

                    FY02                                                           0.00

                    FY03                                                           0.00

                    FY04                                                           0.00

                    FY05                                                           0.00

                    FY06                                                           0.00

                    FY07                                                           0.00

                                       Total:                   21                31.43

Supervision/ICR

                    FY01                                        57               155.16

                    FY02                                        56               105.81

                    FY03                                        84               142.78

                    FY04                                        79               148.56

                    FY05                                        56               120.72

                    FY06                                        26                53.71

                    FY07                                         4                 2.89

                                       Total:                  362               729.63




                                           38

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings              Borrower          Ratings

Ensuring Quality at
                        Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
Entry:

                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                   Performance:




                                              39

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)


Not applicable.




                                       40

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)


Not applicable.




                                  41

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

             HIV/AIDS PREVENTION & CONTROL OFFICE (HAPCO)
                  ETHIOPIAN MULTI SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT
                                           (EMSAP)
                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
Executive Summary
The IDA supported Ethiopian multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Project has been effective since
January 2001. The project life was originally intended for three years but was extended
by 2 years and will close in June 2006. The Credit amount was SDR 45.2 or USD 59.7
Million. HAPCO, which is entrusted to implement the project, has executed it mandate
through the specially organized Project coordination Unit (PCU).
As per the project agreement, HAPCO is expected to submit an Evaluative
Implementation Completion Report. Towards this end, this report has attempted to
evaluate and rate the overall performance of the coordinating agency (HAPCOs) and
implementing agencies (both government and the civil society).
The project developmental objectives, design, and implementation arrangements are
found to be in line with the government's policy, the Strategic Framework and priorities.
The implementation/organizational arrangement, which was embedded into the NAC
system was not only workable but also triggered the legalization of the NAC system. The
commitment of the government to scale up the national response was evidenced by the
policy, legal, and administrative measures taken. The enthusiasm and participation of the
civil society, despite resource constraints, was a manifestation of interest, willingness,
and readiness to work. The cooperation of international funding agencies, too, proved to
be of a satisfactory quality at entry for the IDA support. There has been no need of
modifying the documents of the agreement.
The National AIDS Council (NAC) system is now firmly set at the federal level, as well
as at eleven regions, 266 woredas and 7350 kebeles. The set target of 165 woredas was
accomplished after two years from the onset of the project. In this respect, the
performance level is more than satisfactory.
All of the secretariats from the federal to the woreda level are staffed with the minimum
required manpower mainly with IDA support. The coordinating and managerial capacity
of the staff is now enhanced. Additional manpower is now included mainly at the federal
and regional levels, supported either by the government or other funds like GF, UNICEF.
The opportunities for long-term human resource capacity development on strategic needs
were not fully utilized. There was high turnover and attrition of qualified staff at all
levels which affected continuity and smooth operation of activities.
The government sector implementation capacity is enhanced. At federal level, 47 line
miniseries /agencies and 125 agencies at regional level established workplace focal
taskforce/persons and accessed IDA funds. However, HIV/AIDS is not yet properly
mainstreamed into all sectors. HIV/AIDS related activities are considered as an
additional task for the focal persons, who are not yet valued for their career development.
The role and capacity of the civil society in the multi-sectoral response has grown.
About 671 NGOs, CBOs and FBOs, Associations of PLWHA, Professional Associations
Anti-AIDS clubs, adn Idirs have been capacitated through IDA support. 145 NGOs have
voluntarily joined hands and formed their National HIV/AIDS Forum. Nonetheless, they



                                               42

still face capacity limitation.
The National Partnership Forum and the periodic joint consultative meetings have served
as a valuable platform for enhancing coordination among different stakeholders. During
the reporting period, the NAC has met 7 times and the management board for 38 times.
The PCU however has been under consistent shortage of qualified manpower and high
turnover of experts. Human resource management is not attractive. The reporting and
documentation system is not properly organized.
At the federal level at total of 328 project proposals were submitted during the report
period. The National Regional Bureau has held 153 meetings and approved and granted
IDA funds for 158 projects. In all of the eleven regions, a total of 2286 project proposals
were received out of which 1513 were approved and granted funds. The quality of
project proposals and the review process has improved over time. At the federal level,
63.2% of the project holders are from the non-government sector.
However, the review process took longer than expected. The time frame set for the
review process was too short and the performance was slow. At times, the project
proposals did not fit into the national/regional needs or priorities and were redundant
with other ongoing or prospective projects. Many partners including RHAPCOs and
NGOs did not support the process of accepting and reviewing project proposals at the
federal level. The linkages between the Program, M&E, and Finance Sections were
weak, with a shortage of appraisal experts at all levels.
The PCU procurement process is based on the procurement guidelines of the WB. Since
the start of the program to the end of December 2005 E.C., goods, civil works and
services worth USD 7,550,954.37 were procured.
The major portion of procurement Birr 114, 579, 480.20 (86.33%) was on drugs, medical
supplies and equipment and allotted for strengthening the health sector. Civil Woks
included the construction and equipping of 70 new health posts, 2 new blood banks,
expansion of HIV/AIDS Ward in St. Peter's TB Specialized Referral Hospital, 11
Regional Youth Centers and the establishment of 254 Information Centers
The physical performance of youth center construction, which currently stands at 93%
(not considering Somali), is higher (84%) than that of health posts (84%). Consultancy
services were engaged for Performance Review, Updating and Development of different
Operational Guidelines and Manuals (e.g. VCT, HBC, etc), and Technical backup
support for regional implementers.
Procurement performance has improved over the years. The WB Procurement system
guaranteed adherence to correct procedures, minimize mistakes, and ensure shared
accountability. By and large, the procurement system of the agreement was acceptable
and workable.
The major portion of the procurement was handled by the PCU, jointly with the relevant
sectors, but it caused a heavy workload at headquarters and was extremely time
consuming. The procurement capacity of the RHAPCOS in general is weak. Utilization
of consultancy services for professional and technical backup service was low. The
procurement performance does not include distribution, utilization and assessment of the
impact of the goods and services on the national response.
The fund management system is demand-driven and based on periodic plans and
budgets. Birr 23,825,453.27 were disbursed during EFY 1993, Birr 102,138,039.80 in
EFY 1996, and Birr 147,118,675.50 in EFY 1997. The settlement rates for the same



                                              43

periods were 55.1%, 90.6% and 104.0%, showing an overall improvement of fund
management in the last two years.
The amount of EAF funds disbursed, which was Birr 6,025,809.00 during EFY 1993,
grew to Birr 56,666,171.62 in EFY 1996 and Birr 57,532,080.47 in EFY 1997. Like
wise, the settlement rate for the same period was 0%, 74.40% and 101.09% showing an
overall remarkable improvement in the fund management mainly in the last two years.
From EFY 1993 to 1997, fund amounting to Birr 53,095,717.35 was released to the
kebeles through their respective WACs.
The participation of the private sector has increased. Through 1993-1997 EFY, the sector
used Birr 11,751,211.64 from the IDA grant support.
The GO sector tends to settle funding at a slower rate than the non-public sector, and
the regional fund access is not related to population, geographic size, or prevalence of
the epidemic. The SOE settlement of regional GO sectors (77.11%) is relatively lower
than their federal counterparts (95.13%).
The EAF significantly contributed to establishing and strengthening community-based
initiatives and triggered sustainable income generating activities. EAF created good
opportunities for private organization to work on HIV/AIDS prevention. It can now be
safely stated that the EAF has reached more rural kebeles than any other HIV prevention
initiative.
However the fund absorption and utilization capacity of the implementing partners (both
GO and others) were slow, and the process of SOE usually prolonged. There has always
been a shortage from the revolving fund. The regions and woredas have a capacity
limitation in fund management. Most of the regions were often short of qualified staff.
Funds release to regions is not performance based. Irregular and inadequate
replenishment of funds caused the interruption of services and prolonged project life.
The government's multisectoral response was expanded to a total of 47 federal sector
ministries and agencies having access to IDA funds, amounting to Birr 113,917,971.92.
Besides undertaking work place activities like organizing workshops, training staff,
advocacy, VCT, care, and support for staff and dependents, certain ministries and
agencies undertook some remarkable and long standing functions. Even though focal task
forces/persons were assigned in most agencies, their assignment was seen by some
agencies as a part time function. The time and energy spent on HIV/AIDS was not
considered as a career development. HIV/AIDS considerations are not yet properly
mainstreamed into sectors.
Several attempts were made to establish and operationalize the national M&E system,
which was keenly supported by the WB and other different funding agencies.
A project M&E unit was organized within the PCU to monitor projects financed by an
IDA grant. In addition to this, HAPCO organized a separate M&E unit under the Plan
and Program Department and assigned a full time M&E officer to it.
The National Multi-sectoral M&E Framework for HIV/AIDS that was launched in
December 2003 clearly defines the indicators for the specific intervention areas. The
draft National M&E Operational Manual/guideline is developed with specific reference
to program indicators of the Framework. The health component of the M&E operational
manual has been developed and made operational. The postgraduate training program
initiated in Jimma University is an encouraging step in M&E work force development.
However, all these are tangential undertakings. The progress has been slow and the



                                             44

National M&E Operational Manual/guideline is not yet put into operation. There is
shortage of qualified work force. There are still unresolved differences in approach and
system choice, which require closer attention and decision by the leadership.
A closer look at the performance and achievement at the programmatic areas reveals that
all of them are heavily dependent on IDA support. The DCA has set targets for some of
the major areas.
The major IEC related activities undertaken include producing and distributing printed
and electronic educational materials; conducting awareness creation, sensitization and
advocacy workshops and seminars; development and promotion of educational and
entertainment/recreational activities; executing mass-media programs; forming,
strengthening and deploying youth and anti-AIDS Clubs; and enhancing grassroots
initiatives (Idirs/FBOs) and lately conducting community conversation
In 2002/03, there were 8,360 Anti-AIDS Clubs (7,600 in primary and junior high school,
360 in high schools and 400 out-of-school. The National HIV/AIDS Communication
Guideline was launched in June 2003. The Guideline on Community Conversation is
launched and made operational. Community conversation programs were undertaken in
121 rural and urban woredas in nine regions. It is planned to cascade the training on
community conversation practically to all the 25,000 kebeles of the country in one year.
AIDS Resource Centers are being built in eleven selected towns of the eleven regions
with the support of IDA fund. Youth centers are being built in each region with the
support from IDA fund (Birr 500,000 per center) in collaboration with the Ministry of
Youth and Sports.
Consequently, the level of awareness on HIV/AIDS is now raised and the performance
rated as satisfactory. According to the report from Welfare Monitoring Survey of 2004,
nation wide, 88.83% of the households interviewed have some knowledge of HIV/AIDS.
This is much higher than the set target of 80 %. Out of these, 94.93% know that
HIV/AIDS is transmitted through sexual intercourse, 87.68% through blood and only 61.
15 % through MTC. The level is higher in urban areas (96.9%) than in rural settings
(87.31%). On the prevention methods, 91.51% of the respondents know abstinence,
68.42% fidelity and only 53.85% of condom. However, behavior change is still lagging
behind. Harmful Traditional Practices though declining are still practiced. IEC/BCC
efforts at all levels were not properly coordinated and guided. Efforts are unnecessarily
duplicated.
The number of VCT sites has increased over the past years from 17 in 1994 E.C. to 658
in 1997 (June 2005). The demand for the service has steadily increased and will continue
with the advent of ART and PMTCT. It is reported that b December 2005, about 448,
241 people were tested. Out of these, 43,618 (9.7%) were positive. VCT services that
operated under HAPCO support (IDA and other funds) were cheaper (average charge
Birr 10.0 per person) or even free. About 200 laboratory technicians, 384 counselors, 75
laboratory technicians and 130 counselors were trained over the course of the project.
(Satisfactory)
However, the services are not yet properly linked with care and support programs.
Much still remains to improve the quality of the service. They are mainly
concentrated in a few urban centers. The number and quality of counselors is
inadequate and needs improvement while the burnout rate is high.
IDA support is focused on establishing 19 new PMTCT sites, strengthening 6 of the



                                             45

existing sites, procuring drugs and medical supplies for health facilities, developing
guidelines, training health manpower, etc.
The PMTCT Guideline is now made operational. According to the consolidated National
Report of the Terminal Evaluation of IDA support for EMSAP, 134 health workers are
provided in service training on PMTCT in EFY 1996. All of the service sites are
provided with the basic drugs and supplies. As of the end of 2005:
129 cites are providing PMTCT services in different parts of the country; 130,230 ANC
clients sought for the service; 43,618 tested for HIV/AIDS out of which 6,299 tested
positive; 4,438 women received Nevirapin during pregnancy; and 1,732 babies received
NVP. (Satisfactory)
It is observed that utilization of the available ANC service is quite low; the level
awareness on the problem and the availability of the service is also low. Care and
support services for the mother and families are inadequate.
Though there is shortage of baseline and follow-up data, improvements have been
observed in the supply and distribution of condoms. Recent data indicate the distribution
of 67.6 million in 2002/03, 49 million in 2003/04 and 71 million in 2004/05 .Use of
condom is openly advertised and advocated through the mass media and tolerated by the
different faiths (no open objection). Around 894 sessions on condom use were held in
2003/04. Different condom promotion messages are transmitted on TV, Radio and other
media. Friendly Condom distribution outlets are expanding both in GO and private sector
work places. DACA is doing the job of quality control in condom with assistance from
IDA and the quality of condoms supplied to the public is ensured through periodic and
sample checking. Knowledge and the practice of consistently using condom are gradually
increasing. A draft report for UNGASS indicates that from women in the age group of
15-49, about 81.8% urban and 58.3 % rural have knowledge that using condoms can
reduce HIV transmission. However, the use of condom is still very low. Only 39.8% in
urban and 3% in rural settings who engaged in higher risk sex use condom. Availability
of and accessibility to condom mainly in the rural areas is very low. Most of the condom
distribution outlets are not user friendly. (Satisfactory)
IDA support on Management of Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI) is focused on
strengthening the health sector intervention by providing drug supply, training health
manpower, developing guideline, awareness raising etc. The Guideline for Syndromes
Management of STI which was made operational in 2002 is now revised and ready for
print. In 2003/04, the report from six regions showed that training was given to 597
health workers. A total of 75,386 cases of STIs got treated in 2004/05 and in 2005 it was
only 40,718. (could be due to underreporting). (Moderately Satisfactory)
However, the national STD treatment guideline is not well disseminated, popularized,
known and widely used. Services are not youth/users friendly. There are shortages of
supplies and material and trained manpower.
The Safe Blood Supply service is steadily expanding. Efforts to build the capacity of the
blood banks and improve the safety of donated blood are encouraging. The Ethiopian
Red Cross Society (ERCS), which is the only source of safe blood supply in the country,
has set in place a system of screening blood in all of its outlets and hospitals that are
engaged in providing the service. The number of Blood Banks in the country, only 10 in
2003, has now reached 14 (two through IDA support ). The number of blood units
screened for HIV in the last 12 months of 2005 was 27,117. All blood transfusions are



                                               46

considered 100% free from HIV. The National Blood Service Strategy has been finalized
and made operational. (Highly Satisfactory) However, the ERCS has not yet incorporated
VCT in its services. There is an on and off shortage of screening kits, There is no regular
training program for health care professionals
The major activities in Universal Precautions (UP)/ Infection Prevention (IP) are
focused on providing protective supplies and equipment and strengthening the health
service facilities, awareness creation and training on UP. The National strategy on
universal precautions in health-care setting has been adopted by the MOH. Some regions
in the country have attempted to prepare their own strategies on universal precaution.
Training on UP is given to frontline health workers and home caregivers. In 2005,
around 116 different categories of health personnel were trained in Infection Prevention
(IP). Many NGOs, Youth and Anti-AIDS Clubs have played important roles in
disseminating information on the importance of UP/IP. Most of the health centers in
Addis Ababa are provided with protective supplies from IDA/EMSAP. Home care
providers have been assisted with protective materials and sanitary equipment by NGOs
and other implementing agencies. Attention to this aspect of the epidemic is growing,
with an awareness for the need to expand the service. This is a positive trend.
(Moderately Satisfactory)
The level of public awareness on UP is still low, leading to either high exposure or
exaggerated concern. Post exposure prophylaxis (PEP) is not available for most health
workers and caregivers. Shortage of protective material, sterilization equipment and lack
of proper disposal of used items worsen the situation. Overall, UP has been grossly
neglected area and needs to be seriously addressed in the future.
The ongoing care and support service packages include counseling, economic support,
life skills training, supplying drugs for OIs, deploying home caregivers and developing
relevant HBC guideline. Community-based home care services have expanded. HBC
Guideline is developed and home care providers are trained. An estimated 50,000
PLWHA in EMSAP covered woredas have been provided with welfare support (food,
medication, clothing, shelter and counseling). Home based care is mainly undertaken and
owned by community initiative. The service package is shifting from hand out of food
aid and cash into sustainable income generating activities and focused on the family.
The EAF has been one of the major sources of fund for community supported care and
support services for PLWHA/OVC and their families. Some of the beneficiaries of IDA
support openly stated that the EAF support has helped them to prolong their life and
enabled them to access ARV services. (Satisfactory)
Both the quality and quantity of care and support services, whether institutional or home
based, are far below the actual demand. The system of HBC is not yet well developed,
coordinated and linked to institutional services. The burden of home care still falls
mainly on family members, especially on female members. Nutrition is not yet integrated
and linked into the ongoing care and support services. There is no uniformed and
comprehensive guideline on nutritional care and support. The care providers are not
sufficiently trained, lack manuals, guidelines and technical support. But their dedication
is be acclaimed. Available training manuals for health workers, agricultural extension
workers and caregivers are deficient of issues related to nutrition and HIV/AIDS.
The policy on supply and provision of antiretroviral drugs was endorsed in 2002. In
February 2003, the MOH prepared a guideline for use of antiretroviral drugs. The



                                              47

Government launched the free ARV initiatives on 24 January 2005 and the MOH issued
a Road Map for 2005-2006. The Road Map provides a clear target for the ARV rollout
and allows all actors to extract their individual targets.
The ART guideline is now operational and the service is provided in 73 sites. The
number of PLWHA currently getting ARV is 17,943 (December 2005). It is planed to
provide treatment for 40, 920 people by the end of 2005 and 100, 000 by the end of 2006.
The rate of expansion of the Service is more than satisfactory. Many PLWHA are now
attracted and encouraged to come public. The service is still provided at hierarchy of
hospitals. There is limited access to hospital services especially for the rural people and
others living far off from hospital service sites. The linkage with community based care
and support services is poor. Stigma surrounding HIV/AIDS discouraged most people
from up taking VCT.
To date there is no legislation for the protection of PLWHAs and other vulnerable groups
in the country. Even though the constitutions of Ethiopia out-laws discrimination of any
form, it does not address the emergent discrimination due to the social stigma associated
with HIV/AIDS.
With the support from IDA, a high level, legal Task Force is formed under the Federal
Ministry of Justice, reviewing and updating the existing legislations. The Criminal Code
is now revised a new Family Code is developed and made operational. Both have
incorporated gender issues that considered violation of women's right as grave offences.
The recently released labor law of Ethiopia decries any form of compulsory HIV test as a
requirement for employment. A national policy on the right and protection of OVC is
developed. PLWHA are now better organized and established their national network..
The media have played a significant role in the fight against stigma and discrimination.
Religious leaders, community leaders and PLWHA have come out strongly against
stigma and discrimination. In 2003/04, about 198 persons have been trained on legal and
human rights related to PLWHA and 2,050 have participated in awareness raising
workshops. (Moderately Satisfactory)
Applied or basic research activities conducted so far below the magnitude of the
problem. With the exception of EHNRI, ENARP and few others, the number of actors in
the area of applied research is very few. IDA is supporting EHNRI.
Periodic sentinel surveillance have been conducted and useful data and information have
been generated. The findings of the MoH surveillance are still the basis for measuring the
status and the trends of the HIV epidemiological situation in the country. The number of
surveillance sites which was only 35 (26 urban and 9 rural) in 2001 has now increased to
84 (38 urban and 46 rural) this has very much contributed to the improvement of the
quality of the data.
The EHNRI with the support from EMSAP has undertaken basic research on the
development of vaccine and related issues. The Medical Faculty of Addis Ababa
University undertook the NIGAT project on PMTCT. Research protocols in general are
reviewed and approved by the Science and Technology Commission. (Moderately
Satisfactory)
However, research remains as one of the intervention areas that have not yet been
addressed sufficiently .
All in all, it has been observed that the Project design of EMSAP was timely, fitting to
the Ethiopian context and need. It was within the context of the National Policy and the



                                              48

Strategic Framework for the National Response to HIV/AIDS and complementary to the
ongoing government initiative It also served as a critical input to enhance and expand
the multisectoral response. During the last five project years, there has been no need of
revising the Developmental objective.
The NAC system is now well set in place from the federal down to the kebele level and
strengthened. Basic guidelines and operational manuals are developed and in use. The
implementation arrangement for EAF is flexible, and open to accommodate local needs
and priorities. Grassroots level organizations are now better capacitated to develop plan
of action and implement them.
All of these could not have been initiated nor realized without the IDA supported
EMSAP, which has played the pioneering role in the overall multi-sectoral response
In general, it can now be safely stated that IDA/EMSAP has the largest share of
developing the capacity of the national response to HIV/AIDS in Ethiopiaand the IDA
supported project is Satisfactorily Completed. Despite all these efforts, the epidemic is
not yet arrested but spreading. The demand for service is increasing from time to time.
More than 50% of the woredas are not yet covered. The initiated services have to
continue uninterrupted.
The total budget required for the implementation of the strategic plan (2004-2008) is
estimated at around USD 700 million. Though the government and the public at large are
exerting their effort to contribute their share, the national capacity is extremely limited to
support a demanding program such as HIV/AIDS. The move of establishing a national
AIDS fund scheme is going on in all sectors.
The major sources of fund that are to be channeled through HAPCO in the near future are
from the GF, DFID, UNDP, UNICEF etc. The GF secured a grant of USD 55. 4 million
for HIV/AIDS over 2-year time. Of these, USD 41.9 million (i.e. 76%) has already been
disbursed. The estimated amount of Committed fund from the GF for 2005-2008 is USD
84,010,430.0 and for 2007-2009 USD363, 203,278.00. This clearly shows that the
promised fund is much lower than the projected demand indicating the huge gap and
shortage of fund
On top of this, all the other funds are program or area tied/specific and lack the flexibility
of EAF/IDA fund. Some do not have direct linkage to HAPCO. The ongoing services
have not yet reached sustainable level for take over by the GO and implementing
partners. The services, which in the main are dependent on IDA support, should not be
interrupted and their continuity ensured, be strengthened and expanded so as to meet the
growing demand.

All these indicate the critical need for the scaled up continuity of the IDA support
without which the response will face serious challenge and threat of continuity.




                                              49

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Development partners

There seems to be a consensus among development partners that EMSAP has been instrumental
in scaling up the national response to HIV/AIDS. The establishment of coordinating structures at
the national, regional and woreda levels has encouraged many donors to finance HIV/AIDS
interventions. EMSAP has provided a framework and an opportunity for civil society and
Government to work together on HIV /AIDS activities. Particularly noteworthy is the community
involvement through the strong support provided by the World Bank at the woreda and kebele
levels. There is a feeling that maybe more could have been done for capacity building, directly
linked to the Emergency HIV/AIDS Fund (EAF) in particular, and for mainstreaming HIV/AIDS.
Some development partners indicated that a better collaboration on the part of some bilateral
donors was desirable, in order to ensure harmonization and integration with the country strategic
plans.

Development partners believe that now is the time for further scaling up. There is a need
for an EMSAP II that would continue to strengthen HAPCO and other stakeholders and
fill gaps in the financing that may be available from other sources. Working with
communities, the focus would be on advocacy (stigma and discrimination) and
prevention, and care and support to PLWHAs and other vulnerable groups.

NGOs / Private sector

Although the sample was probably not representative, the private sector and civil society
organizations interviewed by the ICR mission were very appreciative of the support
provided by HAPCO. The only complaint was about interruptions in the flow of funds,
linked to some extent to HAPCO's problems for the replenishment of the special account.




                                               50

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1. .Policy on HIV/AIDS of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia - August 1998.
2.Summary Regional Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2000-2004- Ministry of health -
Addis Ababa - September 1999
3. UNAIDS - Ethiopia - Summary Report of Visits to Regional HIV/AIDS/STD Activities -
September 1997.
4.Statement by H.E. Dr. Negaso Gigada, President of the FDRE at the Public Gathering on the
Occasion of the Founding of the National AIDS Prevention Council - 22nd April 2000
5.Africa Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program - Decision Meeting Minutes on the ROC Meeting of
July 27, 2000
6. Ethiopia Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Program - Program Information Document (PID).
7. Environmental and Social Data Sheet for Projects in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program - Africa
Region.
8. Project Appraisal Document (PAD) - First Phase of the US$500 Million Multi-Country
HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa Region - Report No. 20727 AFR, dated August 14, 2000.
9. EMSAP - Agreed Minutes of Negotiations - August 7, 2000.
10.Development Credit Agreement - DCA (Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Project) between Federal
Democratic Republic of Ethiopia an d IDA, dated October 12, 2000 - Credit Number 3416-ET.
11. Ethiopia Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project - Project Implementation Manual - December
2000.
12. Ethiopia Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project - Organizational & Administrative Manual -
December 2000.
13. Ethiopia Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project - Fund Management and Accounting System -
December 2000.
14. National AIDS Council Secretariat - Draft - Dire Dawa region - Regional HIV/AIDS
Implementation Plan - 1994-1995 (EC ).
15.National Guideline for the management of sexually transmitted infections using the syndromic
approach - Ministry of Health - Diseases Prevention and Control Department - HIV/AIDS and
other STIs Prevention and Control Team - December 2001.
16. Guideline on community home based care for AIDS patients in Ethiopia - Ministry of Health
- Disease Prevention and Control Department - HIV/AIDS and other STDs Prevention and
Control Team - December 2001.
17. HIV/AIDS Home Care Handbook - Supporting primary care givers in Ethiopia - Ministry of
Health - January 2002.
18. Final Report on the First National Youth Consultation on HIV/AIDS, Sexual and
Reproductive Health in Ethiopia - September 2002 - Family Health international, Impact and
Youth Net.
19.Guidelines for use of antiretroviral drugs in Ethiopia - Ministry of Health - Disease Prevention
and Control Department , in collaboration with HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Office
(HAPCO) and Drug Administration and Control Authority (DACA) - February 2003.
20. Guideline for implementation of antiretroviral therapy in Ethiopia - Ministry of Health -
January 2005.
21. Ethiopian HIV/AIDS National Response 2001-2005 - Consolidated National Report of the
Joint Mid-Term Review - 21 February-19 March 2003 - HAPCO - March 2003.
22. National Monitoring and Evaluation Framework for the Multi-Sectoral Response to
HIV/AIDS in Ethiopia - HAPCO - December 2003.
23. Federal HAPCO - The Status of Mainstreaming HIV and AIDS in Major Implementing
Agencies - January 2005. 24. Ethiopian H IV/AIDS National Response 2001-2005 -



                                                 51

Consolidated National Report of the Terminal Evaluation of IDA Support for EMSAP - HAPCO
- Jun e 2005.
24. Ethiopian HIV/AIDS National Response 2001-2005 - Consolidated National Report of the
Terminal Evaluation of IDA Support for EMSAP - HAPCO - June 2005.
25.Analysis of the Community Response to HIV/AIDS in Ethiopia - AIDS Emergency Fund
(EAF) Component of the Ethiopia Multi-sectoral AIDS Program (EMSAP) - 2001-2005 (June
2005).
26.World Bank
27. World Bank - Project Status Reports (PSR) and Implementation Status and Results (ISR)
Reports.
28. Audit Reports - Audit Services Corporation.
29. Aide-memoir of the First Joint Partnership Supervision Mission of the Ethiopia Multi-sectoral
HIV/AIDS Project (April 18 to May 1, 2001).
30. Aide-memoir of the second EMSAP Joint Supervision Mission (March 4-20, 2002).
31. Aide-memoir Supervision Mission (May 26-30, 2003).
32. Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement - Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Project (Cr.
3416-ET) - December 2003.
33. Aide-memoir of the EMSAP Interim Supervision Mission (April 1-15, 2005).
34. Aide-memoir of the EMSAP Supervision Mission (June 13-17, 2005).
35.A Handbook for HIV and AIDS Mainstreaming for a Scaled Up Gender-Sensitive Multi -
sectoral Response - jointly prepared by the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Office (HAPCO)
and the UNDP Ethiopia Control Office
36. EMSAP ICR - HAPCO (April 2006).




                                               52

