                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR00002315



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
            (IBRD-74990 IBRD-75810 IBRD-75820 IBRD-76480 IBRD-76820)



                                       ON FIVE

                                        LOANS

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$54.38 MILLION

                                        TO THE

  MUNICIPALITIES OF PELOTAS, BAGÉ, URUGUAIANA, SANTA MARIA, AND RIO
                               GRANDE

                                       FOR THE

    RIO GRANDE DO SUL INTEGRATED MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

                                        (PDMI)



                                      June 30, 2014




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective June 20, 2014)

                                          Currency Unit = BRL
                                          BRL 1.00 = US$ 0.45
                                          US$ 1.00 = BRL 2.24

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1 - December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL – Adaptable Programmatic Loan
BNDES – Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Econômico e Social)
CAS – Country Assistance Strategy
CB – Capacity Building
CPF – Counterpart funds
CORSAN – Rio Grande do Sul State WSS Utility (Companhia Riograndense de Saneamento)
DAEB – Bagé’s Water and Sanitation Utility (Departamento de Água e Esgoto de Bagé)
EMATER – Company for Rural Technical Assistance (Empresa de Assistência Técnica e Extensão Rural)
EMP – Environmental Management Plan
GDP – Gross Domestic Product
GIS – Geographic Information System
HDM – Highway Development and Management Model
ICR – Implementation Completion Report
IOI – Intermediate Outcome / Results Indicator
IRR – Internal Rate of Return
LA – Loan Agreement
LED – Local Economic Development
M&E – Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR – Mid Term Review
O&M – Operation and Maintenance
PAC – Brazilian Federal Government’s Growth Acceleration Program (Programa de Aceleração do Crescimento)
PAD – Project Appraisal Document
PDMI – Rio Grande do Sul Integrated Municipal Development Program
PDO – Program Development Objectives or Project Development Objectives
PDOI – Program Development Objective Outcome Indicator
PHRD – Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PMAT – Public Sector Modernization Program (Programa de Modernização da Administração Tributária e da Gestão
dos Setores Sociais Básicos, financed by BNDES)
RS – State of Rio Grande do Sul
SME – Small and Medium Enterprises
TA – Technical Assistance
TOR – Terms of Reference
UAP – Program Integration Unit (Unidade de Articulação do Programa)
UGM – Project Management Unit for Bagé (Unidade Gestora Municipal)
UGP – Project Management Units (Unidades de Gestão do Projeto)
WSS – Water Supply and Sanitation

                                     Vice President:   Jorge Familiar Calderon
                                   Country Director:   Deborah L. Wetzel
                                    Sector Manager:    Anna Wellenstein
                               Project Team Leader:    Juliana Garrido
                                  ICR Team Leader:     Juliana Garrido
                                BRAZIL
   BRAZIL - RIO GRANDE DO SUL INTEGRATED MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
                              PROGRAM


                                                          CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 16
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 22
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 22
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 25
  Appendix 1. Pelotas Specific Data Sheet and ICR ................................................................... 26
  Appendix 2. Bagé Specific Data Sheet and ICR ....................................................................... 46
  Appendix 3. Uruguaiana Specific Data Sheet and ICR ............................................................ 65
  Appendix 4. Rio Grande Specific Data Sheet and ICR ............................................................ 80
  Appendix 5. Santa Maria Specific Data Sheet and ICR............................................................ 97
  Annex 1. Program Costs and Financing.................................................................................. 118
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component............................................................................................ 123
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................... 136
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....................... 143
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ..................................................................................... 146
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................. 147
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............................... 152
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................. 173
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents................................................................................. 174
  MAP
                      DATA SHEET FOR THE PDMI PROGRAM
 The official datasheet uploaded to the Operations Portal contains inconsistencies, as some data
refer to the overall PDMI and some to the Pelotas Project alone. Please refer to the Program and
                   Project-specific datasheets below for the correct information.

A. Basic Information for the Program
                                                                        Rio Grande do Sul
                                                                        Integrated Municipal
Country:                Brazil                    Project Name:
                                                                        Development Program
                                                                        (APL)
                                                                        IBRD-74990,IBRD-
                                                                        75810,IBRD-
Project ID:             P094199                   L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                        75820,IBRD-
                                                                        76480,IBRD-76820
ICR Date:               06/30/2014                ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                        PELOTAS, BAGÉ,
                                                                        URUGUAIANA, STA
Lending Instrument:     APL                       Borrower:
                                                                        MARIA, RIO
                                                                        GRANDE
Original Total
                        USD 18.90M                Disbursed Amount:     USD 47.47M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 54.38M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Municipal Governments of Pelotas, Bagé, Uruguaiana, Santa Maria and Rio Grande
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Not applicable

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/16/2006      Effectiveness:          05/21/2008       05/21/2008
                                                                                11/29/2011
Appraisal:             06/26/2007      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                12/14/2012
                                                                                09/13/2010
Approval:              01/15/2008      Mid-term Review:                         05/02/2011
                                                                                06/07/2011
                                       Closing:                12/31/2012       12/31/2013
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR 1
Outcomes:                                              Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                           Significant
Bank Performance:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                       PDMI (weighted average): Moderately
Borrower Performance:                                  Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by Individual ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower           Ratings
                                                                 Pelotas: Satisfactory
                                                                 Bagé: Moderately
                                                                 Satisfactory
                                                                 Uruguaiana:
                                                                 Unsatisfactory
                                                                 Santa Maria:
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                 Rio Grande:
                                                                 Moderately
                                                                 Unsatisfactory
                                                                 PDMI (weighted
                                                                 average): Moderately
                                                                 Satisfactory
                                                                 Pelotas: Satisfactory
                                                                 Bagé: Moderately
                                                                 Satisfactory
                                                                 Uruguaiana:
                                                                 Unsatisfactory
                                                                 Santa Maria:
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
                                                                 Rio Grande:
                                                                 Moderately
                                                                 Unsatisfactory
                                                                 PDMI (weighted
                                                                 average): Moderately
                                                                 Satisfactory
                                                                 Pelotas: Satisfactory
                                                                 Bagé: Moderately
                                                                 Satisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower Uruguaiana:
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
                                                                 Santa Maria:
                                                                 Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                 Rio Grande:


1
    Based on the weighted average (based on loan amounts) of individual Project ratings.
                                                                             Moderately
                                                                             Unsatisfactory
                                                                             PDMI (weighted
                                                                             average): Moderately
                                                                             Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General industry and trade sector                                      6                    5
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 14                    7
Micro- and SME finance                                                 6                    2
Roads and highways                                                    62                  75
Sub-national government administration                                12                  11



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                            12                  6
Municipal governance and institution building                         11                  7
Other urban development                                               54                  72
Pollution management and environmental health                         14                  7
Rural services and infrastructure                                      8                  7

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Jorge Familiar Calderon              Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Deborah L. Wetzel                    John Briscoe
Sector Manager:            Anna Wellenstein                     Anna Wellenstein (Acting)
Project Team Leader:       Juliana Garrido                      Jennifer J. Sara
ICR Team Leader:           Emanuela Monteiro
ICR Primary Author:         Emanuela Monteiro

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Program development objective is to strengthen the capacity of the municipalities of Bagé,
Pelotas, Rio Grande, Santa Maria and Uruguaiana to provide selected infrastructure services and
employment opportunities for their population.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not changed during Restructuring for any project.

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                            IP          Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     03/04/2008         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     09/11/2008         Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory               6.08
  3     04/15/2009         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     10.21
  4     11/23/2009         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     13.28
  5     04/29/2010     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              14.94
  6     02/21/2011     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              17.67
  7     07/20/2011     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              19.94
  8     04/29/2012     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              29.55
  9     11/18/2012     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              38.36
 10     07/10/2013     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              45.12
 11     01/19/2014     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory              47.13

H. Restructuring (if any)

Please refer to specific datasheets (Appendices 1 through 5).
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

Introduction. Rio Grande do Sul Integrated Municipal Development Program (PDMI) was an
Adaptable Programmatic Loan (APL) involving five municipal projects / loans in Southern
Brazil: Pelotas Polo do Sul (7499-BR); Uruguaiana Vencerá (7581-BR); Bagé Rainha da
Fronteira (7582-BR); Santa Maria 2020 (7648-BR); and Rio Grande 2010 – Uma Visão de
Futuro (7682-BR). PDMI represented a new scale for Bank partnerships at the subnational level
in Brazil: in 2004, the Bank had begun lending directly to municipalities to support their
increased autonomy with capacity and infrastructure-enhancing activities. For the first time, the
Bank worked with a mix of small to medium size 2 -municipalities, which was only possible
through a joint / integrated arrangement.

Clarifications on the format of this ICR. This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) had to be
customized to fit the unique nature of PDMI. The main text presents the assessment of the overall
PDMI Program, including the Program datasheet, context and other content of general
application. Performance and Program-level lessons learned are consolidated in the main text
only, for the Program as a whole. The Program ICR is followed by five appendices which include
specific datasheets and ICRs for each municipal Project with more detailed Project information
on context, key factors affecting implementation and outcomes, risks to development outcome,
and Borrower performance for each municipality (refer to Appendices 1 through 5). Finally, all
mandatory annexes are included, with Project-specific inputs for Annexes 1, 2 and 7.

Key dates and facts. The Project Concept Note was approved in May 2006 3. Program appraisal
occurred in June 2007. Negotiations were conducted in five rounds in the following sequence –
Pelotas, Uruguaiana, Bagé, Santa Maria, and lastly Rio Grande 4. The loans were thus also signed
on different dates, resulting in variable implementation periods, ranging from four and a half
years (Pelotas) 5 to two and a half years (Rio Grande) 6. Four out of the five loans had Level 2
restructurings – Pelotas in November 2011 and Bagé, Rio Grande and Santa Maria in December
2012. All loans closed on December 31, 2012, except for Santa Maria, which was granted an
additional 12 month extension through December 31, 2013. Performance and achievements
varied by municipality.




2
  2006 Municipal total population varied from 120,000 (Bagé) to 334,000 inhabitants (Pelotas).
3
  Project proposals (Carta Consultas) were approved by the Federal Government in December 2004.
4
  The Pelotas Project was negotiated in November 2007; Uruguaiana in May 2008; Bagé in June 2008.
Santa Maria was negotiated in two phases (September and November 2008) as it had to be reappraised; and
Rio Grande in March 2009.
5
  Loan effectiveness dates used as references.
6
  The extent of the delay between approval and effectiveness for some PDMI projects was not expected or
taken into account during preparation. As the closing date at appraisal was Program-wide, the
implementation period for each project varied correspondingly with the delay in effectiveness.

                                                  1
                          Table 1: Key dates and loan amounts for the Program
                                                                                                  Rio
    Key information      Program        Pelotas       Bagé       Uruguaiana    Santa Maria
                                                                                                 Grande
    Loan Amount
                             54.38 7        18.90         6.60          6.83           13.95           8.10
    (USD million)
    Board date            1/15/2008     1/15/2008    7/23/2008     7/23/2008      12/23/2008       7/7/2009
    Signing date                   -    3/26/2008   11/11/2008     5/13/2009        3/4/2010     2/25/2010
    Effectiveness date       -          5/21/2008     1/6/2009     6/22/2009        6/2/2010     4/16/2010
    Closing date         12/31/2012    12/31/2012   12/31/2012    12/31/2012      12/31/2013    12/31/2012

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and sector issues. The State of Rio Grande do Sul (RS) is located in the extreme South
of Brazil, covering 3.2% of the nation’s area. At the time of Appraisal, RS had a population of
10.5 million, 9.5% living in the state’s Southern half (“Metade Sul”), where the Program
municipalities are located 8. RS was the fourth most productive state of the country, accounting
for 8% of Brazil’s GDP. Although the economy of RS was performing relatively well, and
although the Metade Sul accounted for 11% of the State’s GDP 9, the benefits of economic growth
were unevenly distributed across the population and overall economic growth had slowed in the
State’s southern half.

In order to address this imbalanced development across regions, the Rumos 2015 State
Development Plan, partially funded by a previous World Bank loan, included six strategic areas
of focus: State Competitiveness, Strengthening of Hub-Cities, Social Inclusion, Environmental
Preservation, Participatory and Modern Governance and Regional Development Plans to
Overcome Inequalities. As part of the Hub-Cities theme, the strategy emphasized the fundamental
role of medium-sized cities in promoting regional development based on an increasingly urban
and knowledge-driven economy. As the most prominent hub cities of the southern half of the
state, the five municipalities included in PDMI needed strategic interventions to overcome
economic decline, enhance their competitiveness, and accelerate sustainable economic growth.

The initial request for a World Bank loan was submitted by each municipality for Brazilian
Federal Government (Guarantor) approval in December 2003 10. At the time, the Bank worked
with the Federal Government to clarify the municipal lending eligibility criteria to be applied.
The following requirements were put forward: (a) projects would need to address difficult and
cross-sectoral development challenges, (b) municipalities larger than 100,000 people would be



7
   The original Program amount was estimated at US$ 66 million total loan amount. However, the
originally expected second phase for the Rio Grande Project (US$ 7.80 million) was never approved and
the unallocated amount (US$ 0.61 million) was not used.
8
  The five municipalities had a total population of about 1,000,000.
9
  With the exception of Rio Grande.
10
   Coordination of all aspects related to external borrowing in Brazil is made by the National Secretary of
International Affairs (SEAIN – Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais), within the organizational structure
of Ministry of Planning, Budget and Management (MPOG – Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e
Gestão). Decisions, however, are ultimately made by the Commission for External Financing (COFIEX –
Comissão de Financiamentos Externos), with representatives of various federal bodies, among them
SEAIN, the Ministry of Finance (FAZENDA – Ministério da Fazenda), and the Central Bank (Banco
Central do Brasil).

                                                      2
eligible, (c) cross-municipal partnerships would be promoted and (d) flexible lending terms using
either Reais or hard currency would be applied. The municipalities included in the PDMI were
some of the first to meet these criteria, having created a common development program. Their
shared challenges included improved municipal governance, addressing rural and urban poverty,
and improvement of infrastructure service provision.

Rationale for Bank involvement. The Bank’s direct engagement with five municipalities in the
Southern half of RS provided continuity with previous engagements 11 , and presented an
opportunity to test new forms of working at the sub-national level 12 . The Bank rationale for
supporting municipal development in Brazil had four pillars: (a) improving municipal fiscal and
administrative management, (b) increasing the competitiveness of the municipality through local
economic development (LED), (c) supporting partnerships across municipalities; and (d)
strengthening municipal capacity to deliver key services.

Program contributions to higher level objectives. The PDMI would also directly contribute to the
objectives of the Brazil 2004-2007 multi-year plan (Plano Plurianual), on which the Bank’s
2004-2007 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, P095908) was based. The May 2006 CAS
Progress Report (Report No. 36116-BR) confirmed the strategic directions of the original 2004-
2007 CAS in support of four program pillars: equity, macroeconomic stability, sustainability and
competitiveness, the latter two more specifically linked to the PDMI.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Program Development Objective (PDO) was to strengthen the capacity of the municipalities
of Bagé, Pelotas, Rio Grande, Santa Maria and Uruguaiana to provide selected infrastructure
services and employment opportunities for their population.

Key original indicators to measure the success of PDMI are shown in Table 2. Although there
was a common Results Framework at the Program level for Components 1 (Municipal
Strengthening) and 2 (Income and Employment Generation), indicators for Component 3
(Infrastructure Service Improvements) were different for each individual Project 13.

        Table 2: Original Program development outcomes and key performance indicators
     Original Program Development
                                                           Original Key Performance Indicators
               Outcomes
                                              Number of municipal projects institutionalizing improved
                                              evaluation, social and environmental management processes
 Improved municipal management                Percentage of citizens satisfied with quicker and more user-
 capacity                                     friendly access to client services provided by the municipality
                                              Number of good practices or innovations replicated from other
                                              municipalities
                                              The net percentage increase in formal jobs is higher (or its
 Increased LEDLED opportunities
                                              decrease is lower) among the beneficiaries of the project than


11
   Successful previous operations included (P034578) Rio Grande do Sul State Highway Management
Project and (P043868) Natural Resources Management & Rural Poverty Alleviation - Rio Grande do Sul.
12
   Innovations included targeting the whole territory of the municipalities (including both urban and rural
areas) and preparing and appraising the five loans as one program, to be implemented simultaneously under
a common operational and learning framework.
13
   For details on the original indicators of each individual Project, refer to the individual Project datasheets
(Appendices 1 through 5).

                                                       3
     Original Program Development
                                                          Original Key Performance Indicators
               Outcomes
                                             in the municipal economy as a whole
                                             The net percentage increase in formal firms is higher (or its
                                             decrease is lower) among the beneficiaries of the project than
                                             in the municipal economy as a whole
                                             Specific indicators were not defined at Program level. They
                                             were dependent on the each Project objective, and could
                                             include: (a) Coverage, quality and sustainability of water
                                             supply, sanitation and drainage services; (b) Reduction in
 Improved infrastructure services
                                             number of people living in environmentally risky and
                                             protected; (c) Reduction in travel times in urban and rural
                                             areas; and (d) Satisfaction of population with quality of
                                             infrastructure services

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. However, the Projects’ results frameworks were modified as part of
Project Level Two Restructuring for the Pelotas, Bagé, Rio Grande and Santa Maria Projects (the
first in November 2011, and the latter three in December 2012). Overall, the proposed changes
were intended to: (a) reflect the revised scope of each Project; (b) adjust the frameworks to the
available data and reporting capabilities of the Borrowers; (c) streamline indicators for better
alignment Program-wide; and (d) incorporate core indicators, as deemed appropriate 14.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the PDMI did not specify the primary and secondary
target groups to benefit from Program investments in strengthening municipal capacities to: (a)
promote income generation and employment opportunities; and (b) improve the quality of
selected infrastructure services (in both rural and urban areas 15). Instead, the PAD classified the
entire population of each of the participating municipalities as Program beneficiaries.

Together, the five municipalities had a population of 1.04 million people at appraisal, of which
0.05 was rural and 0.99 urban 16. Approximately one fourth of the total population was estimated
to live below the poverty line. These inhabitants were expected to benefit from specific
investments in: (a) provision of appropriate commercial space, improvement in the overall
business environment, facilitation of the access to microcredit, training and capacity enhancement
activities targeted at selected clusters; (b) construction and/or rehabilitation of urban and rural
roads, as well as improvements to public transport services; (c) expansion of the water supply,
sanitation (WSS) and drainage networks and treatment, as well as the related environmental
benefits; (d) treatment and final disposal of solid waste (Uruguaiana); and (e) urban upgrading,
housing and social improvements in selected low-income neighborhoods.



14
   For details on the revised indicators of each individual Project, refer to the individual Project datasheets
(Appendices 1 through 5).
15
   PDMI actually comprised the first set of municipal loans supporting the development of the entire
municipal territory, and not just the urban area. This was particularly noticeable in the case of investments
in water supply and sanitation (WSS) and road upgrading and construction.
16
   Source: State Government of Rio Grande do Sul, Fundação de Economia e Estatística (FEE), 2006.

                                                      4
1.5 Original Components

Component 1 - Municipal Strengthening (USD 11.73 million; USD 5.71 million IBRD;
approximately 11% of total Program costs 17). The purpose of this component was to finance
activities related to improving municipal capacity to plan, appraise, finance, implement, monitor
and evaluate infrastructure and LED investments. It included: (a) public sector management,
including counterpart investments focused on improved fiscal management, a cadaster and tax
collection 18 (Rio Grande, Santa Maria and Bagé); (b) investments to improve the overall
management of municipal WSS service providers (Bagé and Pelotas); (c) investments to support
Project management, including those to promote learning across the five municipalities and
capitalize on the horizontal APL approach of the PDMI. The types of activities funded under this
component included information systems, consultants, human resource development, training,
studies, equipment, office space improvements and incremental operating costs.

Component 2 - Income and Employment Generation (USD 9.07 million; USD 6.83 million IBRD;
approximately 9% of total Program costs). The purpose of this component – designed to be the
most innovative and strategic part of PDMI – was to support municipal initiatives to generate
income and employment opportunities, and improve job quality in both urban and rural areas. It
included: (a) incentives to move informal businesses into the formal sector, measures to facilitate
access to micro credit, provision of appropriate commercial space, and focused training and
capacity enhancement activities; (b) support to selected Small and Medium Enterprises (SME)
clusters (such as fruit and vegetables in Bagé, Uruguaiana and Pelotas; tourism in Rio Grande;
and waste recycling in Santa Maria, Rio Grande and Uruguaiana); (c) initiatives to stimulate local
potential to produce high value-added products by accessing a knowledge economy coordinated
across universities and private sector firms and based on existing and new R&D efforts (Santa
Maria and Pelotas); and (d) activities to improve the overall business climate by reducing
administrative barriers and thus the time, effort and cost of dealing with excessive business
regulations. The types of investments to be funded under this component included studies for
preparing LED strategies and cluster business plans; training, cluster organization, facilitation of
access to micro-credit programs and productive infrastructure for SMEs; and construction of a
technology park and R&D center.

Component 3: Infrastructure Service Improvements (USD 79.85 million; USD 46.88 million
IBRD; or approximately 77% of total Program costs). The purpose of this component – which
comprised the bulk of PDMI investments – was to assist the municipalities in expanding their
ability to provide infrastructure services in an efficient, environmentally sound and sustainable
manner. Specific investments were also prioritized for improving access to services by the poor,
contributing to the municipal growth agenda, and/or their environmental benefits. The following
infrastructure investments were included in this component: (a) rehabilitation or pavement of
existing urban streets and rural roads, including rehabilitation of small bridges, improvements to
public transport services, bicycle paths, landscaping and long-term maintenance strategies; (b)
WSS and drainage systems in urban and rural areas; (c) treatment and final disposal of solid
waste, waste recycling centers, and support to waste pickers; and (d) urban upgrading, housing
and social improvements in poor neighborhoods and areas of environmental risk.


17
  As estimated in the PAD (Annex 5 – Program Costs).
18
  These were mostly part of a public sector modernization program financed by the Brazilian National
Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES – Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e
Social) called PMAT (Programa de Modernização da Administração Tributária e da Gestão dos Setores
Sociais Básicos).

                                                 5
1.6 Revised Components

Four of the five municipal Projects (Pelotas, Bagé, Rio Grande, and Santa Maria) were
restructured to adjust the scope of activities 19. Reasons varied by Project, but overall included:
(a) the need to reflect evolving / changing implementation circumstances and municipal priorities;
(b) exclusion of some activities that due to implementation delays could no longer be executed
within the time available; (c) loss of loan purchasing power due to construction cost increases and
exchange rate variations, and (d) the need to target limited Project resources towards higher-
priority activities.

For details on the revised components of each individual Project, refer to Appendices 1 through 5
(Section H of the datasheets and Section 1.6 of the specific Project ICRs).

1.7 Other Significant Changes

Apart from the above-mentioned adjustments in the scope and results framework , and although
there were minor differences between them, the four restructurings contained similar changes: (i)
reallocation of loan proceeds between expenditure categories – in general resources were
channeled from Components 1 and 2 to Component 3, whose activities were most impacted by
the rising costs of construction; (ii) changes in the Projects’ costs and financing plans, reflecting
either an increase in counterpart funding by the Borrowers (Pelotas and Bagé) or a decrease
(Santa Maria); and (iii) adjustments of wording/corrections of typos 20. Santa Maria had a one-
year extension of the Project Closing Date and a change in the placement of the UGP within the
municipal institutional structure.

For details on the changes performed to each individual Project, refer to Appendices 1 through 5
(Section 1.7 of the specific Project ICRs).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Continuation of the Bank’s municipal lending program. The PDMI represented a continuation of
the Bank’s municipal lending program. Begun in 2004, it was a wide-reaching program of
investments across Brazil to support public sector enhancement, competitiveness and LED, and
provision of infrastructure services (especially those linked to social inclusion and environmental
sustainability) by municipalities. The Program responded to the substantial autonomy and
responsibility allocated to municipalities by the 1988 Brazilian Constitution, and the
corresponding need for enhanced capacity at the municipal level to carry out investment planning
and implementation.

In order to advance its municipal lending program in Brazil, the Bank decided to support small
and medium-sized municipalities by pioneering a cross-municipal, multi-sector program to take


19
   For details on the overall scope and impacts of Project restructurings, refer to Sections 1.3 and 2.2 of the
Program ICR.
20
   Although the Projects were appraised and approved as Environmental Category B, there were typos in
the original PAD (datasheet and in Annex 16) indicating Bage and Pelotas Projects as Category A. The
restructuring addressed this issue, which was also formerly registered in a Corrigendum sent to the Board in
June 2009.

                                                      6
on the challenge of regional municipal development through integrated partnerships. The
innovative structure of the PDMI, with five individual Projects prepared and appraised as
one Program, presented both a risk and an opportunity for gains through enhanced scale
and synergies.

Design alternatives and previous lessons considered. Four Program structure alternatives were
considered: (a) stand-alone investment projects for each municipality; (b) an intermediate
financing entity as a sole borrower, thus reducing the Bank’s transaction costs; (c) a regional
development program (through a State loan); or (d) an APL lending approach. Preparation took
into consideration lessons from previous operations regarding: (a) project focus and expected
results and impacts (municipal development projects showed that more impact can be achieved
by providing more targeted support to a fewer number of thematic areas and activities); (b) the
nature and format of activities supporting informal businesses and cluster development (a
combination of instruments beyond access to finance, such as training, organization and
infrastructure is required); (c) the need to couple infrastructure investments with capacity-
building in order to ensure the municipalities’ ability to effectively provide services; and (d) the
importance of mainstreaming environmental aspects as part of the design and implementation of
infrastructure projects.

A strong fit with the APL approach. In terms of design, PDMI’s fit with the APL series was
strong: first, because of its intended programmatic approach at entry 21; second, because of its
shared components and indicators; and third, because it was designed to allow for inter-municipal
learning and exchange of experiences. This was not the case for other individual municipal
Projects of its same generation, such as Recife Urban Development and Social Inclusion
(P089013), Sao Luis Enhancing Municipal Governance and Quality of Life (P094315), Teresina
Enhancing Municipal Governance and Quality of Life (P088966), Uberaba Municipal (P089011),
and Santos Novos Tempos (P104995), which were effectively standalone projects covered by an
APL umbrella. 22

Program design and M&E. The preparation team settled on a design that would allow economies
of scale (with increased efficiency in purchasing, supervision, etc.) 23 as well as cross-municipal



21
   PDMI was designed to allow for a sequenced appraisal and approval of each Municipal Project upon its
meeting the readiness conditions. The Rio Grande Project was specifically prepared to be implemented in
two phases.
22
   There were little or no inter-municipal linkages and exchanges across the mentioned projects. Also, there
was no shared coordination body to support implementation, either on the side of the Bank or the Borrower.
These aspects would be further developed in later horizontal APLs, including Mananciais (Integrated
Water Management in Metropolitan Sao Paulo, P006553) and GEF Cerrado (P084708), which included
stronger linkages between individual loans in terms of geography, shared development challenges, and
integrated Project Implementation Units.
23
   Despite the substantially larger geographical scale of PDMI, its total lending costs were less than those
for the preparation of standalone / single municipal projects, such as Uberaba Água Viva Project (P089011)
and Recife Urban Development and Social Inclusion Project (P089013) (For detailed information, refer to
Annex 4). For supervision, there was an increase in cost mostly related to travel costs, but still less
(percentage wise) than in the Uberaba Project. The Bank’s lending and supervision costs were the
following: (i) Uberaba Água Viva Municipal Project (USD 17.27M loan; lending USD 209k (1.21% of the
loan amount); supervision USD 351k (2.03%); (ii) Recife Urban Development and Social Inclusion
Municipal Project (USD 32.76M loan; lending USD 350k (1.07% of the loan amount); supervision USD
312k (0.95%); and (iii) PDMI (USD 54.38M loans; lending USD 350k (0.64%); supervision USD 635k
(1.67%).

                                                     7
learning. This design would also allow Bank financing to directly benefit the population of small
and medium-sized cities that had previously been out of the reach of the Bank’s municipal
investments. The design selected sought to balance the need for an efficient scale for the
investment with the challenge of unique municipal partners with varying identities and
institutional capacities. For this reason, flexible arrangements that allowed substantial municipal
autonomy were selected in place of a regional development program. A downside of this design
approach was that project activities addressed specific municipal needs and not overall regional
development goals; thus, at the scale of the Program, the overall investment plan may appear
disjointed.

The Program was overall well-designed, with the PDO appropriately focused on strengthening
municipal capacity and the 3-component structure targeting important development challenges.
Despite this, discussions during ICR-preparation with the Borrowers suggested that the broad
scope of the Program – specifically its small-scale activities – led to dispersed attention, loss of
focus, and loss of implementation capacity. Component 2 (Income and Employment Generation)
for instance, required implementation efforts disproportionate to the actual investments made 24.
In turn, while Component 2 activities had valuable learning and demonstration effects, their
results were relatively modest. Also, linkages between the actions supported under Component 2
and the others were not as strong and direct as those between Components 1 (Municipal
Strengthening) and 3 (Infrastructure Service Improvements) 25.

The above factors all impacted implementation. However, the wide scope of components and
activities was necessary to integrate activities that had secured funding sources to compose the
60/40 loan/counterpart arrangement. This ratio was obligated by the Federal Government of
Brazil as a condition of its guarantee approval for each of the five Borrowers.

In terms of monitoring and evaluation (M&E), there was a clear effort during design to define a
set of indicators common to all municipal Projects complemented by customized indicators to
track the progress and measure the results of the individual Projects 26. However, the original
design of the results framework had some weaknesses, including: (a) many indicators required
specific studies (level of satisfaction, trip time reduction, etc.) beyond the Borrowers’ capacity,
representing additional costs to the Borrowers (not financed under the project), and demanding
technical capacity and time 27;(b) there were no baseline available for various indicators; (c) the
nature and level of impact expected from Component 2 activities (increased employment and
formality) was overly optimistic, and not necessarily achievable in the life of the Program 28.

Partnership, institutional and implementation arrangements. Projects were to be implemented by
each municipality through individual Project Management Units (UGPs – Unidades de Gestão do


24
   Component 2’s share in Bagé, Rio Grande and Uruguaiana Projects was approximately 2% of the actual
investments; in Pelotas, 4% (although in this case there were additional private investments); and in Santa
Maria 14.5%.
25
   Component 1 supported the development of planning tools, such as the WSS Master Plans (in Bage,
Pelotas and Santa Maria), which were directly targeted at improving the Municipal capacities to provide
infrastructure services.
26
   Refer to Table 2, and to Appendices 1 through 5 (Section 1.2 of the Specific Project ICRs).
27
   There were initial capacity-building workshops during project preparation. However, implementation
would have benefited from structured capacity-building and/or technical assistance on M&E during
implementation (as was done in areas of fiduciary management).
28
   For example, in Bagé a 30% increase in the local businesses’ positive views on municipal business
environment was originally expected to be reached after investments of only USD 0.32 million.

                                                    8
Projeto). In order to satisfactorily meet the APL criteria of cross-municipal learning and
cooperation, the Program also included a high-level technical Program Coordination Unit (UAP –
Unidade de Articulação do Programa), whose costs were shared by all 5 municipalities. The
UAP was in charge of capacity building (CB) and technical assistance (TA). There were two
additional coordination and decision making bodies: the Superior Council, formed by the Mayors
of the five municipalities; and the Technical Council, an operational arm of the latter, formed by
the Secretaries of Planning and the Project coordinators of each municipality.

UAP. This structure worked well during preparation, but proved to be too complex to be
sustained during implementation. Despite the fact that municipal mayors remained engaged with
the Projects, they proved unable to keep the commitment to jointly make Program decisions
through the Superior Council. The Technical Council had a more active but limited engagement –
it occasionally held meetings, especially during Bank supervision missions, to define details and
consultant selection for the UAP support and to hold technical discussions, but did not play a
substantial role beyond this.

The UAP 29 as proposed was a well-designed and useful organization, and proved highly
successful during Program preparation. Specifically, the UAP was responsible and active in
centralizing management and implementation of the PHRD grant 30 (Japan Policy and Human
Resources Development Fund) used for Program preparation (development of studies and
detailed investment designs). During implementation the UAP’s role diminished substantially, as
its focus was reduced to sharing experience regarding specific topics of common interest (e.g.
Technology Park and microcredit programs), creating incentives for exchange of experience
among the municipalities, and monitoring Program results.

The declining UAP role was due to several reasons: (a) municipalities lacked ownership of the
results of PHRD inputs, therefore the strategic importance of UAP remained unclear; (b) after the
grant was fully disbursed, the UAP did not have the power to manage and apply Program
resources for joint interests nor the legal character that would allow it to effectively coordinate
project activities; (c) each municipality had to be responsible for hiring and financially supporting
the UAP coordinator for one term, which jeopardized the desired autonomy of the Unit; and (d)
the combined technical and managerial skills necessary for effective Program coordination
proved difficult to find among the individual consultants hired as coordinators. For these reasons,
although it was initially effective, the UAP did not yield the expected results in terms of
integration, exchange of experiences, technical assistance, and institutional capacity building
during Program implementation. Difficulties stemming from the weakness of the UAP were
anticipated from preparation, but due to the Borrowers’ desire for more Project autonomy, 31 there
was no support for a stronger central agency.

UGPs. The Program design appropriately prioritized the establishment of the UGPs and their
placement within key municipal Secretariats, such as Planning. Each municipality modified this
original arrangement for better individual fit as the Projects progressed, generally bringing the
UGP into closer coordination with the Mayor’s office. The implications of these changes for the
UGPs’ implementation capacity vary from Project to Project, and are further discussed in the


29
   Originally called the UGP and based in Porto Alegre.
30
   The PHRD Grant (TF05521) was signed in July 2005 with the Municipality of Bagé in the total amount
of USD 700,000.
31
   Once the Projects were approved, the Borrowers’ willingness to cooperate under a structured
arrangement such as UAP was reduced in favor of their individual municipal interests.

                                                 9
individual Project ICRs in the Appendices. Differences in the final institutional arrangement of
the UGPs will probably affect the likelihood they will remain after Project completion. However,
overall, after Program completion, the Borrowers were unanimous in recognizing the importance
of the UGPs not only in Project implementation, but also for development and sharing of
knowledge among municipal staff.

Stakeholder involvement and participatory processes. The PDMI Projects were based on the
participating municipalities’ Multi-Year Plans or on other key planning tools (such as the
participatory budget). These had been developed through substantial public participation. The
priorities of the Projects, in terms of both institutional and infrastructural development, were
therefore based on goals that had already been identified and prioritized by the local community
in each of the municipalities. The flexibility of the Program design allowed substantial tailoring
of priorities and actions, capturing each community’s self-determined needs within the umbrella
of region-wide municipal development.

Assessment of risks. The following risks (among others) were identified during preparation: (a)
difficulty with the counterpart fund allocation 32; (b) the inexperience of the municipalities with
procurement and financial management; (c) political discontinuity; (d) risk of delays in
acquisition of land and/or risks with regard to participatory processes, which could impact
Projects and interventions involving resettlement; and (e) the risk that the Component 2
investments would not achieve its objectives of sustainably increased employment and income
opportunities.

Most of these risks were considered “moderate,” with the exception of (b), which was assessed as
between “moderate” and “high.” Given the fiscal position of the Borrowers at the time of Project
preparation, (a) should have been identified as “high.” It should be emphasized – as was brought
up by the municipalities themselves during ICR preparation – that, despite the efforts of the Bank
to recognize secured counterpart inputs from other sources 33, the obligation of 40% counterpart
total contribution was an obstacle throughout Program implementation. Additionally, the
Borrower’s implementation capacity was overestimated, as risk (b) was focused solely on
fiduciary aspects, not having taken into account technical and M&E capacity. Similarly, the risk
of a heavy supervision burden on the Bank should have been included, along with corresponding
additional human and financial resources for supervision.

2.2 Implementation

Issues affecting implementation varied from Project to Project, but several overall factors can be
identified:

Project cycles for each municipal Project. Project cycles and milestones for each municipal
Project were not aligned, meaning various key points of the Project – including readiness to sign


32
    As a condition of the Federal guarantee, Brazil’s National Government requires a counterpart
contribution by states or municipalities accepting Bank loans. In this case, there was a 60/40%
Bank/Borrower contribution set, which ended up being beyond the fiscal capacity of the municipalities to
allocate. This ratio is set without Bank input.
33
   The Program’s overall investments included, apart from Bank-financed activities, those for which the
municipalities had previously secured other sources of funding (e.g. public sector modernization
investments financed by IDB). Inclusion of these activities was an attempt, by the Bank team, to reduce the
burden on the Borrowers in terms of the mandatory financial counterpart allocation.

                                                   10
the Loan Agreement (LA), the declaration of Loan Agreement effectiveness, and implementation
challenges – were reached at different times in each case. However, the Projects continued to
share the same overall Program closing date of December 2012 until restructuring. Although this
was expected based on PDMI’s programmatic design (where each project would operate on an
independent cycle), it interfered with Program implementation and efficiency beyond original
projections, largely due to complications it caused for Bank supervision.

Financial difficulties of the municipalities in allocating the mandatory counterpart contribution.
The counterpart contribution set by the Brazilian Federal Government at Project preparation was
established at a 60/40 Bank/Borrower ratio. Despite the appropriate efforts from the preparation
teams to include activities that had secured resources from other funding sources (i.e. xxx), the
relatively small size and low financial capacity of each municipality impacted their ability to meet
counterpart financing obligations throughout implementation. Through Project restructurings, of
Bagé and Rio Grande for instance, corrective measures to increase the percentage of expenditures
financed with the loan resources to as much as 100% were adopted.

Format and structure of each UGP. Project implementation was expedited when the UGPs were
satisfactorily staffed, committed and directly linked to the Mayors’ offices and/or priorities. This
was the case throughout implementation in Pelotas and Bagé, and later in Santa Maria. In such
cases, internal processing and decision making was smoother and faster.

The municipalities’ overall limited capacities and unfamiliarity with the Bank’s guidelines and
procedures. The municipalities’ overall limited capacities and unfamiliarity with the Bank’s
safeguards and fiduciary guidelines and procedures (especially procurement) resulted in: (a)
difficulties with Project management; (b) difficulties in drafting technical inputs for bidding
documents (Terms of Reference – TORs and budgeting); and (c) a heavy work load for the Bank
supervision team in providing support to Borrowers, as well as extended periods for analysis and
final approval of documents. Beyond the technical aspects, procurement was also to some extent
affected by difficulties in obtaining market response in more remote areas of Rio Grande do Sul.
Limited Borrower capacity was also reflected in overall M&E performance 34. Progress Reports,
for instance, usually lacked consistency and/or adequate information.

Political turnover. Changes in Government impacted Project implementation in different ways
and at different points of the Project cycle. In Rio Grande, there were impacts both early in
implementation (as the Municipal Government in charge of identifying and preparing the PDMI
in 2003 and 2004 changed in 2005, which reduced the Project priority and delayed procedures for
appraisal and approval), as well as later towards Project completion (in 2012, when elections and
turnover occurred again). These changes resulted in: (i) decreased implementation progress; (ii)
the Final Independent Project Evaluation for Rio Grande lacked consistent information; and (iii)
information exchange for the ICR was limited. In Santa Maria, the Government that prepared the
Project (from 2005 until 2008) was not the same as the one which took office in 2009. This led to
delayed signing of the LA (in 2010). It was not until the May 2011 Mid-Term Review (MTR)
Mission that the new administration was able to redirect the Project scope and prioritize Project
implementation.

Inflation and exchange rate fluctuations. At the beginning of Program implementation, the United
States dollar depreciated against the Brazilian Real from around BRL 1.95 per USD 1.00 to BRL
1.83, reaching BRL 1.67 at around midterm of Program timeframe. This impacted the first


34
     For further information on M&E, refer to section 2.3 of this ICR.

                                                       11
projects to start implementation, especially Pelotas. In addition, the Program was impacted by the
increase in construction costs, greater than overall inflation), especially considering that the
infrastructure-related component was the largest. As result, there was a decrease in loan
purchasing power that diminished the scope of activities possible under the Program. However,
at the very end of project implementation, the exchange rate fluctuation began to reverse,
resulting in some municipalities not being able to spend all loan resources (especially for Santa
Maria).

                           Graph 1 – Disbursements per Project compared to economic indexes
                            Pelotas disbursement amount                   Bage disbursement amount
                            Uruguaiana disbursement amount                Santa Maria disbursement amount
                            Rio Grande disbursement amount                Exchange rate index



                   16.00                                                                       2.33    2.50
                                                                                      2.16
                   14.00
                            1.95             2.00                            1.95
                                    1.83                                                               2.00
                   12.00                              1.76
                                                                   1.67                       1.65
                   10.00                                                             1.52
                                                                            1.42
   USD (million)




                                                                   1.32                                1.50
                    8.00                             1.23




                                                                                                              Index
                                             1.18                                             1.46
                                    1.06                                             1.38
                    6.00    1.00                                            1.30
                                                                   1.23
                                             1.11    1.16                                              1.00
                            1.00    1.05
                    4.00

                    2.00
                                                                                                       0.50
                    0.00
                           2007     2008    2009     2010         2011      2012     2013     2014
                   -2.00                                                                               -
                                                            Year


Pelotas’ specific support and guidance for the other municipalities during implementation. As
Pelotas was the pioneer PDMI project, it was the first to navigate the Bank’s and its own internal
procedures for Project implementation, including M&E / reporting procurement, FM, and
safeguard processes. Pelotas used this valuable experience to assist the other Program
municipalities, providing guidance and sharing reference documentation, experiences, etc. not
only through regular exchange of information, but also with the delivery of a 2-day hands-on
training. This knowledge-sharing proved an important element of the Horizontal APL structure of
the PDMI Program.

The role of Bank missions and hands-on technical assistance. Missions were undertaken with
appropriate regularity (biannually), and comprised of technical, safeguard and fiduciary
specialists, despite the logistical challenge of monitoring Projects in five locations with distances
ranging from 75km to 700km (and at least 300km distant from the State capital). The efforts of
the Task Team in providing intensive TA and implementation support were essential in ensuring

                                                             12
the activities’ success, and were widely recognized by the Borrowers. This support included
fiduciary trainings, ad hoc trainings (i.e. drafting of TORs), remote assistance in revision of
technical documents (i.e. TORs, Business Plans), and contracting of consultants for TA on
specific topics (i.e. water supply and sanitation). However, the high demand for TA by the
Borrowers was not complemented by increased capacity or funding allocated for supervision by
the Bank.

Project Restructuring. Restructuring constituted an important adaptation of Project design to the
realities of Borrowers capacity and the challenges of the implementation process. The
restructurings, all Level II, are addressed in greater depth in sections 1.3, 1.6, and 1.7 of this ICR,
and in the individual Project ICRs (see Appendices 1 through 5). For most of the municipalities 35
the restructuring process was time-consuming and occurred relatively late in the Project cycle
(12/13/2012) due to limited municipal capacity to develop and process the restructuring
documentation. The Bank provided extensive support to this process, despite the substantial
challenge of managing parallel restructuring for four Projects.

The restructuring undergone by the four Projects had important benefits, chiefly decreasing the
counterpart allocations specified during preparation, which were beyond the municipalities’
capacity; and streamlining indicators to support more effective Project and Program-wide
evaluation. A shortcoming of the restructuring was the failure to fully address the lack of a
structured M&E strategy (see Section 2.1). However, a methodology for strong quantitative
monitoring could not have been developed at the time of restructuring, given the limited capacity
of the Borrowers as well as the activities themselves, which required detailed, quantitative
monitoring.

Brazilian Federal Government Growth Acceleration Program (PAC – Programa de Aceleração
do Crescimento). The PAC infrastructure financing Program was launched in 2007, presenting an
important alternative for municipalities to access relatively easily available funding for
infrastructure investments. While PAC became a much needed source of PDMI counterpart
contributions, in some municipalities (such as Rio Grande and Santa Maria) PAC-financed
projects negatively impacted PDMI implementation, as they dissipated limited Municipal
capacity.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. The design of indicators for M&E proved complicated, given the need to
simultaneously evaluate the performance of individual Projects and integrate these results into the
overall Program. Two sets of indicators were adopted, one common to all municipal Projects and
one customized to each municipality. This structure was conserved, where applicable, during
restructuring, while attempting to further streamline the overall indicators Program-wide. This
indicator structure seems to have been largely successful for integration of results from multiple
Projects. However, weaknesses stemmed from unrealistically high estimates of Borrower capacity
for quantitative M&E, and no corresponding structured support and budget for M&E built into
Program design. Efforts were made to develop M&E capacity within the municipalities through
early training and support from specialists, as well as intensive support by the Bank Task Team
during implementation. Nonetheless, the lack of Borrower capacity for understanding the content,
data gathering needs and usefulness of M&E – as well as the practical challenge posed by the


35
  Excepting Pelotas, which went through the process separately, on 11/04/2011, and including Uruguaiana,
for which restructuring was prepared, but did not actually occur.

                                                  13
type of quantitative measurements required to objectively measure the Projects activities’ results
– limited success in monitoring and evaluating results. (See Section 2.1 for further information).

M&E implementation. Specific areas of difficulty were (a) the frequency, consistency and quality
of Progress Reports, and the reliability of the information therein; (b) limited Borrower
understanding of the methodology for data collection, analysis, and reporting; and (c) the
restricted role of the UAP in leading the monitoring process. Towards the end of the
implementation period, difficulties with the assessment of indicators interfered with Program
evaluation by the Borrower and the Bank.

To guarantee the M&E methodology used by all municipalities was consistent and reliable, the
Bank provided TA and guidance to the Borrowers during the contracting and supervision of
consultants tasked to prepare the Borrowers’ Independent Evaluation of final Program results.
Despite these efforts, there are asymmetries in the availability and reliability of the information.
The report from Santa Maria is of good quality, and presents rich quantitative and qualitative
information. The reports for Pelotas, Bagé and Rio Grande have limited information, sometimes
mitigated (as in the cases of Pelotas and Bagé) by more recent efforts to collect additional
information, and conduct additional qualitative surveys. Finally, in the case of Uruguaiana, the
report was never delivered to the Bank.

M&E utilization. Due to the issues detailed above, M&E were not strong tools to support Project
management or decision making. It is unlikely that the Projects M&E arrangements will prove
sustainable after Program closing. Despite the difficulties encountered, the strong focus that was
placed on M&E from the development of the PDMI up through the end of the Program (including
a stakeholder workshop, intense exchanges between the Bank and the UGPs; in the development
of the Borrower evaluations, ICR missions, etc.), helped to demonstrate to the municipal
governments the value of well-designed, quantitative monitoring in decision-making and Project
management.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards compliance. The PDMI was given a Category B environmental rating, according to
the World Bank safeguard policies. As such, all of the infrastructure interventions triggered the
Environmental Assessment policy (OP 4.01). Other policies – Natural Habitats (OP 4.04),
Cultural Property (OP 4.11) later replaced by Protection of Physical Cultural Resources (OP
11.03), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), and Safety of Dams (OP 4.37) – were triggered
depending on each individual Project 36 . Considering the need for triggering the involuntary
resettlement policy due to potential loss of housing, loss of economic activity, or even demand for
land acquisition, three of the five municipalities developed Simplified Involuntary Resettlement
Plans.

Program compliance with the applicable safeguard policies was supervised during
implementation and was generally Satisfactory, dropping to Moderately Satisfactory towards the


36
  Rio Grande, Santa Maria and Uruguaiana triggered the following policies: Environmental Assessment
(OP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Cultural Property (OP 4.11), and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP
4.12); Bagé triggered Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Cultural Property
(OP 4.11), and Safety of Dams (OP 4.37); and Pelotas triggered Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01),
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Protection of Physical Cultural Resources (OP 11.03), and Involuntary
Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), Safety of Dams (OP 4.37).

                                                  14
end of the implementation period as a result of pending resettlement of four families in Santa
Maria Project. 37 The works and interventions carried out for the PDMI complied with the
guidelines and recommendations of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and the
Contractors’ Environmental and Social Manual, developed during Program preparation. The
environmental procedures proposed for the mandatory environmental licensing under State and
Municipal legislation, as well as the instruments proposed by the EMP (including environmental
records, action plans, and environmental supervision reports), were adopted by the different
UGPs, and satisfactorily fulfilled the Bank’s requirements for social and environmental
compliance.

Fiduciary compliance. Compliance with Financial Management and Procurement aspects varied
from Project to Project throughout the implementation period, but was finally rated Moderately
Satisfactory overall. The case of Uruguaiana, which had substantial issues with compliance with
the Bank’s fiduciary and procurement processes, is a notable exception. For details on safeguards
and fiduciary compliance, refer to section 2.4 of the individual Project ICRs (See Appendices).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Operation and maintenance (O&M). The Bagé, Pelotas, Rio Grande, and Uruguaiana Projects
had a closing date of December 2012, while Santa Maria closed one year later. There are inherent
risks to the sustainability of the Program outcomes, linked to the financial capacity of the
Municipalities to properly conduct O&M of Program infrastructure investments (e.g. urban and
environmental improvements, street and road rehabilitation and construction, and urban and rural
water supply and sanitation improvements). However, arrangements for post-completion O&M
are already in place for most of these investments. An O&M allocation has been included in each
municipality’s annual budget (with the exception of Uruguaiana) under the Secretariats for
Works, General Services and/or Maintenance. Additionally, the PDMI included specific
investments (both Bank- and counterpart-financed, as described in Annex 2) for the acquisition of
road maintenance equipment in Pelotas, Bagé and Santa Maria.

Guidance in quality assurance and institutionalization of plans / studies. The Program also
invested in various planning tools and instruments to guide public management in the areas of
urban development, transport, WSS, environment and LED 38. In addition to loan financing and to
regular implementation support as part of supervision, the Bank provided continued TA to the
Borrowers up through the April 2014 ICR mission, as a means to: (i) enhance the technical
quality of the above mentioned tools and instruments; and (ii) give the municipalities
recommendations for next steps for institutionalization and/or adoption of the tools and
instruments. For example, in Uruguaiana, a solid waste expert consultant was hired to review and
develop technical notes on the environmental studies for the closing of the dump and the
construction of a new sanitary landfill in the municipality. The same was done in Santa Maria,
through the hiring of a consultant to review the WSS, drainage and solid waste plan. Additionally,
a local economic development consultant accompanied the LED plans for Rio Grande, Bagé and
Pelotas throughout implementation and even post closure.




37
   Although the ISRs record the overall performance of the Program, ratings were always tracked
individually for each Project. The Program’s overall ratings derived from the weighted average (based on
the loan amounts) of the specific ratings given to each municipal Project for each category.
38
   Please refer to Annex 2 for each municipality for further information.

                                                  15
Activities pending completion and/or entailing continued supervision 39 . The Pelotas and Rio
Grande Projects completed almost all Project activities 40 . The Uruguaiana and Santa Maria
Projects have pending activities to be completed after Project closing. Uruguaiana has pending
the closing and remediation of the existing dump site and the construction of a new sanitary
landfill. However, the municipality’s technical solid waste proposal was never approved by the
Bank, as the Municipality decided to finish the proposal without Bank involvement. Since
implementation of the planned activities never actually began, post completion supervision is not
applicable. There is no guarantee of budget allocations to conduct the activities, nor an estimated
timeframe.

Santa Maria did not complete the counterpart-financed integrated WSS and urban improvements
in the Km3 neighborhood, nor the corresponding resettlement of four families. Continued Bank
follow-up and supervision of safeguards obligations linked to resettlement are therefore required
and will be carried out. The Prefecture of Santa Maria has agreed with the Bank on an action plan
and a schedule for the completion of resettlement by September 2014.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
Conclusions and ratings for each dimension and for the overall Program are derived from a
weighted average of the individual Project ratings.

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Modest

CPS 2008-2011 (Report No. 42677-BR). The PDMI was included in the list of Projects supported
by the CPS 2008-2011. Among the issues and critical areas for reforms identified in the CPS,
several aspects were directly addressed by the PDMI, including business environment,
insufficient funding and poor quality of infrastructure, and uncoordinated approaches to
infrastructure planning. The Competitive Brazil pillar of the CPS included urban development,
especially through a focus on improving urban management and competitiveness; support to
improve the business climate; and to improve the planning and regulatory framework for
infrastructure. The CPS put less emphasis on lending for basic urban infrastructure and to small
municipalities, and instead a move towards addressing major challenges through arrangements
such as consortia. The PDMI, although not through a consortium structure, addressed these focus
areas through support for municipal management, and the development of municipal
environmental and specific business plans.

CPS 2012-2015 (Report No. 63731-BR). The PDMI concept became less relevant to the
development challenges elaborated in the current CPS. Although PDMI directly addresses the
Strategy’s objectives of promoting regional economic development and improving sanitation
through strategic infrastructure investments, the current CPS is focused on the Northeast, rather
than the South. Also, the current CPS lays out a more selective engagement and a shift away from
direct municipal lending at the small scale. This shift in priorities towards larger and multi sector


39
   For details on post completion operation of the investments of each individual Project, refer to
Appendices 1 through 5 (Section 2.5 of the individual Project ICRs).
40
   Pelotas did not manage to build the Administrative Center and the Urban Improvements in the Central
Area – the first because of pending required approvals from the National Institute of Heritage (IPHAM –
Instituto do Patrimônio Histórico e Artístico Nacional), and the latter because of the lack of available time
up to Project closing. Rio Grande did not complete the land regularization activity, for which actual titling
emission is still pending.

                                                    16
projects is due to the increase in the availability of Federal Government funds for local
infrastructure coupled with the increasingly limited IBRD lending space under the current Bank
single borrower limit (SBL).

Program relevance from a Bank perspective (Specific aspects of the design and implementation).
Although the design of the PDMI demonstrated an appropriate fit with the Horizontal APL model
(a joint and programmatic approach intended to allow for economies of scale and inter municipal
exchange and learning), its implementation proved to be less efficient: (i) There was an
overestimation of the Borrowers technical capacity to conduct a smooth implementation; (ii)
Adequate structuring of the Program’s specific institutional arrangements was not guaranteed at
entry (notably regarding the UAP, and its limited autonomy and role as a Program-wide
coordination body); and, as a consequence of the above, there were (iii) unforeseen high demands
for Bank implementation support to the PDMI.

Further direct Bank engagement (individually and/or jointly) with small and medium-sized
municipalities in Brazil would require strong previous evidence that the Project (individually) or
Program (jointly): (i) Has a demonstration effect / is replicable; (ii) Has broader strategic
relevance and transformational impact (either at the national, regional, or metropolitan level); and
(iii) Addresses common development challenges in case of joint municipal arrangements.

Filling infrastructure gaps as the current priority for Brazil. Despite the above, infrastructure
remains a major development challenge for Brazil: (i) From 2001 to 2010, Brazil’s investments in
both private and public infrastructure were only 2.16% of GDP (considering only investments in
wastewater and water, this drops to 0.19%) 41; (ii) in the South Region, 39% of the households do
not have waste water collection, and in RS only 37.6% 42; (iii) in the South Region, 12.9% of the
households do not have water supply, and in RS 13.6% 43. These areas were all directly addressed
by the PDMI activities and investments. PDMI-financed infrastructure activities also dovetailed
with the core aspects of Brazil’s national priorities under the current administration, especially the
Innovation and Economic Development focus, to the extent that PAC-supported infrastructure
activities make up some of the counterpart elements of the Program. Additionally, PDMI has
strengthened the municipalities’ institutional environment through capacity-building, which will
further facilitate meeting PAC objectives.

Program relevance from the Borrowers’ perspective. During ICR discussions, the Borrowers
were unanimous in confirming the success and relevance of Program components and
investments to local and regional development 44 . The commitment to Project implementation
shown by some of the Municipalities – in counterpart allocations, despite difficulties; in involving
different areas of Prefectures in Project implementation; and in planning and setting up
arrangements for post completion continuity – confirms the relevance of the Program for the
Borrowers. The Borrowers placed specific emphasis on the value of the direct engagement with
the Bank during implementation. For the Borrowers the Program design allowing learning across
municipalities complemented with direct Bank engagement was well-suited to their needs.

Given the above, the Program relevance is rated Modest.


41
   Source: Castelar Pinheiro and Giambiagi (2012), Frischtak (2012), Credit Suisse (2013).
42
   Source: PNAD 2012.
43
   PNAD, 2012 and SNIS, 2011.
44
   Santa Maria, for instance, registered in their Final Evaluation Report “interest in the replicating of
projects with external financing.”

                                                   17
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

Overall, the Program was successful in enhancing the capacity of the municipalities to provide
services and implement infrastructure. There were substantial infrastructure investments
implemented under Component 3, largely but not exclusively related to improvements in urban
mobility through road construction and rehabilitation. Component 2 activities (including those
aimed at facilitating access to microcredit; fostering research and development through the
construction of Technology Parks; and supporting local / informal businesses and small producers
under selected clusters) were the most innovative Program activities, though smallest amount of
loan resources 45. Rather than a major impact in enhancing employment and income opportunities
per se (which is not fully achievable at the short term), they served as pilots to improve the
Borrowers capacity to undertake LED in close interaction with the private sector. Finally,
Component 1’s sector-specific plans and tools to improve municipal management – especially in
the environmental, mobility and WSS sectors – were also important achievements contributing to
the achievement of the PDO.

The proposed efficacy rating for PDMI is derived from the weighted average of the individual
Project ratings for Bagé (Substantial), Pelotas (Substantial), Rio Grande (Modest), Santa Maria
(Substantial), and Uruguaiana (Negligible). The three “Substantial” performers – Bagé, Pelotas
and Santa Maria – account for 72.5% of the total planned investment of US$54.38 million
(Pelotas $18.90, Bagé $6.60, and Santa Maria $13.95), and for 79% of the total disbursed loan
proceeds of US$47.47 million (Pelotas $18.90, Bagé $6.51, and Santa Maria $12.20). Rio Grande
and Uruguaiana, rated “Modest” and “Negligible”, respectively, had a total planned investment of
US$ 14.93 million (27.5%, including Uruguaiana at $6.83 and Rio Grande with $8.10); and total
disbursed loan proceeds of US$ 9.86 million(21%), with Uruguaiana at $2.70 and Rio Grande at
$7.16.

Table 3 below summarizes the achievements of targets for the PDOIs and IOIs. Further
assessment of specific outcomes is undertaken on a case-by-case basis in Appendices 1 through 5
(Specific Datasheets and Section 3.2 of the Project ICRs).




45
  Component 2’s share in Bagé, Rio Grande and Uruguaiana Projects was approximately 2% of the actual
investments; in Pelotas, 4% (although in this case there were additional private investments); and in Santa
Maria 14.5%.

                                                    18
             Table 3: Proposed individual ratings based on achievement of indicators
 PDO: To strengthen the capacity of the municipalities of Bagé, Pelotas, Rio Grande, Santa Maria and
 Uruguaiana to provide selected infrastructure services and employment opportunities for their
 population.
                                                                Intermediate Outcome Indicators
               Proposed        PDO Indicators (PDOI)
                                                                               (IOI)
   Project    Individual
                                        46        Not                    48   Partially     Not
                Rating       Achieved                         Achieved
                                              Achieved 47                    Achieved Achieved 49
 Bagé         Substantial         2               2 50             8              -           2
 Pelotas      Substantial         6                 2              7             1            1
 Rio Grande     Modest            1                 2              3             1            2
 Santa Maria  Substantial         4                 0              4             2            3
 Uruguaiana    Negligible         0                 5              1              -           5

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial

Program efficiency was assessed based on a comparison of ex-ante (at appraisal) and ex-post51
(after Project closure) results of the Economic and Financial analysis. At appraisal, it was
anticipated that the Program would provide substantial economic benefits in the long term due to
lower transport costs and reduction in travel time in Uruguaiana, Bagé, Pelotas, Rio Grande and
Santa Maria, and due to improvements in sustainability of water supply and sanitation services in
Bagé and Pelotas. Moreover, it was assumed that investments would provide additional economic
benefits due to improved living standards and real estate value growth in areas of urban
development. Component 2 was expected to provide increased employment and income, with a
positive spillover effect on the local economy.

Road infrastructure investments financed design, paving or rehabilitation of streets and
installation of neighborhood drainage systems. The upgrading of urban roads was complemented
by improved sidewalks, landscaping, traffic safety measures, and bikeways. Expected benefits
included improved quality of life and reduced maintenance costs, car accidents and travel time.

The Program’s water supply investments covered installation of micro and macro meters,
rehabilitation of the water supply network, construction of a water supply system in rural Pelotas,
increased treated water reserves, and expansion of capacity for sewage systems and small
treatment plants. Benefits included a reduction in water losses, energy consumption and
maintenance costs. Financial benefits reflected the increase in services providers’ revenues due to
improvements in the accuracy of water and sanitation billing and reduced O&M costs.




46
   Including targets that were surpassed, met and substantially met.
47
   This category was designed conservatively to include cases where the targets were not met, cases where
no quantitative data was available (even when there was substantial qualitative indication of success), and
cases where no data at all was available.
48
   Refer to footnote #44.
49
   Refer to footnote #45.
50
   No quantitative data available, but substantial indications of success. See the Appendix datasheets for
more detailed information.
51
   See Annex 3 for the complete ex-post Economic and Financial analysis.

                                                    19
The economic benefits of sanitation activities included improvements in housing values, living
standards, and public health in Program municipalities. Although these benefits were significant,
they are not included in this economic assessment due to significant data inconsistency.

The total economic costs and benefits for each component were estimated at appraisal with EIRR
ranging from 17% to 495% 52 for transport and from 13% to 35% for WSS investments.

For the purposes of this ICR, the economic analysis was replicated for each individual Project,
taking into consideration the same activities analyzed during appraisal, namely: (i) roads
upgrading; and (ii) water supply and sanitation. For investments in roads, the Highway Design
and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) and real estate appreciation (i.e. increases in the
IPTU-Property and Urban Land Tax) were used. For WSS investments, service delivery data
were used to measure benefits. For Component 2’s employment and income generation activities,
a qualitative analysis was carried out given the questionably reliable or insufficient data and low
financing amounts. In addition, due to the public nature of the investments and lack of revenue
from most of the activities, a financial analysis was not conducted.

Economic analyses were conducted for interventions in the municipalities of Pelotas, Bagé and
Santa Maria only. In Rio Grande, it was not possible to conduct such an analysis due to the lack
of reliable data and low Borrower capacity to measure results. In Uruguaiana, no information
was provided by the Borrower to the Bank.

The economic evaluation shows that substantial results were achieved through PDMI Program
investments. Activities evaluated presented EIRR ranging from 12% to 232%, with unit costs in
general lower than benchmark values. Based on this, PDMI overall Efficiency is rated
Substantial 53.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Based on the Program’s relevance (Modest), efficacy (Substantial), and efficiency (Substantial),
the proposed overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The PDMI directly targeted poverty through activities including urbanization of peripheral zones
(Santa Maria), formalization of employment (Pelotas), WSS improvements (Bagé and Pelotas),
land regularization of low income areas (Rio Grande) and paving of key urban transport avenues
(all Projects). Social development-oriented actions included expansion of access to micro-credit
(Pelotas and Santa Maria), support for employment improvement and formalization of firms


52
   Several typographical errors in the PAD in Pelotas’ EIRR data for urban roads upgrading were
discovered during ICR preparation: for instance, one EIRR should read 226.40 instead of 22.60.
53
    Calculated based on a weighted average of the individual Projects’ efficiency ratings (Pelotas:
Substantial; Bagé: Substantial; Santa Maria: Substantial; Rio Grande: Negligible; Uruguaiana: Negligible).




                                                   20
(Pelotas), and support to key economic clusters (Agriculture in Bagé and Pelotas; and Handicrafts
in Santa Maria).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Institutional strengthening was a key PDMI element: investments for Municipal Strengthening
(Component 1) were US$ 4.84 million, comprising approximately 10% of overall Program
spending. As previously mentioned, the creation and adoption of important municipal
development plans under this Component was among the most important of Program
achievements both in terms of process and results. In addition, after Project completion, the UGP
from Pelotas was transformed into a centralized municipal project development unit. As per
information provided by Bagé and Santa Maria authorities, once new financing engagements are
effective, they intend to replicate the structure of UGP, as well as some of the procedures
mainstreamed by the PDMI (i.e. the methodology for project management and supervision, and
the interdisciplinary and integrated approach). The strengthening of the UGP and Municipal
teams was an aspect repeatedly mentioned as a positive result of the PDMI by the Borrowers
during ICR discussions.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
Synergies and increased access to alternate funding sources. As a result of the counterpart
financing requirement and the strengthening of the Municipal teams by the PDMI, municipalities
increased their capacity to access other sources of funding for infrastructure and for strengthening
public sector management. In particular, they strengthened their partnerships with the Federal
Government. For instance, Pelotas has secured more than US$120 million in additional resources
from the Ministries of National Integration and of Cities and the Congress. These include the
PAC Program and Emendas Parlamentares. 54

Increased tools and data to support municipal management in service delivery and economic
development. A number of studies, plans and tools carried out during the Project are helping the
municipal leaders and staff make more informed decisions and better plan the development of
their cities. In the case of Santa Maria, for example, the preparation of the WSS plan has
presented the Mayor with financial data of CORSAN’s (Rio Grande do Sul State WSS Utility –
Companhia Riograndense de Saneamento) revenues in the Municipality, which enabled the
Municipality to better negotiate the improvement of WSS service provision with the State
concessionaire. Also in Santa Maria and Pelotas, the aerophotogrametric maps or GIS systems
produced are serving as a basis for evaluation of property values and cadasters to increase city
revenues. In Uruguaiana, Bagé, Pelotas and Rio Grande, the preparation of LED plans –
conducted through participatory approaches – not only produced guidelines for informed actions
by municipal leaders but also raised public awareness and engagement in city development. In
Bagé, key recommendations of the LED plan have been adopted by the municipality.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A Stakeholder Workshop was held on November 21, 2012 to promote joint reflection on the
experience of the development of the PDMI, extracting lessons learned from its design,
management and implementation with the vision of assimilating them in similar projects. The
workshop was organized by the World Bank with the participation of over 17 representatives
from the PDMI UGPs for the municipalities of Pelotas, Bagé, Rio Grande and Santa Maria. The


54
  Emenda Parlamentar is the instrument through which the Congress grants extra budget for Municipalities
to invest.

                                                  21
Uruguaiana municipality did not participate. A full summary of the workshops, whose lessons
generally align with and are incorporated with those of the Program, is included as Annex 6. The
main lessons from the workshop included the importance of Project planning and preparation, the
benefits to be gained from well-designed inter-municipal linkages as well as intra-municipal
integration, and the need for a more robust and structured TA entity to support to the Borrowers.

Specific quantitative beneficiary surveys were carried out as part of the Borrowers’ Independent
Program Assessment for Santa Maria. Additional beneficiary satisfaction surveys were also
carried out by Pelotas and Bagé. Although they do not include quantitative measurements, their
qualitative results were taken into account in this assessment. The ICR Results Framework
Analysis makes reference to their main findings.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

The risks identified, as well as the specific ratings proposed for each, vary from Project to
Project. The risks overall include: (i) limited Municipal capacity to perform O&M for the
investments in WSS, drainage, and street and urban upgrading (applicable to all Projects); (ii) not
completing pending activities after Project closure (environmental improvements of Km 3
neighborhood in Santa Maria; land regularization in Rio Grande) or initiated (closing and
remediation of the existing dumpsite, and construction of a new sanitary landfill in Uruguaiana);
(iii) sufficiency of technical and institutional arrangements to assure continuity and sustained
impacts of the results of Components 1 and 2 (applicable to all Projects – i.e. plans adopted, TA
provided to beneficiaries of the productive activities, learning internalized, etc.).

The proposed rating is derived from the weighted average of the ratings for Bagé (Moderate),
Pelotas (Moderate), Rio Grande (Substantial), Santa Maria (Substantial), and Uruguaiana (High).
Further assessment of specific risks to development outcomes is undertaken on a case-by-case
basis in Appendices 1 through 5 (Specific Datasheets and Section 4 of the Project ICRs).

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank performance during preparation and approval was characterized by quality inputs and
efforts, resulting in a sound background analysis and overall concept. The APL approach
employed was appropriate, as it allowed for critical inter-municipal learning and exchange of
experiences to strengthen the Borrowers’ capacities. Additionally, this approach allowed the
Bank to engage for the first time with a group of small and medium-sized municipalities,
packaging them all together in a coherent way. The PDMI’s economic and social aspects
reflected relevant development challenges for the municipalities, as presented in Section 3.5 (a)
of this ICR.

There were some shortcomings in Program design, including: (i) underestimated risk for
allocation of counterpart funding; (ii) unforeseen operational risks stemming from limited
Borrowers capacity; (iii) the supervision challenge of supporting the Program across five
municipalities; (iv) the limited role of UAP during Program implementation; and (v) insufficient
provisions for M&E. Although the M&E indicators at entry were in general well-designed to

                                                22
quantitatively measure Program impacts, they were also beyond the Borrower’s capacity to
monitor and evaluate.

When assessed against the overall Program outcome (rated Moderately Satisfactory), the above
shortcomings in Bank performance are considered moderate. For a fuller explanation, refer to
sections 2.1 of the Overall ICR, and of Appendices 1 through 5.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Despite the substantial organizational and logistical challenges of supervising five Program
Projects, Bank supervision overall displayed a high degree of internal coordination as well as TA,
intensive support, and responsiveness to the Borrowers. This is evidenced by the frequent
supervision missions and trainings undertaken, as well as the successful conclusion of
restructuring processes for four of the five Projects. Exceptions to the overall strong performance
on the part of the Bank include a period of delayed response times to Borrower requests for No-
Objections (Santa Maria and Uruguaiana, end of 2011, due to a high volume of concentrated
demands) and failure to correct minor problems with M&E indicators during Restructuring. A
shortcoming on the part of the Bank in general was that additional supervision capacity /
financing was not allocated to the Program even after the outsize operational burden was
identified.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Based on the ratings for Quality at Entry (Moderately Satisfactory) and for Quality of Supervision
(Moderately Satisfactory), the overall rating for Bank Performance is Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This overall Borrower Performance rating is based on the weighted average of the five Projects’
ratings. It is included in order to give an overall sense of the Borrowers’ success in implementing
PDMI; therefore, it should not be taken as an indication of the performance of any individual
Borrower.

Borrower performance varied widely by Project, from Unsatisfactory (Uruguaiana) and
Moderately Unsatisfactory (Rio Grande) to Moderately Satisfactory (Bagé and Santa Maria) and
Satisfactory (Pelotas). In general, these variations depended on Borrower commitment, as well as
unforeseen issues that complicated implementation in the case of some of the Projects 55.




55
  Assessment of Borrower performance is made individually, for each municipality. Refer to section 5 of
the specific Project ICRs.

                                                  23
6. Lessons Learned

Lesson One. Investment projects with small and medium-sized municipalities require
sustained efforts to construct and enhance the institutional capacity of the Borrowers. This
effort should be structured and targeted, and should be initiated early during Project preparation,
as well as continued throughout implementation, to assure its success. Capacity building should
address social, technical and environmental planning and project management (including results-
based systems, budgeting, contract supervision and management, inter-agency coordination),
specific Bank guidelines and procedures for financial management and procurement (including
the development of TORs, technical specifications, and bidding of complex works), and other
topics and/or challenges that are identified during preparation or that may arise during
implementation. Additional inputs are also necessary, such as ad-hoc consultancies in response to
specific Borrower demands during implementation. Bank preparation and supervision budgets
should consider these needs.

Lesson Two. The design of investment projects with subnational clients (especially those of
small and medium scale) should take the Borrower’s implementation capacity into account
when introducing innovative and/or multi-faceted approaches. The relevance of PDMI’s
components and activities remains substantial in relation to the development challenges faced by
the Borrowers and the country. However, the Bank and the Borrowers agreed that:

(i) The number and variety of Program activities were excessive, dispersing the attention and
efforts of the UGPs. This, in addition to limited resources invested (especially in Component 2),
undermined capacity for implementation and the scale of the results achieved;
(ii) While there were direct linkages and synergies between the actions of Components 1 (i.e. the
updating of municipal cadasters and the preparation of WSS master plans) and 3 (infrastructure
services improvement), these linkages were less strong with regard to Component 2 activities
(income and employment generation). This created an additional burden on the Clients. Actions
to promote LED are by nature more innovative, multifactorial, take longer to mature, and require
specialized teams that are often not present within the structure of the UGPs dealing with
infrastructure projects. Their relevance and effort versus benefit ratio is questionable.

Lesson Three. The success of a Project depends not only on the UGP’s internal structure and
capacity, but also on the level of coordination between the UGP and the Borrower’s decision
making structure and the commitment of policy makers. The design of the UGP as a robust,
autonomous structure with its own staff linked directly with the Cabinet of the Prefecture (e.g.
Pelotas) or a leaner structure linked to a specific secretariat and enlisting support as necessary for
key areas (e.g. Bagé) can both yield successful results. Pelotas and Bagé assumed, within the
context of the PDMI, these two different profiles, and both distinguished themselves in their own
way as top performers. Regardless of its internal structure, the UGP’s capacity to coordinate
efforts among decision- and policy-makers was the key to achieving positive results.

Lesson Four. In the case of small to medium size municipalities, counterpart funding
requirements should be carefully assessed at entry, considering the financial and fiscal
situation of the particular Borrower. Close attention must be paid during Project design to the
financial capacity of the Borrower. Overall counterpart contributions of 40/60% are
unrealistically high for municipalities at the scale of PDMI Borrowers, due to the high proportion
of the municipal budget that such percentages represent. During preparation, the Bank
successfully anticipated this issue, and identified and recognized counterpart activities for which
the Borrowers had secured alternative resources of financing that could contribute to the
achievement of the PDO. While it alleviated somewhat the burden of financial allocations, this

                                                 24
measure was still not sufficient. More flexibility should have been originally built into the design
of the eligible percentages of expenditures to be financed with Bank resources.

Lesson Five. While grouped Projects can present advantages in economies of scale, these
gains must be balanced against the operational burden on the Bank to ensure a cost-
efficient Project. While economies of scale can be achieved in terms of budget (for Program
preparation, supervision, and evaluation), this must be balanced against the major operational
challenge of providing implementation support to five stand-alone Projects. In the case of PDMI,
the complicated logistics and the Borrowers’ limited capacities – with the corresponding need for
intensive Bank support – were not realistically evaluated and taken into account at Program
preparation. While the Bank’s technical assistance was highly beneficial to the Borrowers, this
intensive need for support was an issue for the Bank, especially vis-à-vis the relatively low
magnitude of its expected impacts at the country level.

Lesson Six. Horizontal APLs can be appropriate instruments for designing successful,
relevant and efficient multi-Borrower Programs, provided some technical and institutional
conditions are met. The choice of the Horizontal APL instrument to respond to the challenges
presented by the PDMI municipalities was an appropriate one, as the Program was fully aligned
with the APL criteria of: promoting inter-municipal learning and exchange of experiences;
allowing for a flexible timeline and a multi-phased / programmatic approach; and capturing
economies of scale. However, the relevance and efficiency of a multi-Borrower integrated
Program tends to increase if the following technical and institutional aspects are taken into
consideration from the beginning:

(i) Participants should share important common development interests and challenges: In the
case of PDMI, while the municipalities of the Metade Sul (southern half) of RS were
geographically close, they did not constitute an integrated territory seeking joint impact. 56
(ii) Coordination and implementation must be undertaken by a strong and autonomous body at a
supra-Borrower level, with real investment and/or decision-making capacity: During the PDMI
implementation, the UAP lacked the legal and coordination character that would have allowed it
to fully achieve the objective of inter-municipal integration.
(iii) The selection of joint operations to finance small and/or medium size Municipalities should
balance the scale of their potential development impact with the Bank’s total efforts and final
goals: The main results of most Projects were satisfactorily reached, and the PDMI Borrowers
have emphasized in meetings and the stakeholder workshop the importance of the Program
results to their municipalities and their desire to replicate it. However, this Program was small
compared with the Bank’s total municipal lending and, required highly intensive supervision.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)


56
  The later Mananciais Program (P006553), also a Horizontal APL, for instance, has three Borrowers but a
common goal and regional impact to protect and maintain the quality and reliability of São Paulo
Metropolitan Region’s water resources and potable water sources; and to improve the quality of life of the
poor populations residing in key targeted urban river basins.

                                                   25
                      Appendix 1. Specific Data Sheet and ICR for the
                          PELOTAS MUNICIPAL PROJECT
                          (Polo do Sul Project, IBRD 7499-BR)

A. Basic Information
                                                                          Pelotas - Rio Grande do
                                                                          Sul Integrated
Country:                Brazil                  Project Name:             Municipal
                                                                          Development Program
                                                                          (APL)
Project ID:             P094199                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-74990
ICR Date:               06/30/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:                 PELOTAS
Original Total
                        USD 18.90M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 18.90M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 18.90M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Municipal Government of Pelotas (Project Implementation Unit linked to the Mayor’s Office)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/16/2006     Effectiveness:             05/21/2008        05/21/2008
Appraisal:            06/26/2007     Restructuring(s):                            11/04/2011
Approval:             01/15/2008     Mid-term Review:                             09/13/2010
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2012        12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower Satisfactory

                                             26
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General industry and trade sector                                      4                    -
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 12                    2
Micro- and SME finance                                                 5                    4
Roads and highways                                                    69                  89
Sub-national government administration                                10                    5



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                             9                  4
Municipal governance and institution building                         10                  5
Other urban development                                               63                  82
Pollution management and environmental health                         12                  2
Rural services and infrastructure                                      7                  7

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Jorge Familiar Calderon              Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Deborah L. Wetzel                    John Briscoe
Sector Manager:            Anna Wellenstein                     Anna Wellenstein (acting)
Project Team Leader:       Juliana Garrido                      Jennifer J. Sara
ICR Team Leader:           Juliana Garrido
ICR Primary Author:        Emanuela Monteiro




                                                27
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project development objective is to strengthen the capacity of Pelotas to provide
selected infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                         Original Target        Formally       Actual Value
                                           Values (from          Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval           Target       Completion or
                                            documents)           Values       Target Years
                Number of municipal projects institutionalizing improved evaluation, social and
Indicator 1 :
                environmental management processes in the municipal government.
Value
quantitative or              0                        3               -                 3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/10/2007                    01/16/2008                        12/31/2012
                TARGET MET
Comments        (i) The Project's methodology for works supervision was mainstreamed to other
(incl. %        municipal projects; (ii) the Landscape Guide (Guia de Arborização Urbana) was
achievement) adopted by the Municipality; and (iii) the former UGP was transformed in a
                centralized project unit within the Municipality.
                Percentage of citizens satisfied with quicker and more user friendly access to
Indicator 2 :
                client services provided by the municipality
Value
quantitative or            68.9%              Baseline +70%         85%               84.8%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/04/2011                    01/16/2008         11/04/2011     12/31/2012
                UP TO DATE INFORMATION TO BE REPORTED AGAINST TARGET
Comments
                IS NOT AVAILABLE
(incl. %
                Baseline from May 2006. Result based on a survey conducted in Sept. 2009 by
achievement)
                IPO (Instituto de Pesquisas de Opinião).
Indicator 3 : Number of good practices or innovations replicated from other municipalities
                                              At least 3 good
Value
                                                 practice or
quantitative or              0                                        -                 3
                                                innovations
Qualitative)
                                                 replicated
Date achieved 12/10/2007                    01/16/2008                        12/31/2012
                TARGET MET
                (i) Business Plan, management structure, and creation/regulation of the
Comments
                Technology Park; (ii) Street vendors’ facility (Shopping Popular); and (iii)
(incl. %
                Farmers' Association / Fruit and vegetable agro-industrial sector (the one
achievement)
                benefiting from the Project’s investments in a Processing and Packing House
                Facility).
Indicator 4 : Percentage increase in formal firms
Value                        0                 At least 10%     15% increase      40% increase

                                              28
quantitative or                                above the          yearly
Qualitative)                               performance of the
                                               municipal
                                             economy as a
                                                 whole
Date achieved 11/04/2011                   01/16/2008         11/04/2011       12/31/2012
                TARGET MET
                The revised target value was inaccurately set as “15% increase yearly, which is
Comments        impossible from the baseline of 50%. It should have been instead defined as
(incl. %        “15% increase”. Results refer to the 500 beneficiaries of the Street vendors’
achievement) facility (Shopping Popular). At the start of the investment 50% of them ran
                formal businesses. At the end, this number went up to 70%, representing a 40%
                increase.
                Number of rural people provided with access to improved water sources under
Indicator 5 :
                the project
                                             Coverage: 2000
                    Coverage of water          rural people
Value
                supply; 2000 rural people. attended by water
quantitative or                                                      2000              2088
                     26% of collected        supply, 65% of
Qualitative)
                    wastewater treated.         wastewater
                                                  treated.
Date achieved 12/10/2007                   01/16/2008          11/04/2011      12/31/2012
                TARGET SURPASSED
Comments
                The number of beneficiaries was estimated taking the number of piped
(incl. %
                connections installed by the Project (522) in rural Pelotas and multiplying it by 4,
achievement)
                which is the average number of people per household.
Indicator 6 : Reduction in the density of vehicles in selected avenues benefited by the project
                                           Reduction by 20%
                                              in density and
Value                                      increase by 10% in
quantitative or              0             speed-- in avenues        -20%             -29%
Qualitative)                                     receiving
                                            interventions and
                                              roads nearby.
Date achieved 12/10/2007                   01/16/2008          11/04/2011      12/31/2012
                TARGET SURPASSED
                The baseline was calculated by a survey conducted in 2003 by STT in Fernando
                Osorio Ave (overall # of vehicles = 91,573; average flow = 1,307 vehicles per
Comments
                hour = 1.43% of the overall number of vehicles in town). The actual result is
(incl. %
                based on a survey conducted in 2009 by STT in Fernando Osorio Ave (overall #
achievement)
                of vehicles = 125,532; average flow = 1,276 vehicles per hour = 1.01% of the
                overall number of vehicles in town). Reduction is therefore measured comparing
                1.43% and 1.01%.
Indicator 7 : Percentage of urban citizens satisfied with the quality of infrastructure services
Value
quantitative or           64.9%              Baseline +70%            75%             67.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/10/2007                   01/16/2008          11/04/2011      12/31/2012
Comments        TARGET NOT MET

                                                29
(incl. %        Baseline from May 2006. Items included were paving and upgrading of parks
achievement)    and squares. Result based on a survey conducted in March 2012 by IPO (Instituto
                de Pesquisas de Opinião). The previous survey, from Sept. 2009, had shown
                81.5% satisfaction.
Indicator 8 :   Number of direct project beneficiaries
Value
quantitative or          0                                        280,000          290,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/04/2011                                      11/04/2011     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        TARGET SURPASSED
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                            Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Number of properties cadastered in automated information systems
Value                                       GIS and updated
                                                                                     127,042
(quantitative                0             cadaster of 57,000       57,000
                                                                               (GIS and cadaster)
or Qualitative)                                 properties.
Date achieved 12/07/2007                   01/16/2008          11/04/2011     12/31/2012
                TARGET SURPASSED
Comments
                The physical cadaster of the buildings is complete. The Municipality is seeking
(incl. %
                funding through a new PMAT program to add layers of data to it, and turn it into
achievement)
                a multipurpose cadaster.
Indicator 2 : Number of municipal staff trained
Value
(quantitative                0                     1000                -              2,052
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/07/2007                   01/16/2008                         12/31/2012
Comments        TARGET SURPASSED
(incl. %        Results account for trainings conducted as part of the PMAT program, part of the
achievement) counterpart investments linked to the Project.
Indicator 3 : Percentage of annual work program delivered on time
Value
(quantitative                0                     90%                 -              90%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/07/2007                   01/16/2008                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        TARGET MET
achievement)
                Number of beneficiaries of training and/or technical assistance (cluster firms and
Indicator 4 :
                street vendors, rural producers, innovative firms, and incubated firms)
Value                                       500 cluster firms                       500 (street
(quantitative                0             and street vendors, 500; 60; 5; 10 vendors); 60 (rural
or Qualitative)                                  200 rural                      producers); 0; 0

                                               30
                                              producers.                     (Park is still under
                                            Technological                     implementation)
                                          Park: 5 innovative
                                               firms, 10
                                           incubated firms.
Date achieved 12/10/2007                  01/16/2008         11/04/2011      12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        TARGET SUBSTANTIALLY MET
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Number of productive infrastructure installed
                                              Agrobusiness
                                            cluster: 1 packing
                                               house. Street
                                                 vendors:
                                                                Commercial 2 (Packing House
Value                                        enlargement of 1
                                                                 Center and    and Commercial
(quantitative                0                 Commercial
                                                                 Technology Center / Shopping
or Qualitative)                              Centre for Social
                                                                    Park           Popular)
                                                 Inclusion
                                            (Camelodromo). 1
                                              Technological
                                                   Park
Date achieved 12/10/2007                   01/16/2008          11/04/2011    12/31/2012
                TARGET PARTIALLY MET
Comments        The revised target value was inaccurately set as “Commercial Center and
(incl. %        Technology Park”. It should have been “Commercial Center, Technology Park
achievement) and Packing House”. 2 out of 3 planned productive infrastructure installed. The
                Technology Park was not built.
Indicator 6 : Volume of Bank Funding: Enabling Environment - Microfinance
Value
(quantitative                0                       -          USD 150.000             0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/04/2011                                       11/04/2011    12/31/2012
                TARGET NOT MET
                Although micro credit program support was included in the Project, the Bank’s
                participation was limited to TA to the Borrower, with no direct Bank financing.
Comments
                This indicator was included mistakenly during Project restructuring.
(incl. %
                Nonetheless, results provided by the Borrower show that through Project
achievement)
                completion in 2012, by Caixa, Banco do Brasil and Banrisul lent BRL
                10,517,000.00 to micro entrepreneurs through the program. This number
                increased to BRL 24,072,765.66 by the end of 2013.
                Physical progress of infrastructure improvements in urban transport as a
Indicator 7 : percentage of target attained: roads rehabilitated; roads maintained; substituted,
                rehabilitated or duplicated bridges
                                                 55 km of
                                           paved/rehabilitated
Value                                                                            70.4Km (152
                                            roads; 1200 km of      55Km;
(quantitative                0                                                streets); 1,200Km;
                                                rural roads     1,200Km; 12
or Qualitative)                                                                        12
                                              maintained; 19
                                                  bridges

                                              31
Date achieved 12/10/2007                   01/16/2008          11/04/2011   12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        TARGET SURPASSED
achievement)
                Physical progress of urban improvements and environmental recovery as a
Indicator 8 :
                percentage of target attained: m2 of green areas recovered
Value
                                             1 park with 3700
(quantitative                0                                                3,700m2 (1 park)
                                             m2 of green area
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/10/2007                   01/16/2008                       12/31/2012
Comments        TARGET MET
(incl. %        Results refer to improvements made to Dom Antônio Zattera Park, and also in
achievement) the Central area.
                Physical progress of water infrastructure improvements in absolute numbers;
Indicator 9 : number of new piped household water connections that are resulting from the
                project intervention
                                               Expansion of
                                              20km of water
                                            supply network in
                                                rural areas.
                                                                                20Km (water
Value                                         Construction of
                                                                 20Km; 600      network); 522
(quantitative                0                3.2km of water
                                                                 households      households
or Qualitative)                                 conveyance
                                                                                (connections)
                                             system in urban
                                            areas. 1 treatment
                                                wastewater
                                                  facility.
Date achieved 12/10/2007                   01/16/2008          11/04/2011   12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        TARGET SUBSTANTIALLY MET
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                         IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     03/04/2008         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     09/11/2008         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               6.13
  3     04/15/2009         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      9.82
  4     11/23/2009         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    11.65
  5     04/29/2010         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    12.26
  6     02/21/2011         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory             14.33
  7     07/20/2011         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    15.01
  8     04/29/2012         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory             15.73
  9     11/18/2012     Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             18.90
 10     07/10/2013         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    18.90
 11     01/19/2014     Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                    18.90


                                              32
H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
                                                     (i) Adjustment to the wording
                                                     of the Loan Agreement, in
                                                     order to correct terms used
                                                     originally by mistake; (ii)
                                                     Correction of a typo in the
                                                     Appraisal Document
                                                     specifically related to the
                                                     Project’s Safeguard Category;
                                                     (iii) Reduction in scope,
                                                     notably the exclusion of the
 11/04/2011       N        S       S         15.01
                                                     investments to set up centers
                                                     for digital
                                                     inclusion under Component 2,
                                                     and some drainage and
                                                     sanitation investments under
                                                     Component 3; (iv) Revision of
                                                     the results framework to reflect
                                                     the above changes in scope;
                                                     and (v) Reallocation of funds
                                                     between loan categories.




                                         33
SPECIFIC ICR FOR PELOTAS MUNICIPAL PROJECT

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Pelotas Project (Polo do Sul) was approved by the Board on January 15, 2008 in the amount
of US$18.9 million, and following the signing of the Loan Agreement on March 26, 2008 became
effective on May 21, 2008. Pelotas was both a pioneer and a leader for the PDMI Program,
beginning implementation almost a full year before the Bagé Project, the next to start. Pelotas
was also the first PDMI Project to undergo restructuring (Level II) in November of 2011. Despite
some difficulties – shared for the most part by all the PDMI Projects – Pelotas’ performance
remained satisfactory throughout almost all of Project implementation. The Project disbursed all
of the available loan resources and, as of the closing date in December of 2012, had concluded
almost all of the planned Project activities and achieved most of the PDO indicators.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The city of Pelotas is in the southeastern part of the State of Rio Grande do Sul, approximately
252 Km from the state capital of Porto Alegre. It was the state’s third largest city at the time of
appraisal, with a population of about 335,000 inhabitants, 93% of which was urban.

Nearly 21.8% of the municipal population was considered poor (2000), almost double the
corresponding figure for the state capital Porto Alegre (11.3%). A survey at the time of appraisal
indicated that 20.8% of the economically active population of Pelotas was unemployed, compared
to 13.7% for the Porto Alegre Metropolitan Area. According to the State Statistics Agency (FEE),
total municipal GDP in 2004 was nearly U$ 1 billion and per capita GDP US$3,185, about half of
the state’s average (US$ 6,054). Municipal GDP had been in decline, and Pelotas had been
dropping in statewide economic rankings. Nearly 85% of industrial GDP related to traditional
industries, including food processing, leather, fertilizers and other agricultural inputs.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Original PDO. The PDO was to strengthen the capacity of Pelotas to provide selected
infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population.

Key original indicators. The original results framework contained seven PDO indicators for
Pelotas. These are, for Improved Municipal Management Capacity: (i) Number of municipal
projects institutionalizing improved evaluation, social and environmental management processes
in the municipal government of Pelotas, (ii) Percentage of citizens satisfied with quicker and
more user-friendly access to client services provided by the municipality, (iii) Number of good
practices or innovations replicated from other municipalities. For Increased Local Economic
Development Opportunities: (i) The net percentage increase in formal firms is higher (or its
decrease is lower) among the beneficiaries of the project than in the municipal economy as a
whole. For Improved Infrastructure Services: (i) Number of rural people with coverage of water
supply, (ii) Reduction in the density of vehicles and increase in their average speed in selected
avenues benefitted by the project, (iii) Percentage of urban citizens satisfied with the quality of
infrastructure services.




                                                34
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. Indicators were revised at restructuring to correct problems with the
initial results framework, and adjust to the changing context (a decrease in loan purchasing
power) and the correspondingly altered Project activities.

Four indicators were revised to better fit the municipality’s monitoring and reporting capabilities.
Three IOIs were revised to reflect the reduced scope of many Project activities (further addressed
in Section 1.7). PDOI 5 was scaled back substantially, with the target for wastewater treatment
eliminated entirely, due to the removal of a substantial portion of the Project’s planned water and
sanitation activities. Two new targets were included: a PDOI to monitor the number of total
Project beneficiaries, and an intermediate indicator to take into account the microfinance Project
activities.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The original estimate for project beneficiaries included in the PAD was the population of Pelotas
at the time – 335,000 individuals. This estimate was updated to 280,000 in the Restructuring
Paper, and the final estimate for beneficiaries in Pelotas is 290,000.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project’s original components were as follows:

Component 1: Municipal Strengthening. Focused on improving the municipality’s capacity to
more effectively and efficiently execute projects, with a focus on fiduciary, environmental and
social aspects, and improving the quality and efficiency of public services provided by the
municipal government. This component included: (i) public service modernization, and (ii)
project management.

Component 2: Income and Employment Generation. The project sought to support cross-cutting
activities to improve the overall business environment, facilitate access to micro-credit, cluster
development for street vendors and fruit and vegetable producers in urban and rural areas and a
Technology Park to promote R&D. This component included: (i) strategies, SME and cluster
support, and (ii) construction of a technology park.

Component 3: Infrastructure Services Improvements. This component included: (i) rehabilitation
of urban road infrastructure and landscaping, (ii) rehabilitation of rural road infrastructure and
landscaping and (iii) urban upgrading and environmental rehabilitation.

1.6 Revised Components

Scope tightening. Changes to all three components were made due to the increase in total project
costs, stemming from exchange rate variations and construction price inflation. These changes
included both a reduction in the scope of Project activities, the inclusion of alternate funding
sources to complete some of the planned activities, and a shift in loan allocations to decrease
funding for Components 1 and 2, and increase funding for the infrastructure actions provided for
under Component 3. For Components 1 and 2, financing from other sources (including private
and federal funds) allowed a decrease in loan funding to these areas, and yet relatively few
planned actions had to be removed. Allocations to Component 3—infrastructure investments—

                                                35
were proportionately increased, although the exclusion of some water and sanitation investments
(the automated drainage system and the wastewater treatment facility) still proved necessary. 57

1.7 Other significant changes

Increase in the Project’s total costs. Construction cost inflation and a shifting
BRL/US$ exchange rate led to an increase in overall Project costs from US$ 31.5 to US$ 32.85
million, and in counterpart funds from US$ 12.60 to US$ 14.09 million. In addition, the Project
was impacted by the increase in construction costs (higher than the general inflation), especially
considering that the infrastructure-related component was the largest one (see Graph 2). This
decrease in loan purchase power mandated a corresponding reduction in Project scope and the
seeking out of alternate funding sources to complete planned activities (e.g. Federal
Government’s Growth Acceleration Program – PAC funds).

Reallocation of funds between loan categories. In accordance with the above revisions to the
components, funds were reallocated between categories to maximize completion of actions and
prioritize areas unable or unlikely to obtain alternate funding. Funding for Components 1 and 2
was reduced by 13% and 43%. This was possible, in part, because of private sector financing for
Component 2 (Technology Park and the Shopping Popular., respectively). This allowed
reallocation of Project funding to Component 3, which was increased by 15%.

Other minor / corrective changes. (i) Corrective adjustments to the wording of the Loan
Agreement; and (ii) Correction of a typo in the PAD specifically related to the Project’s
Safeguard Category.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
See Section 2.1 of the PDMI Program ICR.

2.2 Implementation

“Pioneer” project. As the first PDMI Project, it took time for the Pelotas UGP to become
familiar with the Bank’s guidelines and procedures, especially those related to procurement.
During preparation, the UAP was established first in Pelotas to coordinate the implementation of
the PHRD (Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development Fund) grant for preparation of
the initial studies and projects. The coordinator of UAP became the manager of the Pelotas UGP,
which provided continuity for project implementation.

The wide scope of activities and complex arrangement of counterpart investments. The
combination of a complex administrative/management system and numerous counterpart
activities complicated Project implementation. In addition to the UGP’s intrinsic responsibilities
of Project planning, execution, monitoring and reporting, Components 1 and 2 required additional
institutional coordination. The public sector modernization activities, for instance, were financed
by PMAT; the GIS and electronic document management systems financed by the Project
required frequent exchanges with the Prefecture’s IT sectors; and intense coordination between
the UGP, the Secretary of Economic Development, and the external partners (commercial banks)


57
     The municipality is seeking alternate funding sources for, and plans to complete, these actions.

                                                       36
was needed to implement the Municipal Microcredit Program. These additional tasks dispersed
the UGP’s efforts and human resources, draining focus from other activities that were within the
UGP’s area of competence.

Structuring and performance of the UGP throughout Project implementation. The autonomous
structure of the Pelotas UGP, and its direct link with the Cabinet of the Prefecture, were important
aspects that, together with the organization’s formation (in terms of capacities and staffing) and
proactivity, were decisive in reaching satisfactory implementation for Polo do Sul.

Decrease in purchasing power and resulting Project Restructuring. As it began implementation
first, when the US Dollar was weakest, Pelotas’ Project probably suffered most of the five
municipalities from the depreciation of the US Dollar with respect to Brazilian Real, and the
increase in the construction costs in Brazil (refer to Graph 1 and to Section 2.2 of the Overall
Program ICR). These were the main reasons for the reduction in Project scope made during the
November 2011 Level II restructuring. The Municipality had to secure additional funding for the
activities (such as for the construction of a waste water treatment facility and of an automated
urban drainage system, both part of the original scope of the water and sanitation improvements
under Component 3). CPF increased from US$ 12.60 million to US$ 13.95 million. Finally, the
restructuring itself demanded time and effort to be prepared and approved, diverting attention
from implementation of Project activities and investments. However, the restructuring was
ultimately successful in making many of the adjustments necessary for successful Project
implementation and results.

                       Graph 2 – Project disbursements compared to economic indexes

                        Pelotas Project disbursement amount          Exchange rate index
                        Construction Index (INCC)                    Inflation (IPC)

       12.00                                                                                      2.33   2.50

                                                                                           2.16

       10.00         1.95                 2.00                               1.95
                               1.83                                                                      2.00
                                                     1.76
                                                                   1.67                           1.65
              8.00                                                                     1.52
                                                                             1.42
     USD (miilion)




                                                                   1.32                                  1.50
                                                    1.23
                                                                                                             Index


                                         1.18                                                     1.46
              6.00                                                                     1.38
                               1.06                                          1.30
                     1.00                                          1.23
                                         1.11       1.16                                                 1.00
                     1.00      1.05
              4.00


                                                                                                         0.50
              2.00



              0.00                                                                                       -
                     2007     2008       2009       2010           2011     2012       2013       2014
                                                            Year




                                                            37
The positive effects of the implementation support and TA provided by the Bank. The Project’s
counterpart activities were difficult, demanding substantial coordination efforts, given their
spread across Municipal agencies, on the part of the UGP (whose structure and know-how were
focused on engineering and infrastructure aspects, which constituted the bulk of Project
investments). On the other hand, the Bank made real efforts to compensate for this by providing
TA and implementation support for the project. Activities such as the WSS Master Plan, the
Strategic Plan for LED (PEDL) and the Municipal Microcredit Program had intensive
accompaniment by Bank consultants to enhance the quality of outputs.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design and implementation. M&E was challenging throughout Project implementation, as
quantitatively measuring the indicators proved beyond the Borrower’s capacity. However, it is
likely that quantitative monitoring would have presented a challenge regardless of initial indicator
design or corrections at restructuring 58 . This is due not only to the difficulty of providing
intensive technical support to five Projects simultaneously, but also the fact that the activities by
nature generally required quantitative monitoring to measure their results.

     •   Component 1. As mentioned, various indicators required separate studies to measure their
         results 59 , which were often beyond the technical and institutional capacity of the
         Borrower.

     •   Component 2. Originally, only one PDOI was defined for Component 2 (Percentage
         increase in formal firms), which was justified by the limited total activities and resources
         directed towards increasing opportunities for employment and income. The 40% increase
         in formality measured under this indicator at Project closing is reliable, and shows the
         positive impact of the Project action for construction of the Shopping Popular to benefit
         street vendors. There were also two different, simplified IOIs to accompany the progress
         of training, technical assistance, and productive sector support actions (IOIs #4 and 5).
         Finally, there was some controversy regarding the inclusion, via restructuring, of IOI #6 –
         “Volume of Bank Funding: Enabling Environment / Microfinance” (refer to comments
         provided in the ICR Results Framework Analysis). While this action was strategic and
         merited accompaniment and reporting, it should not have been chosen as an indicator,
         since no direct Bank investment was targeted at this. Bank support was mostly provided
         through TA.

     •   Component 3. The Component 3 indicators were both numerous (4 PDOs 60) and showed
         substantial capacity to (i) legitimately reflect Project investments in sanitation and




58
   In the case of Pelotas, flaws in the formulation and targets of some indicators remained after Project
restructuring (in IOIs # 7 and 8, for instance, the wording of the indicator refers to a percentage while the
target is defined as an absolute number).
59
   Satisfaction with municipal services under Component 1 with relation to the PMAT-financed public
sector modernization activities was only measured in 2009, during the preliminary implementation phase. It
is questionable whether this reported final value does in fact provide a valid indicator for the sustainability
of results obtained.
60
   Including 3 original indicators revised during restructuring, and 1 core sector indicator added via
restructuring. Additionally, 3 IOIs, which were maintained through restructuring, with slight target
adjustments due to the proposed reductions in scope.

                                                     38
        paving 61, (ii) assist in monitoring the progress of works (in the case of the IOIs), and (iii)
        provide tangible evidence for the evaluation of results.

Overall performance of Pelotas in conducting M&E. Once the initial difficulties were overcome,
Pelotas worked satisfactorily in M&E. The reasons for this include: (i) Pelotas’ reports were
delivered in a timely fashion and contained information with only moderate shortcomings; (ii)
despite the above difficulties, Pelotas conducted baseline and intermediate surveys; and (iii)
Pelotas participated in joint efforts among PDMI municipalities for contracting of consulting
services for the development of an Independent Program Evaluation, hosted the evaluation
workshop, and actively contributed during the ICR discussion process.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Aspects. 62 Pelotas’ compliance with safeguards was Satisfactory at Project closing.
Rehabilitation of the urban city center led to the relocation of street and walking vendors to units
within the Shopping Popular and other designated areas constructed as part of the Project. This
was appropriately conducted, in accordance with Involuntary Resettlement Plans developed and
implemented with the support and follow up of the Bank.

Financial Management (FM). The FM arrangements were overall Satisfactory throughout the life
of the Project. The implementing agency addressed most of the shortcomings identified during
financial management supervision missions, showing a clear and progressive improvement of the
FM arrangements when faced with issues, allowing timely and reliable provision of information
required to manage and monitor the implementation of the project. Specifically, (i) budget has
been realistic and was properly executed, (ii) staff nominated and trained on Bank's processes,
(iii) efficient internal control processes were in place, (iv) Financial Management Information
Systems (FMIS) were in place, with timely submission of IFRs, and (v) external audit reports
with an unqualified (clean) opinion were issued by auditors.

Procurement. Since Pelotas was the first PDMI Project to implement, it faced the greatest
challenge to adapt to the Bank’s procurement procedures and guidelines. It was particularly hard
for a municipality working for the first time with the Bank to reconcile Bank’s guidelines with
National guidelines and systems. This proved to be a regular learning curve. The UGP was well
staffed, though, and once initial difficulties were overcome, Pelotas’ performance improved and
procurement routines were found to be of good quality. Compliance with Procurement aspects
was rated Moderately Satisfactory at the closing of Pelotas’ Project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

As of the closing date, all Project activities that had been initiated were satisfactorily completed,
including those related to safeguards and resettlement. Even after the closing date, the Borrower
kept reporting continuation and/or progress as well as results of the activities. No formal post-
closure follow up by the Bank will be needed. Additionally, the current administration, initiated
in January 2013 with a regular term ending in December 2016, is of the same party as its
predecessor and has indicated continuity with the overall programs and policies of the preceding
administration.


61
   Component 3 accounted for 77% of the original total costs of the Project, and 85% of the revised ones.
This number goes up to 91% if taken the actual total investments of the Bank / loan proceeds.
62
   Details are in Section 2.4 of the Overall Program ICR

                                                   39
Project Management Unit. After Project closing, the UGP (with a staff of 30 people) was
assimilated into the organizational structure of the Prefecture as a “project center”. This will bring
increased post-completion security, especially with respect to the Borrower’s ability to carry out
the pending counterpart activities 63.

Operation and maintenance (O&M). Additional aspects in the post-completion phase include the
municipality’s ability to adequately carry out O&M of urban roads and infrastructure as well as
WSS networks and systems. However, the municipality has provided a budget allocation for
conducting O&M, and the Project included investments to acquire road maintenance equipment.

Land use control in the city center. The municipality has satisfactorily relocated street vendors to
appropriate commercial facilities, not only improving their businesses, but also increasing the
overall urban quality of the downtown area. It will be important to continue appropriate land use
control measures to impede new squatters inappropriately conducting their activities in the public
space. Pelotas’s current administration is properly dealing with this aspect. The Task Team was
recently informed that an initiative for standardization of snack carts in the streets was conducted,
which will greatly contribute to preserving appropriate use of public space. Both of the above
aspects illustrate important improvements on the part of the Borrower in carrying out the inherent
routines and responsibilities of a municipal administration.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Modest

The relevance of the objectives, design and implementation of Polo do Sul Project is rated Modest
because of the aspects already mentioned in section 3.1 of the overall PDMI ICR. The
investments planned by the Project to strengthen the overall capacity of the municipality,
including the generation of employment and income opportunities, and notably those in urban and
rural mobility and sanitation, still remain as priorities to be tackled by the Municipality. This was
reported in the Borrower’s final completion assessment of the Project and during the discussions
conducted after completion. The design of the Project also shows a close fit with Brazil’s national
priorities in terms of supporting municipal infrastructure and development.

The proposed Modest rating is due to: (i) a weaker link with the priorities defined for World Bank
engagement under the current CPS; (ii) reduced relevance and efficiency of Project
implementation due to the failure to achieve Program-wide institutional arrangements or
transformational impact; (iii) the substantial implementation support needed from the Bank; and
(iv) the variety of funding options (including national sources) apart from Bank financing
available for such a portfolio.




63
  Activities pending execution were: (i) the construction of the Administrative Center; (ii) the construction
of the building to house the Technology Park; and (iii) the urban upgrading works in downtown area of
Pelotas (Calçadão Central). For these, the Municipality will continue to seek other sources of financing.

                                                    40
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

The PDO was to strengthen the capacity of the Pelotas municipality to provide selected
infrastructure services and employment opportunities for the population. The volume of
Component 1 Bank financing was small (only US$ 0.86 million, less than 5% of the total loan
amount), most of which targeted Project management. However, CPF activities made up an
important part of this component and supported improving the quality and efficiency of municipal
public services. It financed the PMAT, the WSS Master Plan and the GIS mapping, all of which
were successfully conducted, as reported in the Project’s Results Framework 64. PDOIs for this
component – (i) Number of municipal projects institutionalizing improved evaluation, social and
environmental management processes in the municipal government and (ii) Percentage of citizens
satisfied with quicker and more user friendly access to client services provided by the
municipality – were met.

Under Component 2 (Bank financing of US$ 0.70 million), the situation was similar. It supported
strengthening the municipality’s capacity to generate employment and income opportunities,
meeting targets for the following PDOIs: (i) Number of good practices or innovations replicated
from other municipalities and (ii) Percentage increase in formal firms. While it constituted less
than 4% of the loan amount, it included a more substantial amount of counterpart funding and
private sector investment, the latter responsible for covering the cost of constructing and
operating the commercial facilities to house street vendors (Shopping Popular) 65 . One of the
Project’s outputs was a LED Strategy. The overall business environment in Pelotas was improved
in terms of access to financing and infrastructure by Project support for the Microcredit Program
(which benefited about 612 micro entrepreneurs with loans), and by investments in the
construction and acquisition of equipment for a Processing and Packing House Facility to support
the fruit and vegetable agro-industrial sector (60 families).

Component 3 comprised the bulk of Project investments. 91.5% of loan proceeds (US$ 17.29
over US$ 18.90 million) were allocated to the construction and/or rehabilitation of streets,
improvements to public spaces, rural mobility, and rural water. If the overall total Project costs
(actuals) are considered, Component 3 remains at 68% (US$ 28.67 of US$ 42.09 million) of total
loan proceeds, highlighting its importance in the Polo do Sul Project.

The specific assessment of the results indicators shows: (i) 6 out of 8 PDOIs were met, indicating
broad achievement of the goals of all three components; (ii) 2 out of 8 PDOIs were not met, one
(Percentage of urban citizens satisfied with quicker and more user friendly access to client
services) due to a conservative approach in the measurements; (iii) 7 out of 9 IOIs were either
met or substantially met; 1 out of 9 IOIs was partially met (number of productive infrastructure
installed); and (iv) only 1 out of 9 IOIs was not met (amount of Bank financing enabling
environment / microfinance), in this case because of a shortcoming in Project restructuring (the
appropriateness of the choice of the indicator) rather than a limited performance (in fact, the
microcredit program shows very interesting results, with over 612 beneficiaries receiving BRL
24,072,765.66 in loans through the end of 2013).

Nevertheless, some originally planned Project activities were not executed by the Project’s



65
  If considered total project costs (actuals), Component 2 represents 22.6% (USD 9.58 million over USD
42.09 million).

                                                 41
closing date, including: (i) the construction of the Administrative Center; (ii) the construction of
the building to house the Technology Park; and (iii) the urban upgrading works in downtown area
of Pelotas (Calçadão Central) 66. This accounts for the Substantial, rather than High, rating for
Project efficacy. The Municipality continues to attempt to conduct the remaining activities, which
will require land acquisition for the construction of the Administrative Center and Technology
Park as well as complementary funding sources.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial

The economic analysis of the Pelotas Project was conducted considering the same activities
analyzed during Appraisal for Component 3: (i) water supply and (ii) urban and road upgrading.
Actual costs of these activities total US$ 21.18 million, 84% of total project cost. The same
approaches/methodologies employed during appraisal were used for the cost-benefit analysis: (i)
for investments in water, the amounts referring to services delivery; and (ii) for investments in
roads, the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM). However, Project activity
(iii), maintenance and improvements of rural roads, was not considered in this analysis due to the
lack of information available. For Component 2, generation of employment and income through
microcredit, qualitative information was included to give a sense of results achieved. There were
no data available to prepare a full EA analysis.

Overall Pelotas Project Beneficiaries. The Pelotas Project’s road upgrading and water activities
reached more beneficiaries than targeted at Appraisal.

                           Table 4 – Projected versus actual beneficiaries
      Components                Projected beneficiaries              Actual Beneficiaries
 Road upgrading                           334,594                             341,000 67
 Rural water supply                        2,000                                2,088

Analysis of per capita investment cost for interventions showed higher-than-average cost per
beneficiary for the rural water supply activities, due to the complex logistics of construction in a
remote rural area. For road upgrading, costs were lower than the benchmark.

                        Table 5 – Comparison of unit costs per intervention
      Intervention           Cost per Beneficiary /      Benchmark Cost per Beneficiary /
                                    per Km                              per Km
                                                                    68
 Road upgrading              0.53 (BRL million/Km)             2.45 (BRL million/Km)
 Rural water supply           209 (US$/beneficiary)          150-200 69 (US$/beneficiary)


66
   The Administrative Center was to be built in a historical site, and as the required approvals from the
National Institute of Heritage (IPHAM – Instituto do Patrimônio Histórico e Artístico Nacional) could not
be obtained, the municipality sought an alternative location. For the Technology Park, all institutional
arrangements were in place, but no agreement was reached on the location. Regarding the Calçadão
Central, pending technical adjustments to the detailed engineering designs impeded the timely launch of
the procurement process.
67
   IBGE estimates for 2013 population.
68
   National Association for Public Transportation (ANTP) – Information System on Urban Mobility – 2011
Report – launched in December/2012. General parameter for average cost for construction of urban roads.
69
   Various sources.

                                                    42
Water Supply. This activity was expected to finance the construction of a water main to connect
Pelotas stream with Sinnot treatment plant and the expansion of the water supply network to rural
areas. Expected benefits included improvement of maintenance and quality of water service
delivered. Activities consisted of construction of a 3.2 Km of pipeline from the Pelotas stream to
the Sinnot water treatment plant (increasing treated water reserves by 10%); and construction of a
20km water supply network and a water treatment facility benefiting 522 households in rural
Pelotas.

On the basis of evaluation described and considering the data available, an EIRR of 12.6% was
obtained. Qualitative surveys have confirmed the “regular” satisfaction of the beneficiaries with
service delivery.

            Table 6 – Comparison of expected and actual results of the Pelotas Project
                      Intervention     Ex-ante EIRR        Ext-post EIRR
                    Water Supply           15.93%               12.60%

Urban and road upgrading. This activity was expected to finance: (i) the renovation of selected
historic buildings; (ii) the construction of about 50 bays for bus stops and about 10 pedestrian
crossings; (iii) the rehabilitation of about 7,000 m2 of streets (around 3 Km) and paving of 1km
of Sao Paulo Street; and (iv) the recovery of 3,700 m2 of green space in the downtown area,
paving and/or rehabilitation of around 50 Km of streets and important access corridors, including
pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure and landscaping. Expected benefits included an increase in
real estate value, reduction of travel time and vehicle maintenance, and a reduction in car
accidents.

The actual activities consisted of: (i) the rehabilitation of 3 historic buildings; (ii) the construction
of 44 bays, 38 bus stops, 79 access ramps and widening of 2 sidewalks; (iii) the rehabilitation of
10.4 Km of streets, and 1 Km of São Paulo street; (iv) the recovery of 3700m2 of the green space
in the Dom Antonio Zattera Park; and (v) paving/rehabilitation/widening of 59 Km streets to
include, inter alia, paving, drainage, sanitation, signaling, sidewalks and landscaping.

The evaluation of the economic outcomes of these investments took into account the following
aspects:
    • Items (i) and (ii) were not considered in the analysis either at appraisal or at closure, as (i)
         was a counterpart activity financed through an IDB project and not re-evaluated under the
         Bank’s Project, and for (ii) no information was available;
    • Under item (iv), the properties in the vicinity appreciated in value as indicated by
         municipal interlocutors. However, by executive decision, the IPTU property rates
         schedule was not adjusted accordingly, so the evaluation of real estate increase based on
         the change in the IPTU was not feasible. There were no other sources of data available
         for preparing an EA analysis of this item;
    • For items (iii) and (v), the HDMI methodology was used. The vehicle count was carried
         out for only some of the roadway stretches due to limited municipal capacity. For
         stretches that were not measured, figures were estimated based on the traffic counts
         actually produced for other areas, maintaining the same rate of growth.

On the basis of the evaluation described and considering the availability of the data, this
component provided significant benefits to the population of Pelotas, with EIRR ranging from



                                                   43
29% to 400%, with an average of 232%. This is somewhat lower than the EIRR evaluated at
appraisal, with an average of 245% (ranging from 24 to 495%) 70.

Additional qualitative analysis: Microcredit. Under Component 2, the Project would support
cross cutting activities to facilitate access to microcredit. Microcredit activity supported by the
Project was limited to technical assistance provided as part of routine Bank support, with no
additional cost. However, the Municipality was able to put in place a well-qualified personnel and
institutional structure to leverage the microcredit financing and to obtain microcredit support
from various government banks (Banco do Brasil, Caixa Economica Federal, Banrisul). The
number of microcredit operations reached 6,537, with a total advance credit of around R$ 24
million (US$ 10.90 million) from 2010 to 2013.

The economic evaluation shows Substantial results achieved through Pelotas Project investments.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Based on the Project’s relevance (Moderate), efficacy (Substantial), and efficiency (Substantial),
the proposed overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
For a summary of the results of the joint Stakeholders Workshop, conducted in November 2012,
see section 3.6 of the overall Program ICR, as well as Annex 6 for the abridged translation of the
final report.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Given the broad achievement of the PDO across components and the retention by the
municipality of both the UGP and many of the financial and monitoring practices learned through
PDMI preparation and implementation, it is likely that the impacts of the Project will be
sustained, especially in terms of continued institutional improvement.

Risk to Component 1 development outcomes is considered low. Key instruments were prepared,
such as the WSS Master Plan, which will result directly in increased municipal capacity to raise
Federal Government funds to invest in WSS. Other instruments, such as the GIS and cadaster,
will still require further investments in order to be broadly utilized by the different Municipal
entities. The municipality is already seeking resources from PMAT to add additional layers of
information to the current cadaster, and make it a multipurpose database.

Likewise, the majority of Component 2 infrastructure investments were accompanied, even
during implementation, by appropriate solutions for management, operations, and maintenance.



70
   Several typographical errors in the PAD in Pelotas’ EIRR data for urban roads upgrading were
discovered during ICR preparation: for instance, one EIRR should read 226.40 instead of 22.60.


                                                44
In the case of the Shopping Popular, the vendors installed in the new structure were encouraged
to formalize their businesses, an objective facilitated by the creation of the Brazilian Federal Law
benefiting individual micro-entrepreneurs (Lei No. 128/2008, do Micro Empreendedor Individual
– MEI) and capacity-building programs in the area of entrepreneurship to improve management
practices. 71 The rent charged to vendors for space in the Shopping Popular was calculated to be
sufficient to assure the maintenance of the equipment and at the same time the viability of the
businesses of the beneficiaries. 72 Apart from the construction and tenanting of the building, the
prefecture refined its policies of urban control in order to prevent the influx of new street vendors
in central public areas.

In the case of the Central de Beneficiamento 73 (Processing and Packing House Facility supporting
the fruit and vegetable agro-industrial sector), as per information provided by the Borrower and
also confirmed during supervision, the producers benefited have been highly satisfied with the
use of the equipment, reporting increased revenues and profitability of their businesses and
diversification of their production through the introduction of better value-added items (pre-
processed). The specialists from EMATER 74 working with the group registered a similar
improvement and assured that the initiative was fully successful, especially given the
beneficiaries’ plan to expand the current installations to accommodate growing demand. The
beneficiaries were also familiarized with the “business plan” management instrument and its
importance in analyzing how market changes could alter their business, and thus its use in making
routine business decisions, which will strengthen the entrepreneurial capacity of the group.

There is the risk that the construction of the Technology Park will not actually lead to the aimed-
for outcomes with regard to R&D promotion. The Technology Park is supported by the
Prefecture, syndicates of technology-based companies in the municipality, universities, local
business organizations, and the State Government of Rio Grande do Sul through the Programa
Gaúcho de Parques Tecnológicos. The advances brought about by the Technology Park did not
meet expectations, especially with regard to the construction of the area itself, mostly due to the
difficulties in defining an area for the building. Nevertheless, other equally important initiatives
to foment an environment of innovation within the municipality were put into place, principally
through the approval of the Municipal Innovation Law (Lei Municipal de Inovação), which
permits the granting of incentives and other facilities for technology-based companies to set up
within the municipality.

Finally, and as discussed in section 2.5 of this ICR, risks related to the O&M of the infrastructure
built by the Project can be considered moderate. The overall Risk to Development Outcome for
the Pelotas Project is assessed as Moderate.




71
   There is no recent information available to indicate whether the tenants are successfully paying the rents
charged, the existence/rate of default, or any improvement seen by the beneficiaries in their new location.
72
   The management of the new building will be the responsibility of a private company, identified by the
Prefecture, and specializing in this type of locations.
73
   This investment was intended to support a group of small rural producers assisted by the EMATER rural
extension through the construction and installation of a central processing unit for fruits and vegetables.
The central will function as a packing-house (separation, washing, packaging, and preserving of products)
and will also allow for other processes, such as dehydration of products for the preparation of food
formulations (e.g. pre-processed soups) of greater local market demand.
74
   A Brazilian company that provides support and technical assistance to rural producers.

                                                    45
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance is assessed only for the overall Program. Performance is assessed as
Moderately Satisfactory at Entry, Moderately Satisfactory at Supervision, and Moderately
Satisfactory overall. For details, see Section 5 of the PDMI Program ICR.

5.1 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Prefecture of Pelotas was very quick to finish the approval process at the Federal level during
the period between negotiations and signing. Only about four months passed between loan
approval and effectiveness. The Government complied with all due loan covenants and met all
counterpart funding allocations. A high level dialogue with the Bank was maintained throughout
Project implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

For the case of Pelotas, the implementing agency was the UGP (Project Management Unit), an
autonomous structure linked to the Mayor’s Office. The Pelotas UGP’s support to other
municipalities, starting from the initial phase of implementation and continuing throughout the
life of the Project, was a key element in the Program’s overall success. Although initial
difficulties were encountered, the UGP proved capable of overcoming these challenges and
successfully implementing the Pelotas Project. At Project closure, the final ISR showed Financial
Management was rated Satisfactory; Project Management was rated Satisfactory; Counterpart
Funding and Procurement were Moderately Satisfactory; and Safeguards was rated Satisfactory.
Additionally, despite shortcomings in M&E design, reporting was correctly undertaken by the
agency.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Both the Prefecture and the UGP continuously demonstrated commitment to the Project and
solicitously complied with Bank recommendations and responses. Based on the ratings for
Government performance (Satisfactory) and Implementing Agency performance (Satisfactory),
the proposed rating for Borrower performance is Satisfactory.




                                                46
                      Appendix 2. Specific Data Sheet and ICR for the
                            BAGÉ MUNICIPAL PROJECT
                          (Rainha da Fronteira, IBRD 7582-BR)

A. Basic Information
                                                                          Bagé - Rio Grande do
                                                                          Sul Integrated
Country:                Brazil                  Project Name:             Municipal
                                                                          Development Program
                                                                          (APL)
Project ID:             P094199                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-75820
ICR Date:               06/30/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:                 BAGÉ
Original Total
                        USD 6.60M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 6.51M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 6.60 M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Municipal Government of Bagé (Project Implementation Unit linked to the Mayor’s Office)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/16/2006     Effectiveness:          01/01/2009          01/06/2009
Appraisal:            06/26/2007     Restructuring(s):                           12/14/2012
Approval:             07/23/2008     Mid-term Review:                            09/16/2010
                                     Closing:                12/31/2012          12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
                                                Moderately Satisfactory
Outcomes:

Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:

                                             47
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General industry and trade sector                                        0                  3
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                   30                  6
Micro- and SME finance                                                   4                  0
Roads and highways                                                      58                  89
Sub-national government administration                                   8                  2


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                               4                  3
Municipal governance and institution building                            8                  2
Other urban development                                                 58                  89
Pollution management and environmental health                           30                  6
Rural services and infrastructure                                        0                  0

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Jorge Familiar Calderon              Pamela Cox
Country Director:            Deborah L. Wetzel                    John Briscoe
Sector Manager:              Anna Wellenstein                     Guang Zhe Chen
Project Team Leader:         Juliana Garrido                      Marcos T. Abicalil
ICR Team Leader:             Juliana Garrido
ICR Primary Author:          Emanuela Monteiro




                                                 48
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project development objective is to strengthen the capacity of Bagé to provide
selected infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values         Target Years
                Improved municipal planning and management capacity through the preparation
Indicator 1 :
                and adoption of planning tools
                                                                3 (LED, WSS
Value                                                                              3 (LED, WSS
                                                                 Master Plan,
quantitative or               0                        -                        Master Plan, WSS
                                                                     WSS
Qualitative)                                                                          Cadaster)
                                                                   Cadaster)
Date achieved 06/26/2008                                        12/13/2012     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        TARGET MET
achievement)
                Beneficiaries from the income and employment generation project activities
Indicator 2 :
                surveyed have positive views on municipal business environment
Value
quantitative or               0                Baseline +30%          80%                -
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2008                     06/26/2008         12/13/2012     12/31/2012
                QUANTITATIVE DATA NOT AVAILABLE
                Results not measured with the overall beneficiaries of Component 2. However,
                interviews conducted by UGP and accompaniment made by EMATER (the
                Brazilian’s National Institution in charge of providing TA to the Project
                beneficiaries) demonstrate good results and a substantial level of satisfaction by
Comments
                beneficiaries: (i) 21 out of 25 vegetable producers benefited by the Project are
(incl. %
                satisfied and have improved their businesses; (ii) 5 out of 10 fruit producers
achievement)
                benefited by the Project are satisfied and have improved their businesses; and
                (iii) a survey conducted in Sep. 4, 2012 among those producers who were
                granted with new tents to sell their products in the local market showed 100%
                satisfaction. Activities related to the ad-hoc TA provided to 40 micro
                entrepreneurs were not evaluated.
                Community members satisfied with improved urban infrastructure in areas of
Indicator 3 :
                intervention
Value
quantitative or               0                      90%                                 -
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2008                     06/26/2008                        12/31/2012
Comments        QUANTITATIVE DATA NOT AVAILABLE


                                                49
(incl. %          A qualitative survey was conducted by the UGM in April 24, 2013. 121 people
achievement)      living in the area of Leonel Brizola Avenue, where paving and drainage
                  investments were conducted as part of the Project, were interviewed. This
                  activity alone accounts for approximately 53% of the total loan proceeds. Results
                  demonstrated to be very positive, as shown below: (i) 98.35% of the participants
                  agreed that the works in widening of the Avenue and of the bridge were
                  important to the community; (ii) 95.87% of the participants agreed that the works
                  helped improve the quality of life of their families; (iii) 90.08% of the
                  participants think that their properties will have an increased value as result of
                  the works; (iv) 79.34% of the participants reported improvements in urban
                  mobility; (v) 88.43% of the participants reported to be either very satisfied or
                  satisfied with the works conducted.
Indicator 4 :     Number of direct project beneficiaries
Value
quantitative or              0                                     27,374            28,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/13/2012                                       12/13/2012     12/31/2012
                TARGET MET
Comments
                Results are conservative, as they only account for people benefiting from
(incl. %
                rehabilitation and/or construction of roads (9,445) and people benefiting from
achievement)
                sanitation infrastructure (18,555).

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                  approval                        Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
                  Municipal staff trained and using effective project planning and monitoring
Indicator 1 :
                  systems
Value
(quantitative                  0                      200              -                 38
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/26/2008                  06/26/2008                         12/31/2012
Comments          TARGET NOT MET
(incl. %          The target of 200 was linked with inputs from PMAT Program, which was not
achievement)      entered as counterpart. In restructuring, this was mistakenly not altered.
Indicator 2 :     Percentage of annual work program delivered on time
Value
(quantitative                  0                   100%                                 100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/26/2008                06/26/2008                            12/31/2012
Comments
                  TARGET MET
(incl. %
                  All activities planned for were bid, contracted and executed.
achievement)
                Beneficiaries of training and/or technical assistance (small enterprises and rural
Indicator 3 :
                producers)
Value                                                              40 small
(quantitative               0                        -          enterprises; 35          75
or Qualitative)                                                 rural producers

                                                 50
Date achieved     12/13/2012                                     12/13/2012      12/31/2012
Comments          TARGET MET
(incl. %          40 micro entrepreneurs benefited from ad-hoc TA; 35 rural producers benefited
achievement)      from TA and equipment to support their businesses.
Indicator 4 :     Beneficiaries of productive infrastructure installed by the Project
Value
(quantitative                  0                     -              35                35
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/13/2012                                  12/13/2012     12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          TARGET MET
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Long-term economic development strategy prepared and/or adopted
Value
                                                               LED prepared LED prepared and
(quantitative                  -                     -
                                                                and adopted     adopted
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/13/2012                                       12/13/2012     12/31/2012
                  TARGET MET
                  Key recommendations of the LED Plan have been adopted by the Municipality:
Comments
                  (i) a proposed law to regularize the multipurpose cadaster was sent for the
(incl. %
                  approval of the Municipal Chamber; (ii) Law # 041/2012, which improves
achievement)
                  business environment for micro and small entrepreneurs, was passed; (iii) the
                  selective collection of waste is now operational in the municipality.
Indicator 6 :     Roads constructed
Value                                           146,000 m2 of
(quantitative                  0                  urban roads          3.14km             3.2km
or Qualitative)                               paved/rehabilitated
Date achieved     06/26/2008                  06/26/2008           12/13/2012     12/31/2012
                  TARGET MET
Comments
                  The reported result refers to paving, drainage and lighting works for the
(incl. %
                  following streets: 11 de Junho, Orvandil Alves Lucas, Walter Dias da Costa,
achievement)
                  Aksakof de Vilhena, and Leonel Brizola.
Indicator 7 :     Roads rehabilitated
Value                                           146,000 m2 of
(quantitative                  0                  urban roads          5.65km            5.31km
or Qualitative)                               paved/rehabilitated
Date achieved     06/26/2008                  06/26/2008           12/13/2012     12/31/2012
                  TARGET SUBSTANTIALLY MET
Comments
                  The reported result refers to the rehabilitation of the following streets and
(incl. %
                  avenues: São João, Paulo Corrêa Lopes, José do Patrocínio, Portugal and
achievement)
                  Presidente Vargas.
Indicator 8 :     Micro meters installed in the water supply system
Value
(quantitative            0             10,000                        -              12,021
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2008         06/26/2008                                  12/31/2012
Comments
                TARGET SURPASSED
(incl. %

                                                51
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Coverage of wastewater collection and treatment
Value                                                                              77% collected; 21%
                     50% collected; 15%        90% collected;     90% collected;
(quantitative                                                                           treated
                          treated               90% treated        90% treated
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/26/2008                06/26/2008          12/13/2012      12/31/2012
Comments          TARGET NOT MET
(incl. %          As of the end of 2014, expectation is that upon completion of PAC’s
achievement)      investments, 46% of urban wastewater will be treated (DAEB April 2014).
Indicator 10:     People provided with access to improved sanitation facilities under the project
Value
(quantitative               55,997                                    74,552            74,552
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/26/2008                                       12/13/2012      12/31/2012
                  TARGET MET
                  There is a shortcoming in the definition of this indicator: the baseline should
Comments          have been revised to 0 and the final target to 18,555. Regardless of this, the target
(incl. %          was still met. At the start of the Project there were already 55,997 people
achievement)      provided with sanitation facilities in Bagé. 18,555 is the incremental number of
                  beneficiaries resulting from the Project’s inputs in sanitation. Therefore, the
                  target of 74,552 (55,997 + 18,555) was achieved.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                 DO                         IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
                                               Not applicable
  1
  2     09/11/2008           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     04/15/2009           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                              0.45
  4     11/23/2009           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                              1.68
  5     04/29/2010           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                              2.55
  6     02/21/2011           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                       3.10
  7     07/20/2011           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                              3.10
  8     04/29/2012           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                              5.05
  9     11/18/2012           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                              5.96
 10     07/10/2013           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                              6.51
 11     01/19/2014       Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                              6.51




                                                  52
H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at   Amount
                  Board
Restructuring             Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
                 Approved
   Date(s)                               Restructuring        Key Changes Made
                PDO Change DO      IP in USD millions
                                                       (i) Adjustments to the scope of
                                                       Project activities due to
                                                       exchange rate fluctuations; the
                                                       increase in construction costs;
                                                       and the delays between Project
                                                       appraisal, approval and
                                                       implementation launch;
                                                       (ii) Revisions to the Project’s
                                                       results framework to reflect the
                                                       adjustments/reductions in
                                                       scope of the Project;
                                                       (iii) Streamlining of indicators
                                                       to better monitor and capture
  12/13/2012        N       S       S          5.96
                                                       Project impacts, align with
                                                       indicators from the other
                                                       individual Projects, and
                                                       incorporate core indicators;
                                                       (iv) Correction of a typo in the
                                                       Appraisal Document
                                                       specifically related to the
                                                       Project’s Safeguard Category;
                                                       (v) Increase in counterpart
                                                       funding; (vi) Reallocation of
                                                       loan proceeds between
                                                       expenditure categories, and
                                                       increased percentage financed.




                                          53
SPECIFIC ICR FOR BAGÉ MUNICIPAL PROJECT

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Bagé Project (Rainha da Fronteira) was approved by the Board on July 23, 2008 in the
amount of US$ 6,600,000. The Loan Agreement was signed on November 11, 2008, and the
Project became effective on January 7, 2009. The Project was restructured (Level II restructuring)
in 2012, and closed on December 31 of the same year. Bagé was the smallest of the PDMI
municipalities. As such, its capacities for investment—as well as implementation—were limited
compared to the others, where the institutional structure and human resources were more
extensive.

Despite this limited capacity, Bagé successfully disbursed the major part of the LA resources
(US$ 6.51 of 6.60 million total) and implemented almost all of the planned Project activities,
performing satisfactorily overall.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The city of Bagé is 380 km from the capital city of Porto Alegre, occupies an area of 4,095 km2
and, at the time of appraisal, had a population of 120,544 and a demographic density of 21
inhabitants per square km. 82 percent of the population at appraisal lived in the urban area, and
with population growth informal peripheral settlements—with substandard accommodations—
were increasing as well. Rural housing conditions were also primitive. At the time of appraisal,
the municipal economy – which was traditionally based on meat production, the coal industry,
and agriculture – had been in decline and the municipality was dropping in statewide economic
rankings. Additionally, Bagé suffered from degraded water, sanitation, and transport
infrastructure.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Original PDO. The PDO was to strengthen the capacity of Bagé to provide selected infrastructure
services and employment opportunities for its population.

Key original indicators. The original results framework contained six PDOIs for Bagé. These are,
for Improved Municipal Management Capacity: (i) Institutionalization of improved sub-project
appraisal, fiduciary, social and environmental management processes in the municipal
government of Bagé, and (ii) Improved performance of DAEB; for Increased Local Economic
Development Opportunities, (i) Increased local business satisfaction with municipal business
environment, and (ii) Increased revenues and sales volumes of supported businesses; and for
Improved Infrastructure Services, (i) Reduction in travel times in urban center of Bagé, and (ii)
Improved quality and consumer satisfaction with WSS service.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. Indicators were revised to better fit the municipality’s monitoring and
reporting capabilities, and in some cases targets were made less ambitious to fit the reduced
Project scope due to a decrease in loan purchasing power. Two new indicators were included: a
PDOI to monitor the number of total Project beneficiaries, and an IOI to take into account the
inclusion of a long-term economic development strategy and the rural producers benefited by the

                                               54
project. Several original indicators (3 PDOIs and 1 IOI) were dropped in order to reflect the
reduced scope of Project activities, particularly with regard to municipal wastewater treatment.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PAD estimate for Project beneficiaries was the population of Bagé at the appraisal – 120,000
individuals. This estimate was updated to 27,374 in the Restructuring Paper, to reflect the
beneficiaries supposed to directly benefit from the Project investments in infrastructure. At
Project closure, the final estimate for beneficiaries in Bagé is, at a conservative estimate, 28,00075.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Municipal Strengthening. This component was intended to improve the
municipality’s capacity to more effectively and efficiently execute projects, with a focus on
fiduciary, environmental and social aspects and improving the quality and efficiency of public
services provided by the municipal government. This component included (i) Public Service
Modernization and (ii) Project Management.

Component 2: Income and Employment Generation. The Project sought to improve the
municipality’s capacity to generate employment and income through: (i) studies on growth and
LED; (ii) formalization of informal businesses by addressing administrative barriers for business
registration, providing training and technical assistance to firms; and (iii) strengthening of
clusters identified with high growth potential (e.g. vegetables and fruits).

Component 3: Infrastructure Services Improvements. The Project planned to carry out activities
aimed to improve urban and street upgrading; water, sanitation and drainage infrastructure and
services. This component included (i) Urban Road Upgrading and (ii) Water and Sanitation
Improvements.

1.6 Revised Components

Scope tightening: Some Project activities were reduced or eliminated due to the increased total
Project cost (as explained below), while others were added to support existing activities.
Specifically, under Component 1, the preparation of a GIS for the water users’ cadaster was
postponed due to higher than anticipated costs. Under Component 3, the acquisition of
maintenance equipment for roads was added to the scope of the Project to strengthen municipal
capacity to perform O&M in the future. The rehabilitation of the water supply system and
expansion of the water distribution network was excluded, as alternative funding under PAC was
made available, and the implementation timeframe was adjusted accordingly. Finally, the increase
in water treatment reservoir capacity was also excluded, due to higher than anticipated costs.

1.7 Other significant changes

Increase in the Project’s total costs. Total Project costs increased from US$ 11.00 million to
11.45 (even after the elimination/reduction of some activities), the difference of which was made
up through increased counterpart financing (from US$ 4.40 to 4.85 million). Activity costs
increased due to BRL/USD exchange rate fluctuations, the inflation in construction costs in Brazil,


75
     See Project datasheet, PDOI 4 for further information.

                                                       55
and the delays between Project appraisal, approval and implementation launch (further refer to
Section 2.2 and Graph 3).

Reallocation of funds between loan categories. The Project saw reallocation of loan proceeds
between expenditure categories to align with revised Project activities.

Other minor / corrective changes. Correction of a typo in the PAD specifically related to the
Project’s Safeguard Category.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
See Section 2.1 of the PDMI Program ICR.

2.2 Implementation

Initial difficulties and limited human resources. Bagé did not experience initial difficulties in
adaptation and familiarization with the rules and directives of the Bank outside of the usual for
PDMI Projects, or any which caused continued negative impacts for Project implementation. The
Project’s major challenge, which persisted throughout implementation, was the municipality’s
limited institutional capacity. The UGM, for example, was constituted by only 3 or 4 staffers,
including the coordinator, who had to distribute amongst themselves—often without the ideal
level of specialization or dedication—the activities for planning, bidding and contracting,
safeguard, general Project monitoring, financial and contract management, and more.

At the Program level, the UAP only partially fulfilled its role – one which could have greatly
enhanced the Bagé Project – of creating linkages, fostering institutional exchanges, and providing
technical assistance. On the other hand, the Bagé Project UGM had the unconditional support of
the municipal administration, as well as the direct support of the Municipal Finance Secretary.

The positive effects of the implementation support and TA provided by the Bank. The support and
technical assistance provided by the Bank Task Team was also an important differentiating factor
during implementation of Rainha da Fronteira. Given the limited human resources of the
municipality, this implementation support required constant exchanges and hands-on TA during
the drafting of technical and bidding documents, as well as internal coordination within the team
to ensure constant availability and timely responses. This was pointed out and recognized by the
Borrower on more than one occasion, including during ICR preparation.

Difficulties in counterpart allocations. The challenge of adequate counterpart funding was clear
during Project preparation. In response, Project design incorporated major investments already in
progress and/or planned by the Borrower, which contributed to the achievement of the PDO. In
the case of Bagé, these included: detailed engineering design projects for paving, road
maintenance equipment, and sanitation infrastructure (refer to Annex 2). Counterpart funding
nevertheless continued to be a challenge for the Bagé Project. Bagé, for example, was not always
capable of meeting the 89% Loan /11% CPF pari-passu allocation originally planned for the
category of goods and works under the Water and Sanitation Improvements subcomponent.

An increase in the percentages financed by the Bank was one of the items addressed by Project
restructuring. However, Bage’s financial issues persisted even after Project completion, as the
municipality had difficulty in repaying the first tranche of the loan. The municipality was candid


                                               56
with the Bank about this issue, and has quickly resolved it.

Increase in Project costs and subsequent need for Project Restructuring. At the beginning of
Project implementation, the United States dollar depreciated against the Brazilian Real from
around BRL 1.95 per US$ 1.00 to BRL 1.83, reaching BRL 1.67 at around midterm of Program
timeframe (red line in Graphic below). In addition, the Project was impacted by the increase in
construction costs (higher than general inflation), especially considering that the infrastructure-
related component was the largest one (see Graph 3). During the midterm review mission, in
September 2010, when Bagé Project disbursements had already reached 40%, a loss in the loan
purchasing power was identified, with a concurrent need for restructuring 76.

                        Graph 3 – Project disbursements compared to economic indexes

                                       Bage Project disbursement amount
                                       Exchange rate index

  3.00                                                                         2.33    2.50
                                                                        2.16
  2.50                      2.00                                 1.95
                 1.83                                                                  2.00
                                        1.76
  2.00                                              1.67                       1.65
                                                                        1.52
                                                                 1.42
 USD (million)




                                                    1.32                               1.50
  1.50
                                        1.23




                                                                                           Index
                            1.18                                               1.46
                 1.06                                                   1.38
                                                                 1.30
  1.00                                              1.23
                            1.11        1.16                                           1.00
                 1.05
  0.50
                                                                                       0.50
  0.00
                 2008       2009        2010       2011          2012   2013   2014
-0.50                                                                                  -
                                                   Year

Strictly from a technical point of view, it was a “loss” to reduce the Project’s scope: for instance,
the GIS system to support Bagé’s water utility company was removed from the Project’s
activities. From a practical point of view, the restructuring discussion, preparation by the
Borrower, and the subsequent Federal Government approval consumed more time than scheduled.
It was more than two years between identification of the need to restructure the Project and the
final approval of the restructuring in December 2012, just before the Project closure. The Task
Team worked intensively in coordination with the Borrower in the preparation and assembly of
the restructuring documents. The restructuring: (i) adapted the Project to the fiscal capacity of the
Municipality by reducing the amount of counterpart resources required; and (ii) provided an


76
       Refer to Sections 1.6 and 1.7 of the Bagé specific ICR.

                                                           57
opportunity for exchange and learning, which to some extent also added to municipality’s
capacities.

There were no other major factors affecting implementation, such as change in government or
staff turnover. In 2012, when critical Project investments were being conducted (such as the
paving and drainage works on Leonel Brizola Avenue), there was a change in Project
management on the Borrower side. Both the Prefecture and the UGM managed to perform a
smooth transition.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design and implementation. Conducting separate studies to measure the results of the
PDOIs proved beyond Bagé’s capacity, and thus a weakness in M&E design 77. The IOIs were
defined, from conception, as simple indicators to accompany and monitor implementation
progress for each component, and as such were mostly maintained or only slightly adjusted
during the restructuring process. They were clearly linked to the Project activities and PDOIs and
readily measureable, and as such provided an adequate tool for monitoring Project
implementation progress.

Even with the corrections made at restructuring in order to attempt to fix the indicators and
facilitate measurement, and the support given to the development of bi-annual Project Progress
Reports, there were still M&E challenges throughout implementation. This is attributed to an
overestimation at entry of the technical and institutional capacity of the Borrower to carry out the
monitoring prescribed. Although initial capacity-building workshops were conducted during
Project preparation, a more structured capacity-building and/or technical M&E assistance during
implementation would have been helpful to the Borrower. Despite this, and with the guidance
provided by the Task Team as part of regular Project supervision78, the Borrower did carry out
some monitoring through qualitative surveys, and EMATER and UGM accompaniment, that
provide reliable indication as to achievement of targets 79.

Overall performance of Bagé in conducting M&E. While difficulties were encountered, there
were several notable achievements by Bagé with regard to M&E: (i) Bagé’s reports were
delivered in a timely fashion, although with shortcomings; (ii) Bagé led the contracting and
contract management for the consulting services for the development of an Independent Program
Evaluation (end of 2012); (iii) efforts were made to provide – through UGM accompaniment and
complementary qualitative surveys – the information necessary for measuring and final reporting
of Project results; and (iv) Bagé participated in the ICR evaluation workshop, and actively
contributed during the ICR discussion.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
                      80
Safeguard Aspects.         Bagé correctly conducted the social and environmental safeguard


77
   2 out of 5 PDOIs required surveys to be measured: “Beneficiaries from the income and employment
generation project activities surveyed that have positive views on municipal business environment” and
“Community members satisfied with improved urban infrastructure in areas of intervention”.
78
   In various aide-memoirs, there is mention of discussions on the format, frequency, content and
importance of progress reports. There are also records of technical discussions on indicators.
79
   Refer to Section F of the Datasheet for further information.
80
   Details are in Section 2.4 of the Overall Program ICR.

                                                 58
procedures for the Project. The Bank supervision team recognized that the Prefecture already had
good social and environmental practices in place even before the Project, which were refined
during PDMI. Bagé’s compliance with safeguards was Satisfactory at Project closing.

Financial Management (FM). The FM arrangements were overall Satisfactory throughout the life
of the Project. The implementing agency addressed most of the shortcomings identified during
financial management supervision missions, showing a clear and progressive improvement of FM
arrangements and providing timely and reliable information as required to manage and monitor
the implementation of the Project. Overall, the (i) budget was realistic and properly executed; (ii)
staff was nominated and trained in Bank processes, (iii) efficient internal control processes were
in place, (iv) Financial Management Information Systems (FMIS) were in place, with timely
submission of IFRs, and (v) external audit reports were completed, with an unbiased opinion
issued by the auditors.

Procurement. Bagé did not face particular initial difficulties with the Bank’s procurement
guidelines and procedures. However, due to understaffing and limited institutional capacities,
Bagé’s UGM required intense procurement supervision by the Bank Team. 81 Despite these
challenges, the UGM was highly committed and organized 82 . Compliance with procurement
aspects was rated Moderately Satisfactory during most of the Project’s implementation period,
including at closing.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Safeguards at completion. As of the closing date, all Project activities were fully and
satisfactorily completed. No pending safeguards and/or resettlement aspects require post-closure
follow up by the Bank.

Project Management Unit. The UGM did not remain formally structured after Project completion,
as in the case of Pelotas. If expected approval of other financing for infrastructure investments
outside of the Project (such as the paving in the city’s “zona leste”) is realized, the team was
informed by the Borrower that the UGM will be reconstituted and the PDMI methodologies
replicated.

Operation and maintenance (O&M). Additional aspects in the post-completion phase include the
municipality’s ability to: (i) properly perform O&M of streets; and (ii) support DAEB (the
municipal water utility) in increasing its institutional capacity to properly collect WSS revenues
and enhancing its investment capacity to perform O&M and expansions of the networks in place.
As anticipated in Section 2.5 of the Program ICR: (i) there is allocation in the municipality’s
budget for conducting O&M; and (ii) there were Project investments in the acquisition of
equipment to support road maintenance. In addition, it should be noted that over the life of the
Project, the DAEB’s performance and efficiency improved—the utility is now better staffed, has
improved internal organization, and has increased WSS revenues.




81
   This support included revising and issuing no objections to procurement processes and hands-on TA in
the development of the draft technical specifications, TORs, requests for proposals, etc.
82
   The UGM’s organization and archiving of the bidding documents was noteworthy.

                                                  59
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Modest

The relevance of the objectives, design and implementation of Rainha da Fronteira Project is
rated Modest, as explained in section 3.1 of the overall PDMI ICR. The investments planned by
the Project aimed to strengthen the overall capacity of the municipality to (i) improve WSS
management; (ii) generate employment and income opportunities (with the focus on the
agriculture sector 83 ); and (iii) expand WSS services 84 , still remain as priorities for the
municipality. This was reported in the Borrower’s final completion assessment of the Project, and
during the discussions conducted after completion. The design of the Project also shows a close
fit with Brazil’s national priorities in terms of supporting municipal infrastructure.

The proposed Modest rating is due to: (i) a weaker link with the priorities defined for World Bank
engagement under the current CPS; (ii) reduced relevance and efficiency of Project
implementation due to the failure to achieve Program-wide institutional arrangements or
transformational impact; (iii) the substantial implementation support needed from the Bank; and
(iv) the variety of funding options (including national sources) apart from Bank financing
available for such a portfolio.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

The PDO was to strengthen the capacity of the Bagé municipality to provide selected
infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population.

Component 1 investments were limited as a percentage of the total Project investments (only
US$ 0.84 million out of 11.43 million, slightly over 7%) 85 . However, given the scale of the
municipality and its inexperience with project planning and execution, there is no doubt about the
achievement of the municipal strengthening objectives. The process of learning and institutional
enhancement that Bagé experienced, the result of exchanges with other municipalities and with
the Bank, has improved the municipality’s capability to face future development challenges.

Component 2 investments represented still less of total Project funds (US$ 0.25 million,
approximately 2% of the total Project investment). However, important results in terms of
learning and demonstration can be inferred. Not only the results, but the planning/implementation
process should be noted—for example, improved productivity and income results were brought
about through an innovative initiative for support to rural producers. The Project financed,
through participative development and approval of a business plan, the acquisition of equipment
for groups of small rural producers in the Municipality. This experience was rated as highly
valuable by the Borrower, as it strengthened their capacity to act in innovative ways together with
the producers as well as in partnership with other bodies, such as EMATER. Another Component
2 output was the widely participatory preparation of a LED Plan (PDE). The use of this


83
   Bagé is predominately rural in character, with an agriculture-dependent economy.
84
   As the municipality faces serious issues relating to water and drought, the efficiency of water
management and service provision is fundamental.
85
   Noteworthy here the drafting of the WSS Master Plan and the cadaster of water network users (tools to
support DAEB). The remaining investments relate principally to Project Management.

                                                  60
methodology permitted citizen involvement in the discussion about the challenges of local
development, and gave the participants an opportunity to influence the choices made. The Plan is
in full execution, with some of its recommendations already put in place.

Component 3, with investments in WSS and mobility improvements, concentrated the majority of
the total project resources (USD 10.34 out of 11.43 million, slightly over 90%). Its goals were
substantially achieved, especially with regard to the construction and rehabilitation of roadways.
The investments in Leonel Brizola Ave (paving, drainage and bridge) alone account for
approximately 53% of total Bank project investments. This work is highly relevant for the
improvement of mobility and connectivity between important areas of the city.

An analysis of achievement of the goals defined within the ambit of Project indicators confirms
the Substantial rating proposed for efficacy: (i) 2 out of 4 PDOIs were met 86; for the remaining
two 87, while there are not specific measurements, there are substantial indications of success in
achieving the PDO; (ii) 8 out of 10 IOIs were either fully or substantially achieved 88; although
(iii) the goals of expansion of WSS services were not fully achieved 89; with implementation of
additional PAC investments in this area delayed.

For detailed information on the Project’s results, refer to Bagé’s Results Framework in the Project
datasheet; for detailed information on the Project’s outputs, refer to Annex 2.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial

The economic analysis of the Bagé Project was conducted considering the same activities
analyzed during appraisal, namely: (i) road upgrading, and (ii) water supply and sanitation.
Actual costs of these activities total US$ 10.34 million, 90% of total project cost.

Overall Bagé Project Beneficiaries. The number of beneficiaries of road upgrading and water
supply activities exceeded the targets at appraisal; however, the number of beneficiaries of
wastewater supply investments did not reach the target. The total number of beneficiaries is
estimated at around 120,000 people.

                           Table 7 – Projected versus actual beneficiaries
        Components           Projected Beneficiaries 90              Actual Beneficiaries
     Road upgrading                    118,965                             120,000 91
                                                              Micrometers: 12,021 households,
                          Micrometers: 6,716 households,
                                                              around 36,000 people
     Water Supply         around 33,500 people
                                                                Macro meters: 100% of supplied
                          Macro meters: 100% of supplied
                                                                population
                          population



86
   PDOIs 1 and 4.
87
   PDOI 2 and 3.
88
   IOI #s 2-8, and 10.
89
   IOI #9.
90
   Appraisal estimates assumed an area average of 5 persons/household, but studies during implementation
showed the actual figure to be closer to 3 persons/household.
91
   IBGE estimates for 2013 population.

                                                  61
       Components              Projected Beneficiaries 90                Actual Beneficiaries

                           5,000 new connections (approx.         6,000 new connections
     Wastewater System
                           25,000 beneficiaries)                  18,555 inhabitants.


Analysis of investment costs showed per capita/per kilometers costs lower than the average
benchmark for similar interventions.

                         Table 8 – Comparison of unit costs per intervention
       Intervention         Cost per Beneficiary /     Benchmark Cost per Beneficiary/ per
                                   per Km                                  Km
     Sewage                       91.5 (US$)                        100 - 200 92 (US$)
     Road upgrading         1.5 (BRL million/Km)               2.45 93 (BRL million/Km)

Water Supply and Sanitation. Water supply and sanitation investments provided significant
benefits to the population. The average EIRR for WSS investments is 30.87%, very high for this
type of infrastructure project. Water supply investments resulted in an EIRR of 25%. Sanitation
investments resulted in an EIRR of 32.7%, significantly higher than projected.

              Table 9 – Comparison of expected and actual results of the Bagé Project.
                                            Ex-ante              Ex-post
                       Intervention          EIRR                 EIRR
                     Water Supply           68.77%               25.00%
                     Sewage                 21.86%               32.70%
                     Total                  54,35%               30,87%

These results were confirmed by the qualitative assessments, which show improvements in the
management and performance of the local water and sewage utility (DAEB). The results also
indicate a high approval and satisfaction rate in the communities served.

Road Upgrading. This component provided significant benefits to the population of Bagé, with
EIRR ranging from 22% to 115%, and an average of 62%. This is higher than the average of 42%
(ranging from 12 to 93%) evaluated at appraisal.

A satisfaction survey of the direct beneficiaries of urban upgrading interventions was carried out
by the municipality of Bagé. Although the sample is statistically limited, the qualitative analysis
presented satisfactory results, e.g.:
    • Satisfaction with paving and rehabilitation of streets and avenues - 92%;
    • Satisfaction with drainage for streets and avenues (culverts) - 92%;
    • Satisfaction with the Cloverleaf 21(Trevo 21) works -100%;
    • Satisfaction with the viaduct over the railway line, Leonel Brizola Avenue - 100%; and
    • Improvement in vehicle circulation - 94%.



92
   Various sources. Range is for one-time capital cost for wastewater collection and treatment with septic
tank.
93
   National Association for Public Transportation (ANTP) – Information System on Urban Mobility – 2011
Report – launched in December/2012. General parameter for average construction cost of urban roads.

                                                   62
The economic analysis showed Substantial results for the Bagé Project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Based on the Project’s relevance (Moderate), efficacy (Substantial), and efficiency (Substantial),
the proposed overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
For a summary of the results of the joint Stakeholders Workshop, conducted in November 2012,
see section 3.6 of the overall Program ICR, as well as Annex 6 for the abridged translation of the
final report.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Activities completion risk. The counterpart sanitation works are contracted by the Prefecture and
underway, financed through PAC. According to information from UGP as of the end of FY2014,
significant process has been made in coverage and treatment of sewage in the municipality’s
urban area (reaching values of 80% and 59%, respectively).

Continuity and implementation aspects linked with planning instruments and/or other Component
1 and 2 investments. The following items allow an evaluation of risk: (i) DAEB has adopted, and
uses, the tools of the WSS Master Plan and the cadaster of network users; (ii) the Prefecture
(according to the UGP) is seeking resources to undertake a new PMAT in the municipality, with
the purpose of making new investments in public sector modernization; (iii) the agricultural
producers benefited through the Project have familiarized themselves with the business plan as an
instrument, understand its utility in business management, and use it to analyze the impacts of
cyclical changes—input costs, product prices, composition of crops, etc.—and make routine
operating decisions; (iv) EMATER continues to accompany and provide TA to these producers;
(v) the LED Plan is under the coordination of the Secretary of Economic Development of the
Prefecture. A coordination and accompaniment group will be instituted for Plan implementation.

Sustainability of O&M of Component 3 investments. Risks related to the O&M of the
infrastructure built by the Project were discussed in section 2.5 of this ICR.

Based on the above, Risk to Development Outcome for the Bagé Project is considered Moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Prefecture of Bagé demonstrated, during the entire Project implementation period, substantial
compliance with the Project guidelines and with all due loan covenants. Given the municipal
fiscal situation, there were difficulties with the counterpart allocation, as well as difficulties with
repayment of the first tranche of the loan. Despite these shortcomings, the Borrower continuously


                                                  63
maintained an open and frank dialogue with the Bank to seek solutions and resolve the aspects
described above.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

For the case of Bagé, the implementing agency was the UGP (Project Management Unit), an
autonomous structure linked to the Mayor’s Office through the Municipal Secretariat of Finances.
The UGP’s performance was marked by limited institutional capacity and lack of available
human resources. Despite these difficulties, and with noteworthy dedication and commitment, the
UGP proved capable of overcoming these challenges and successfully implementing the Bagé
Project. At Project closure, FM was rated Satisfactory; Project Management was rated
Satisfactory; Counterpart Funding and Procurement were Moderately Satisfactory; and
Safeguards was rated Satisfactory throughout the life of the Project. Additionally, despite
shortcomings in M&E design, reporting was correctly undertaken by the agency.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Both the Prefecture and the UGP continuously demonstrated commitment to the Project and
complied with Bank recommendations. Based on the ratings for Government performance
(Moderately Satisfactory) and Implementing Agency performance (Moderately Satisfactory), the
proposed rating for Borrower performance is Moderately Satisfactory.




                                              64
                      Appendix 3. Specific Data Sheet and ICR for the
                        URUGUAIANA MUNICIPAL PROJECT
                         (Uruguaiana Vencerá, IBRD 7581-BR)

A. Basic Information
                                                                        Uruguaiana - Rio
                                                                        Grande do Sul
Country:                Brazil                  Project Name:           Integrated Municipal
                                                                        Development Program
                                                                        (APL)
Project ID:             P094199                 L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-75810
ICR Date:               06/30/2014              ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:               URUGUAIANA
Original Total
                        USD 6.83M               Disbursed Amount:       USD 2.70M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 6.83M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Municipal Government of Uruguaiana (Project Implementation Unit linked to the Municipal
Secretariat of Planning – SEPLAN).
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/16/2006     Effectiveness:          01/01/2009        06/22/2009
Appraisal:            06/26/2007     Restructuring(s):                               -
Approval:             07/23/2008     Mid-term Review:                          05/02/2011
                                     Closing:                12/31/2012        12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
                                                Highly Unsatisfactory
Outcomes:

Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:    Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing   Unsatisfactory

                                             65
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                          Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                            None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                            Yes                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                            Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General industry and trade sector                                     5                  2
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                13                  76
Micro- and SME finance                                                4                  0
Roads and highways                                                   68                  2
Sub-national government administration                               10                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                            9                  2
Municipal governance and institution building                        10                  20
Other urban development                                              56                  2
Pollution management and environmental health                        13                  76
Rural services and infrastructure                                    12                  0

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:             Jorge Familiar Calderon            Pamela Cox
Country Director:           Deborah L. Wetzel                  John Briscoe
Sector Manager:             Anna Wellenstein                   Guang Zhe Chen
Project Team Leader:        Juliana Garrido                    Marcos T. Abicalil
ICR Team Leader:            Juliana Garrido
ICR Primary Author:         Emanuela Monteiro




                                                66
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project development objective is to strengthen the capacity of Uruguaiana to provide
selected infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                          Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                           Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value
                                             approval           Target       Completion or
                                            documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Municipal secretariats implementing project processes
Value
                                            100 employees in
quantitative or    # of employees TBD                                -                 -
                                              4 secretariats
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2008                                                      12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        QUANTITATIVE DATA NOT AVAILABLE
achievement)
                Number of local businesses surveyed have positive views on municipal business
Indicator 2 :
                environment
Value
quantitative or        TBD in PAD                 +30%               -                 -
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2008                                                      12/31/2012
Comments
                TARGET NOT MET
(incl. %
                No activities supported by the Project were conductive to this result.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of SMEs successfully using microcredit
Value
quantitative or              0                     400               -                 -
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2008                                                      12/31/2012
Comments
                TARGET NOT MET
(incl. %
                No activities supported by the Project were conductive to this result.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Peri-urban community satisfied with infrastructure provided
Value
quantitative or             0%                    90%                -                 -
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2008                                                      12/31/2012
                QUANTITATIVE DATA NOT AVAILABLE
Comments
                Macrodrainage and infrastructure improvements were conducted in Santo Inácio
(incl. %
                neighborhood (1Km). Although there is not a survey on satisfaction, results of
achievement)
                the works were recognized to be positive by Bank supervision teams.
Indicator 5 : % Solid waste properly disposed

                                              67
Value
quantitative or              0                    100%               -                  0
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2008                                                     12/31/2012
                TARGET NOT MET
Comments
                Actual works for the closing and remediation of the existing dump, and for the
(incl. %
                construction of a new sanitary landfill were not conducted up to the closing date
achievement)
                of the Project.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                               Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                  approval                        Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Municipal staff trained in effective sub-project planning and monitoring
Value
(quantitative                  0                      100               -                  55
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/26/2008                                                  12/31/2012
Comments          TARGET NOT MET
(incl. %          Information as provided in the Borrower’s last Progress Report, regarding the
achievement)      first semester of 2012.
Indicator 2 :     % work program delivered on time
Value
(quantitative                  0                    100%                -                  -
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/26/2008                                                    12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          QUANTITATIVE DATA NOT AVAILABLE
achievement)
                  Number of contracts signed through the microcredit program reaching target
Indicator 3 :
                  population
Value
(quantitative                  0                      500               -                  0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/26/2008                                                    12/31/2012
Comments
                  TARGET NOT MET
(incl. %
                  No activities supported by the Project were conductive to this result.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of participants in job training programs
Value
(quantitative                  0                      400               -                  0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/26/2008                                                    12/31/2012
Comments
                  TARGET NOT MET
(incl. %
                  No activities supported by the Project were conductive to this result.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Area (m2) of urban roads paved or rehabilitated

                                                 68
Value
(quantitative                0                     120,000              -              230,000
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2008                                                        12/31/2012
                TARGET MET
Comments
                Results reported were provided by the Borrower, and refer to roads paved and/or
(incl. %
                rehabilitated as a result of the Project counterpart investments in the acquisition
achievement)
                of an asphalt plant.
Indicator 6 : Closed landfill remediate and new one operational
Value
                                                   Landfill
(quantitative                0                                                            -
                                                 operational
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/26/2008                                                        12/31/2012
                TARGET NOT MET
Comments
                Actual works for the closing and remediation of the existing dump, and for the
(incl. %
                construction of a new sanitary landfill were not conducted up to the closing date
achievement)
                of the Project.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
                                                      Not applicable
  1     03/04/2008
  2     09/11/2008            Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     04/15/2009            Satisfactory          Satisfactory                            0.00
                                                     Moderately
  4     11/23/2009      Moderately Satisfactory                                             0.017
                                                   Unsatisfactory
  5     04/29/2010      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     0.22
  6     02/21/2011      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     0.22
                             Moderately              Moderately
  7     07/20/2011                                                                          0.96
                           Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  8     04/29/2012         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                           2.93
  9     11/18/2012         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                           2.93
 10     07/10/2013         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                           2.87
 11     01/19/2014         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                           2.70


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
    None


                                                69
SPECIFIC ICR FOR URUGUAIANA MUNICIPAL PROJECT

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Uruguaiana Project (Uruguaiana Vencerá) was approved by the Board on July 23, 2008 in
the amount of US$6,830,000. The Loan Agreement was signed in May 13, 2009, and the Project
became effective on June 22, 2009. The closing date for the Loan Agreement was December 31,
2012. The Bank attempted to restructure this Project on date, but the Borrower did not
agree and did not prepare the necessary restructuring plan for Federal Government
approval.

After three years of troubled implementation, the Uruguaiana Project closed without satisfactorily
completing critical activities that had been originally planned. These activities, including the
closing and remediation of the existing dump site and the building of a new sanitary landfill,
would have led to the achievement of the Project’s PDO. Various factors 94 derailed
implementation and impeded efforts to restructure the Project, as was done for the other PDMI
Projects. Uruguaiana disbursed only 40% of the Loan resources—US$ 2.70 million out of US$
6.83 million.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The city of Uruguaiana is located in the extreme west of Rio Grande do Sul, 634 km from the
state capital at Porto Alegre. The municipality borders Argentina and Uruguay. The region is one
of extensive flat plains forming the Pampa Gaucho. Uruguaiana had a population of around
132,040 at appraisal (FEE, 2004) and a population density of approximately 22 inhabitants per
km2. About 93% resided in the urban areas and the demographic growth between 1991 and 2000
was 0.89% a year. The urban area consists of 36 neighborhoods, with 25,083 domestic properties
and 6,044 unoccupied parcels of land within the municipality at appraisal.

The total GDP of the municipality in 2003 was BRL 1,185,244 with a per capita GDP of BRL
8,976. Over the 20 years prior to appraisal the municipal GDP had been among the state’s 20
largest, but while Uruguaiana’s nominal GDP was growing, its share in State GDP had dropped.
The key development challenges faced by municipality at the time of appraisal were to improve
environmental sanitation (sewers and drainage), put in place a new sanitary landfill, address
infrastructure gaps in poor neighborhoods (road paving, drainage and sanitation) and promote
employment opportunities, especially for the urban and rural poor.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Original PDO. The PDO was to strengthen the capacity of Uruguaiana to provide selected
infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population.

Key original indicators. The original results framework contained five PDOIs for Uruguaiana.
These are, for Improved Municipal Management Capacity: (i) Institutionalization of improved
sub-project appraisal, fiduciary, social and environmental management processes in the municipal
government of Uruguaiana; for Increased Local Economic Development Opportunities (i)
Increased local business satisfaction with municipal business environment, and (ii) Increased


94
     See sections 2.2 and 2.4 of this ICR.

                                               70
revenues and sales volumes of supported businesses; and for Improved Infrastructure Services (i)
Improved quality of life of people living in peri-urban areas to be benefited from infrastructure
improvements, and (ii) Improved environmental quality due to removal of negative impacts of
uncontrolled waste disposal.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Not applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PAD estimate for Project beneficiaries was the population of Uruguaiana at the appraisal –
132,000 individuals. As the Project was not revised, this estimate was never updated.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project’s original components (never revised) were as follows:

Component 1: Municipal Strengthening. This component focused on improving the
municipality’s capacity to more effectively and efficiently execute projects, with a focus on
fiduciary, environmental and social aspects, and improving the quality and efficiency of public
services provided by the municipal government. Component 1 included (i) Public Service
Modernization, and (ii) Project Management.

Component 2: Income and Employment Generation. This component was to improve the
municipality’s capacity to generate employment and income through facilitating micro and small
business access to micro-credit and improvement of the effectiveness of such business and to
develop productive activities in the agriculture sector in a sustainable way. Component 2 included
(i) Strategies, SME and Cluster Support, and (ii) Support to urban and rural agriculture.

Component 3: Infrastructure Services Improvements. This component aimed to carry out
activities to improve urban and street upgrading; water, sanitation and drainage infrastructure and
services; and to develop an integrated solid waste management. Component 3 included (i) Urban
Road Upgrading, (ii) Drainage and Sewer works, and (iii) Integrated Solid Waste Management.

1.6 Revised Components
Not applicable.

1.7 Other significant changes
Not applicable.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
See Section 2.1 of the PDMI Program ICR.




                                                71
2.2 Implementation

Limited human resources and lack of experience with international financing organizations. The
implementation of the Uruguaiana Vencerá Project was impacted by the following factors: (i)
little or no experience on the part of the Borrower with international financial organizations,
principally the World Bank; and (ii) limited institutional capacity and human resources. The UGP,
for example, was made up of only two professional civil servants in the Prefecture, including a
coordinator responsible for planning, bidding, general Project monitoring, financial management
and contracts, and other activities. Apart from this, during Project implementation, there were
four individual consultants in charge of technical issues and social and environmental safeguards.
Component 2 was never provided with specialized professional support in the area of enterprise
and/or LED, as this position was only partially occupied during one semester, when the UAP
coordinator was based in Uruguaiana.

Persistent difficulties in adopting the directives of the Bank. Apart from the challenges above,
Uruguaiana experienced difficulties—which persisted throughout the Project implementation
period— adapting to the operational and fiduciary safeguards, rules, guidelines and procedures of
the Bank. This issue was in part linked with the limited autonomy of the UGP in decision-
making. While the UGP did have an independent structure under the coordination of the
Secretary of Planning (as well as the Chief of Staff), the majority of the decisions depended
directly on the Mayor. For example, the Municipality did not agree with the result of the bidding
process for a consultant contract for development of a detailed engineering project for bike lanes.
It resolved, alternatively, to conduct a direct contracting (through a single-source process) using
national procedures, whose expenditures were presented incorrectly to the Bank, and which was
later declared ineligible for payment under the Bank loan.

Technical and institutional complexity of Project solid waste activities. From a technical point of
view, the Prefecture of Uruguaiana and the UGP had to undertake a complex portfolio of solid
waste management interventions. Closing of the dump and the construction of a proper landfill—
key interventions under the Project—required the drafting of a series of environmental and social
studies and engineering projects, which were contracted to a specialized consultant company 95.
Accompaniment and management of this contract, as well as the quality control of the products
generated, proved to be beyond the capacity of the Prefecture and UGP. The supervising Bank
team pointed out the errors and technical inconsistencies in these documents, and indicated
suggestions for improvement in detailed technical opinions, without which the activities would
not be likely to be eligible for Project financing. After receiving the Bank’s comments, the
Prefecture did not agree with the recommendations provided, therefore decided to continue to
develop the activity without Bank support.

Ineffective implementation support and TA provided by the Bank. The Bank team provided



95
   These services were procured using the Bank’s guidelines and with technical support from the Bank
team. It included the following outputs: 1 - Survey of Current Status / Diagnostics for Waste Dump; 2 -
Executive Projects for Closure, Geotechnical Stabilization and Environmental Recovery at Waste Dump; 3
- Inputs to the Development of Bidding Notices for Closure, Stabilization Geotechnical and Environmental
Recovery Waste Dump; 4 - Diagnosis of the Municipal Solid Waste Situation; 5 - Forecast / PGIRSU; 6 -
Inputs to the Development of Bidding Notice (s) for Municipal Solid Waste Management services; 7 -
Initial Environmental Assessment of the New Landfill Area; 8 - Preliminary Design Project of the New
Landfill; 9 - Executive Project of the New Landfill; 10 - Monitoring Programs of the New Landfill Area;
11 - Inputs to the Development of Bidding Notice(s) for New Construction and Allied Landfill.

                                                  72
implementation support and TA as it had to the other Municipalities. With the exception of an
exchange of experiences with Pelotas, the UGP team for Uruguaiana was not authorized by the
municipal Prefecture to travel in order to participate in Bank-administered trainings in fiduciary
and safeguards areas. Therefore, the Bank organized—during the implementation phase—training
in financial management and procurement, the latter focused on drafting quality Terms of
Reference and technical specifications. This TA also included the participation of specialized
Bank consultants to evaluate and/or support UGP development of various necessary
documents. 96 As in the case of the solid waste management activities, a nationally recognized
consultant in this field was hired by the Bank to review the environmental studies and detailed
designs. These efforts proved insufficient to advance the Project towards a successful
implementation.

Unsuccessful attempt to perform a Project restructuring. The restructuring process was discussed
and prepared together with the restructuring package for the Bagé, Rio Grande, and Santa Maria
Projects, in 2012. In the case of Uruguaiana, the restructuring was not finalized due to an error by
the Prefecture in the identification of expenditures in the disbursement categories. This
inconsistency, as it was not corrected by the Prefecture, made conclusion of the process unviable
as there was not time to correct it before the Project’s closing date. However, this did not change
the Project results, as the principal goal of this restructuring was to formally cancel funds already
planned to go unused.

Weakening and difficulties in the dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower. The sum of the
above events contributed to the weakening of the dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower.
Starting mid-2012, six months before the Project closing date, all Project activities were
suspended. Institutional dialogue reopened only in early 2013, after a change of the municipal
administration, in this case mainly to deal with the operation’s closing. (For additional
information, refer to sections 2.4 on procurement, FM, and Performance of the Borrower).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design and implementation. There were weaknesses in the original indicators, mostly
restricted (in the case of the PDOIs) to the necessity for conducting separate studies to measure
the results97. The IOIs were defined, from conception, as simple indicators to accompany and
monitor implementation progress for each component. As the Project restructuring never
materialized, some indicators, including those linked to the microcredit activities 98 that were
planned but not executed remained as part of the formal Project plan. It should be noted that the
Bank failed to correctly evaluate, at entry, the technical and institutional capacity of the Borrower
to carry out the monitoring prescribed, which involved the preparation and submittal of progress
reports to the Bank each semester. In practice, implementation support to M&E was conducted by




96
   Various technical and fiduciary inputs and recommendations were provided to the Borrower, including:
(i) recommendations for the development of the ToRs related to the LED activities; (ii) suggestion for the
corrections of the environmental studies and engineering designs for the closing and remediation of the
dump, and for the construction of a new landfill; (iii) detailed comments on draft bidding documents. These
are in the Project electronic files.
97
   2 out of 5 PDOIs required surveys to be measured: “% of local businesses surveyed that have positive
views on municipal business environment” and “Peri-urban community satisfied with infrastructure
provided”.
98
   PDOI # 3 and IOI #3.

                                                    73
the Bank Team to the greatest extent possible 99.

Overall performance of Uruguaiana in conducting M&E. Uruguaiana’s bi-annual progress
reports were frequently inconsistent and/or insufficient in terms of the data provided, and
presented later than the expected period. Later at the closing stage, the Project: (i) did not
participate in the joint evaluation efforts conducted by the other municipalities; (ii) did not send
to the Bank its final evaluation report; (iii) did not participate in the Stakeholders Workshop
conducted in November 2012; and (iv) did not participate in the Post-Completion mission
conducted in April 2014, during which the ICR was discussed.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Aspects 100. Uruguaiana’s compliance with safeguards was Moderately Satisfactory at
Project closing 101. Although there were valuable and recurring efforts made by UGP, it was not
possible to advance on the action of greatest environmental relevance to the Project, the
installation of a landfill and associated sorting and recycling centers in the municipality in
cooperation with the various waste picker communities of the municipality and their
cooperatives.

Financial Management (FM). The FM arrangements as set out to manage the loan proceeds in the
municipality of Uruguaiana were overall Unsatisfactory throughout the life of the Project. The
Project has had a long history of poor execution, both in technical and fiduciary aspects:

(i) The lack of a team of professionals capable of carrying out the FM activities was perhaps the
key downfall of this Project, generating many problems throughout implementation. The Bank
recommended that the UGP have a proper team, and the external auditors concurred with the
Bank in their report. Unfortunately, the Municipality of Uruguaiana did not meet these requests;
(ii) IFRs submission on quarterly basis was not properly followed, as they were manually
generated, using spreadsheets, and contained many inconsistencies, which forced a full review of
all Projects expenditures; and
(iii) The external audit reports were oftentimes overdue 102, and when submitted to the Bank, had
Qualified-Excepted opinions of the financial statements, and some other issues related to
Procurement. The Bank’s reviews requested for mitigating actions to be applied by the city of
Uruguaiana. Unfortunately the UGP did not respond as expected, and at closing some of the
Project funds related to ineligible expenditures had to be returned. Given this history, the FMS
requested additional FM information data and conducted a final visit in June/2013 in order to
follow up and confirm the amounts for reimbursement.

Procurement. Beyond the specific difficulties faced by most of the other municipal Projects with
regard to the (i) limited capacities of the UGP and (ii) conducting procurement for the first time
using the Bank’s particular guidelines and procedures. Uruguaiana’s performance in procurement


99
    In various aide-memoirs, there is mention of discussions on the format, frequency, content and
importance of progress reports. There are also records of technical discussions on indicators.
100
    Details are in Section 2.4 of the Overall Program ICR.
101
    Although the planned action on solid waste was sensitive from the point of view of environmental and
social safeguards, as the required investments have not been made the concerns of effects and / or post-
closure aspects of supervision do not apply to the Project.
102
    The audit report for CY 2011 was 4 months overdue; the one for CY 2012 (including the grace period of
the loan) was 1 month overdue.

                                                   74
was also complicated by: (i) the fact that routine Bank guidelines were never fully accepted by
the municipality; and (ii) Problematic procurement processes, such as the launching of bids for
which Bank non objections had not been issued (Refer to section 2.2. of this ICR). For these
reasons, this Project required intense procurement-related supervision by the Bank Team 103.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Safeguards at completion & Post-closure supervision. 104 As was mentioned in Section 2.2, for
various reasons related to the technical quality and/or problematic conduct of bidding processes,
some of the activities implemented by the Borrower under Component 3 105 were not approved
and/or did not receive Bank financing. As of the closing date, all Project activities initiated during
the Project period had been fully completed (as presented in Annex 2), and therefore do not
require post-closure supervision/follow up by the Bank.

O&M and Project Management Unit. Section 4 of this specific ICR presents detailed information
on applicable post-closure aspects related to both O&M and institutional capacity.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Negligible

Planned Project investments to strengthen the overall capacity of the municipality to: (i) generate
employment and income opportunities (with focus on improving cluster organization and the
overall business environment for micro and small entrepreneurs); (ii) improve urban mobility,
with emphasis on pedestrians and bikers; (iii) expand sanitation and drainage service provision;
and (iv) improve solid waste management 106 ; remain as priorities to be tackled by the
municipality.

The proposed Negligible rating to Uruguaiana Vencera Project is due to: (i) a weaker link with
the priorities defined for World Bank engagement under the current CPS; (ii) reduced relevance
and efficiency of Project implementation due to the failure to achieve Program-wide institutional
arrangements or transformational impact; (iii) the substantial implementation support needed
from the Bank; and (iv) the variety of funding options (including national sources) apart from
Bank financing available for such a portfolio. While the objective and design were relevant (also
refer to section 3.1 of the overall PDMI ICR), the implementation for Uruguaiana was
particularly flawed and ultimately unsuccessful.




103
    This support included revising and issuing non-objections to procurement processes and hands-on TA in
the development of the draft technical specifications, TORs, requests for proposals, etc.
104
    Refer to Section 2.4 of the Project ICR for a more detailed explanation of Bank guidance provided with
regard to quality review of environmental studies.
105
    Urban and street upgrading / bike lanes, and environmental studies to support addressing the solid waste
agenda.
106
     The solid waste management agenda is a particular aspect differentiating Uruguaiana from the other
PDMI Projects. It is noteworthy that the Federal Law No. 12,305, 2010 is an important regulatory
milestone in the solid waste management policy in Brazil. Among other elements, this law establishes the
obligation, before August 2014, for closure of all dumps in the country.

                                                    75
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Negligible

The PDO was to strengthen the capacity of Uruguaiana municipality to provide selected
infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population. However, little of what
was originally planned was actually implemented (US$ 4.36 million of a total of US$ 11.42),
resulting in only 40% of the total loan resources being disbursed (US$ 2.70 million of a total of
US$ 6.83).

Component 1 investments were limited in comparison to the total (actual) Project investments
(only US$ 0.75 million out of 4.36 million, 17% of the total investments) 107. With regard to
strengthening of institutional capacity and/or internalization of learning acquired through Project
implementation, there is no way to report on this issue as the Prefecture of Uruguaiana did not
participate in the ICR discussions.

Component 2 investments represented still less of total Project funds (US$ 0.07 million, less than
2% of the total Project investment). Activities with regard to (i) Facilitating micro and small
business access to micro-credit; (ii) Capacity-building for workers and general training, and (iii)
Supporting productive subprojects in the dairy sector did not take place. The only output
developed under Component 2 was the LED Plan (PDE).

Component 3 investments in urban and street upgrading and drainage infrastructure and services
in Santo Inacio neighborhood concentrated the majority of the total project resources (US$ 3.54
out of 4.36 million, or 81%). Of these, approximately US$ 0.90M were for the counterpart
financing in the acquisition of an asphalt plant and on maintenance of roads 108. With regard to the
macro drainage works (realized along a 1Km tract), during a post-closing mission in April 2013,
despite minor technical faults (which were corrected), the beneficiary population expressed their
satisfaction with the general results of the work, particularly in light of recent rain events.

An analysis of achievement of the goals defined within the ambit of Project indicators (despite all
shortcomings in the quality of the information) confirms the Negligible rating proposed for
efficacy: (i) 3 out of 5 PDOIs were not achieved 109 ; for the remaining two 110 , there is no
quantitative information available to be measured against the target; (ii) 4 out of 6 IOIs were not
achieved 111; (iii) just 1 out of 6 IOIs was achieved 112; and for the remaining IOI 113, there is no
information available to be measured against the target.



107
     Noteworthy here the improvements to the existing Municipal Administrative Center, being the
remaining investments mainly linked to Project Management.
108
    The Municipality has reported that it has carried out with its own resources (no supervision, quality
control or approval from the Bank) the development of detailed design projects for 10Km of bike lanes
linking central and peripheral neighborhoods of the city. These were undertaken in the following streets
and avenues: Setembrino de Carvalho, Flores da Cunha, Pinheiro Machado and Presidente Vargas.
109
    PDOIs #s 2, 3, and 5, on i. satisfaction with business environment, ii. SMEs successfully using
microcredit, and iii. Solid waste properly disposed.
110
    PDOIs # 1 and 4, on municipal secretariats implementing project processes; and on satisfaction of peri-
urban community with infrastructure.
111
    IOIs #s 1, 3, 4 and 6
112
    IOI #5, on urban roads paved or rehabilitated, in this case as a result of counterpart investments in the
asphalt plan.
113
    IOI #s 2, on % of work program delivered.

                                                    76
For detailed information on the Project’s results, refer to Uruguaiana’s Results Framework in the
Project datasheet; for detailed information on the Project’s outputs, refer to Annex 2.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Negligible

No information was available to conduct the Economic Analysis.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory

Based on the Project’s relevance (Negligible), efficacy (Negligible), and efficiency (Negligible),
the proposed overall outcome rating is Highly Unsatisfactory.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
For a summary of the results of the joint Stakeholders Workshop, conducted in November 2012,
see section 3.6 of the overall Program ICR, as well as Annex 6 for the abridged translation of the
final report. However, it should be noted that Uruguaiana did not take part in this workshop, or
provide a Project evaluation in any other form.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

Sustainability of the results linked to Component 1. Analyzed in isolation, the risks to the
sustainability of the Component 1 results can be considered low. On one hand, some of the
institutional capacities built over the implementation of the Project will be lost, as the UGP of
Uruguaiana was small, with most of its members outside consultants. On the other, there is no
reasonable concern regarding budget and/or institutional constraints that could compromise the
ability of the Municipality to operate and maintain the facilities (Administration Building) and
equipment procured under the Project.

Sustainability of results related to Component 2. As above, there are no major concerns with
regard to the LED Plan (PDE), the one Component 2 Project activity. To the point to which it was
possible to closely accompany its execution, it seems that the instrument demonstrates not only a
solid technical basis but, more importantly, was created with significant involvement of local
actors. There are no recent reports of the progress of the priority activities indicated in the Plan,
which include (among other elements) dissemination of the Plan’s results to various public and
private institutions to obtain their support in its implementation. As in the case of Bagé, despite
low investment in this activity and the ambitiousness of the Plan’s recommendations, the
participatory process of discussing and preparing a Plan was intrinsically valuable. The process of
developing the plan raised awareness among stakeholders about local development challenges
and opportunities, and compiled information and recommendations for potential investors, federal
and state governments, and private institutions.

Sustainability of Component 3 outcomes in drainage and urban and street upgrading. This item
merits particular attention, as 81% of total Project investments (US$ 3.52 out of 4.34 M) were
channeled to Component 3 (refer to Annexes 1 and 2).

(i) Macro drainage investments in Santo Inácio neighborhood. During the post-conclusion
mission conducted in Uruguaiana in April 2013 (4 months after project closing), minor technical

                                                 77
flaws in the work, still to be corrected, were registered; as well as the destruction of the protective
enclosure of the retention basin (upstream). Despite this, at this time the Bank was informed by
the Prefecture of actions being implemented for cleaning and maintenance of the channel; and the
Mayor himself demonstrated interest and initiative in solving this problem.
(ii) Uruguaiana has an advantageous position in road maintenance, as it has not only equipment
but an asphalt plant as well, which allows maintenance at much lower than market cost.
(iii) Integrated municipal solid waste management. Up to the date of this ICR, there were no
indications that the investments in the closure of the landfill and the construction and operation of
a new landfill would materialize. Moreover, uncertainties remain as the quality of environmental
studies prepared by the City.

For these reasons, and principally due to item (iii) above, the Risk to Development Outcome for
the Uruguaiana Project is considered High.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance is assessed only for the overall Program. Performance is assessed as
Moderately Satisfactory at Entry, Moderately Satisfactory at Supervision, and Moderately
Satisfactory overall. For details, see Section 5 of the PDMI Program ICR.

5.1 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The Prefecture of Uruguaiana demonstrated, during the entire Project implementation period,
difficulty in understanding and applying Bank procedures. There were also specific issues – for
which the UGP was not solely responsible – related to: (i) problematic procurement processes;
and (ii) submission of ineligible expenses, which negatively affected Project implementation and
results.

After the loan closed, dialogue resumed with the new municipal administration, which pledged to
attempt to process correctly all due cancellations of non-utilized Bank funds, as well as the return
of loan funds from ineligible activities. However, Uruguaiana still did not participate in joint ICR
discussions.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

Uruguaiana’s UGP was linked to SEPLAN – Planning Secretariat, and to the Mayor’s Office. Its
structure lacked autonomy for decision making, which sometimes interfered with Project
implementation. Overall, the UGP showed a reasonable degree of commitment throughout
implementation. However, they faced difficulties in dealing with Bank FM and Procurement
requirements, flawed M&E, and limited technical capacity (which interfered with their ability to
accompany and guarantee the quality of the environmental studies and designs for the closing of
the dump and opening of the new landfill).

As implementation progressed, performance declined. At Project closure, all Project ratings apart
from counterpart funding (which was Highly Unsatisfactory), were rated Unsatisfactory.
Additionally, final evaluation was compromised by the lack of participation and information
provided by the Borrower (the final report was not completed and thus never sent to the Bank).


                                                  78
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

Based on the ratings for Government performance (Unsatisfactory) and Implementing Agency
performance (Unsatisfactory), the proposed rating for Borrower performance is Unsatisfactory.




                                              79
                        Appendix 4. Specific Data Sheet and ICR for the
                           RIO GRANDE MUNICIPAL PROJECT
                    (Rio Grande 2010: Uma Visão de Futuro, IBRD 7682-BR)

A. Basic Information
                                                                        Rio Grande - Rio
                                                                        Grande do Sul
Country:                Brazil                  Project Name:           Integrated Municipal
                                                                        Development Program
                                                                        (APL)
Project ID:             P094199                 L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-76820
ICR Date:               06/30/2014              ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:               RIO GR
Original Total
                        USD 8.10M               Disbursed Amount:       USD 7.16M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 8.10 M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Municipal Government of Rio Grande (Project Implementation Unit linked to the Mayor’s
office)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:         11/16/2006   Effectiveness:            10/01/2009        04/16/2010
Appraisal:              06/26/2007   Restructuring(s):                           12/13/2012
Approval:               07/07/2009   Mid-term Review:                            06/07/2011
                                     Closing:                  12/31/2012        12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
                                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
Outcomes:

Risk to Development Outcome:                    Significant
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
       Bank                  Ratings             Borrower                       Ratings
                                                                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                        Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing            Moderately

                                             80
                                                   Agency/Agencies:         Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower         Moderately
                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:             Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                            None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                            No                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before            Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General industry and trade sector                                     0                  3
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 0                  0
Micro- and SME finance                                                3                  0
Roads and highways                                                   82                  89
Sub-national government administration                               13                  8



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                            3                  3
Municipal governance and institution building                        13                  2
Other urban development                                              82                  95
Pollution management and environmental health                         0                  0
Rural services and infrastructure                                     0                  0

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:             Jorge Familiar Calderon            Pamela Cox
Country Director:           Deborah L. Wetzel                  Makhtar Diop
Sector Manager:             Anna Wellenstein                   Guang Zhe Chen
Project Team Leader:        Juliana Garrido                    Juliana Garrido
ICR Team Leader:            Juliana Garrido
ICR Primary Author:         Emanuela Monteiro



                                                81
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project development objective is to strengthen the capacity of Rio Grande to provide selected
infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                              Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                                Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval            Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)           Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Municipal secretariats implementing improved project implementation processes
                                                                  Secretariats of
                                                Secretariats of                      Secretariats of
Value                                                               Planning,
                                             Planning, Finance,                    Planning, Finance,
quantitative or               0                                      Finance,
                                                 Works, and                           Works, and
Qualitative)                                                        Works, and
                                                Environment                           Environment
                                                                   Environment
Date achieved 06/05/2009                    06/05/2009            12/13/2012      12/31/2012
Comments        TARGET MET
(incl. %        Results account for trainings conducted and equipment bought as part of the
achievement) PMAT program, part of the counterpart investments linked to the Project.
                Community members satisfied with improved urban infrastructure in areas of
Indicator 2 :
                intervention
Value
quantitative or               0                                        70%                 -
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/13/2012                                          12/13/2012      12/31/2012
                QUANTITATIVE DATA NOT AVAILABLE
                The Borrower’s Final Report refers to a qualitative survey (20 interviews)
                conducted with overall users of the streets and with representatives of
Comments
                transportation companies in charge of providing such services. Although they
(incl. %
                report problems with the quality of the works, they also refer to: (i) an overall
achievement)
                improvement in the quality of life of the population; (ii) reduced O&M costs of
                the vehicles / buses, as well as increased possibilities of more accurately estimate
                travel times; and (iii) overall satisfaction with drainage and landscaping services.
Indicator 3 : Number of direct project beneficiaries
Value
quantitative or               0                        -              40,000            44,800
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/13/2012                                          12/13/2012      12/31/2012
                QUANTITATIVE DATA NOT AVAILABLE
                At the time of the preparation of the ICR, the Borrower reported that
Comments        approximately 44,800 people directly benefited from the Project. The reported
(incl. %        results are a proxy, calculated based on the population living in the area
achievement) influenced by the Project’s works in the rehabilitation of urban roads. The
                methodology for such calculation is different from the one used to define the
                target.

                                                 82
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                  approval                        Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
                  Municipal staff trained and using effective project planning and monitoring
Indicator 1 :
                  systems
Value
(quantitative                 0                                      100               100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/05/2009                                     12/13/2012   12/31/2012
Comments          TARGET MET
(incl. %          Results account for trainings conducted as part of the PMAT program, part of the
achievement)      counterpart investments linked to the Project.
Indicator 2 :     Percentage of annual work program delivered on time
Value
(quantitative                 0                      100                                 -
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/05/2009                  06/05/2009                         12/31/2012
                  QUANTITATIVE DATA NOT AVAILABLE
Comments
                  The implementation progress of the Project decreased during the second semester
(incl. %
                  of 2012. The land regularization services, for instance, were not completed by
achievement)
                  closing date of the Project.
Indicator 3 :     Long-term economic development strategy prepared and/or adopted
Value
                                                                LED prepared
(quantitative                -                                                     LED prepared
                                                                 and adopted
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/13/2012                                       12/13/2012      12/31/2012
                TARGET PARTIALLY MET
Comments
                The LED Plan was prepared, and a Decree was enacted creating an independent
(incl. %
                Committee for Social Economic Development. However, there is no sufficient
achievement)
                evidence that it has been adopted.
Indicator 4 : Action plan for the Tourism Sector prepared and adopted
                                                                 Action plan
                                                                    for the     Action plan for the
Value
                                                                   Tourism        Tourism Sector
(quantitative                -
                                                                    Sector          prepared and
or Qualitative)
                                                                prepared and          adopted
                                                                   adopted
Date achieved 12/13/2012                                       12/13/2012      12/31/2012
                TARGET MET
                Besides the Action Plan referred to in the indicator, the Project also supported the
                development of a Diagnosis of the Tourism Sector and of an Inventory of the
Comments
                Touristic Attractions within the municipality. Information provided by the
(incl. %
                Borrower indicates that many of the actions and/or projects suggested by the Plan
achievement)
                have been adopted or are under implementation. Also, two Decrees were enacted
                – Decree N. 12.108, from May/13, which creates and nominates members of a
                Permanent Commission for the Development of the Tourism Sector; and Decree

                                                83
                N. 12.150, from June/13, which includes additional members.
Indicator 5 :   Roads rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative                 0                                       25              27.91
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/05/2009                                       12/13/2012      12/31/2012
                TARGET MET
                Results account for: (i) 9.37 Km of rehabilitated roads (paving and drainage), as
Comments
                part of 100% counterpart financed investments; (ii) 15.64 Km of rehabilitated
(incl. %
                roads (paving and drainage), as part of Bank financed investments; (iii) 2.30 Km
achievement)
                of rehabilitated roads (paving), as part of Bank financed investments; and (iv)
                0.60 Km of rehabilitated roads (drainage), as part of Bank financed investments.
                Target population (families) with use or ownership rights recorded as a result of
Indicator 6 :
                the project
Value
(quantitative                 0                                      3200               0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/13/2012                                       12/13/2012      12/31/2012
Comments        TARGET NOT MET
(incl. %        Documentation services were contracted to regularize 3,481 plots, but actual
achievement) titles were not emitted by the closing date of the Project.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
                                 Not applicable
  1                                                                                       0.00
                                 Not applicable
  2                                                                                       0.00
                                 Not applicable
  3                                                                                       0.00
  4     11/23/2009     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 0.00
  5     04/29/2010     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 0.02
  6     02/21/2011     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 0.12
  7     07/20/2011     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 0.96
                            Moderately                 Moderately
  8     04/29/2012                                                                        4.43
                          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately                 Moderately
  9     11/18/2012                                                                        6.48
                          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
 10     07/10/2013     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 7.16
                            Moderately                 Moderately
 11     01/19/2014                                                                        7.16
                          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory




                                               84
H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at     Amount
                Board
Restructuring           Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved
   Date(s)                              Restructuring         Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP
                                       in USD millions
                                                       (i) Adjustments to the scope of
                                                       Project activities due to
                                                       exchange rate fluctuations; the
                                                       increase in construction costs;
                                                       and the delays between Project
                                                       appraisal, approval and
                                                       implementation launch; and
                                                       the unforeseen availability of
                                                       other sources of funds;
                                                       (ii) Revisions to the Project’s
                                                       results framework to reflect the
 12/13/2012       N       MU    MU            6.48     adjustments/reductions in
                                                       scope of the Project;
                                                       (iii) Streamlining of indicators
                                                       to better monitor and capture
                                                       Project impacts, align with
                                                       indicators from the other
                                                       individual Projects, and
                                                       incorporate core indicators;
                                                        (iv) Reallocation of loan
                                                       proceeds between expenditure
                                                       categories, and increased
                                                       percentage financed.




                                         85
SPECIFIC ICR FOR RIO GRANDE MUNICIPAL PROJECT

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Rio Grande Project (Rio Grande: Uma Visão de Futuro) was approved by the Board on July
07, 2009 in the amount of US$8.10 million. The Loan Agreement was signed on February 25,
2010, and the Project became effective on April 16, 2010, after substantial delays. In 2012 the
Project went through a Level II restructuring process, and on December 31 of the same year it
closed. Although Rio Grande was the first PDMI municipality to contact the Bank in 2004 and
took the lead in getting the Federal Government’s support for the Program, it ended up with the
shortest Project implementation period, at 2 years and 8 months.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Rio Grande is the state’s oldest city and the site of southern Brazil's largest port. The total
population of the municipality was 192,195 in 2004 (FEE), nearly 96% of which was considered
urban. With an area of 2,814 km2, Rio Grande accounts for about 1% of the total area of the state
and is divided into five districts.

Economically, Rio Grande was overall doing well at the time of appraisal. Municipal GDP was
almost US$ 1.5 billion, of which 64.7% was generated by industry, 32% from services and 2.8%
from agriculture. Main industrial activities included oil refining, fertilizers, soy bean processing
and fishing (which had been decreasing steadily since the 1990's). The service sector was strongly
influenced by the port and its freight terminal. Though per capita GDP was higher than that of the
State overall, Rio Grande’s poverty rate of 22% was higher than the state average of 19.7%,
indicating that total wealth was increasingly concentrated. Contributing to this were a fragile
SME sector and a high informality rate.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Original PDO. The PDO was to strengthen the capacity of Rio Grande to provide selected
infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population.

Key original indicators. The original results framework contained four PDO indicators for Rio
Grande. These are, for Improved Municipal Management Capacity: (i) Institutionalization of
improved sub-project appraisal, fiduciary, social and environmental management processes in the
municipal government of Rio Grande; for Increased Local Economic Development
Opportunities: (i) Increased local business satisfaction with municipal business environment, and
(ii) Increased revenues and sales volumes of the supported business; and for Improved
Infrastructure Services, (i) Reduction in travel times in urban center of Rio Grande.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. Indicators were revised to better fit the municipality’s monitoring and
reporting capabilities. New targets were included to take into account new activities, and several
original targets were dropped in order to reflect the reduced scope of project activities (see
“Revised Components” below).




                                                86
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PAD estimate for Project beneficiaries was the population of Rio Grande at appraisal –
193,000 individuals. This estimate was updated to 40,000 in the Restructuring Paper, to reflect
the direct beneficiaries of the Project infrastructure investments. At Project closure, the final
estimate for beneficiaries in Rio Grande is 44,800.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project’s original components were as follows:

Component 1: Municipal Strengthening. This component had the objective to strengthen the
municipal’s capacity to more effectively and efficiently execute its programs and implement and
mainstream the appraisal, fiduciary and environmental and social procedures of the PDMI.
Included were (i) Public Service Modernization, and (ii) Project Management.

Component 2: Income and Employment Generation. The component aimed to strengthen the
Borrower’s capacity to generate employment and income through: (a) preparation of a sustainable
long-term LED strategy; (b) improvement of the Borrower’s business environment through the
development and implementation of simplified requirements for firms’ registration; and (c)
development of a strategy for the development of the tourism sector. The main idea was to assess
the local business environment and devise measures to overcome key barriers, including for
business registration, and supporting the development of strategy for the Tourism Cluster,
building on Rio Grande’s status as the first city established in the state. Included were Strategies,
SME and Cluster Support.

Component 3: Infrastructure Services Improvements. The main priorities for Rio Grande were to
improve the traffic flow in the urban center and develop a strategy for the environmental recovery
of part of the Lagoa dos Patos. Included were (i) Urban Road Upgrading, and (ii) Urban Renewal
and Environmental Rehabilitation.

1.6 Revised Components

Scope tightening. Some Project activities were reduced or eliminated due to the increased cost of
Project activities (as explained below). Several original targets were dropped in order to reflect
the reduced scope of Project activities, particularly with regard to the streamlining of the firm
registration process and a comprehensive resettlement plan/environmental rehabilitation project.

New activities. New activities included a LED strategy, plans for the Tourism sector, and
regularization of tenancy in some informal settlements.

1.7 Other significant changes

Increase in the Project’s total costs. Activity costs increased due to BRL/US$ exchange rate
fluctuations, the inflation in construction costs in Brazil, and the delays between Project appraisal,
approval and implementation launch. As the scope of activities was reduced, the total amount of
Project and counterpart financing remained unchanged.




                                                 87
Reallocation of funds between loan categories. The Project saw reallocation of loan proceeds
between expenditure categories to align with revised Project activities, and to account for the
unforeseen availability of other sources of funds.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
See Section 2.1 of the PDMI Program ICR.

2.2 Implementation

Initial delays in Project appraisal, approval and implementation. One of the factors that most
affected the implementation of the Rio Grande Project was the accumulated delays between
Project appraisal, approval, and the start of implementation. It was Rio Grande, in 2003-2004,
which took the initiative to discuss the possibility of an umbrella Municipal APL Program with
the Bank and the Federal Government. However, both the continuity and speed of Project
progress were affected when a new Prefecture government came into power at the end of 2004.
Factors causing this delay included the municipality’s lack of readiness to receive the loan in
terms of fiscal soundness and capacity, and difficulties with staffing (at the time, there was only
one staff member assigned to the Project). At effectiveness, in April 2010, there were less than
three years left until the Project closing date.

These delays affected the municipality’s implementation capacity, which had been assessed at
preparation, as well. Different from the other Projects, Rio Grande’s was to have been
implemented in two phases—Phase I, with total estimated costs of US$ 8.10 million (which was
carried out); and Phase II (which never materialized), with total estimated costs of US$ 7.80
million. Phase II was to have been launched once consistent implementation progress of Phase I
had been reached, including the development of social studies and of detailed engineering design
projects. As planned, the majority of the Component 3 investments in urban upgrading and
environmental rehabilitation were concentrated in Phase II.

Municipal elections. The change in municipal administration in 2004, during preparation,
contributed to a great extent to the initial Project delays. During the final phase of implementation
at the end of 2012, another municipal election again negatively affected Project
implementation 114, although the new government did not officially take power until January 2013,
after Project closing. For example, the UGP had already been dismantled at the time of Project
closing and elaboration of Phase I of the Borrower’s Completion Report at the end of 2012,
complicating supervision and technical follow-up of Project activities. Despite this, a proactive
dialogue between the Bank and the Prefecture was maintained for (i) closing of Project and
appropriate documentation of expenditures, in 2013, (ii) the preparation of the Borrowers'
Completion Report (Phase 2) in 2014, and (iii) providing supporting information for the ICR, in
2014.

Format and structure of the UGP. The Rio Grande UGP was linked with the Prefecture Cabinet.
Although it was organizationally and physically proximate to the Mayor’s office, the UGP’s
structure and staffing did not lead to effective Project implementation. .Rio Grande’s UGP



114
  Ratings for Implementation Progress were downgraded from Moderately Satisfactory to Moderately
Unsatisfactory beginning in ISR # 8, archived in April 2012.

                                                 88
coordinator was totally dedicated to the Project. For much of the time, however, he acted as
procurement specialist as well, an overburdening that hurt general Project management in terms
of planning, meeting of deadlines, M&E/reporting, and contract management, etc. The remaining
members of the UGP, including those responsible for FM and environmental or works
supervision, were staff from other arms of the Prefecture. Their time was thus divided with other
tasks as well. At the time of PDMI, Rio Grande had a significant portfolio of non-Program
infrastructure investments also underway.

Lack of experience with international financing organizations & persistent difficulties in adopting
Bank guidelines and procedures. As in the case of the other PDMI municipalities, Rio Grande
had little or no experience with international financial organizations. However, these difficulties
in compliance with Bank directives and operational procedures persisted in the case of Rio
Grande throughout implementation. In some cases (FM, for example) these lessons were
eventually absorbed and monitoring activities adequately conducted. In others, including
procurement, shortcomings continued to be significant, not only with regard to the quality of the
bidding documents but also causing delays and flaws in routine processes. TORs, technical
specifications, requests for proposals, and estimated budgets for works, for example, often
required not only revision, but in many cases further technical support by the Bank team.

Increase in Project costs and subsequent need for Project Restructuring. During the June 2011
Midterm Review mission, important losses in loan purchasing power, due to US$/BRL exchange
rate variations, were registered. This was in addition to a significant increase in construction costs
in Brazil, which accompanied the scaling up of Federal Government investment in infrastructure
and economic growth. In conformance with the original Appraisal estimate (confirmed at
restructuring), approximately 83% of Project investments were concentrated in infrastructure
improvements under Component 3. This made the Rio Grande Project especially vulnerable to
variations in construction costs. Restructuring was undertaken to respond to initial delays, adapt
the Project to the realities of execution (in terms of municipal capacity and context) and mitigate
this loss of purchasing power. Although only completed at the end of 2012, restructuring was still
important in order to (i) adjust the Project scope, cleaning out activities for which other funding
sources had been identified; (ii) adjust, as much as possible, the indicators to this change in scope
and streamline them Program-wide; and most importantly (iii) re-allocate the loan resources to
maximize disbursement, with a reduction of the percentage of counterpart allocation. Between
Restructuring and the moment when final Project expenditures were documented, total loan
disbursement increased by 10% (US$ 0.68 / 6.48 million).

Diminished prioritization of the Project by the Prefecture. In the case of Rio Grande, concurrent
outside financing negatively impacted the Project, as (i) PAC investments 115 simultaneous with
the Project were more voluminous than the loan resources (BRL 24.52 versus US$ 8.10 million);
and (ii) the Prefecture’s team for planning and implementation of PAC investments was basically
the same one accompanying the Bank project, which dissipated project execution efforts and
diminished the project’s priority and relevance for the Prefecture. This aspect was raised by the
municipality during ICR discussions.




115
  PAC I (Saneamento para Todos, October/2009) amounted BRL 20.08 million; PAC II (Pró-Transporte,
August/2011) amounted BRL 4.43 million. Both were macro drainage and paving investments.

                                                 89
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design and implementation. Indicators at Appraisal relied heavily on surveys to measure
Project results, which despite their necessity in order to objectively evaluate the Project activities
often proved beyond the Borrower’s capability 116. This problem was not fully corrected during
the restructuring process, and the survey requirement remained unsupported by a more structured
M&E program, although the Bank Team did provide intensive support and TA to the Borrower.
This impaired the final evaluation of the Project, as (i) The firm in charge of the final evaluation
report of Rio Grande did not conduct ideal final surveys 117 ; (ii) Information on beneficiary
satisfaction would have been difficult to obtain, since urban infrastructure works (paving and
drainage) were ongoing in some of the areas through the end of December 2012. As the
beneficiary surveys were not carried out as specified, the monitoring framework does not provide
as robust a basis to measure PDO achievement as expected.

The IOIs were defined from conception as simple indicators 118 to accompany and monitor
implementation progress for each component. They were clearly linked to Project activities and
the PDOIs, and as they were readily measureable provided an adequate tool for monitoring
project implementation progress. As such, they were mostly maintained or only slightly adjusted
during restructuring. Corrections to the Results Framework made at restructuring aimed to reflect
the proposed tightening of Project scope, including the exclusion of some Component 2 119 and
3 120 activities; as well as the inclusion of activities such as the land regularization services.

It should be noted that the Bank failed to correctly evaluate, both at entry and during
implementation/restructuring, the technical and institutional capacity of the Borrower to carry out
the monitoring prescribed, which involved the preparation and submittal of progress reports to the
Bank each semester. Initial capacity-building workshops during Project preparation, or structured
capacity-building or TA for M&E during implementation, would have been helpful. The Task
Team did provide guidance as part of regular Project supervision 121.

Overall performance of Rio Grande in conducting M&E. Rio Grande’s M&E performance was a
challenge throughout implementation, and was rated Unsatisfactory at Project completion by the
final ISR. This was due to several reasons: (i) Rio Grande’s bi-annual progress reports were often
delayed, and/or contained significant shortcomings; (ii) Rio Grande’s UGP was being dismantled
during development of the Phase I Borrowers’ Final Assessment (for Rio Grande, Pelotas and
Bage) at the end of 2012, which interfered with the necessary provision of inputs to the
consulting firm responsible; (iii) Although Rio Grande participated in the ICR evaluation
workshop, and actively contributed during the April 2014 ICR discussion process, sufficient
information for measuring and final reporting of Project results was not provided.


116
    2 out of 3 original PDOIs required surveys to be measured: “% of local businesses surveyed that have
positive views on municipal business environment” and “Community members satisfied with urban
transport”.
117
    Surveys were qualitative and did not include a sample of statistic value. The information obtained
through these surveys is used in this document as a reference, to complement supervision and post-closure
supervision findings.
118
    With one exception, which was removed at restructuring (“Number of enterprises effectively involved in
the development of the tourism sector and cluster created”).
119
    Simplified requirements for registration of firms.
120
    Social and environmental rehabilitation of the Henrique Pancada neighborhood.
121
    In various aide-memoirs, there is mention of discussions on the format, frequency, content and
importance of progress reports. There are also records of technical discussions on indicators.

                                                   90
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Aspects 122 . Rio Grande’s compliance with safeguards was Satisfactory at Project
closing. There was an important effort, in partnership with the affected community, for territorial
regularization of a significant proportion of the resident population living in irregular settlements.
However, this process was not finalized. Regarding the investments in urban road improvements,
appropriate guidance and follow-up was provided to UGP to guarantee that potential impacts of
the works were pre-identified and avoided and/or mitigated where applicable.

Procurement. Rio Grande’s UGP had very limited capacity to properly conduct routine
procurement, and as there was no designated specialist. Procurement was often conducted by the
Project coordinator. This resulted in technical and procedural shortcomings in this area, including
in (i) the quality of the procurement related documents; and (ii) timing for the completion of the
planned activities. The Bank team had to provide close support, often including implementation
support to the UGP for their drafting of the above documents. Despite these difficulties, no
misconduct occurred.

Financial Management (FM). The FM arrangements were overall Satisfactory throughout the life
of the Project. The implementing agency addressed most of the shortcomings identified during
financial management supervision missions, showing a clear and progressive improvement within
the FM arrangements whenever any issue was present and providing in a timely and reliable
manner any information needed to manage and monitor project implementation. Additionally, (i)
the budget was realistic and was properly executed, (ii) staff was nominated and trained in the
Bank's processes, (iii) efficient internal control processes were in place, (iv) Financial
Management Information Systems (FMIS) were in place, with timely submission of IFRs. The
last external audit report had a qualified opinion issued by auditors. After analyzing the report,
however, the Bank considered the issues raised minor, due to the external auditors’ lack of
understanding of the specificity of the loan agreement.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Activities pending completion and/or safeguards follow-up. There were still pending Project
activities to be completed as of the closing date. These include land regularization services for
3,481 urban plots, for which documentation collection services were conducted, but actual titles
to date not issued. Since the land regularization services in Rio Grande are not linked to
resettlement, neither OP/ BP 4.12 nor post-closure safeguards for Bank follow up apply.

Operation and maintenance (O&M). Post-completion issues include the municipality’s ability
and resources to properly perform O&M of streets (after paving and drainage projects were
conducted). The Municipality has invested the following in O&M over the last years: (i) in 2011,
BRL 5.93 million; (ii) in 2012, BRL 2.57 million; and (iii) in 2013, BRL 1.57 million. For 2014,
there is BRL 2.57 million budgeted for O&M of streets. As the municipality collects substantial
port revenues, it has continuing capacity to invest in O&M.




122
      Details are in Section 2.4 of the Overall Program ICR.

                                                       91
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Modest

The relevance of the objectives, design and implementation of Rio Grande Project is rated
Modest, as explained in section 3.1 of the overall PDMI ICR. Planned Project investments to
strengthen the overall capacity of the municipality aimed to (i) provide more client-responsive
services; (ii) generate employment and income opportunities (with focus on the Tourism
cluster 123 ); (iii) improve urban mobility, especially in the urban center; and (iv) develop and
implement a strategy for the environmental recovery of the Lagoa dos Patos; remain as priorities
for the Municipality 124 . This was affirmed by the Borrower during the ICR discussions. The
design of the Project also shows a close fit with Brazil’s national priorities in terms of supporting
municipal infrastructure.

The proposed Modest rating is due to: (i) a weaker link with the priorities defined for World Bank
engagement under the current CPS; (ii) reduced relevance and efficiency of Project
implementation due to the failure to achieve Program-wide institutional arrangements or
transformational impact; (iii) the substantial implementation support needed from the Bank; and
(iv) the variety of funding options (including national sources) apart from Bank financing
available for such a portfolio.

Direct Bank engagement with small and medium-sized municipalities still requires strong
consideration of issues such as the nature and readiness of the institutional arrangement at entry.
In the case of Rio Grande, for example, it is important to take into consideration the city’s port,
important not only for south Brazil, but also for Uruguay and Argentina. On one hand, the
placement of the port and the resulting population influx strengthen the demand for infrastructure;
on the other, in the case of new operations in Rio Grande, focus would shift to logistical aspects
such as those under Component 2, and private sector participation and capacity building on a
larger scale in order to support port activities.

Given the above, relevance of Project objectives, design and implementation is rated Modest.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Modest

In terms of the PDOIs, in Rio Grande: (i) Only 1 out of 3 PDOIs was fully achieved (PDOI # 1,
municipal secretariats implementing improved processes); (ii) For PDOI # 2 (satisfaction with
infrastructure – paving and drainage works in key urban streets), since adequate quantitative
surveys were not conducted in Rio Grande (as in the cases of Pelotas or Santa Maria), there is no
accurate information to be reported against the official target; (iii) For PDOI #3 (overall number
of Project beneficiaries), the information is not fully reliable as it was not measured using the
same methodology used in the development of the target. The reported results (44,800 against a
target of 40,000) are a proxy, calculated based on the population living in the area influenced by
the Project’s works in the rehabilitation of urban roads. In terms of IOIs: (a) 3 out of 6 IOIs were


123
    Apart from being a historical site (the oldest city in Rio Grande do Sul), Rio Grande has the world’s
largest oceanic beach.
124
    Mobility, for instance, is a theme that has been at the center of attention and discussions held in Brazil in
the last two years. It was, for example, the object of extensive public demonstrations in mid-year 2013.

                                                      92
achieved 125; (b) 1 out of 6 IOIs was partially achieved 126; (c) 1 out of 6 IOIs was not achieved 127;
and (d) For one IOI, 128 there is no information available.

Due to limitations in M&E design/supervision and the level of confidence in the available
information, the above analysis is insufficient to reach definitive conclusions regarding the
achievement of the PDO. Thus, the complementary information available is aggregated below,
focusing on the outputs of each Component, and the potential links of these outputs with the
achievement of the PDO.

For Component 1, while the related PDOI has been achieved, the enhanced capacity of the
Borrower to more effectively and efficiently execute its programs and to implement and
mainstream the appraisal, fiduciary and environmental and social procedures of the PDMI was
not due to Project investments alone. This is because the volume of Project financing was
relatively small (US$ 0.47 M out of 11.54 total), equivalent to only 4% of total actual Project
costs, and investments were principally in acquisition of equipment and activities to support
Project management 129 (refer to Annex 2 for details). It is true that some secretariats directly
benefited from Program capacity-building. However, the already mentioned shortcomings in the
structure and performance of the UGP, coupled with the staff turnover, limited the internalization
of the learning acquired through the Project.

For Component 2, despite the relatively small Project investment (US$ 0.24 M in 11.54 total, 2%
of total Project costs), favorable results were achieved towards the specific objective of
strengthening the municipality’s capacity to generate employment and income opportunities.
Strategic and participative planning instruments for the Tourism cluster were created, including
the LED strategy for the municipality (PDES) 130, the Inventory of the Tourism Attractions 131, and
the Action Plan for the Development of the Tourism Sector 132 . These represent not only
guidelines for future plans, but were an important learning process for the municipality and other
participants.

Component 3 comprised the bulk of the investments (US$ 10.81 M in 11.54 total = 94%), and
expectations for its results in terms of contribution to PDO achievement were correspondingly
higher. The goal of road rehabilitation (paving and drainage) was fully achieved, with 27.9 km
rehabilitated. The Borrower’s Final Report refers to a qualitative survey conducted with overall
users of the streets and representatives of transportation companies (20 interviews) 133. While this
survey reported problems with the quality of the works, it also indicated (i) an overall


125
    IOI #1, on staff trained; IOI #4, on Action Plan for the Tourism sector prepared and adopted; and IOI #5,
on road rehabilitated.
126
    IOI #3, on LED prepared and adopted.
127
    IOI # 6, on communities with ownership rights recorded as a result of the Project.
128
    IOI # 2, on % of the work program completed.
129
    The only tool acquired to support planning and decision making was the satellite imagery.
130
    The plan drawn up by the council pointed out the priorities for the development planning, namely: (1)
urban instrumentalization; (2) importation and improvement of manpower; (3) training and support to
entrepreneurship; (4) improvement of the logistics system; (5) fishing industry; and (6) large tourism.
131
    The inventory includes the major tourist attractions and their location and characteristics, including
georeferencing.
132
    The Action Plan was based on a study to create a set of structured programs, including indicating the
priority actions to be developed in the years 2013-2015, and funding sources. The Plan also develops a
marketing strategy aimed at promoting tourism in the city.
133
    This survey is used only as a reference here, as the methodology employed was incomplete.

                                                    93
improvement in the quality of life of the population; (ii) reduced O&M costs for the vehicles /
buses, as well as more accurately estimate travel times; and (iii) overall satisfaction with drainage
and landscaping services. Additionally, the goal of regularization of tenancy for 3481 irregular
urban lots, which would have been an important social contribution, was not successfully
achieved.

All the above confirms the Modest rating proposed for efficacy.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Negligible

Insufficient information was available to conduct the Economic Analysis.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Based on the Project’s relevance (Modest), efficacy (Modest), and efficiency (Negligible), the
proposed overall outcome rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
For a summary of the results of the joint Stakeholders Workshop, conducted in November 2012,
see section 3.6 of the overall Program ICR, as well as Annex 6 for the abridged translation of the
final report.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

For further exposition on this topic, please refer to the Post-completion operation section.

Activities completion risk. No titles were issued up to the Project’s closing date or as of this ICR.
The completion of the land regularization services is fully dependent on political will and
prioritization of the effort by the municipality. The Municipality has experience in satisfactorily
conducting such services.

Risks that learning gained through Component 1 investments will not be internalized. Rio
Grande’s UGP is not formally established outside of the Project, as in the case of Pelotas. Apart
from the overall learning and training gained through Project implementation, there are no
substantial indications that this learning will be internalized in a more structured manner. In fact,
at the end of the Project, under a new government administration, staffing was dramatically
reduced in the areas that received the most professional support during the implementation
(engineering, for example).

Continuity and implementation aspects linked with planning tools developed under Component 2.
Risks were evaluated based on the following:

(i) PDES: While drafting the Plan, participants pointed out the need for a council of public and
private representatives to coordinate the diverse actions proposed by the Plan, and created a
Council for Sustainable Economic Development. Risks for Plan implementation are associated
with the change of management and the municipal administration. However, the Council, which
includes members with mandates independent of the municipal administration, can contribute to

                                                 94
the continuance of the Plan as an effective instrument for local planning. The Plan should not be a
rigid element, but a tool that can mold itself to respond to changing scenarios and situations. The
experience of the members of the Council should assist in perceiving this need for flexibility and
making the necessary changes.

(ii) Inventory and Action Plan for Tourism: Like the PDES, this instrument was developed
through a widely participatory process. Despite the major change in municipal administration in
2013, a significant part of the strategies and programs created by the Plan should be preserved
and remain independent of actions by the municipal administration. Information provided by the
Borrower indicates that many of the actions and/or projects suggested by the Plan have been
adopted or are under implementation. Also, two Decrees were enacted – Decree N. 12.108, from
May 2013, which creates and nominates members of a Permanent Commission for the
Development of the Tourism Sector; and Decree N. 12.150, from June 2013, which includes
additional members. However, it is possible that the new Municipal administration, which came
into power towards the end of Project implementation, will have different priorities that will limit
utilization and/or implementation of Plan recommendations. This may limit the Plan’s impact to
some degree.

Sustainability of O&M of Component 3 investments. As discussed in section 2.5 of this ICR, risks
exist but are not considered to be serious given the municipality’s adequate level of O&M
capacity and resources.

Based on the above, especially the fact that the land regularization initiative is still not concluded,
Risk to Development Outcome for the Rio Grande Project is considered Significant.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance is assessed only for the overall Program. Performance is assessed as
Moderately Satisfactory at Entry and Moderately Satisfactory at Supervision, and Moderately
Satisfactory overall. For details, see Section 5 of the PDMI Program ICR.

5.1 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Rio Grande led the efforts to launch the PDMI Program in 2003/2004. However, political
turnover in 2004 (early in the identification and preparation phases) and again at the end of 2012
(near the closing date) affected implementation. Both led to a consequent weakening in
government ownership of the Project.

PIU staffing by the Municipal government was highly delayed. As implementation progressed,
the Government had difficulties prioritizing Project activities over other ongoing programs, such
as PAC. This caused delays which undoubtedly impacted Project implementation, substantially
shortening the implementation period and complicating the execution of Project activities.

Despite the above shortcomings, there were no compliance issues. The counterpart contribution
was appropriately allocated. Also, during the 2012-2013 political transition period, the new
administration maintained commitment to the Project and dialogue with the Bank, consistently
responding to Bank requests for information to support development of the ICR.



                                                  95
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

In Rio Grande, the implementing agency was the UGP, an autonomous structure linked to the
Mayor’s Office. Although UGP was committed and had a good relationship with the Bank and
other stakeholders and partners throughout the Project, its performance was marked by limited
institutional capacity and understaffing. Safeguards, FM, Project management, and procurement
were overall conducted moderately satisfactorily (however, procurement was especially
challenging in Project’s early stages). Two aspects in particular led to significant shortcomings:
(i) the UGP’s limited performance in conducting M&E and reporting; and (ii) diminished
implementation performance towards the end of the Project, which clearly affected final results.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Based on the ratings for Government performance (Moderately Unsatisfactory) and Implementing
Agency performance (Moderately Unsatisfactory), the proposed rating for Borrower performance
is Moderately Unsatisfactory.




                                               96
                      Appendix 5. Specific Data Sheet and ICR for the
                        SANTA MARIA MUNICIPAL PROJECT
                           (Santa Maria 2020, IBRD 7648-BR)

                                                                          Santa Maria - Rio
                                                                          Grande do Sul
Country:                Brazil                  Project Name:             Integrated Municipal
                                                                          Development Program
                                                                          (APL)
Project ID:             P094199                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-76480
ICR Date:               06/30/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:                 STA MARIA
Original Total
                        USD 13.95M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 12.20M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 13.95M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Municipal Government of Santa Maria (Project Implementation Unit linked to the Municipal
Secretariat for Strategic Planning and Special Projects – PLANEPE)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/16/2006     Effectiveness:            04/01/2009        06/02/2010
Appraisal:            06/26/2007     Restructuring(s):                           12/13/2012
Approval:             12/23/2008     Mid-term Review:                            05/04/2011
                                     Closing:                  12/31/2012        12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Significant
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                        Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:




                                             97
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                          Yes                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General industry and trade sector                                       14                  15
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                   18                  4
Micro- and SME finance                                                  12                  0
Roads and highways                                                      41                  54
Sub-national government administration                                  15                  26



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                              27                  16
Municipal governance and institution building                           15                  13
Other urban development                                                 22                  52
Pollution management and environmental health                           18                  4
Rural services and infrastructure                                       19                  16

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                            At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Jorge Familiar Calderon              Pamela Cox
Country Director:            Deborah L. Wetzel                    John Briscoe
Sector Manager:              Anna Wellenstein                     Guang Zhe Chen
                                                                  Marcos T. Abicalil / Juliana
Project Team Leader:         Juliana Menezes Garrido Pereira
                                                                  Garrido (co-TTL)
ICR Team Leader:             Juliana Menezes Garrido Pereira
ICR Primary Author:          Emanuela Monteiro

                                                 98
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project development objective is to strengthen the capacity of Santa Maria to provide
selected infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                    Original Target                             Actual Value
                                     Values (from Formally Revised              Achieved at
   Indicator      Baseline Value
                                        approval         Target Values Completion or Target
                                      documents)                                    Years
                Improved municipal planning and management capacity through the preparation
Indicator 1 :
                and adoption of planning tools
                                                        Urban and Rural
                                                                            Urban Transport, IT
                                                       Transport, IT and
                                                                          and WSS Master Plans
Value                                                  WSS Master Plans
                                                                                  and Aero-
quantitative or          0                 -               and Aero-
                                                                              photogrammetric
Qualitative)                                            photogrammetric
                                                                                   Survey
                                                        Survey prepared
                                                                           prepared and adopted
                                                          and adopted
Date achieved       12/13/2012                            12/13/2012             12/31/2013
Comments
                TARGET SUBSTANTIALLY MET.
(incl. %
                The Rural Transport Plan was not prepared.
achievement)
                Beneficiaries from the income and employment generation project activities
Indicator 2 :
                surveyed have positive views on municipal business environment
                                                                            100% (Beneficiaries
                                                                           from the Microcredit
Value                                                                         Program); 90.5%
quantitative or          0                 -                  80%              (Beneficiaries /
Qualitative)                                                                    Artisans from
                                                                              capacity-building
                                                                                  activities)
Date achieved       12/13/2012                            12/13/2012             12/31/2013
Comments        TARGET SURPASSED
(incl. %        Results reported based on qualitative surveys (focal groups) conducted in March
achievement) 11, 2014. These surveys are part of the Borrower’s Final Report.
                Community members satisfied with improved urban infrastructure in areas of
Indicator 3 :
                intervention
Value
quantitative or          0                                    80%                   80.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved       12/13/2012                            12/13/2012             12/31/2013
Comments        TARGET MET
(incl. %        Results reported based on quantitative surveys conducted in February 23-27,
achievement) 2014, in the areas where works were completed. These surveys are part of the

                                              99
                Borrower’s Final Report. They also include information on the overall
                satisfaction of the population living in adjacent neighborhoods (77.7%), as well
                as disaggregated information on satisfaction with each work.
Indicator 4 :   Number of direct project beneficiaries
Value
quantitative or         0                   -               170,000              174,625
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/13/2012                             12/13/2012           12/31/2013
Comments        TARGET MET
(incl. %        174,625 is the estimated population of the neighborhoods targeted by the Project
achievement) with infrastructure service improvements (IBGE, 2013).

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                     Original Target                             Actual Value
                                      Values (from Formally Revised               Achieved at
   Indicator      Baseline Value
                                         approval        Target Values Completion or Target
                                       documents)                                    Years
Indicator 1 : Percentage of annual work program delivered on time
Value
(quantitative            0                100%                   -                    91%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved       11/26/2008          11/26/2008                                12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        TARGET SUBSTANTIALLY MET
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Microfinance strategy prepared and adopted
Value                                                     Microfinance
                                                                             Microfinance strategy
(quantitative            0                   -          strategy prepared
                                                                             prepared and adopted
or Qualitative)                                            and adopted
Date achieved       12/13/2012                             12/13/2012             12/31/2013
                TARGET MET
Comments        The Project provided consulting services to support an existing entity in charge
(incl. %        of microcredit. The proposed methodology was adopted and the entity (ICC,
achievement) further denominated Imembuí Microfinanças) went through an institutional
                reform. The overall microcredit policy was recognized to be strengthened.
Indicator 3 : Participants of job training programs
Value
(quantitative            0                 500                  50                     25
or Qualitative)
Date achieved       11/26/2008          11/26/2008         12/13/2012             12/31/2013
                TARGET NOT MET
Comments
                The proposed target was not formally met. However, it is important to note that
(incl. %
                during the Project, the Municipality decided to target the artisanal embroidery
achievement)
                segment, for which 25 was the entire selected population.
Indicator 4 : Community center (Clube 21) implemented
Value                                                  100% of Clube 21        99% of the works
(quantitative            0                             works completed;           completed;
or Qualitative)                                              Clube 21          Management Plan

                                              100
                                                          operational     prepared, but Clube 21
                                                                            not operational yet
Date achieved    12/13/2012                               12/13/2012            12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %      TARGET PARTIALLY MET
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Technology Park implemented
                                                                             100% of TP works
Value                                                    100% of TP works
                                                                               completed (in
(quantitative              -          Park Completed       completed; TP
                                                                            12/13/2013); TP not
or Qualitative)                                              operational
                                                                            yet fully operational
Date achieved        11/26/2008         11/26/2008           12/13/2012          12/31/2013
                TARGET SUBSTANTIALLY MET
                The indicator is recognized to have been substantially met, because of the
Comments        following complementary activities, all completed: (i) Innovation law enacted;
(incl. %        (ii) Strategic Plan developed; (iii) Science and Technology Council established;
achievement) (iv) 11 firms already selected; and (v) 3 firms already installed in the Park. As
                per information provided by the Borrower during the preparation of the ICR, it is
                supposed to be operational by the end of June/2014.
Indicator 6 : Roads constructed
Value
(quantitative              0                 -                 8.5km               3.81km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved        12/13/2012                              12/13/2012          12/31/2013
                TARGET NOT MET
                The achievement of the target was not possible due to incomplete counterpart
Comments        financed works in Km3 neighborhood. Paving and drainage works were
(incl. %        estimated to have directly benefited 73,930 people, and were conducted in the
achievement) following streets and avenues: Agostinho Sangoi (0.882Km); Tunel da Rio
                Branco (0.24Km); Joao Machado Soares (2.28Km); and Largo da Rodoviaria
                (0.407Km).
Indicator 7 : Roads rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative              0                                   3.4km                3.4km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved        12/13/2012                              12/13/2012          12/31/2013
                TARGET MET
Comments
                Paving works were estimated to have directly benefited 59,492 people, and were
(incl. %
                conducted in the following streets and avenues: Av. Liberdade (2.131 km); and
achievement)
                Av. Helvio Basso (1.273 km).
                People in urban areas provided with access to improved sanitation under the
Indicator 8 :
                project
Value
(quantitative              0                 -                  1300                   0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved        12/13/2012                              12/13/2012          12/31/2013
Comments        TARGET NOT MET
(incl. %        The counterpart financed integrated urban upgrading and WSS works in Km 3


                                              101
achievement)    neighborhood were not completed at the closing date of the Project.
                Public parks in urban areas implemented and management plans developed and
Indicator 9 :
                adopted
                                                       54,831 m2 of parks 38,813 m2 of parks
Value                                                    implemented; 2 implemented (Jockey
(quantitative            0                              management plans          Club Park); 2
or Qualitative)                                           developed and        management plans
                                                              adopted              developed
Date achieved       12/13/2012                              12/13/2012             12/31/2013
                TARGET PARTIALLY MET
                The achievement of the target was not possible because the Municipality did not
                successfully and timely conduct the bidding process for the construction of
Comments        Pallotino Park. Also, the Management Plans that were developed (for the
(incl. %        Pallotino and the Dos Morros Parks) have not yet been adopted. Jockey Park,
achievement) however, is estimated to have directly benefited 27,000 people. Results reported
                based on quantitative surveys conducted in February 23-27, 2014 include
                information on the overall satisfaction of the population living in the Park area
                (70%).

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
                                 Not applicable
  1                                                                                       0.00
                                 Not applicable
  2                                                                                       0.00
  3     04/15/2009            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.00
  4     11/23/2009            Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.00
  5     04/29/2010      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  0.00
                                                       Moderately
   6     02/21/2011 Moderately Unatisfactory                                             0.035
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately               Moderately
   7     07/20/2011                                                                      0.035
                            Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately               Moderately
   8     04/29/2012                                                                      1.53
                            Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory
   9     11/18/2012     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  4.22
  10     07/10/2013           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       9.81
  11     01/19/2014     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 11.99*
(*) Additional disbursements were made up to the end of the grace period of the loan, amounting
for a total of USD 12.20 million.




                                              102
H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     (i) Adjustments to the scope of
                                                     Project activities due to
                                                     exchange rate fluctuations; the
                                                     increase in construction costs;
                                                     and the delays between Project
                                                     appraisal, approval and
                                                     implementation launch; and the
                                                     transition of municipal
                                                     administration; (ii) Revisions to
                                                     the Project’s results framework
                                                     to reflect the adjustments /
                                                     reductions in scope of the
                                                     Project; (iii) Streamlining of
                                                     indicators to better monitor and
                                                     capture Project impacts, align
 12/13/2012       N       MS     MS           4.22
                                                     with indicators from the other
                                                     individual Projects, and
                                                     incorporate core indicators;
                                                     (iv) Reduction in counterpart
                                                     funding; (v) Reallocation of
                                                     loan proceeds between
                                                     expenditure categories; (vi)
                                                     Transfer of the coordination of
                                                     the Project from the General
                                                     Secretariat to the Secretariat for
                                                     Strategic Planning and Special
                                                     Projects (PLANEPE);
                                                     (vii) Extension of closing date
                                                     of 12 months, until December
                                                     31, 2013.




                                         103
SPECIFIC ICR FOR SANTA MARIA MUNICIPAL PROJECT

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Santa Maria Project (Santa Maria 2020) was the last of the PDMI Projects to be signed and
become effective. It was approved by the Board on December 23, 2008 in the amount of
US$13,950,000, the Loan Agreement was signed on March 04, 2010, and the Project became
effective on June 02, 2010. At the time of the MTR (mid-2011), all Project activities were still in
preparation and no funds had been disbursed.

The Santa Maria Project passed through a Level II Restructuring process at the end of 2012 which
sought, among other goals, to compensate for the accumulated delays. Unique among the PDMI
Projects, Santa Maria was granted a 12 month extension in the implementation period, time
essential to reposition the Project within the ambit of municipal priorities and conduct
implementation. The Project closed on December 31, 2013, after disbursing 87% of the loan
resources. Despite the fact that not all of the planned activities were concluded, significant results
were achieved.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Santa Maria is located in the central region of the state of Rio Grande do Sul. Its population had
grown steadily since the 1970s and at appraisal had reached 257,938 inhabitants, 96% of whom
lived in urban areas (FEE, 2004). Population density of the municipality was 144 inhabitants per
Km2.

Through participation in PDMI, Santa Maria sought to improve its economic indicators,
especially through private sector strengthening. Municipal GDP had reached US$ 757.6 million
and the per capita income US$ 3,030, about half of the state average (US$ 6,054). More than 70%
of municipal GDP related to service, a significant part (31%) of which corresponded to public
sector activities (universities, military, municipal and state agencies). Agriculture and industry
made up for 6.7% and 22.6% of municipal GDP, respectively. Industrial activities were mainly in
low-value added sectors, such as food processing, and wood furniture. Unemployment rate was
nearly 14%. Nearly 15.6% of municipal population was considered poor, compared to the 11.3%
of the state capital, Porto Alegre.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Original PDO. The PDO was to strengthen the capacity of Santa Maria to provide selected
infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population.

Key original indicators. The original results framework contained five PDOIs for Santa Maria.
These are, for Improved Municipal Management Capacity: (i) Institutionalization of improved
sub-project appraisal, fiduciary, social and environmental management processes in the municipal
government of Santa Maria; for Increased Local Economic Development Opportunities, (i)
Increased local business satisfaction with municipal business environment, and (ii) Increased
revenues and sales volumes of supported businesses; and for Improved Infrastructure Service, (i)
Reduction in travel times in urban center and rural areas of Santa Maria, and (ii) Improved quality
of life of people being resettled from environmentally risky and protected areas.




                                                104
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. Indicators were revised to better fit the municipality’s monitoring and
reporting capabilities, and to better reflect the reduction in the scope and the expected impact of
the Project activities 134 . The proposed adjustment also took into consideration the need to
streamline indicators for the PDMI, and allow for aggregated results across the Program 135. (see
Section 1.6 below).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PAD estimate for Project beneficiaries was the population of Santa Maria at appraisal –
258,000 individuals. This estimate was updated to 170,000 in the Restructuring Paper, and the
final estimate for direct beneficiaries is 174,625 (the estimated population of Santa Maria living
in the areas / neighborhoods targeted by the Project’s infrastructure interventions (IBGE, 2013).

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Municipal Strengthening. This component sought to improve the municipality’s
capacity to more effectively and efficiently execute projects, with a focus on fiduciary,
environmental and social aspects, and improve the quality and efficiency of public services
provided by the municipal government. Included (i) Public Service Modernization, and (ii)
Project Management.

Component 2: Income and Employment Generation. The Project sought to improve the
municipality’s capacity to generate employment and income through carrying out of activities to
promote entrepreneurship in the educational establishments in Santa Maria; improve recycling
and solid waste management as an income generating activity; implement a technological park
and improving a Business Innovation Incubator to support business development and research
and development. Included (i) Promotion of Work and Income Alternatives, and (ii) Innovation
and Technological Modernization.

Component 3: Infrastructure Services Improvements. The project planned to carry out activities
aimed to improve urban streets and rural roads; to environmentally rehabilitate key water bodies
through improving water, sanitation, drainage and paving; and to improve the quality of life of
households living in these areas. Included (i) Rehabilitation of urban road infrastructure and
Landscaping, (ii) Rehabilitation of Rural Roads, and (iii) Environmental Rehabilitation.




134
    For instance, the original indicator on “Rehabilitation of environmental protected areas” was dropped, as
there was no baseline or monitoring methodology available. An indicator on “Community members
satisfied with improved urban infrastructure in areas of intervention” was introduced in lieu of the original
“Community members satisfied with urban transport”, as it did not relate to the Project’s inputs.
135
    The original indicator on “Municipal secretariats implementing improved project implementation
processes” was replaced by the one on “Improved municipal planning and management capacity through
the preparation and adoption of planning tools”. Similarly, and as done in the Project restructurings for the
other municipalities, the core sector PDOI on the “Number of direct project beneficiaries” was introduced.

                                                    105
1.6 Revised Components

Scope tightening: There was substantial alteration of the originally proposed Project activities,
under all Components, including: the dropping of the acquisition of IT equipment; the dropping
of the expansion of educational facilities, courses and seminars to promote entrepreneurship; the
dropping of the provision of TA and equipment to support the solid waste collectors cluster;
overall reductions in the urban road improvements; the exclusion of the rehabilitation of rural
roads and bridges, as well as of the activities related to the construction of resettlement housing
and infrastructure improvements in the Cancela stream.

New activities: To compensate the previous reductions, new activities were included, such as: a
WSS, Drainage and Solid Waste Master Plan (PLAMSAB), an Aero-photogrammetric Survey,
and a Master Plan for IT (PDI); the preparation of a Strategy to promote microcredit, capacity
building, and set up of a Multipurpose Community Center; the implementation of two urban
parks, and the preparation of environmental management plans for conservation areas.

For a more analytical opinion on the importance and impacts of the proposed Project
restructuring, refer to the below section 2.2.

1.7 Other significant changes

Revised Project costs. Due to delays between Project appraisal, approval and implementation
launch (with a corresponding reduced implementation timeline); and to changes in municipal
priorities after a political transition, total Project funding decreased from US$ 23.25 to 21.03
million. Bank financing remained constant while counterpart funding decreased from US$ 9.30 to
7.08 million.

Reallocation of funds between loan categories. In line with the revised scope and total Project
costs above, loan proceeds were reallocated between expenditure categories.

Transfer of the coordination of the Project. The UGP was transferred from the General
Secretariat to the Secretariat for Strategic Planning and Special Projects (PLANEPE).

Extension of closing date. Extended for 12 months, to December 31, 2013.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
See Section 2.1 of the PDMI Program ICR.

2.2 Implementation

Major initial delays between Project appraisal, approval and implementation impacted the
implementation period. The long intervening period between Project approval by the Board in
December 2008, signing of the Loan Agreement in March 2010, and effectiveness in June 2010
left the Project with a total implementation period of only three and a half years. During this
interval some of the planned Project activities were undertaken with other funding sources, so the




                                               106
expected results were not majorly impacted. 136 However, the delays led to a short, challenging
implementation period, which limited the full achievement of the PDO (as explained in section
3.2 of this ICR, Assessment of Outcomes). The impacts were, among others:

      (i)     The hurry to prepare, and consequent lack of quality, of TORs for consultancy
              services and of detailed engineering designs for the main Project works ;
      (ii)    The need to tighten the Project scope (refer to Section 1.6);
      (iii)   The lack of punctuality in Bank responses to Borrower requests for non-objections
              (NOs) between the end of 2011 and the first quarter of 2012, due to the concentrated
              demands for technical analysis and NOs;
      (iv)    The efficiency of the bidding processes and contract management due to poor quality
              bid packages. Some of these bidding processes – for example the consultant services
              for the drafting of a Rural Mobility Plan – were not successful due to the major
              discrepancy between the reference budget created by the Prefecture and the actual
              prices submitted by the firms. Similarly, due to the lack of detail in some of the
              engineering designs, many of the works contracts required corrective amendments
              during execution.

The complex nature of some Project Components and activities. The Santa Maria Project had
perhaps the highest concentration of high-complexity activities of the PDMI municipalities,
which required a level of accompaniment and technical knowledge that was not always available
within the UGP team or the Prefecture overall. These include the plans developed under
Component 1 (PLAMSAB, PDMU, and Aerophotogrametric Survey), as well as the activities to
support entrepreneurship under Component 2, which additionally demanded a significant level of
coordination between the UGP and the other participants, stakeholders, and external partners
(Microbusinesses, Technoparque, etc.). Due to this, substantial time and effort on the part of the
UGP and the Bank task team itself were required by the project.

Political turnover. The initial delays were strongly related with the change of municipal
administration which took place in 2008. The Municipal Government which prepared the Project
with the Bank in the 2005-2008 period was different from that which took office in the following
years (2009-2012), during Project implementation. This change to an extent explains (i) the delay
in the administrative process for signing and effectiveness of the LA due to the lack of initial
prioritization of the loan by the municipal administration; and (ii) the subsequent delay in
initiating Project actions. It took the new administration up to the May 2011 MTR mission, when
the Project scope was discussed during the preparation of the restructuring process, to fully get
onboard with the Project, becoming comfortable with the Project design and its fit within the
administration’s priorities.

Format and structure of the UGP. Santa Maria’s UGP was linked with the Municipal Planning
Secretariat (PLANEPE). The UGP did not have a large staff, but it was well-connected with other
sectors of the Prefecture, including areas responsible for works supervision and for the
development of detailed engineering designs (Escritório da Cidade) in, which positively
impacted Project implementation. While Santa Maria was working for the first time with external
financing organizations, it benefited from the previous experiences of the remainder of the PDMI
municipalities, and its learning curve was standard given the characteristic limitations of the


136
   This was the case with activities for “income generation through the improvement of recycling and solid
waste management” and the “improvement of the Business Innovation Incubator”, the latter supported by
the Federal University of Santa Maria.

                                                  107
PDMI Program overall.

The main differentiating factors for the positive performance of Santa Maria were (i) the direct
linkage between the UGP/PLANEPE and the Mayor’s Cabinet, as well as the priority eventually
given to the Project – especially during the 2011-2013 period; and (ii) the Project’s management
model, with a Project Manager position fully dedicated to Project coordination. As a result, the
Project had simultaneously the necessary centralization and the capacity for intergovernmental
interaction for adequate distribution of tasks and responsibility.

Project restructuring. The Level II restructuring process was successful. Beyond the benefits
experienced by all the PDMI Projects – including adjustments to and standardization of the
Results Framework, scope tightening (refer to section 1.6), and redefinition/reduction of the
municipal counterpart contributions – Santa Maria’s experience in particular was marked by:

      (i)     It is an example, on the part of the Bank, of flexibility and capacity to adaptat to the
              priorities of the municipal administration. 137 This was the preponderant factor in
              guaranteeing the implementation of the Project, especially given the circumstances of
              initial political turnover;
      (ii)    The expanded scope of Component 1 increased the potential impact of the Project on
              the institutional development of the municipality (refer to section 1.6);
      (iii)   Scope changes under Component 2 reflected a change of approach by the
              administration: instead of supporting actions aimed at promoting employment and
              income through education, as originally planned, the municipality opted to more
              directly stimulate the private sector, with introduction of activities support solidarity
              microcredit and the craft sector;
      (iv)    Changes in Component 3 reduced the scope of the Project. Activities excluded were
              the rehabilitation of rural roads, a decrease in the total amount of roads to be
              rehabilitated, and activities under the environmental rehabilitation subcomponent.
              Care was taken to maintain the significant Project impacts, including, for example,
              the improvement of connectivity in the Eixo Norte-Sul 138;
      (v)     The 12-month extension of the Project closing date (until December 31, 2013)
              allowed time to overcome the initial implementation delays.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design and implementation. The original Santa Maria PDOIs were few, and appropriately
reflected the main impacts intended through the originally proposed activities. The revision of
these indicators during the restructuring process was due to the change in scope alterations of the
Project. An indicator was added to measure improvements in capacity to plan and manage the
municipality, as well as one to reflect the major results of Component 2 and 3, through
satisfaction surveys to beneficiaries.

Like the PDOIs, the IOIs were defined from conception as few and simple indicators to
accompany and monitor implementation of each component. Nonetheless, M&E did not prove to
be an effective instrument during implementation. The Bank failed to correctly evaluate, at entry


137
    This issue was observed and recorded by the Borrower on several occasions during the preparation of
the Santa Maria Project May 2014 Final Evaluation Report.
138
    These works are intended to solve a historical problem of connectivity between two of the densest areas
of the city (North and South).

                                                   108
and during implementation, the lack of M&E culture on the part of the Borrower, as well as their
limited technical and institutional capacity to carry out monitoring. Although capacity-building
workshops (during Project preparation) were carried out and the Task Team provided guidance as
part of regular Project supervision 139 , these proved insufficient. A more structured capacity-
building or technical assistance for M&E during implementation would have been helpful.

Overall performance of Santa Maria in conducting M&E. Despite the above challenges, Santa
Maria worked well within its capacity for M&E. The following tasks were completed by Santa
Maria: (i) Bi-annual progress reports, despite delays and/or moderate shortcomings, were
appropriately delivered; (ii) Contracting and supervising the consulting services for the
development of its Independent Project Evaluation, as well as for the Program’s overall
Consolidated Evaluation; (iii) Conducting of an internal evaluation workshop, as well as
qualitative and quantitative surveys, which provide reliable information on the Project’s results;
and (iv) Participation in the joint Stakeholder Evaluation Workshop (conducted in November
2012), and actively contributed during the ICR discussion process held through April 2014.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Aspects. 140 Santa Maria has correctly conducted the social and environmental
safeguards procedures for the Project, including the preparation of a Simplified Involuntary
Resettlement Plan. However, due to delays in the environmental improvements of the Km 3
neighborhoods (financed through counterpart PAC investments) relocation of 4 families was still
pending at Project closing. Given the above, Santa Maria’s compliance with safeguards was rated
Moderately Unsatisfactory at Project closing. The actions still in progress in Santa Maria will
demand continued supervision on the part of UGP staff to ensure compliance with the simplified
Resettlement Plan.

On the part of the Bank, continued accompaniment will also be necessary. During the April 2014
Post-closing mission, it was agreed that the UGP would update an action plan and send frequent
reports to the Bank on its progress until its effective completion. The second of these reports was
sent May 2, 2014 and the resettlement is scheduled to be completed by September 2014.

Financial Management (FM). The FM arrangements in Santa Maria were overall Satisfactory
throughout the life of the Project. The implementing agency addressed most of the shortcomings
identified during financial management supervision missions, showing a clear and progressive
improvement within the FM arrangements whenever any issue was present, allowing timely and
reliable provision of information required to manage and monitor the implementation of the
project: (i) budget was realistic and was properly executed, (ii) staff were trained on Bank's
processes, (iii) efficient internal control processes were in place, (iv) Financial Management
Information Systems (FMIS) were in place, with timely submission of IFRs, and (v) external
audit reports with an unqualified opinions were issued by auditors.

Procurement. While the UGP itself was fairly capable and well-staffed, having internally
overcome initial difficulties in dealing with Bank’s culture and procedures, Santa Maria faced the
very particular challenge of convincing other areas of the Prefecture—in particular the finance,
engineering and legal teams and the Bidding Commission—that there was no conflict between


139
    In various aide-memoirs, there is mention of discussions on the format, frequency, content and
importance of progress reports. There are also records of technical discussions on indicators.
140
    Details are in Section 2.4 of the Overall Program ICR.

                                               109
the guidelines and procedures of the Bank and the National and State specific guidelines 141 .
Additionally, the UGP experienced particular difficulties in the development of cost estimates
and the evaluation of proposals vis-à-vis the Bank approach to the procurement of works. Both of
these interfered with Project implementation, many times lengthening internal processing and
requiring the frequent participation of the Bank in clarifying, and in some cases invalidating bids.

Other previously-mentioned aspects include: (i) the delay in project startup had implications on
the technical quality of the procurement-related documents, as well as on the Bank’s capacity for
timely response; and (ii) the fact that the contracts – especially works– had to undergo various
amendments, reflecting the inadequately detailed designs.

None of the above issues constituted misconduct or lack of compliance.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Activities pending completion & Safeguards follow up. Refer to section 2.4.

Technical and institutional provisions & Project Management Unit. Towards the end of the
Project’s implementation period, the Prefecture of Santa Maria underwent an important
administrative reform: the old Office of the City (Escritório da Cidade) was converted to a
Planning Institute (Instituto do Planejamento) to integrate research and planning, while the
Secretariat of Urban Development took over leadership of executive issues including bidding,
works, works supervision, and project analysis. This change led to more efficient municipal
management, contributing to diminished risks to the continuity and sustainability of the results of
Project.

The UGP is not expected to remain active after Project closing, though the Prefecture has taken
steps to help assure Project sustainability. Part of the UGP staff has been or will be reappointed to
other key areas for the Prefecture, including the Planning Institute. Key activities and actions
requiring specific arrangements for management and operation were assigned to the relevant
municipal sector (e.g. Jockey Park will be managed by the Secretary of Sports and Leisure).

O&M. Section 4 of this ICR presents detailed info on applicable post-completion aspects related
to O&M of the investments supported by the Project.

Budget provisions and other means of continuing and/or sustaining the Project’s results. The
pending counterpart investments in the Km3 neighborhood are already contracted through PAC.
According to the information provided by the UGP during the April 2014 mission, physical
progress of the work was as follows: 71% of the drainage services were concluded; 42% of the
paving services were concluded; 16% of the water network services were concluded; and 13% of
the services for the sanitation network were concluded.

The Prefecture has demonstrated their commitment to the conclusion and continuation of the
post-closing Project actions, a fact confirmed by their provision of supplementary (extra-
counterpart) resources of R$ 473 thousands, dedicated to: (i) equipment for the operations room


141
   Reluctance and questioning was frequent regarding perceived disconnects between the bidding and
contracting rules of the Bank and those of the Brazilian national government (Lei 8666-93) and the
recommendations of the internal audit tribunals of the state (Tribunal de Contas do Estado – TCE / RS) and
the country (Tribunal de Contas da União –TCU e Controladoria Geral da União – CGU).

                                                  110
of the Prefecture, which was only partially financed by loan resources; (ii) the development of a
Final Evaluation Report for the Project and the Program; and (iii) the reform of the Community
Center/ Clube 21.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Modest

Project investments aimed to: (i) strengthen capacity of the Prefecture in planning, decision-
making, obtaining financial resources, and the execution of management, water, sanitation, and
mobility actions; (ii) generate job and income opportunities (by fostering innovation through, for
example, the Parque Tecnológico and the Microcredit program); (iii) improve urban mobility
(including the connection between the North and South parts of the city); and (iv) promote
environmental preservation, improve socio-economic integration, and improve quality of life in
low-income communities. These investments remain priorities of the Municipality 142 , as the
Borrower affirmed during ICR discussions. As described in section 3.1 of the overall PDMI ICR,
the design of the Project also shows a close fit with Brazil’s national priorities in terms of
supporting municipal infrastructure.

The proposed Modest rating is due to: (i) a weaker link with the priorities defined for World Bank
engagement under the current CPS; (ii) reduced relevance and efficiency of Project
implementation due to the failure to achieve Program-wide institutional arrangements or
transformational impact; (iii) the substantial implementation support needed from the Bank; and
(iv) the variety of funding options (including national sources) apart from Bank financing
available for such a portfolio.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

The PDO was to strengthen the capacity of Santa Maria municipality to provide selected
infrastructure services and employment opportunities for its population. 3 out of 4 PDOIs were
fully achieved: PDOI # 2, on satisfaction with the results of Component 2; PDOI #3, on
satisfaction with the results of Component 3; and PDOI #4, on the direct number of Project
beneficiaries. PDOI # 1 (related to Component 1) on planning instruments prepared and adopted
by the Municipality was substantially achieved. With regard to the IOIs, 4 out of 9 IOIs were
achieved, 2 of which were substantially achieved; 2 out of 9 IOIs were partially achieved; and 3
out of 9 IOIs were not achieved.

Santa Maria presented reliable quantitative and qualitative information as part of their Final
Project Evaluation Report, which was an important input for this analysis. This included: (i) a
sample survey with the beneficiaries of infrastructure actions 143 ; (ii) focus groups, in-depth
interviews, and a workshop conducted with indirect and direct beneficiaries, managers, involved
staff, and suppliers.


142
    Mobility, for instance, is a theme that has been at the center of attention and discussions held in Brazil in
the last two years. It was, for example, the object of extensive public demonstrations in mid-year 2013.
143
    The sample is statistically significant, as 384 interviews were conducted with Santa Maria residents (of
over 18 years of age). The sample was calculated with the population of the municipality as a base, with a
level of confidence of 95% with a 5% plus or minus margin of error.

                                                      111
The sample survey demonstrates the achievement of the goals in terms of satisfaction with regard
to Component 3. Focus groups with the beneficiaries of Component 2 actions—the Microcredit
program and the Capacity-building and Technical Assistance in the artisanal sector—indicate a
level of satisfaction of 100% and 90.5%, respectively. With regard to the qualitative evaluation
(responses on a scale of 1 to 5) conducted with the staff and managers on the Project results, the
Project overall received an average of 3.85 points, very close to “good or satisfactory” (4); the
components themselves received an average of 3.90 for Institutional Development, 3.66 for
Generation of Work and Income, and 4.0 for Infrastructure Improvements.

Component 1 investments amounted to US$ 1.69 million (almost 10% of the total spent through
Project completion), and were fully financed by the Bank. Two aspects distinguish the Santa
Maria Project from the majority of the other PDMI Projects with respect to Component 1: (i) the
majority of funding was allocated to actual investments rather than Project management; and (ii)
Four strategic planning instruments were prepared to directly target municipal management
capacity and directly linked with the remaining portfolio of Project actions (notably the
infrastructure improvements under Component 3). These instruments included the Urban
Transport / Mobility Master Plan (PDMU) and the Integrated WSS, Drainage and Solid Waste
Management Master Plan (PLAMSAB). These plans have already begun to show positive short
and medium-term impacts on the quality and efficiency of public services provided by the
Municipal Government. The directives of PDMU, for instance, have already been applied to
guide the preparation of the bidding process for the renewal of the Santa Maria public
transportation concession. PLAMSAB (though not yet passed as a Municipal Law) provided
financial information on CORSAN’s revenues that will be fundamental in guiding the
municipality through upcoming negotiations on the renewal of the WSS concession.

Apart from the contributions made by UFSM and the private sector (in both the Technology Park
and the Microcredit Program), Component 2 was fully financed by the Bank, with a total
investment of US$ 2.58 million (14.5% of the actual Project investments), the major part of
which (95%) allocated to construction of the Technology Park campus and the rehabilitation of
the Clube 21 Community Center. An important part of Component 2’s contribution to the
achievement of the PDO is linked with the opportunity which it gave to the Municipality, through
the pilot experiences supported by the Project (some of low cost, such as the support to the
Microcredit Program 144 and the embroidery-sector artisans), to deepen the public-private
partnerships, in order to widen the capacity for entrepreneurship and the augment the income of
the population 145.

Finally, Component 3, financed by the Bank and counterpart funding, constitutes the bulk of
Project investments (US$13.47 million, 76% of the total), and was targeted at strengthening the
capacity of the Borrower to provide selected infrastructure services. There were some
shortcomings, including:



144
    The Project earmarked a small investment (BRL 93,700) for hiring consultants to develop a methodology
to be applied by the ICC/Imembuí. The loan institution nevertheless strengthened its management structure
and completed 82 solidarity microcredit transactions. Overall, given the results of the sampling survey
conducted, the initiative was successful as an exercise in social inclusion. The default rate in repayment of
micro credits was reduced to near zero; restrictions were lifted on further credit for existing borrowers; and
some microbusinesses showed improvement and expanded their activities. The abovementioned survey
indicated 100% satisfaction by the beneficiaries.
145
    For more on Component 2, refer to Annex 2 (Outputs by Component).

                                                    112
       (i)     The Borrower was unsuccessful in implementing some activities, such as Palloti Park
               and the widening of Rigoberto Duarte Street. Due to factors relating to
               implementation time and the failings of the bidding process, these activities were
               never initiated;
       (ii)    The actions relating to urban, social, and environmental improvements in the Km3
               area were not completed at the time of Project closing. This comprised the
               achievement of the goals relating to the construction and rehabilitation of roads and
               WSS provision.

However, by the end of the Project, (i) Jockey Park was implemented, with an area of 38,813 m2
and benefitting approximately 27,000 people; (ii) 7.2 Km of roads for urban mobility were
constructed and/or rehabilitated; and (iii) the Prefecture developed 2 management plans for the
city’s parks.

All the above confirms the Substantial rating proposed for efficacy.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial

The economic analysis of the Santa Maria Project was conducted considering the same
Component 3 activity (upgrading of public roads) analyzed during Appraisal. Actual costs of this
activity total US$ 10.59 million, 60% of the total project cost. The same approach/methodology
employed during Appraisal, the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM), was
used for this benefit-cost analysis for roads investments. The Component 2 activity considered at
Appraisal, construction of a Commercial Center, was not considered here as it was removed at
restructuring.

Overall Santa Maria Project Beneficiaries. The Santa Maria Project’s road upgrading activities
reached more beneficiaries than the Appraisal targets.

                             Table 10 – Projected versus actual beneficiaries
       Components                     Projected beneficiaries           Actual Beneficiaries 146
 Road upgrading                               257,938                          273,000

The upgrading of public roads investments were expected to rehabilitate and improve road
infrastructure and landscaping in the city, prioritizing the streets used by public transport and
non-motorized transport users. Road and infrastructure improvements were to include, inter alia,
traffic safety improvement, pedestrian facilities and landscaping. This would include activities
such as: paving/widening/rehabilitation, resealing, signaling, and lighting of 19 Km of urban
streets; construction, paving, sealing, and signaling of the tunnel in the Rio Branco Avenue and
its connection to the city’s road network; and rehabilitation, landscaping, extending, paving,
resealing, signaling and widening of about 800 meters of access roads to the intra-urban bus
terminal and neighborhood access streets. The expected benefits of these investments included:
improved transport services and access to the bus terminal; reduction of the number of urban
transit accidents and reduction in emission of pollutant gases.




146
      IBGE estimates for 2013 population.

                                                  113
The actual activities consisted of: (i) paving/widening/rehabilitation, resealing, drainage,
signaling, and lighting of 6.53km of urban streets; (ii) construction, paving, sealing, and signaling
of the tunnel in the Rio Branco Avenue and its connection to the city’s road network; and (iii)
rehabilitation, landscaping, extending, paving, resealing, signaling and widening of about 400
meters of access roads to the intra-urban bus terminal and neighborhood access streets.

The analysis of the actual investment cost per Km for road upgrading interventions shows per-
kilometer costs lower than the benchmark for similar interventions.

                       Table 11 – Comparison of Unit Costs per Intervention
   Intervention              Cost per Km                   Benchmark Cost per Km
  Road upgrading        2.44 (BRL million/Km)              2.45 147 (BRL million/Km)

On the basis of evaluation described and considering the data available, the evaluation showed
positive results for the EIRR (between 13% and 30%), with an average of 22.1%. This is slightly
lower than the 29.1% evaluated at appraisal, but still high for this type of intervention.
Unfortunately, the HDM method ex-ante and ex-post benchmarking was undermined by changes,
during implementation, of the roads selected for priority upgrading.

Positive results were confirmed by the sample surveys. An average of 80.4% satisfaction was
recorded for people living in or familiar with the intervention areas. A satisfaction rating of
98.1% was recorded for the Hélvio Basso Ave. works, one of the project’s largest investments.

The economic evaluation shows Substantial results achieved through the Santa Maria Project
investments, higher than originally expected.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Based on the Project’s relevance (Modest), efficacy (Substantial), and efficiency (Substantial),
the proposed overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
For a summary of the results of the joint Stakeholders Workshop, conducted in November 2012,
see section 3.6 of the overall Program ICR, as well as Annex 6.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

For further exposition on this topic, please refer to section 2.5 (Post-completion) of this ICR.

Risk that the knowledge acquired by the UGP will not be internalized by the Prefecture. This risk
is evaluated as low. Apart from the aspects mentioned under Section 2.5 of this ICR with regard
to staff redistribution, the Borrower’s Final Evaluation Report notes the interdisciplinary nature
of the Project as well as the systematic supervision adopted by the Bank as lessons they have


147
   National Association for Public Transportation (ANTP) – Information System on Urban Mobility –
2011 Report – launched in December/2012. General parameter for average cost for construction of urban
roads.

                                                 114
internalized and will replicate.

Risk that the directives and recommendations of the planning instruments will not be adopted.
This risk is considered between moderate and substantial: (i) PDI: The directives of the plan148
are being gradually adopted. However, continuity of the actions of this Plan is highly dependent
on the specific interests of the administration, and will thus be susceptible to political turnover;
(ii) Aero-photogrammetric survey: this is an objective input, and already in use by the urban
planning team of the Prefecture. It will serve as the basis for the creation of a multipurpose
cadaster, for which the contract is already underway. (iii) PLAMSAB: This is a complex plan, a
legal requirement for municipalities, which provides inputs for decision making on the part of the
Municipality in areas such as WSS services, drainage and solid waste. Its continued successful
implementation and full utilization, however, depends on participation and ownership on the part
of the community, approval as municipal law (still pending), and political will; (iv) PDMU: as
above, success will depend on political and community backing. Unlike the previous, however,
this plan was the subject of intense discussion and participation on the part of both the Prefecture
staff and the community at large.

Risk to the sustainability of results and O&M of Component 2 investments.

(i) Support to the artisanal embroidery segment: Actions in this sector were modest, including
studies, a business plan, a marketing plan, development of a brand, and capacity-building for 25
artisans. Another vulnerable point is the lack of an organization, such as an association or
cooperative, for mutual support in commercialization and other activities.
(ii) Clube 21: Investments in infrastructure were not accompanied, during implementation, by
adequate planning for management, operation, and maintenance. Thus, it remains unclear how the
linkages between the various municipal secretaries involved will cooperate to guarantee
maintenance. Although the idea of creation of a “Friends of the Club” Association should
contribute to shared governance of the center, clear rules regarding use, contribution of users and
supporters, and the financial sustainability of the center are lacking. The Prefecture is preparing a
management, operation and maintenance plan to guarantee the site’s resources and social control
by the community, and will be responsible for the acquisition of goods for the center.
(iii) Microcredit: the Project financed to the preparation of the methodology for solidary credit,
based on best practices for financing of formal and informal micro-entrepreneurs. In view of the
results achieved (refer to section 3.2), the sustainability of this action is likely, especially with the
inclusion of a new methodology to financially and institutionally strengthen ICC (the credit entity
supported by the Project).
(iv) Technology Park: Although the Park is not yet fully operational, there are strong indicators
for the sustainable good governance of the Park: (i) the Innovation law was enacted; (ii) a
Strategic Plan was developed; (iii) a Science and Technology Council was established; (iv) 11
firms have been selected for tenancy; and (v) 3 firms are already installed in the Park. As per
information provided by the Borrower during the preparation of the ICR, the Park will be
operational by the end of June 2014.

Risk to the sustainability of the results and O&M for Component 3 investments (Urban roads and
Parks). Aspects in the post-completion phase relate to the municipality’s ability and resources to
properly perform O&M for streets and Jockey Park. The Municipality is drafting O&M plans for
monitoring of the streets and has made investments in the acquisition of machinery to support


148
   Including organizational reform, career plans for the IT area, the manual for acquisition of IT
equipment; software standardization; and the norms for use of the internet.

                                                  115
maintenance. However, the question of Jockey Park remains, which will require not only O&M
but substantial further investments to conclude the second phase of the Park. The Prefecture is
drafting an O&M plan for the Park.

At the Workshop conducted in Santa Maria, quantitative evaluation of staff opinions on the
aspect of “Sustainability” showed an average rating of 2.61, between “unsatisfactory” (2) and
“more or less satisfactory (3). The component with the best score in terms of sustainability was
Component 3, Infrastructure Improvements, with 3.5 points, and the lowest was Component 1,
Institutional Development, with a score of 1.42.

Based on a weighted average 149 of the above, Risk to Development Outcome for the Santa Maria
Project is considered Significant.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance is assessed only for the overall Program. Performance is assessed as
Moderately Satisfactory at Entry, Moderately Satisfactory at Supervision, and Moderately
Satisfactory overall. For details, see Section 5 of the PDMI Program ICR.

5.2 Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The performance of the municipality of Santa Maria during Project implementation was divided
into two distinct phases. At the start, there was a lack of prioritization reflected in major initial
delays. However, after the Municipal Government reviewed the Project and the Project was
restructured in line with administration priorities, implementation effectively began. After this
point, marked by the mid-2011 MTR mission, the commitment and involvement of the
Government were noteworthy. Not only was there recognition and integration of the Project in
the agendas of the various municipal Secretariats, but the municipal leadership was directly
involved with the Project. This was evidenced by the high level dialogue with the Bank during
the actual implementation and completion periods.

There was, on the part of some sectors of the Prefecture (Finance and Procurement Commission,
for example), difficulties or reluctance to recognize the rules and directives of the Bank with
regard to procurement. However, these did not constitute lack of compliance but rather lack of
experience.

Finally, with respect to the counterpart allocation, although the Km 3 works were not concluded,
the PAC resources to do so have been assured and the Borrower is committed to completion of
the work, including post-closure reporting to the Bank.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In Santa Maria the implementing agency was the UGP, linked to the Municipal Secretariat for
Strategic Planning and Special Projects (PLANEPE). The capacity of the UGP was stronger than
those of the other PDMI municipalities. It was the commitment and good performance of the
UGP that allowed the much-improved progress on Project activities starting in mid-2011, as well



149
      Amounts invested, relevance of the supported activities, and specific results achieved were considered.

                                                      116
as the satisfactory management and execution of accumulated planning, bidding, contracting, and
contract supervision activities in a short period of time.

However, the UGP shares with the Government the above-mentioned shortcoming related to
difficulties in internalizing Bank’s specific guidelines and procedures. There were also moderate
shortcomings during the last year of implementation related to flawed engineering designs and
difficulties in supervision of consultant contracts (refer to Section 2.2).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

After overcoming initial delays, both the Prefecture and the UGP demonstrated commitment and
hardworking dedication to the Project, which led to the successful results achieved. Based on the
ratings for Government performance (Moderately Satisfactory) and Implementing Agency
performance (Moderately Satisfactory), the proposed rating for Borrower performance is
Moderately Satisfactory.




                                              117
                           Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing:
                          Project Costs and Financing: PELOTAS

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                          Actual
                                                           Total
                                                                                         Percentage
                           Appraisal     Estimate at      (Spent
                                                                        Percentage of        of
     Component             Estimate     Restructuring    through
                                                                         Appraisal       Restructuri
                            (US$m)        (US$m)         Project
                                                                                             ng
                                                         Closing)
                                                         (US$m)
 I. Municipal
                              4.31           3.74            1.14            26%            30%
 Strengthening
 I.1.Public Service
                              3.32           3.64            1.06            32%            29%
 Modernization
 I.2. Project
                              0.99           0.10            0.08            8%             80%
 Management
 II. Employment and
                              2.18           1.24            0.94            43%            76%
 Income Generation
 II.1. Strategies,
 Cluster Support and
                              1.25           1.04            0.94            75%            90%
 Access to Micro-
 Credit
 II.2. Technology Park        0.93           0.20             0              0%              0%
 III. Infrastructure
                             24.26          27.82            23.05           95%            83%
 Service Improvements
 III.1. Urban and Road
                             17.76          23.48            20.57           116%           88%
 Upgrading
 III.2. Rehabilitation
 of Rural Road                3.01           3.38            1.87            62%            55%
 Infrastructure
 III.3. Water and
 Sanitation                   3.49           0.95            0.61            17%            64%
 Improvements
 Total Project Cost          31.45           32.8            25.13           80%           77%
 Front End Fee                0.05           0.05             0.05           100%          100%
 Grand Total                 31.50          32.85            25.18           80%            77%

(b) Financing
                                                               Actual/Latest
                                        Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                       Estimate
                                          (US$ millions)                             Appraisal
                                                              (USD millions)
Borrower                                      12.60               14.09                 111.83%
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                              18.90                  18.90              100.00%
and Development
Total                                         31.50                  32.99              104.73%



                                           118
                               Project Costs and Financing: BAGÉ

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                      Actual Total
                                    Appraisal
                                                     (Spent through     Percentage of
        Component                   Estimate
                                                     Project Closing)    Appraisal
                                     (US$m)
                                                         (US$m)


 I. Municipal Strengthening            1.09               0.84              77%
 I.1.Public Service
                                       0.45                 -                 -
 Modernization
 I.2. Project Management               0.64                 -                 -
 II. Employment and Income
                                       0.32               0.25              78%
 Generation
 II.1. Strategies, Cluster
 Support and Access to                 0.32                 -                 -
 Micro-Credit
 III. Infrastructure Service
                                       9.52               10.34            109%
 Improvements
 III.1. Urban and Road
                                       4.34                 -                 -
 Upgrading
 III.3. Water and Sanitation
                                       5.18                 -                 -
 Improvements
 Total Project Cost                    10.93              11.43            105%
 Front End Fee                         0.02               0.02             100%
 Unallocated                           0.05                 -                 -
 Grand Total                           11.00              11.45            104%

(b) Financing
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
      Source of Funds                                   Estimate
                                 (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                     (USD millions)
Borrower                               4.40               4.96             113%
International Bank for
Reconstruction and                     6.60               6.49              98%
Development
Total                                  11.00              11.45             10%




                                               119
                        Project Costs and Financing: URUGUAIANA

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                              Actual Total
                                            Appraisal
                                                             (Spent through           Percentage
             Component                      Estimate
                                                             Project Closing)        of Appraisal
                                             (US$m)
                                                                 (US$m)


 I. Municipal Strengthening                    0.84                      0.75             89
 I.1.Public Service Modernization              0.44          -                       -
 I.2. Project Management                       0.40                       -          -
 II. Employment and Income
                                               1.19                      0.07        6
 Generation
 II.1. Strategies, SME and Cluster
                                                   0.55                   -          -
 Support
 II.2. Support to Urban and Rural
                                                   0.64                   -          -
 Agriculture
 III. Infrastructure Service
                                               9.30                    3.52                38
 Improvements
 III.1. Urban Road Upgrading                   6.80          -                       -
 III.2. Drainage and Sewer Works               1.28          -                       -
 III.3. Integrated Solid Waste
                                               1.22          -                       -
 Management
 Total Project Cost                             11.34                    4.34        38
 Front End Fee                                     0.08                  0.02        25
 Grand Total                                    11.42                    4.36                   38

* No disaggregated data by subcomponent was informed by the Borrower.

(b) Financing
                                                                  Actual/Latest
                                        Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                          Estimate
                                         (USD millions)                               Appraisal
                                                                 (USD millions)
Borrower                                              4.59                 1.66           36
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                      6.83                    2.70        40
and Development
Total                                               11.42                     4.36        100




                                             120
                        Project Costs and Financing: RIO GRANDE

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                          Actual Total
                                                             (Spent
                                          Appraisal
                                                            through       Percentage of
             Component                    Estimate
                                                            Project        Appraisal
                                           (US$m)
                                                           Closing)
                                                            (US$m)

 I. Municipal Strengthening                  2.01             0.47            23%
 I.1.Public Service Modernization            0.84              -                -
 I.2. Project Management                     1.17              -                -
 II. Employment and Income
                                             0.22             0.24            109%
 Generation
 II.1. Strategies, SME and Cluster
                                             0.22              -                -
 Support
 III. Infrastructure Service
                                            11.09            10.81            97%
 Improvements
 III.1. Urban Road Upgrading                10.91              -                -
 III.2. Urban Renewal and
                                             0.18              -                -
 Environmental Rehabilitation
 Unallocated                                 0.16             0.00              -
 Total Project Cost                         13.32            11.52            86 %
 Front End Fee                               0.02             0.02            100%
 Grand Total                                13.50            11.54            85%

(b) Financing
                                          Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                          Percentage of
           Source of Funds                Estimate          Estimate
                                                                           Appraisal
                                        (USD millions)   (USD millions)
Borrower                                    5.40              4.38            81%
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                             8.10             7.16            90%
and Development
Total                                       13.50            11.54            85%




                                            121
                         Project Costs and Financing: SANTA MARIA

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                     Actual Total
                                                                        (Spent
                                Appraisal
                                                  Estimate at          through
                                Estimate                                              Percentage    Percentage of
        Component                (USD
                                                 Restructuring          Project
                                                                                     of Appraisal   Restructuring
                                                (USD millions)        Closing)
                                millions)
                                                                         (USD
                                                                      millions)

 I. Municipal Strengthening           2.02                1.84               1.69           84%             92%
 I.1.Public Service
                                      0.95                       -           1.64          172%                 -
 Modernization
 I.2. Project Management              1.07                       -           0.05             5%                -
 II. Employment and Income
                                      4.00                2.57               2.58           65%            100%
 Generation
 II.1. Promotion of Work
                                      2.00                       -           0.76           38%                 -
 and Income Alternatives
 II.2. Innovation and
 Technological                        2.00                       -           1.82           91%                 -
 Modernization
 III. Infrastructure Service
                                     17.20               16.59              13.47           78%             81%
 Improvements
 III.1. Rehabilitation of
 Urban Road Infrastructure            7.04                       -          10.59          150%                 -
 and Landscaping
 III.2. Rehabilitation of
                                      2.70                       -           1.93           71%                 -
 Rural Roads
 III.3. Environmental
                                      7.46                       -           0.95           13%                 -
 Rehabilitation
 Total Project Cost                  23.22               21.00              17.74           76%             84%
 Front End Fee                        0.03                0.03               0.03          100%            100%
 Grand Total                         23.25               21.03              17.77           76%             85%

(b) Financing
                                 Appraisal      Estimate at Actual / Latest
      Source of Funds            Estimate      Restructuring   Estimate               Percentage of Appraisal
                               (USD millions) (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                  9.30           7.08          5.57                               78.67%
International Bank for
Reconstruction and                      13.95             13.95              12.20                        87.46%
Development
Total                                   23.25             21.03              17.77                        84.50%




                                             122
                             Annex 2. Outputs by Component
                            Outputs by Component: PELOTAS




                                     (as of 12/31/2013)
                                      COMPLETED




                                                                ONGOING
     COMPONENTS,
  SUBCOMPONENTS AND                                                                         STATUS
      ACTIVITIES



I. Municipal Strengthening
Acquisition of 25 vehicles to
support the supervision of the           X
Municipality.
Consulting services to support                                            6 projects and audit executed.
                                         X
UAP.
Consulting services to develop a                                          GIS and GED systems implemented for
GIS, as well as an electronic                                             development of Multipurpose Cadaster, to
                                         X
system for the management of                                              improve public management of the
official documents (GED).                                                 municipality.
Development of 6 detailed design                                          Management and implementation of 2 units.
projects for paving of “great
avenues” (Fernando Osório,
                                         X
Domingos de Almeida, Leopoldo
Broldi, Ferreira Vana, 25 de
Julho, Salgado Filho).
Public Sector Modernization                                               Capacity-building for 2052 employees,
Program – PMAT, including the                                             construction of a Strategic Management
acquisition of equipment (IT and                                          System (SGE), acquisition of furniture and
furniture), training of 2,052            X                                equipment. Implementation of PGPQ and
municipal staff, and a                                                    MBC.
management system (SGE) -
(CPF).
The construction of 5,200 m of                                            Construction of 5,200 meters of pipeline and
pipeline, and installation of                                             acquisition of pump groups.
                                         X
automated water supply pumps
(CPF);
Consulting services to support                                            1 report developed.
                                         X
Project management; audits, etc.
Consulting services to develop a                                          1 plan developed, and projects executed for
WSS and drainage Master Plan             X                                four pumping stations.
(CPF).
II. Employment and Income
Generation
Construction and acquisition of                                           Area for classification, washing, packaging,
                                         X
equipment for a Processing and                                            and marketing of agricultural products from

                                                          123
                                        (as of 12/31/2013)
                                         COMPLETED




                                                                   ONGOING
      COMPONENTS,
   SUBCOMPONENTS AND                                                                           STATUS
       ACTIVITIES



Packing House Facility to support                                            farmers organized in cooperatives in the
the agro-industrial sector.                                                  town of Monte Bonito. 60 families benefited.
Municipal Micro Credit Program                                               612 micro entrepreneurs were benefited.
                                            X
(CPF)
                                                                             383 peddlers and 217 walking vendors
Construction of a commercial
                                                                             benefited. 100 of the 600 persons targeted
facility for the relocation of street
                                            X                                were not removed to the Shopping Popular
vendors (Shopping Popular and
                                                                             since they had several stalls or changed their
Camelodromo).
                                                                             routes.
Consulting services to develop a                                             1 Plan developed.
                                            X
LED Strategy (PEDL);
III. Infrastructure Service
Improvements
29.6 Km of rehabilitated streets –                                           29.6 km of roads were rehabilitated.
asphalt layering, drainage,                 X
signaling, landscaping;
10.6 Km –TSDI                               X                                10.6 km of neighborhood roads paved.
6.1 Km – new paving, drainage,                                               Rehabilitation of 6.1 km of roads.
sanitation, signaling, and
                                            X
landscaping of an avenue and 4
streets
                                                                             Replacement of pavement, widening of
Rehabilitation of Dom Antonio                                                sidewalks, placing of hydraulic tile,
Zattera Park and historical                 X                                “encanteiramento”, street furniture,
buildings;                                                                   phytosanitary treatment, tree planting and
                                                                             lighting.
Rehabilitation of 7.5 Km of                                                  Rehabilitation of 7.5 km of roads.
“Great Avenues / Fernando
Osorio” – paving, drainage,                 X
sanitation, signaling, and
landscaping
Rehabilitation of 3.2 Km of                                                  Rehabilitation of 3.2 km of roads.
Ferreira Viana Avenue – new
                                            X
paving, drainage, sanitation,
signaling, and landscaping;
Rehabilitation of the Lake                                                   Rehabilitation of 2.0 km of sidewalks.
                                            X
Waterfront (Laranjal) – 2.0Km;
Construction, rehabilitation and/or                                          12 bridges constructed.
                                            X
expansion of 12 rural bridges.
Water supply system and water                                                Implementation of 20km of network for 600
                                            X
treatment facility in rural areas                                            families.

                                                             124
                                     (as of 12/31/2013)
                                      COMPLETED




                                                                ONGOING
     COMPONENTS,
  SUBCOMPONENTS AND                                                                         STATUS
      ACTIVITIES



(20 Km & 600 families
benefiting);
                                                                          Capture of raw water from the Pelotas River,
Construction of a water main
                                         X                                construction of 3,200 meters of pipeline to
(3,200 m) (CPF);
                                                                          augment by 10% treated water reserves.
Renovation of 3 historic buildings                                        Restoration of 3 historic buildings.
                                         X
(CPF – Monumenta Program);
Construction of bays for bus stops                                        Construction of 44 bays, 38 shelters, 79
– 44 bays, 38 bus stops, 79 access                                        accessibility ramps, and 2 routes widened.
                                         X
ramps, widening of 2 sidewalks
(CPF – PRO-MOB Program);
Acquisition of machinery for                                              11 trucks, 3 graders, and 3 backhoes
street and road maintenance (CPF         X                                acquired.
– PRO-VIAS)
Paving of Sao Paulo street – 1 Km                                         Rehabilitation of 1.0 km of roads.
– paving, drainage, and signaling        X
(CPF);
Paving (TSDI) of 2.9 Km of                                                Rehabilitation of 2.9 km of roads.
                                         X
streets – CIDE (2007 /1) (CPF);
Other TSDI – 7.5 Km of streets                                            Rehabilitation of 7.5 km of roads.
                                         X
(CPF)




                                                          125
                                   Outputs by Component: BAGÉ




                                       (as of 12/31/2013)
                                        COMPLETED


                                                            ONGOING
     COMPONENTS,
  SUBCOMPONENTS AND                                                                            STATUS
      ACTIVITIES



I. Municipal Strengthening
WSS Master Plan (counterpart)                                         Master Plan and User Cadaster water and sanitation
                                           X
and Cadaster (CPF)                                                    prepared and approved.
                                                                      Contracting of the UAP Executive Secretary for the first
Contracting of UAP Executive
                                           X                          semester of 2011. Covers meetings and reports
Secretary
                                                                      submitted during this administrative period.
                                                                      Training of UGM members in financial management,
UGM Capacity-building                      X
                                                                      MS Project and acquisitions.
                                                                      Consulting services to complete External Audit of the
Consulting services for external                                      Projeto Rainha da Fronteira for 2 years of program
                                           X
audit                                                                 execution and the Grace Period, observing
                                                                      accounting/financial statements.
Final Program Evaluation                                              Qualitative and quantitative evaluation of development
                                           X                          of PDMI actions to produce PDMI Final Evaluation
                                                                      Reports.
Project Disclosure                                                    Creation and execution of Media Plan.
                                           X
(CP 100%)
IT Equipment                                                          Acquisition of 2 computers for UGM.
                                           X
(CP 100%)
Vehicle                                                               Acquisition of 1 vehicle for site visits.
                                           X
(CP 100%)
II. Employment and Income
Generation
PDE – Economic Development                                            Creation of Economic Development Plan with a long-
                                           X
Plan                                                                  term development vision (20 years).
PEE – Plan for Business                                               Advisory services for micro and small businesses,
Expansion                                  X                          involving general, technological, and organizational
                                                                      aspects. 40 micro-entrepreneurs trained.
Executive Projects                                                    Creation and application of a Business Plan and
                                           X
                                                                      Executive Project for the Horticultural Project.
Horticultural Projects                                                Materials acquired and provided to small farmers
                                                                      selected through a Public Announcement. Productive
                                                                      infrastructure provided to 25 small farmers in garden
                                                                      production and 10 in orchards. Materials included citrus
                                           X                          seedlings and windbreak
                                                                      Inputs for Orchards, materials for greenhouse
                                                                      construction, agricultural films on greenhouses and low
                                                                      tunnels, irrigation systems, shading screens, and open-air
                                                                      tents.

                                                            126
                                    (as of 12/31/2013)
                                     COMPLETED


                                                         ONGOING
     COMPONENTS,
  SUBCOMPONENTS AND                                                                        STATUS
      ACTIVITIES



III. Infrastructure Service
Improvements
Executive Projects
                                        X
(CP 100%)
Road Resurfacing                        X
Road Paving                             X
Paving of 21 Cloverleaf                 X
Paving of Av. Leonel de Moura
                                        X
Brizola
Construction of Av. Leonel de                                      Construction of a 34.90m viaduct over a rail line.
                                        X
Moura Brizola Viaduct
Installation of bus shelters                                       Item awarded through an agreement with the Federal
                                        X
(CP 100%)                                                          Government.
Equipment                                                          Acquisition of equipment to support maintenance and
(CP 100%)                               X                          paving of urban roads. Acquired through the Municipal
                                                                   Bidding Process.
Acquisition of 3,000 micrometers        X
Installation of 2,021 micrometers       X
Acquisition and installation of 3
                                        X
macrometers (CPF)
Sewage Treatment Plant and                                         36 Km of sanitation network and 5 treatment facilities
                                        X
Collection Network (CP 100%)                                       installed.
Installation of 10,000
                                        X
micrometers




                                                         127
                              Outputs by Component: URUGUAIANA




                                     (as of 12/31/2013)
                                      COMPLETED


                                                          ONGOING
      COMPONENTS,
   SUBCOMPONENTS AND                                                                        STATUS
       ACTIVITIES



I. Municipal Strengthening
Reform of Administration                                            Reform of approximately 400 m2 of area, centralization
                                         X
Building                                                            of related sectors in this area.
Acquisition of Management                                           Acquisition of a software to support financial
                                         X
Software                                                            management
                                                                    Acquisition of 80 computers, 9 printers, 3 copiers, 2
Equipment Acquisition                    X
                                                                    closets, and 13 counters.
                                                                    4 individual consultants contracted for technical support
Consultant Contracts                     X
                                                                    for the project.
                                                                    Contracting of consultant companies for drafting of 3
External Audit                           X
                                                                    Audit Reports (2010, 2011, 2012+Grace Period)
                                                                    Contracting of consultant company for 1 final evaluation
Final Project Evaluation                 X
                                                                    of the project.
Courses and Capacity-building for                                   10 civil servants trained, capacity-building for 4
                                         X
Project Team                                                        consultants.
Acquisition of vehicle                   X                          Acquisition of 1 Ford Ecosport SUV.
                                                                    Equipment and furniture for UGM and SEPLAN. 10
Acquisition of equipment and                                        fixed chairs, 7 rolling chairs, 3 2-door closets, 3
                                         X
furniture                                                           computers, 1 server computer for archives, 3 notebook
                                                                    computers, 1 multimedia projector, 1 multifunction unit.
UAP Executive Secretary                  X                          Consulting services
                                                                    Costs of publication of program activities and payment
                                                                    of entertainment expenses, including dissemination of
Support for UAP                          X                          project activities on site and cost of the participation of
                                                                    members of the program in training and integration
                                                                    events between programs.
Operational Expenses                                                Small expenses for maintenance and payments.
II. Employment and Income
Generation
                                                                    Contracting of specialized company for drafting of 1
Construction of Uruguaiana PDE           X
                                                                    Economic Development Plan.
III. Infrastructure Service
Improvements
                                                                    Acquisition of an asphalt plant and machinery,
                                                                    pavement of 2,100 blocks (approximately 230,000
Asphalt Plant                            X
                                                                    meters of roads paved), permanent maintenance of
                                                                    damaged roads.



                                                          128
                                (as of 12/31/2013)
                                 COMPLETED


                                                     ONGOING
     COMPONENTS,
  SUBCOMPONENTS AND                                                                   STATUS
      ACTIVITIES



                                                               Contracting of an executive Project (received) and
Drainage investments in Santo                                  implementation of 1,043 meters of pluvial drainage in
                                    X
Inácio                                                         the neighborhoods of Santo Inacio and Hipicas I and II.




                                                     129
                          Outputs by Component: RIO GRANDE




                                     (as of 12/31/2013)
                                      COMPLETED




                                                            ONGOING
     COMPONENTS,
  SUBCOMPONENTS AND                                                                     STATUS
      ACTIVITIES



I. Municipal Strengthening
                                                                      Acquisition of 1 Zafira Elegance 2.0 Flex
Acquisition of a vehicle and                                          Power Vehicle, a plotter, a computer station,
                                         X
equipment to support UGP                                              software, GPS, high-resolution satellite
                                                                      imagery.
Acquisition of equipment,                                             Completed with PMAT resources.
integration of databases,                                             Acquisition of 1 air conditioning unit, 1
hardware and software, training          X                            multipurpose printer, 1 wireless router, 1
for municipal staff, internet                                         telephone, 1 portable projector screen, 1
wireless network (PMAT / CPF)                                         subwoofer sound box.
Consulting services to support                                        Contracting of Ricardo Barbará as UAP
                                         X
UAP                                                                   Secretary.
Consulting services to support
                                         X                            Auditing of project for 2010-2013.
Project management (Auditing)
II. Employment and Income
Generation
                                                                      Report on the Creation and Implementation
Consulting services for the
                                                                      of a Methodology for Construction of a
development of a LED strategy            X
                                                                      Local Economic Development Plan for the
for the municipality (PDES)
                                                                      Municipality of Rio Grande.
                                                                      Includes (i) Inventory of the Tourism
Consulting services to support the
                                         X                            Attractions; (ii) Action Plan for the
tourism sector:
                                                                      Development of the Tourism Sector.
III. Infrastructure Service
Improvements
                                                                      Paving and drainage for: 9.37 Km: R. 1.º de
                                                                      maio- 1.91Km, R. Teixeira Jr. 0.59Km, R.
Paving and drainage works for                                         Visconde de Mauá/R. Visc. Rio Grande- 2.45
                                         X
urban streets                                                         Km, Cassino-0.65Km, R. Pedro Sá Freitas-
                                                                      0.55Km, R. Eng. Ernesto Luiz Otero-
                                                                      3.22Km.
                                                                      Including concrete tubing for paving and
                                                                      drainage works for public roads; Unistein-
                                                                      type concrete blocks for paving and drainage,
Paving, associated drainage and
                                                                      execution of paving and drainage works,
landscape works for 18.54 km of          X
                                                                      concrete curbing.
streets.
                                                                      Paving and drainage: 15.64km total. Av.
                                                                      Pelotas 3.30 km, R. Bernardo Taveira 1.60
                                                                      km,R. Irmão Isício 0.37km, R. Dr.

                                                      130
                                     (as of 12/31/2013)
                                      COMPLETED




                                                            ONGOING
     COMPONENTS,
  SUBCOMPONENTS AND                                                                   STATUS
      ACTIVITIES



                                                                      Nascimento 1.13km, Av. Atl (l. esquerdo)
                                                                      1.2km, Av. Atlântica (l. direito)1.20km, R.
                                                                      Arroio Grande 1.20km, R. Buarque de
                                                                      Macedo 0.90km, R. ângelo Trindade 1.50km,
                                                                      R. Raul Pilla 0.54km, R. Manoel Gonzales
                                                                      Lopes 0.46km, R. Barão de Sto. ângelo 0.50
                                                                      km, Acesso às Ilhas 1.20 km, Av. Rio
                                                                      Grande 0.15 km, R. Castro Alves 0.39km;
                                                                      Paving Only: 2.30 Km total. R. Gen.
                                                                      Vitorino 1.80km, R. 24 de maio 0.50 km,
                                                                      Drainage: 0.60 Km total. R. Tobias Barreto
                                                                      0.38 e R. Bento Gonçalves 0.22km.
                                                                      Total: 18.54 Km
Tree Planting on Urban Streets           X                            Acquisition and planning of 1480 seedlings.
                                                                      Regularization of 3500 lots in 6
                                                                      neighborhoods of the municipality planned.
Documentation collection                                              3,481 registrations made in the following
services to allow land titling (No       X                            neighborhoods: Carlos Santos / Profilurb I
titles were issued, however)                                          (398), Carlos Santos / Profilurb II (317),
                                                                      Hidráulica (233), Humaitá (155), Querência
                                                                      (1491), and Barra Velha (887).




                                                      131
                          Outputs by Component: SANTA MARIA




                                     (as of 12/31/2013)
                                      COMPLETED




                                                          ONGOING
     COMPONENTS,
  SUBCOMPONENTS AND                                                                     STATUS
      ACTIVITIES



I. Municipal Strengthening
                                                                    An IT Master Plan has been prepared and
IT Master Plan (PDI)                     X                          adopted. The directives of the plan are being
                                                                    used to guide the activities of the IT team.
                                                                    An Aero-photogrammetric Survey
                                                                    encompassing the urban and rural areas of the
Aero-photogrammetric Survey              X                          municipality has been prepared and adopted.
                                                                    This activity is serving as the basis for the
                                                                    multipurpose cadaster.
                                                                    Plan prepared and adopted. The directives are
                                                                    being applied, the related software is already in
Urban Transport Master Plan
                                         X                          use, and the PMSM is preparing the bidding
(PDMU)
                                                                    process for the provision of public transportation
                                                                    services.
                                                                    Plan prepared and available for public
WSS, Drainage and Solid Waste                                       consultations and suggestions by interested
                                         X
Master Plan (PLAMSAB)                                               parties, before being proposed as law to the
                                                                    Municipal Chamber.
Consulting services to support
                                                                    Final evaluation completed and delivered to the
Project management (Auditing,
                                         X                          bank in May 2014; final audit report to be
Final Evaluation of the PDMI
                                                                    delivered up to June 30, 2014.
Program)
                                                                    Acquisition of furniture and equipment for the
The acquisition of equipment (IT                                    PMU office 100% complete, including 5
and furniture) to support the            X                          desktop computers, 1 notebook, 1 data projector,
Project Unit                                                        1 projector screen, 1 printer, 2 workstations, 3
                                                                    closets and 2 file cabinets.
Consulting services to support
                                         X
UAP
                                                                    Acquisition of equipment: 9 flat screens, 9
                                                                    notebooks, 2 multimedia projectors, 6
Goods for the Operations Center                                     stabilizers. The Situation Room will be installed
                                         X
in Prefecture                                                       on the 2nd floor of the SUCV building to assist
                                                                    in decision-making. (*) Most of the investments
                                                                    were made using CPF.
II. Employment and Income
Generation
Consulting services for the                                         Implementation of a methodology for formation
                                         X
development and implementation                                      of solidary credit groups: Microcredit expansion

                                                    132
                                    (as of 12/31/2013)
                                     COMPLETED




                                                         ONGOING
     COMPONENTS,
  SUBCOMPONENTS AND                                                                   STATUS
      ACTIVITIES



of a Microfinance Strategy                                         activities are supported by the Lei Geral da
                                                                   Micro e Pequena Empresa. 82 solidary credits
                                                                   were released during the project period. 100% of
                                                                   beneficiaries were shown to be satisfied with the
                                                                   activities realized.
                                                                   Reform of the Clube 21 de Abril for
                                                                   implementation of a community center was
                                                                   completed after the Project closing date, but the
                                                                   facility is not yet operational. Prefecture is
Works for the rehabilitation of a                                  performing small adjustments with its own
building to house a community           X                          resources, and preparing a management,
center (Clube 21 de Abril)                                         operation and maintenance plan that will
                                                                   guarantee the site’s resources and social control
                                                                   by the community. Prefecture will also be in
                                                                   charge of the acquisition of goods to support
                                                                   Clube 21.
                                                                   25 artists trained (with capacity-building), and
Consulting services for the
                                                                   90% satisfied with the activity. The business
support and capacity building of
                                                                   plan provides for the creation of an association
the crafts sector (local brand,
                                        X                          to train new craftsmen and integrate them in the
catalog, and business plan
                                                                   production of excellent products for the fashion
(which proposes the creation of a
                                                                   and decorative arts markets. 25 artisans from the
community association)
                                                                   crafts sector were selected.
                                                                   The Technology Park is not yet fully
                                                                   operational. However, the team for management
                                                                   of the Park is already active, with 11 companies
                                                                   ready to be installed at the location. To
Works for the construction of the                                  guarantee the initial operations, prefecture has
                                        X
Santa Maria Technology Park                                        signed an agreement with the Technology Park
                                                                   to guarantee financial support through the
                                                                   municipal Innovation Law (Lei de Inovação).
                                                                   The Park is estimated to be fully operational by
                                                                   the end of June 2014.
III. Infrastructure Service
Improvements
                                                                   Asphalt paving between Av. Presidente Vargas
                                                                   and R. Venâncio Aires. Prefecture is drafting an
Paving of Liberdade Avenue                                         O&M plan for monitoring of this route. 2.131
                                        X
(2.13 Km)                                                          Km of roads improved with asphalt paving.
                                                                   34,492 people directly benefited, with a level of
                                                                   satisfaction 65.2%. The general level of


                                                   133
                                  (as of 12/31/2013)
                                   COMPLETED




                                                       ONGOING
     COMPONENTS,
  SUBCOMPONENTS AND                                                                 STATUS
      ACTIVITIES



                                                                 satisfaction was 69.3%.
                                                                 Asphalt paving of Ruas Agostinho Sangói and
                                                                 Guilherme J. Fabrin between Av. Dores e Av. F.
                                                                 Ferrari for alternate highway access. Prefecture
Paving and drainage in
                                                                 is drafting an O&M plan for monitoring of this
Agostinho Sangoi Avenue               X
                                                                 route. 0.882 Km of roads constructed and
(0.88 / 0.85 Km)
                                                                 0.851km of drainage. 10,649 people directly
                                                                 benefited, with a level of satisfaction 83.3%.
                                                                 The general level of satisfaction was 71%.
                                                                 Paving of Av. Hélvio between BR-392 and Av.
                                                                 Medianeira. Prefecture is drafting an O&M plan
                                                                 for monitoring of this route. 1.273km of roads
Paving/Expansion of Helvio
                                      X                          improved with asphalt paving. 25,000 people
Basso Avenue (1.27 Km)
                                                                 directly benefited, with a level of satisfaction
                                                                 98.1%. The general level of satisfaction was
                                                                 83.3%.
                                                                 38,813 m² implemented (70%). prefecture is
                                                                 drafting an O&M plan for the Park, which will
                                                                 be under the management of the Secretary of
                                                                 Sports and Leisure. With regards to the
                                                                 landscape project, prefecture is using
Works for the construction of
                                      X                          environmental compensations for afforestation
Jockey Club Park
                                                                 of the area. 240 trees of medium to large size
                                                                 will be planted at the location in May. 27,000
                                                                 people directly benefited, with a level of
                                                                 satisfaction of 70.8%. General level of
                                                                 satisfaction of 74.7%.
Consulting services for the                                      Management Plans for Parque Palotino and
development of 2 management                                      Parque dos Morros developed, taking into
plans for the parks (Plano de                                    account that Parque Palotino will not be a
                                      X
Gestao do Parque Palotino +                                      conservation area (under the National
Plano de Manejo do Parque dos                                    Framework for Conservation Areas – SNUC),
Morros)                                                          and Parque dos Morros will.
                                                                 Acquisition of machinery for rural development:
Acquisition of equipment for
                                      X                          2 motor graders, 2 rollers, 2 bulldozers, and 4
O&M of rural roads
                                                                 trucks.
                                                                 Infrastructural improvement of Km3
Integrated investments in Km 3                                   neighborhood.
neighborhood (paving, drainage,                        X
WSS) - CPF
                                                                 The work is paralyzed, since the water and


                                                 134
                                  (as of 12/31/2013)
                                   COMPLETED




                                                       ONGOING
     COMPONENTS,
  SUBCOMPONENTS AND                                                                 STATUS
      ACTIVITIES



                                                                 sewage utility has requested changes to the
                                                                 original project design, which have not yet been
                                                                 approved. 16% of the water network and 13% of
                                                                 the sewage network have been concluded, but 0
                                                                 connections installed. No roads have been
                                                                 constructed, but 3.06 km of drainage (71%) have
                                                                 been installed. This investment is financed by
                                                                 PAC.
                                                                 Passage of Av. Rio Branco beneath Gare da
Rio Branco Tunnel (CPF)                                          Viação Férrea until R. Marechal Deodoro.
(0.93 Km of drainage & 0.24 Km        X                          31,298 people directly benefited, with a
of paving -)                                                     satisfaction level of 86.4%. General satisfaction
                                                                 level of 86.7%.
Gal Neto and Pedro Santini /                                     Rua Gal. Neto linked with Rua Pedro Santini.
Largo da Rodoviaria (CPF)                                        10,061 people directly benefited, with a level of
                                      X
(0.40 Km of roads constructed &                                  satisfaction of 77.8%. General satisfaction level
0.054 Kim of drainage)                                           of 75.8%.
                                                                 Asphalt paving of Rua João Machado Soares in
Joao Machado Soares (CPF)
                                                                 Bairro Camobi. 21,822 people directly
(0.55 Km of drainage & 2.28 Km        X
                                                                 benefitted, with a satisfaction level of 87.1%.
of paving)
                                                                 General satisfaction level of 87.6%.




                                                 135
                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

This Annex presents the economic and financial analysis carried out for the activities
implemented under the Program.

At appraisal, it was anticipated that the Program would provide substantial economic benefits in
the long term due to lower transport costs and reduction in travel time in Uruguaiana, Bagé,
Pelotas, Rio Grande and Santa Maria, and due to improvements in sustainability of water supply
and sanitation services in Bage and Pelotas. Moreover, it was assumed that investments would
provide additional economic benefits due to improved living standards and real estate value
growth in areas of urban development. Component 2 was expected to provide increased
employment and income, with a positive spillover effect on the local economy.

Road infrastructure investments financed design, paving or rehabilitation of streets and
installation of neighborhood drainage systems. The upgrading of urban roads was complemented
by improved sidewalks, landscaping, traffic safety measures, and bikeways. Expected benefits
included improved quality of life and reduced maintenance costs, car accidents and travel time.

The Program’s water supply investments covered installation of micro and macro meters,
rehabilitation of the water supply network, construction of a water supply system in rural Pelotas,
increased treated water reserves, and expansion of capacity for sewage systems and small
treatment plants. Benefits included a reduction in water losses, energy consumption and
maintenance costs. Financial benefits reflected the increase in services providers’ revenues due to
improvements in the accuracy of water and sanitation billing and reduced O&M costs.

The economic benefits of sanitation activities included improvements in housing values, living
standards, and public health in Program municipalities. Although these benefits were significant,
they are not included in this economic assessment due to significant data inconsistency.

The total economic costs and benefits for each component were estimated at appraisal with EIRR
ranging from 17% to 495% 150 for transport and from 13% to 35% for WSS investments.

For the purposes of this ICR, the economic analysis was replicated for each individual project,
taking into consideration the same activities analyzed during appraisal, namely: (i) roads
upgrading; and (ii) water supply and sanitation. For investments in roads, the Highway Design
and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) and real estate appreciation (i.e. increases in the
IPTU-Property and Urban Land Tax) were used. For investments in water and sanitation, service
delivery data were used to measure benefits. For Component 2’s employment and income
generation activities, a qualitative analysis was carried out given the questionably reliable or
insufficient data and low financing amounts. In addition, due to the public nature of the
investments and lack of revenue from most of the activities, a financial analysis was not
conducted.




150
   Several typographical errors in the PAD in Pelotas’ EIRR data for urban roads upgrading were
discovered during ICR preparation: for instance, one EIRR should read 226.40 instead of 22.60.


                                               136
Economic analyses were conducted for interventions in the municipalities of Pelotas, Bagé and
Santa Maria only. In Rio Grande, it was not possible to conduct such an analysis due to the lack
of reliable data and low Borrower capacity to measure results. In Uruguaiana, no information
was provided by the Borrower to the Bank.

The economic evaluation below shows that substantial results were achieved through PDMI
Program investments. Activities evaluated presented EIRR ranging from 12% to 232%, with unit
costs in general lower than benchmark values.


                        1 - BAGÉ (RAINHA DA FRONTEIRA) PROJECT

The economic analysis of the Bagé Project was conducted considering the same activities
analyzed during appraisal, namely: (i) road upgrading, and (ii) water supply and sanitation.
Actual costs of these activities total US$ 10.34 million, 90% of total project cost.

Overall Bagé Project Beneficiaries. The number of beneficiaries of road upgrading and water
supply activities exceeded the targets at appraisal; however, the number of beneficiaries of
wastewater supply investments did not reach the target. The total number of beneficiaries is
estimated at around 120,000 people.

                            Table 1 – Projected versus Actual Beneficiaries
  Components                   Projected Beneficiaries 151            Actual Beneficiaries
  Road upgrading                        118,965                             120,000 152
                                                               Micrometers: 12,021 households,
                            Micrometers: 6,716 households,
                                                               around 36,000 people
  Water Supply              around 33,500 people
                                                                  Macro meters: 100% of supplied
                            Macro meters: 100% of supplied
                                                                  population
                            population

                            5,000 new connections (approx.        6,000 new connections
      Wastewater System
                            25,000 beneficiaries)                 18,555 inhabitants.


Analysis of investment costs showed per capita/per kilometers costs lower than the average
benchmark for similar interventions.

                          Table 2 – Comparison of Unit Costs per Intervention
        Intervention         Cost per Beneficiary /     Benchmark Cost per Beneficiary / per
                                     per Km                                Km
      Sewage                        91.5 (US$)                      100 - 200 153 (US$)
      Road upgrading          1.5 (BRL million/km)              2.45 154(BRL million/km)



151
    Appraisal estimates assumed an area average of 5 persons/household, but studies during implementation
showed the actual figure to be closer to 3 persons/household.
152
    IBGE estimates for 2013 population.
153
    Various sources. Range is for one-time capital cost for wastewater collection and treatment with septic
tank.

                                                   137
Results for each intervention are as follows:

A) Water Supply and Sanitation

Water supply and sanitation investments provided significant benefits to the population. The
average EIRR for WSS investments is 30.87%, very high for this type of infrastructure project.
Water supply investments resulted in an EIRR of 25%. Sanitation investments resulted in an
EIRR of 32.7%, significantly higher than projected.

             Table 3 – Comparison of expected and actual results of the Bagé Project.
                                           Ex-ante              Ex-post
                      Intervention          EIRR                 EIRR
                    Water Supply           68.77%               25.00%
                    Sewage                 21.86%               32.70%
                    Total                  54,35%               30,87%

These results were confirmed by the qualitative assessments, which show improvements in the
management and performance of the local water and sewage utility (DAEB). The results also
indicate a high approval and satisfaction rate in the communities served.

B) Road Upgrading

This component provided significant benefits to the population of Bagé, with EIRR ranging from
22% to 115%, and an average of 62%. This is higher than the average of 42% (ranging from 12 to
93%) evaluated at appraisal.

A satisfaction survey of the direct beneficiaries of urban upgrading interventions was carried out
by the municipality of Bagé. Although the sample is statistically limited, the qualitative analysis
presented satisfactory results, e.g.:
    • Satisfaction with paving and rehabilitation of streets and avenues - 92%;
    • Satisfaction with drainage for streets and avenues (culverts) - 92%;
    • Satisfaction with the Cloverleaf 21(Trevo 21) works -100%;
    • Satisfaction with the viaduct over the railway line, Leonel Brizola Avenue - 100%; and
    • Improvement in vehicle circulation - 94%.


                          2 - PELOTAS PROJECT (PÓLO DO SUL)

The economic analysis of the Pelotas Project was conducted considering the same activities
analyzed during Appraisal for Component 3: (i) water supply and (ii) urban and road upgrading.
Actual costs of these activities total US$ 21.18 million, 84% of total project cost. The same
approaches/methodologies employed during appraisal were used for the cost-benefit analysis: (i)
for investments in water, the amounts referring to services delivery; and (ii) for investments in


154
   National Association for Public Transportation (ANTP) – Information System on Urban Mobility –
2011 Report – launched in December/2012. General parameter for average construction cost of urban
roads.

                                                138
roads, the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM). However, Project activity
(iii), maintenance and improvements of rural roads, was not considered in this analysis due to the
lack of information available. For Component 2, generation of employment and income through
microcredit, qualitative information was included to give a sense of results achieved. There were
no data available to prepare a full EA analysis.

The economic evaluation shows substantial results achieved through Pelotas Project investments.

Overall Pelotas Project Beneficiaries. The Pelotas Project’s road upgrading and water activities
reached more beneficiaries than targeted at Appraisal.

                          Table 4 – Projected versus Actual Beneficiaries
 Components                 Projected beneficiaries            Actual Beneficiaries
 Road upgrading                         334,594                           341,000 155
 Rural water supply                      2,000                              2,088

Analysis of per capita investment cost for interventions showed higher-than-average cost per
beneficiary for the rural water supply activities, due to the complex logistics of construction in a
remote rural area. For road upgrading, costs were lower than the benchmark.

                    Table 5 – Comparison of Unit Costs per Intervention
      Intervention        Cost per Beneficiary /    Benchmark Cost per Beneficiary /
                                 per Km                            per Km
                                                               156
 Road upgrading           0.53 (BRL million/km)           2.45 (BRL million/km)
 Rural water supply       209 (US$/beneficiary)         150-200 157 (US$/beneficiary)

Results of each intervention are as follows:

A)      Water Supply

This activity was expected to finance the construction of a water main to connect Pelotas stream
with Sinnot treatment plant and the expansion of the water supply network to rural areas.
Expected benefits included improvement of maintenance and quality of water service delivered.
Activities consisted of construction of a 3.2 Km of pipeline from the Pelotas stream to the Sinnot
water treatment plant (increasing treated water reserves by 10%); and construction of a 20km
water supply network and a water treatment facility benefiting 522 households in rural Pelotas.

Results
On the basis of evaluation described and considering the data available, an EIRR of 12.6% was
obtained. Qualitative surveys have confirmed the “regular” satisfaction of the beneficiaries with
service delivery.




155
    IBGE estimates for 2013 population.
156
    National Association for Public Transportation (ANTP) – Information System on Urban Mobility –
2011 Report – launched in December/2012. General parameter for average cost for construction of urban
roads.
157
    Various sources.

                                                 139
            Table 6 – Comparison of Expected and Actual Results of the Pelotas Project
                       Intervention     Ex-ante EIRR       Ext-post EIRR
                     Water Supply           15.93%             12.60%

B)        Urban and road upgrading

This activity was expected to finance: (i) the renovation of selected historic buildings; (ii) the
construction of about 50 bays for bus stops and about 10 pedestrian crossings; (iii) the
rehabilitation of about 7,000 m2 of streets (around 3 Km) and paving of 1km of Sao Paulo Street;
and (iv) the recovery of 3,700 m2 of green space in the downtown area, paving and/or
rehabilitation of around 50 Km of streets and important access corridors, including pedestrian and
bicycle infrastructure and landscaping. Expected benefits included an increase in real estate value,
reduction of travel time and vehicle maintenance, and a reduction in car accidents.

The actual activities consisted of: (i) the rehabilitation of 3 historic buildings; (ii) the construction
of 44 bays, 38 bus stops, 79 access ramps and widening of 2 sidewalks; (iii) the rehabilitation of
10.4 Km of streets, and 1 Km of São Paulo street; (iv) the recovery of 3700m2 of the green space
in the Dom Antonio Zattera Park; and (v) paving/rehabilitation/widening of 59 Km streets to
include, inter alia, paving, drainage, sanitation, signaling, sidewalks and landscaping.

Estimation of Benefits. The evaluation of the economic outcomes of these investments took into
account the following aspects:

      •   Items (i) and (ii) were not considered in the analysis either at appraisal or at closure, as
          (i) was a counterpart activity financed through an IDB project and not re-evaluated under
          the Bank’s Project, and for (ii) no information was available;
      •   Under item (iv), the properties in the vicinity appreciated in value as indicated by
          municipal interlocutors. However, by executive decision, the IPTU property rates
          schedule was not adjusted accordingly, so the evaluation of real estate increase based on
          the change in the IPTU was not feasible. There were no other sources of data available
          for preparing an EA analysis of this item;
      •   For items (iii) and (v), the HDMI methodology was used. The vehicle count was carried
          out for only some of the roadway stretches due to limited municipal capacity. For
          stretches that were not measured, figures were estimated based on the traffic counts
          actually produced for other areas, maintaining the same rate of growth.

Results

On the basis of the evaluation described and considering the availability of the data, this
component provided significant benefits to the population of Pelotas, with EIRR ranging from
29% to 400%, with an average of 232%. This is somewhat lower than the EIRR evaluated at
appraisal, with an average of 245% (ranging from 24 to 495%) 158.




158
    Several typographical errors in the PAD in Pelotas’ EIRR data for urban roads upgrading were
discovered during ICR preparation: for instance, one EIRR should read 226.40 instead of 22.60.


                                                  140
Additional qualitative analysis

C)        Microcredit
Under Component 2, the Project would support cross cutting activities to facilitate access to
microcredit. Microcredit activity supported by the Project was limited to technical assistance
provided as part of routine Bank support, with no additional cost. However, the Municipality was
able to put in place a well-qualified personnel and institutional structure to leverage the
microcredit financing and to obtain microcredit support from various government banks (Banco
do Brasil, Caixa Economica Federal, Banrisul). The number of microcredit operations reached
6,537, with a total advance credit of around R$ 24 million (US$ 10.90 million) from 2010 to 2013.


                       3 - SANTA MARIA PROJECT (SANTA MARIA 2020)

The economic analysis of the Santa Maria Project was conducted considering the same
Component 3 activity (upgrading of public roads) analyzed during Appraisal. Actual costs of this
activity total US$ 10.59 million, 60% of the total project cost. The same approach/methodology
employed during Appraisal, the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM), was
used for this benefit-cost analysis for roads investments. The Component 2 activity considered at
Appraisal, construction of a Commercial Center, was not considered here as it was removed at
restructuring.

The economic evaluation shows substantial results achieved through the Santa Maria Project
investments, higher than originally expected.

Overall Santa Maria Project Beneficiaries. The Santa Maria Project’s road upgrading activities
reached more beneficiaries than the Appraisal targets.

                             Table 8 – Projected versus Actual Beneficiaries
 Components                           Projected beneficiaries           Actual Beneficiaries 159
 Road upgrading                               257,938                          273,000

The upgrading of public roads investments were expected to rehabilitate and improve road
infrastructure and landscaping in the city, prioritizing the streets used by public transport and
non-motorized transport users. Road and infrastructure improvements were to include, inter alia,
traffic safety improvement, pedestrian facilities and landscaping. This would include activities
such as: paving/widening/rehabilitation, resealing, signaling, and lighting of 19 Km of urban
streets; construction, paving, sealing, and signaling of the tunnel in the Rio Branco Avenue and
its connection to the city’s road network; and rehabilitation, landscaping, extending, paving,
resealing, signaling and widening of about 800 meters of access roads to the intra-urban bus
terminal and neighborhood access streets. The expected benefits of these investments included:
improved transport services and access to the bus terminal; reduction of the number of urban
transit accidents and reduction in emission of pollutant gases.

The actual activities consisted of: (i) paving/widening/rehabilitation, resealing, drainage,
signaling, and lighting of 6.53km of urban streets; (ii) construction, paving, sealing, and signaling
of the tunnel in the Rio Branco Avenue and its connection to the city’s road network; and (iii)


159
      IBGE estimates for 2013 population.

                                                  141
rehabilitation, landscaping, extending, paving, resealing, signaling and widening of about 400
meters of access roads to the intra-urban bus terminal and neighborhood access streets.

The analysis of the actual investment cost per km for road upgrading interventions shows per-
kilometer costs lower than the benchmark for similar interventions.

                       Table 9 – Comparison of Unit Costs per Intervention
   Intervention             Cost per Km                    Benchmark Cost per Km
  Road upgrading       2.44 (BRL million/Km)               2.45 160 (BRL million/Km)

On the basis of evaluation described and considering the data available, the evaluation showed
positive results for the EIRR (between 13% and 30%), with an average of 22.1%. This is slightly
lower than the 29.1% evaluated at appraisal, but still high for this type of intervention.
Unfortunately, the HDM method ex-ante and ex-post benchmarking was undermined by changes,
during implementation, of the roads selected for priority upgrading.

Positive results were confirmed by the sample surveys. An average of 80.4% satisfaction was
recorded for people living in or familiar with the intervention areas. A satisfaction rating of
98.1% was recorded for the Avenida Hélvio Basso works, one of the project’s largest investments.




160
   National Association for Public Transportation (ANTP) – Information System on Urban Mobility –
2011 Report – launched in December/2012. General parameter for average cost for construction of urban
roads.

                                                 142
        Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
           Names                             Title               Unit
                                                                            Specialty
                                           Lending
Monica Alves Amorim       Consultant                            LCSUW LED Specialist
Fernando A. Blanco Cossio Senior Economist                      AFTP4
Regis Thomas Cunningham Sr. Financial Management Spec.          LCSFM FMS
                                                                      Operations Analyst
Juliana M. Garrido Pereira   Operations Analyst                 LCSUW
                                                                      / co-TTL
                                                                      Economic &
Rogerio Dias Gerheim         Consultant                         LCSUW
                                                                      Financial analysis
Jose C. Janeiro              Senior Finance Officer             CTRLA FMS
Marta Elena Molares-
                             Lead Counsel                       LEGES Lawyer
Halberg
                                                                        Safeguard
Paul Procee                  Senior Infrastructure Specialist   EASCS
                                                                        Specialist
Anemarie Guth Proite         Procurement Specialist             LCSPT   PMS
Julia Conter Ribeiro         Program Assistant                  LCC5C   ACS
                                                                        Second TTL /
Jennifer J. Sara             Sector Manager                     EASVS   Second Sector
                                                                        Leader
Fabson Vogel                 Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM   FMS
Mauricio Cifuentes
Luiz Gabriel Azevedo         Sector Leader                              First Sector Leader
Michael Carroll                                                         First TTL
Edgardo M. Floto
Simon Nicholas Milward
Caroline Barreto Moreira     ACS
Jeannette Ramirez
Emilio H. Rodriguez
Cristina Oliveira Roriz      Operations Analyst
Dan Biller
Frederico Rabello Costa      Procurement Specialist                     Second PMS
Cristiane Herold
Juliana de Paula Marques
Soraya Melgaço               Consultant – Social Safeguards
John Penney                  Translator
Luis Prada                   FM Specialist
                                                                        Safeguard
Paul Procee                                                             Specialist and first
                                                                        co-TTL
Anemarie Guth Proite         Procurement Specialist                     First PMS
Jeannette Ramirez


                                              143
 Rajeev Kumar Swami
 Fabson Vogel                FM Specialist                             FMS
 Marcos T. Abicalil          Senior Water Specialist                   Last TTL
 Susana Amaral               FM Specialist                             FM Specialist
 S. A. Dan Biller
 Joseph Kizito Mubiru                                                  FMS
 Francesco N. di Villarosa   M&E Consultant                            M&E Specialist
 Sinue Aliram                Procurement Specialist                    Last PMS
 Waleska Pedrosa             Legal Assistant
 Sameh Wahba                 Sr. Urban Specialist                   Co-TTL
Isabella Micali Drossos      Sr. Counsel                      LEGAM Lawyer
 Adriana M.G.M. Weisman      Operations Officer               OPCCE
                                      Supervision/ICR
Marcos T. Abicalil           Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.       LCSUW First TTL
Sinue Aliram                 Procurement Specialist            LCSPT Procurement (last)
                                                                     Financial
Susana Amaral               Financial Management Specialis     LCSFM
                                                                     Mgt.(first)
Eduardo Franca De Souza     Financial Management Analyst       LCSFM Financial Mgt.(last)
Juliana M. Garrido Pereira Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist LCSWS Last TTL
Emanuela Monteiro           Urban Specialist                   LCSDU Co-TTL (last)
Michele Martins             Program Assistant                  LCC5C
Waleska Magalhaes Pedrosa Program Assistant                    LCC5C
                                                                     Safeguard
Paul Procee                 Senior Infrastructure Specialist   EASCS
                                                                     Specialist
Anemarie Guth Proite        Procurement Specialist             LCSPT
Jennifer J. Sara            Sector Manager                     EASVS Sector Leader (first)
                                                                     Co-TTL (first) and
Sameh Naguib Wahba          Sector Leader                      LCSSD
                                                                     Sector Leader
Monica Amorim               Consultant                               LED Specialist
Paul Kriss                  Sector Leader                      LCSSD Last Sector Leader
Marcus Vinicius F. da Silva Consultant                               Infrastructure Spec.
Michele Martins             Program Assistant
Emerson E. Medeiros         Consultant                               Institutional Dev.
Soraya Melgaço              Consultant                               Social Safeguard
Luis Prada                  Sr. Procurement Specialist         LCSPT
Jefferson R. de Q. Andrade Consultant                                Infrastructure Spec.
Etel P. Bereslawski         Procurement Specialist             LCSPT
Everaldo A. Cabral          Consultant                               Infrastructure Spec.
Clarisse Dall’acqua         Safeguard Specialist               LCSEN Safeguard Spec.
Sergio Akira Kaimoto        Consultant                               Solid Waste Spec.
Cristina Oliveira Roriz
Araífe Basílio dos Santos   Consultant                               Infrastructure Spec.
Pedro Miguel P. de Almeida Consultant                                Infrastructure Spec.
Eri Watanabe                Consultant
Adauto Santos               Consultant                               WSS Specialist
Rogerio Dias Gerheim        Consultant                               Economic-

                                            144
                                                                              Evaluation
Ana Paula A. Gutierrez        Consultant
Willow Latham                 Consultant

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                               USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                                     travel and consultant costs)
                                            LENDING
         FY05           P094199 – All projects                  0.20                           1.90
         FY06           P094199   - All projects                8.41                          86.65
         FY07           P094199 - All projects                45.27                           21.68
                        P094199 – All projects                20.53                           92.39
         FY08           P111511 - Bagé                          0.00                           4.48
                        P111514 - Uruguaiana                    1.70                          27.42
                        P111511 - Bagé                          0.24                           6.68
                        P111512 – Rio Grande                  12.69                           33.30
         FY09
                        P111513 – Santa Maria                   8.68                          29.41
                        P111514 - Uruguaiana                    0.03                           2.99
         FY10           P111512 – Rio Grande                    0.33                          42.47
Total:                                                        98.08                          349.37
                                         SUPERVISION
         FY08                                                   6.00                          20.60
         FY09                                                 22.07                           95.72
         FY10                                                 24.75                          159.40
        FY11*              P094199 – All projects             14.12                          115.33
        FY12*                                                 20.84                           88.79
        FY13*                                                 23.13                           98.13
        FY14*                                                 12.82                           57.00
Total:                                                       123.73                          634.97
* The Staff Time and Costs for FY11-FY14 do not include procurement, financial management
or safeguards supervision time as these were funded off-the-top, nor do they reflect the time spent
by Management on Project oversight nor for legal services as these were covered by the CMU.




                                               145
                 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
*** Beneficiary surveys are part of the Borrowers’ Completion Report***




                                 146
                  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The following is a summarized translation of the report on the results of the Stakeholder
Workshop for the PDMI - Integrated Municipal Development Program. It presents the structure,
participants and Lessons Learned. The Workshop was held in Pelotas-RS, on November 21, 2012.

The Lessons Learned Workshop is one of the project completion events financed by IBRD and
aimed to "promote joint reflection on the experience of the development of PDMI, extracting
lessons learned from its design, management and implementation with the vision of assimilating
them in similar projects."

The workshop was organized by the World Bank with the participation of representatives of the
PDMI PMUs for the municipalities of Pelotas, Bagé, Rio Grande and Santa Maria.

The PDMI Lessons Learned workshop was structured as a learning event on the design,
management, and execution of the Integrated Municipal Development Program. Representatives
of all five (5) members of the program Prefecture: Pelotas, Rio Grande, Bagé, Santa Maria, and
Uruguaiana; were invited to attend the PDMI Workshop on Lessons Learned. With the exception
of Uruguaiana, which could not attend, representatives of all municipalities invited were present
at the event. In addition, members of the World Bank mission; the coordinator of the UAP; and a
representative of PUBLIX, the contractor for completion of the evaluation report on the program;
attended the workshop.

List of Participants:
From the Prefecture and PMU of Pelotas:
         Raul Odone Gonçalves;
         Ana Lúcia Victória Sena;
         Luciana M. Gomes;
         Jair Seidel;
         Roberto dos Santos Ramalho;
         Ana Aline M. de Oliveira;
From the Prefecture and PMU of Rio Grande:
         Daniel V. da Silva;
         Nevron R. Morais;
         Sílvia Adornes;
         Marlon Soares;
         From the Prefecture and PMU of Bagé:
         Danusa G. Bittencourt;
         Jocimara G. Santos;
         Ivan Cesar Pinheiro;
From the Prefecture and PMU of Santa Maria:
         Kerstin K. Kickhofa;
         Elisandro Ruatin do Couto;
From the UAP:
         Ricardo Barbará Dias;
From Instituto Publix:
         Antonio Carlos Brites Jacques;
From the World Bank:
         Sinuê Aliram;
         Eduardo França;
         Pedro Almeida;

                                              147
        Mônica Amorim;
        Emanuela Monteiro;
        Juliana Garrido.

The lessons learned were constructed in three (3) steps during the workshop. In the first stage, the
lessons learned relating to the preparation, implementation and monitoring of PDMI were
analyzed and defined. In the second stage, the lessons learned with regard to PDMI Development
Components (Institutional Development, Work and Income Generation, and Territorial
Analysis)were analyzed and defined. In the third stage, the lessons learned relating to the
structure and functioning Program Management were analyzed and defined.

Five (5) teams were formed, with four (4) teams with representatives from each of the
municipalities and management units and 01 (one) team of IBRD representatives. The
coordinator of UAP - Project Coordination Unit was free to follow teams and the representative
of Publix Institute was an observer of the work.

3.1.4 Summary of Lessons Learned from the Structuring, Execution and Monitoring PDMI

Structuring phase:

    1. Organization and adequate staffing of the PMU from at the initial preparation phase is
       crucial to the success of the project in its various stages;
    2. The training of PMU staff should be undertaken starting with its formation and
       continuing through the program, and the permanence of its members should be ensured to
       the maximum;
    3. Training in project management is a basic condition for the members of the PMU and the
       departments involved. Understanding and mastery of project subjects will greatly
       facilitate structuring, implementation and monitoring;
    4. In an integrated program, effective linkages between the municipalities at political,
       technical and executive levels are critical to ensuring integrated design and actions. In the
       case of PDMI this link functioned better during the structuring phase of the program,
       especially at the political level, motivated by the requirement of the same to obtain loan
       resources;
    5. Obtaining information and a lack of previous diagnoses is one of the main difficulties in
       the assembly and structure of a program;
    6. It is necessary to focus on objectives, clear targets and a reduced number of actions,
       clearly linked to measurable outcomes, to reduce the risk of dispersion and difficulty in
       perceiving the results obtained. For this reason, as well, it is necessary to work more
       intensely during the preparation phase on the concepts and notions of monitoring as part
       of the planning process.

Implementation phase (engineering, procurement, physical implementation, and financial
execution):

    7. The implementation of the program depends largely on the PMU having been properly
       structured with a multidisciplinary team, the PMU’s skills in planning and project
       management, and its proper placement in the municipal chain of command;
    8. The integration of PMU with the Secretariats and executive units of the Prefecture
       involved with the program is a "sine qua non" to facilitate the development and
       implementation of the program. Without the involvement and availability of executive


                                               148
         departments and units to meet the demands of the PMU and the program, treatment and
         resolution of issues affecting the planning and execution of actions becomes difficult;
   9.    The implementation of a program funded by international body implies the need to adopt
         and practice the rules of the financers, which demands changes and adjustments in the
         norms, standards and procedures of municipal management. These are significant
         changes that inspire apprehension and require expertise not always possessed by agents
         of the municipality. It is not easy to learn and accept working with international
         standards;
   10.   A great part of the problems during execution arose from the initial planning, which was
         many times unfocused and undertaken in a non-integrated manner, principally with
         regard to the interdependence of actions and poorly scaled timeframes. It is necessary to
         regard planning as an essential activity for project execution;
   11.   The preparation of terms of reference was one of the central problems in the development
         of PDMI. In an integrated program, drafting of TRs could have been facilitated by a
         better link between the PMUs and by the existence of a common technical support unit in
         the UAP. The quality of TRs is fundamental to the whole process of acquisition,
         monitoring and overseeing of implementation;
   12.   In the case of PDMI, one of the difficulties of the acquisition phase was obtaining market
         responses to project demands, due in some cases to strong existing demand, especially in
         the construction sector. Developing suppliers is a challenge to be considered in such
         projects;
   13.   Understanding and mastery of IBRD standards by PMUs, and the Bank’s response time
         to demands and questions, generated delay and rework on many occasions, hindering
         progress in program implementation;
   14.   The integration of the PMU with the budget and finances areas of the municipality, and
         the effective participation of specialists in these areas of the municipality with the PMU,
         were of fundamental importance to expedite program implementation. Where and when
         this was integrated, and when the counterparts were guaranteed in a timely manner, the
         processes flowed more satisfactorily.

Finally, with regard to the monitoring phase, the following lessons learned in PDMI were
highlighted:

   15. The monitoring was a new concept and had not been previously mastered by the project
       executors. It was often mistaken as solely a control activity, without appreciating it as an
       opportunity for learning and improvement for processes and people;
   16. The definition of appropriate indicators and baselines are essential for monitoring. The
       lack of these elements, combined with precarious information systems, greatly hampered
       monitoring in PDMI. These issues were only resolved towards the end of the program,
       including the obtainment of tools for research and information processing;
   17. The quality of monitoring, as well as of all other phases, depends crucially on the
       qualification of technicians and managers.




                                                149
Summary of Lessons Learned from the Development of Components PDMI

Component 1 - Institutional Development:

   18. The structure and capacity of the PMU / UGM were one of the main results of component
       1. For some municipalities, these units were institutionalized as structures for managing
       special municipal projects, and will remain as such after completion. One effect, already
       obtained in these cases, was the leveraging of additional resources through the structuring
       and negotiating of projects with other funding sources;
   19. The improvement of capacity of municipal civil servants and leaders is another important
       result obtained through the realization of Component 1. Due to improvements in work
       conditions through acquisition of property, furniture and equipment, as well as in the
       review process and the implementation of tools and systems such as GIS; GED; SGE, an
       improvement in the performance standards of the municipal administration can be
       expected;
   20. Among the institutional improvement results obtained, advances in the use of long-term
       planning and development of strategic plans by municipalities should be highlighted;
   21. It is important to highlight among the lessons learned that institutional development has
       not received the same attention as other components, and there is a greater lack of clarity
       regarding its objectives and goals. Institutional and management changes are still seen as
       issues of secondary importance within the scope of the municipalities.

Component 2 - Generation of Work and Income:

   22. Actions to promote employment and income are by nature multifactorial, and effects take
       time to be obtained. Physical actions, such as structures (shopping popular, centrais de
       beneficiamento, etc.), institutional actions (simplification of registration, microcredit,
       etc.), and especially actions for mobilization and capacity-building of people are involved.
       The results obtained under this component were satisfactory, but the actions must be
       continued to enhance future results;
   23. Among the most important results of Component 2 are the drafting of local development
       plans and the understanding of the importance of business models. These constitute tools
       that change mental models and generate an attitude of planning for transformation;
   24. Generation of employment and income require integrated action by several municipal
       departments as well as other agencies and entities, both public and private. Good projects,
       capacity-building, and integrated action by many actors are critical to results of
       component 2;
   25. It takes more focus, primarily on scarce resources— as was the case in PDMI Component
       2— to ensure results, which is associated with persistence in these actions.

Component 3 – Improvements in Infrastructure Services (urban, rural and environmental):

   26. This component was the one which ended up concentrating the largest number of actions,
       resources invested, and results obtained. This resulted primarily from improved tradition
       and expertise on the part of the municipalities with projects and execution of works, and
       the clear perception by the population of its effects;
   27. Qualified projects and adequate budgets are vital to the success of infrastructure
       improvement actions. The PDMI led to the development of better technical skills in both
       prefectures, as executors of the works, due to the requirements of supervision and
       monitoring;


                                              150
   28. Improvements to the road system and public spaces, with resulting improvements in
       urban mobility, were highlighted as the main results of the urban improvement. In rural
       areas, improvements in access (roads and bridges), improvement of the machine park for
       road maintenance, and access to water were the main gains. Regarding environmental
       improvement, the biggest gains were associated with tree planting, increasing green and
       leisure areas, and in sanitation;
   29. The issue of greater focus on action planning was also highlighted as a need to ensure
       relevant impacts.

Summary of Lessons Learned from Management of PDMI

Management of PDMI as an integrated program:

   30. In the case of PDMI member municipalities there were no physical-territorial or
       economic factors to determine common issues to be addressed. What united the
       municipalities was the need for linkages to facilitate access to funding resources. After
       the preparation and contracting phase of the program, the linkages on the level of
       political decision-making practically ceased to function, developing into isolated actions
       in each municipality;
   31. Integrated projects depend on the need for integrated action. The economies of scale that
       could have been obtained, such as joint procurement, were not sufficient to demand
       integration at the political level;
   32. For the reasons above, the structures created – the Political Council, Technical Council
       and UAP - did not work well. The UAP should have been constituted as a legal structure,
       able to convene with each municipality, and not an ad hoc unit without its own structure,
       linked in each period to one of the municipalities ;
   33. The UAP was not structured as designed. In order to be effective, in addition to a legal
       character, a technical structure to support UGPs, with a multidisciplinary team,
       technically mediating the relationship with the IBRD, would be necessary.

Management of PDMI in each municipality:

   34. The UGPs need to be well structured and qualified, and properly positioned in the power
       structure of the Prefecture, in order to exercise the internal and external coordination role
       required of them in a PDMI-type program;
   35. The integration of Secretaries and executive and administrative bodies of the
       Municipality , especially budget and finance, with the PMU and the program is key, as
       has been previously reported, for the management of a program like PDMI;
   36. The UGPs need to develop competency (knowledge, skills and attitudes) in articulation,
       conflict mediation, and treatment and resolution of problems within their roles as
       manager of the program and projects;
   37. Learning achieved by the UGP teams through exchange of experiences with IBRD and
       other the UGPs is critical to the successful management of the program;
   38. When understanding and mastery of the processes and rules required by IBRD, and the
       adjustment of the municipalities to these requirements, is faster, losses due to loss and
       rework in relations with the financer will be less.




                                               151
           Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                               7A. Summary of Borrower's ICR

            Evaluation of Integrated Municipal Development Program (PDMI)
                                   Executive Summary
                                Publix Institute, May 2014

1. Introduction

This document is a translation of the Executive Summary of the Independent Evaluation of the
Integrated Municipal Development Program - PDMI/RS, undertaken by the Borrowers. The
summary describes the results of the projects in four municipalities: Bagé, Pelotas, Rio Grande
and Santa Maria. The program was evaluated in Bagé, Pelotas and Rio Grande between
September 2012 and January 2013, and in Santa Maria from February to April 2014.

The evaluation methodology involved reviewing documents, on-site visits to works, sampling
surveys, focus group feedback, in depth individual interviews and workshops. The evaluation of
each of the PDMI projects was done before the management units submitted the final
reports. The appraisals therefore had to rely partly on data contained in the other most recent
reports produced by the municipalities. This was updated with information obtained by the Publix
Institute, hired by the Borrowers to prepare the overall evaluation.

2. Evaluation of Program Results

2.1. Relevance of Program Objectives

The general objective of the program was relevant, pertinent, and in line with the context and
needs of the target municipalities, correctly defined at the program design stage.

The specific goals, aimed at producing the fully achievable outcomes envisaged at the outset were
(despite the initial decision to limit the scope of some key issues) expressed in very broad terms,
encouraging ambitions far beyond what was possible with the resources and means available.

In other words, in order to achieve these specific program objectives it would have been
necessary to include other activities and to increase the amounts invested. A better approach
would have been to define the goals more specifically and more in proportion with the limited
scope of the project as originally planned.

2.2. Relevance of Program Design

The idea behind the original design of the PDMI was to provide investment financing to meet the
shortage of funds for municipalities to improve their infrastructure services and boost
employment and income generation. The strategy adopted by the program was to have an
integrated set of projects covering five municipalities, with goals and a basic structure common to
all.

The strategy of financing projects in five municipalities within a single program focused on
economic and social infrastructure development was advantageous in terms of economies of scale

                                               152
(UAP, World Bank project framework and comprehensive evaluation) and was especially
important for ensuring that the loan was directed to vital investments in municipalities in the
southern half (Metade Sul) of Rio Grande do Sul, with its low level of economic dynamism and
social indicators below the average for the state as a whole.

As for the decision to provide support for the ‘hub’ municipalities of the Metade Sul´s subregions,
i.e. Santa Maria (Central Region), Pelotas and Rio Grande (South Zone), Bagé (Southeast
frontier) and Uruguaiana (West frontier), it is worth looking closely at the consequences of
financing municipalities with such different characteristics through a program with goals and
components intended to apply to them all.

Structuring components and subcomponents

The components and subcomponents that gave effective expression to the program's objectives
were pertinent and relevant to the context analyzed at the time.

Municipal Strengthening / Institutional Development
The subcomponent Strengthening Public Administration, focused on plans and tools for
improving municipal management, produced good results. This had not been considered a
priority by the municipal authorities and the Bank's experience in this area was greatly
appreciated insofar as it addressed deficiencies in institutional and managerial capacities in
relation to project management, internal processes, use of technology for municipal management,
modernization of tax administration, quality of public spending and services delivery.

As for Project Management, this subcomponent was rightly included, both in terms of funding
the management of project implementation and especially as a mechanism for disseminating good
project management practices to the rest of the municipal administration.

Employment and Income Generation
The municipalities possessed little economic dynamism and suffered from low per capita incomes
and high unemployment. Given the needs of the municipalities involved, the program was right
to target the key role of the municipal public sector for inducing economic and technological
development and for supporting the generation of alternative production and jobs in sectors that
were uncompetitive due to problems of scale or lack of capitalization. These sectors included
micro-enterprises, small rural producers and unregistered businesses with good potential for
generating employment opportunities and income.

Improvements to Infrastructure Services / Territory Improvement
The four subcomponents correctly addressed the shortcomings of the municipalities in urban and
rural infrastructure, particularly in paving and drainage of urban roads and improving roads in
rural areas.

Regarding the linkage between development and the environment, addressed in Component 3, the
Bank´s environmental and social safeguards were instrumental in instilling a broader
environmental approach in all the infrastructure initiatives (over and above current environmental
licensing procedures), by introducing aspects such as engagement with the community,
workplace safety and disposal of waste from construction sites.




                                               153
Financing Aspects

The risk assumed by municipalities by agreeing to financing transactions indexed to the dollar
during a period of relative instability in Brazil and internationally, and without proper protection,
needed to be understood in terms of the damage that exchange rate fluctuations can cause, e.g.
affecting the real amount of cash available for funding works where bidding and contracting
processes can take several months. The effects varied from municipality to municipality (in the
case of Pelotas the contract value turned out to be lower on the date of signature, whereas in Rio
Grande and Santa Maria the values increased). We believe that that some mechanism (e.g.
currency hedging) could have been used to mitigate this risk.

As for the question of counterpart funding (40% own resources and 60% IBRD), it was clear that
these municipalities did not have sufficient budget resources to match the required contributions,
which led the Bank to accept counterpart funding in the form of works and other activities that
the municipalities had previously undertaken or were undertaking.

Implementation Arrangements

The institutional structure envisaged for implementing the program was built around the need for
good project management and implementation.

                            Figure 1. Institutional Arrangement




The superior and technical councils (mayors and municipal planning secretaries, respectively)
were an essential component at the preparation stage. The UAP, basically intended to facilitate
coordination, in practice consisted of a single professional. This meant that, due to a lack of
manpower, key responsibilities such as consolidating information on the progress of projects
in municipalities and disseminating it among them were to some extent neglected.

The learning process and exchange of experiences between municipalities were important for
generating and disseminating knowledge, especially regarding Bank practices. A further factor
that contributed to interaction was the Bank´s effort to bring municipalities together to prepare
joint reports and, especially, to share a common operating model.

                                                154
The original design of the program envisaged each municipality setting up a UGP (or UGM),
with specific responsibilities:

                         Table 1. Institutional Comparison between UGPs
                        Bagé            Pelotas     Rio Grande         Santa Maria
  Instrument           Decree            Law           Law                Decree
   General             General         Planning
                                                      Mayor        Planning Department
 coordination         Secretariat    Department
                                    PDMI / PAC
 Competences            PDMI                          PDMI                PDMI
                                        / Bids
    Formal
                         Basic           Robust              Small                     Basic
   structure
    Sector
                           5                 8                 4                         5
 coordinators
     Type            Temporary         Permanent          Permanent                Temporary

The structure established by Pelotas was robust while those of the other municipalities were less
so.

It is not possible to conclude, following the implementation of the projects, what the best UGP/
UGM model was. The decision on which project management structure to use depended inter
alia on the size and level of institutional maturity of the respective Prefecture.

Operation Manual

                  Table 2. Additional information about the Operation Manual

              Item                                             Respondents´ comments
                                   Criteria influenced the original project design, but were hardly used at all in
 Criteria for projects selection
                                   the selection of the sites earmarked for paving and sanitation work.
 Procedures for risk assessment
 and mitigation of potential       Useful for getting municipalities to take into account the socio-
 environmental and social          environmental situation in the vicinity of the works.
 impacts
                                   The annual operating plan was not the municipalities´ main planning
                                   tool. The procurement plan was used more, effectively assisting them to
 Planning Instruments              control the flow of procurement and contracting processes. The social and
                                   environmental plans were used in projects that required socio-
                                   environmental inputs.
                                   Adopted at the Bank's insistence on the importance of monitoring the
                                   quality and deadlines of contracts. Technical assistance provided by the
 Contracts management
                                   Bank for this activity proved to be more important than the operation
                                   manual.
 Oversight of actions by the       Essential for monitoring, as well as for providing guidance to
 Bank                              municipalities and correcting shifts of emphasis.
 Administrative and financial      This proved to be a challenge, met with some difficulty by the
 management of projects            municipalities. Uruguaiana faced the biggest problems in this respect and it


                                                    155
             Item                                         Respondents´ comments
                               was one of the reasons for the difficulty it experienced with the program.
                               The Bank and the municipalities acknowledged that this was a gap in the
 Monitoring, evaluation and    program that the operation manual was unable to fill. The indicators as
 performance indicators        formulated were extremely vague and difficult to measure. No baseline was
                               defined for most of the targets.



2.3. Key Aspects of Implementation

Preparation Phase / Design / "Quality at Entry"

A number of important findings and lessons were assimilated during the preparation phase of the
Program:

        •        Unavailable or poorly organized information for preparing the projects in the
        municipalities.
        •        A need existed to improve training and qualification of municipal staff to prepare
        them to deal with the formulation of complex development projects, especially since
        external resources were involved.
        •        Considerable difficulty was experienced in getting local teams to work together,
        especially on joint and shared actions with common goals.
        •        The local organizations and population were ready and willing to participate in
        preparing proposals and public policies, providing appropriate methodologies were used.
        •        A need existed to adopt a comprehensive approach covering economic, social,
        environmental and institutional aspects in order to overcome the complex challenges
        presented by territory development.
        •        The indicators for monitoring and evaluating local development projects needed
        to be clear, easy to understand and measure to ensure engagement and commitment of the
        people involved.
        •        The data and information presented in the Project Document contributed to the
        specific contextual analysis of each project, particularly regarding the level of access to
        urban public services. However information and ex-ante analysis was lacking, which
        would have made a useful contribution to establishing the baseline of the program in
        areas such as:

                a.       The level of quality of public services
                b.       The degree of satisfaction of the population with the services
                c.       Data on employment, income and formal/informal status of businesses
                d.       Data on real estate values in the vicinity of the works.

In general, the interviewees considered that the investment in the program design phase was very
important for establishing QAE and for preparing the individual municipalities to enhance the
quality of services delivery. Some interviewees considered that four years between the start of
talks and conclusion of the preparation phase was too long. There can be no doubt that the changes
that occurred during this period, including in the economic scenario and those affecting municipal
administration priorities, interfered substantially in the process.




                                               156
Projects Planning

All municipalities experienced difficulties with planning their projects, although it is fair to say
that the Annual Operating Plans contained some unworkable deadlines.

The Environmental and Social Management Plan (PAS) was a robust and highly detailed
instrument, and probably due to these qualities (and the shortage of time) it was only marginally
adhered to in practice. In the event it was the environmental specifications sheets (fichas) that
defined the specific instrument to be used in the works (works supervision plan, population
resettlement plan, etc.).

The Procurement Plan was the planning instrument that was most used and which produced good
results in all municipalities assessed.

Implementation Phase

Positive aspects:

        •       The training given by the Bank in purchasing, financial management and
        safeguards.
        •       The care taken in the preparation of TORs and procurement and contracts
        processes.
        •       The assistance given by Pelotas in terms of training for the other municipalities
        given that its project got underway before the others.

Aspects that impeded implementation:

        •        The exchange rate variation during the implementation phase. Together with
        increased construction prices, this meant that the scope and costs of the works had to be
        revised in order to reallocate resources from Components 1 and 2 to Component 3.
        •        Difficulties in defining and using indicators as M&E tools. Given the vast
        experience that the Bank possesses in this area, more and deeper knowledge could have
        been transmitted to the municipalities, and the Bank could have demanded a more
        effective return.
        •        The two-year delay in the municipality of Santa Maria, which resulted in their
        project being effectively deployed in around 30 months, including the extension. The
        rush to finish caused some inconsistencies in the projects, as well as problems in key
        bidding/procurement processes.
        •        In Component 2 difficulties arose for municipalities wishing to form strategic
        partnerships such as with SEBRAE (training for micro-entrepreneurs), which would have
        been more effective than the strategies adopted. Also the municipalities´ limited capacity
        to fully comprehend some of the activities was caused by difficulties in understanding
        program documents.
        •        In Component 3 there were delays in preparing engineering designs and
        difficulties encountered in preparing budgets (mainly for consultancies), with substantial
        differences between the prices submitted by bidders.
        •        Santa Maria was obliged, for various reasons, to halt the "Km. 3 Infrastructure
        Works", and also canceled the Rural Mobility Plan and the works on the Parque Palotino.




                                               157
2.4. Assessment of Program Effectiveness

Goals achieved

The goals of the program, according to previously defined intermediate and outcome indicators,
were defined at different periods, with no uniform methodologies, and adapted to each of the
projects. It is difficult therefore to produce a comparative analysis to reflect an accurate
assessment of the consolidated results of the program as a whole.

Intermediate Indicators
Virtually 70% of the 35 targets were achieved and 91% of the activities of the partially-achieved
goals. Pelotas performed the best out of the four municipalities.

                                Table 3. Intermediate indicators
 Achievement of
 targets                  Comp. 1        Comp. 2        Comp. 3               Total %
 Not achieved                 13%              0%             7%                           6%
 Partially achieved           13%            25%            27%                           23%
 Achieved                     63%            75%            67%                           69%
 No Information               13%              0%             0%                           3%

Outcome Indicators
In this evaluation of the results, the indicators of the 25 targets were measured. These indicators
reflect the objectives of the investment program, representing 52% of the targets achieved and
24% of those partially achieved. The remaining 24% refer to goals on which no information was
supplied. The latter is itself an indication of the way in which the indicators were prepared.

                                  Table 4. Outcome indicators
                                                             Rio          Santa
     Achievement of targets           Bagé      Pelotas    Grande         Maria      Total
 Not achieved                              0%        0%         0%           0%        0%
 Partially achieved                      40%        22%        33%           0%       24%
 Achieved                                20%        67%        17%         100%       52%
 No Information                          40%        11%        50%           0%       24%

The evaluation adopted a scale with scores from 1 to 5, where 1 represents no improvement, 2
represents little or no improvement, 3 indicates moderate and/or regular improvement, 4 means
good or satisfactory, and 5 excellent. The following table shows the values of the scores used to
indicate what would have been the indicators for Bagé and Rio Grande (which produced no
measurable data): “ % of beneficiaries satisfied with the generation of employment, income and
business opportunities” and “ % of residents satisfied with the improvements in urban
infrastructure in the intervention areas (area residents).” Note that in Bagé the resident
satisfaction results appear to be ‘good’ or ‘excellent’, and in Rio Grande they were at or near to
‘good’.




                                               158
     Table 5. Satisfaction level based on interviews with key actors, staff and end-users
    Level of
                           Bagé               Pelotas                  Rio Grande
   satisfaction
 Component 2             4.5 to 4.8          2.1 to 4.2                      -
 Component 3             4.1 to 4.7          2.7 to 3.8                 3.7 to 4.1

2.5. Assessment of the Effectiveness of the Program

The results of the program (91% of the intermediate targets and 76% fully/partially
achieved) involved a total investment of US$66 million (91% of planned expenditure) in 4
municipalities, home to 942,000 people, directly benefiting 492,208 (52%) of them, who
pronounced themselves “satisfied”.

Program Costs

              Table 6. Planned costs of projects, by component, in US$ million
                                     Rio        Santa
   Uses       Bagé       Pelotas   Grande       Maria     Total                %
 Comp. 1       1.09        2.44      2.01        2.02      7.56              10%
 Comp. 2       0.32        2.2       0.22          4       6.74               9%
 Comp. 3       9.52       20.49     11.09        17.2      58.3              80%
 Adm. fee      0.07        0.05      0.02        0.03      0.17               0%
 Total          11        25.18     13.34       23.25     72.77             100%

         Table 7. Investments made in the projects, by component, in US$ million
                                   Rio       Santa
   Uses      Bagé       Pelotas  Grande      Maria       Total              %
 Comp. 1        0.84        1.14     0.47       1.69       4.14            6%
 Comp. 2        0.25        0.94     0.24       2.58       4.01            6%
 Comp. 3       10.34      23.05     10.81      13.47      57.67           87%
 Adm. fee       0.02        0.05     0.02       0.03       0.12            0%
 Total         11.45      25.18     11.54      17.77      65.94          100%

Table 8. Variation between the projected values and the projects undertaken, by component
                                    Rio        Santa
   Uses       Bagé      Pelotas    Grande     Maria       Total             %
 Comp. 1         77%       47%        23%        84%        55%            60%
 Comp. 2         78%       43%       109%        65%        59%            66%
 Comp. 3        109%      112%        97%        78%        99%           109%
 Adm. fee        29%      100%       100%       100%        71%            78%
 Total          104%      100%        87%        76%        91%           100%




                                             159
          Table 9. Sources of Funding: IBRD and Counterpart, in US$ million
                                    Rio      Santa
  Sources      Bagé     Pelotas    Grande    Maria    Total              %
IBRD               6.6      18.9      7.96    13.95    47.41           65%
Counterpart        4.4      6.28      5.38      9.3    25.36           35%
Total               11     25.18     13.34    23.25    72.77          100%

      Table 10. Sources of completed funding: IBRD and Counterpart, in US$ million
                                      Rio      Santa
  Sources        Bagé      Pelotas  Grande     Maria    Total             %
IBRD               6.47       18.9      7.16     12.2    44.73           68%
Counterpart        4.98       6.28      4.38     5.57    21.21           32%
Total             11.45      25.18     11.54    17.77    65.94          100%

  Table 11. Variation between sources of projected and completed funding: IBRD and
                                    Counterpart
                                    Rio       Santa
  Sources      Bagé      Pelotas  Grande      Maria     Total            %
IBRD             98%       100%      90%        87%       94%          104%
Counterpart     113%       100%      81%        60%       84%           92%
Total           104%       100%      87%        76%       91%          100%


Program Results

                       Table 12. Results of the Program, by component
C             Results             Beneficiaries      Satisfaction   Invest.    %
1   57,000 properties             2,159           84.8%
    registered in the GIS         municipal       satisfaction of
    (Geographic Information       employees       population with
    System), 7 plans for          trained and     municipal
    improving municipal           making          services and
    planning and management effective use more user
                                                                  US$ 4.14
    capacity, 3 municipal         of planning     friendly access              6%
                                                                  million
    projects with improved        and             to public
    processes, 4 municipal        monitoring      services in
    applying better project       systems.        Pelotas.
    implementation processes,
    3 good practices
    replicated.
2   1 microcredit strategy        625 people      90-100% of the
    prepared and adopted,         benefited       beneficiaries
    US$ 5.35 million to           from training satisfied with
    support microcredit           or technical    generation of   US$ 4.01
                                                                               6%
    segment, 1 technology         assistance      employment,     million
    park built and gradually      provided for income and
    being operationalized, 1      small           business


                                           160
 C              Results            Beneficiaries       Satisfaction        Invest.      %
     central processing plant      businesses        opportunities in
     for agricultural products     and farmers,      Santa Maria.
     built and 1 popular           and 35
     shopping extended, 1          beneficiaries
     community center in the       of the
     final stages of               productive
     construction, 3 long-term     infrastructure
     economic development          of
     strategies prepared and 2     horticultural
     commencing gradual            plots and
     adoption, 1 plan of action    orchards.
     for the tourism sector
     prepared and initiating
     step-by-step adoption.
 3   104.7 km of paved or          74,552            Over 80% of
     repaiered streets, 1208.7     people            residents
     km of roads upgraded, 12      benefited         satisfied with
     bridges replaced, repaired    from sewage       improvements to
     or duplicated, 20 km          collection        the urban
     extension of the water        and 38,912        infrastructure in
     supply network and 622        from sewage       the intervention
     new connections made,         treatment,        areas in Pelotas
     12,021 micrometers            3,481             and Santa
     installed in the water        families with     Maria.
                                                                         US$ 57.67
     supply system, 60%            rights of use                                       87%
                                                                         million
     sewage collection and         or registered
     15% sewage treatment in       tenure of
     Bagé, 1 park, 3,700 m2 of     properties
     green area, 1,480 seedlings   and 4,744
     planted, 38,813 m2 built      rural
     area in park, 2               residents
     management plans              with clean
     developed and 42%             water
     reduction in vehicle          supply.
     concentration in Pelotas.

Major difficulties were encountered in obtaining the necessary data and information for the
economic evaluation. This indicated clearly that the efforts to modernize municipal
managements were not sufficient to get them to make progress in areas such as flexible, linked
data banks, integrated management systems, business intelligence softwares and data cross-
checking. It can be said that the PDMI made more progress in terms of the volume of
investment and the quality of the interventions than in the institutional development and
modernization of municipal management.

Institutional Development

The following are some of the beneficial outcomes that will only become apparent in the medium
term: (i) the Aerophotogrammetric Survey – a vital key to georeferencing and relisting properties,
implementing a multipurpose cadastre and revising the generic property values register, all

                                               161
designed to have an impact on boosting revenue from the IPTU (property tax), on the physical
and fiscal controls by City Hall) and on the Urban Mobility Master Plan and Environmental
Sanitation Plan (legal requirements related to these sectors could influence the quality of planning
and management in the municipal administration, as well as the quality of life in general).

Employment and Income Generation

Lack of documentary evidence made it impossible to assess the results of projects for supporting
microbusinesses. The Santa Maria Craft Project (Projeto de Artesanato) was obviously of
importance from a jobs creation and social point of view, but was not substantial enough to allow
an economic evaluation of the project. The Pelotas and Santa Maria microcredit projects had
grown in terms of the number of borrowers and the amount of credit advanced , but it was not
possible to obtain further details. As for the plans for long term local economic development,
only the Bagé plan had been completed at the time of the evaluation visits but none of the
recommended actions had yet got underway. Development plans in market economies have a
limited effect on economic growth and are generally indicative of economic strategies and
priorities. We conclude that the abovementioned plans might eventually serve as precedents
for joint municipal efforts, which could perhaps involve municipalities submitting their various
ideas to federal and state governments or private institutions.

Territory Improvement

The largest volume of projects investment was allocated to this component in all four
municipalities. The Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) nevertheless
contained a number of limitations for preparing the ex-ante economic evaluation.

3. Risk Assessment on Sustainability of Program Outcomes

The assessments indicate whether the sustainability of the results could be perceived as high risk
(A), substantial risk (S), moderate risk (M) or low risk (B).

       Table 13. Suggested Strategies and Measures Adopted - Financial Sustainability
     Recommended strategy             Measures adopted by municipalities      Assessment
 Develop strategies to ensure    During the program implementation phase
 financial resources through     the municipalities complied with the
 budget planning. To inform      counterpart provisions. No information
                                                                                  S
 the community about the         regarding assured availability of financial
 resources applied and their     resources to cover management, operation
 results.                        and post-deployment maintenance costs.
 Build alliances and             All the municipalities used mechanisms to
 partnerships around specific    promote social participation, but no record
                                                                                  M
 themes to mobilize additional   exists of resources that have been mobilized
 resources.                      for future project phases.
 Identify public and private     To implement the program, the
 funding sources and             municipalities succeeded in accessing
 mechanisms able to cover        additional funding sources such as the PAC,      S
 costs incurred as the result of Promob, CIDE, Provias, PMAT and
 program activities.             Monumenta.



                                               162
    Table 14. Suggested Strategies and Measures Adopted - Institutional Sustainability
                                             Measures adopted by
       Recommended strategy                                             Assessment
                                                 municipalities
                                       The projects involved
                                       communication activities,
Raise the awareness of society
                                       including meetings with local
regarding the importance of
                                       leaders in the areas affected by      M
sustaining the results of the
                                       the project. A ‘culture of
program.
                                       participation’ is still in its
                                       infancy.
                                       PDMI strategies were
                                       incorporated in public
Incorporate strategies in the
                                       policies. Pelotas and Santa           M
municipalities´ public policies.
                                       Maria would appear to be
                                       continuing to do this.
                                       Only Pelotas continued to
Build institutional arrangement to
                                       operate the UGP structure and         S
support the continuity of the actions.
                                       added new functions.
                                       The PEDL (Local Strategic
                                       Development Plan) and GIS of
                                       Pelotas, the PED of Bagé, the
                                       PAT of Rio Grande, and the
Create an institutional platform
                                       IPLAN of Santa Maria could
through public policies with a view
                                       boost local development.              M
to developing local development in
                                       Lessons learned in the course
each municipality.
                                       of the program fostered a
                                       culture of project management
                                       that can contribute to public
                                       policy planning processes.
Create monitoring and evaluation
                                       Substantial difficulties
system to strengthen institutional
                                       encountered with respect to
capacity to manage and coordinate
                                       M&E and there is no sign that         A
public sector interventions and
                                       such a system can be
disseminate experiences and lessons
                                       established.
learned.


  Table 15. Suggested Strategies and Measures Adopted – Sustainability of investments
                                           Measures adopted by
       Recommended strategy                                            Assessment
                                                municipalities
                                     The municipalities have
                                     facilities for maintaining
Formulate a strategy to maintain and
                                     investments using their own
operate the investments made in                                             S
                                     budget allocations, but the
order to extend their lifespan.
                                     shortage of resources in the
                                     amounts needed is of concern.




                                          163
4. Efficient and effective management and administration of the Program

4.1. Evaluation of Bank performance
Ensuring "Quality of Entry”. The Bank´s technical team played an important, expert role at the
project preparation stage aimed at ensuring QaE and generating institutional capacity in the teams
involved. However, the Bank team devoted little attention to defining the indicator tables.

Oversight. The Bank´s follow-up missions, the M&E mission and lessons learned played a key
role in drawing attention to the program´s governance model, to administrative and financial
management, to the monitoring, evaluation and implementation of components, to overall risk
assessment and, finally, to the question of environmental and social safeguards. Considering the
lack of experience of the selected municipalities and the recognized expertise of the IBRD
consultants and technical staff, it would appear that little support was forthcoming (from the
Bank) in terms of explaining, training and empowering people to supervise project
implementation or to monitor indicators and measure results. In Santa Maria the delay in the
Bank´s issuance of “ no objections” was mentioned.

4.2. Assessment of Borrower Performance
The high turnover of management staff members in the City Halls led to discontinuity and
constant revision, resulting in delays in project execution. Problems arose from differences in
policy orientation as well as from the fact that information was not readily transferred from a
departing management team to its successor.

5. Lessons Learned

5.1. Investment Strategy
It is essential to avoid fragmentation and dispersion of resources to a lot of different projects. The
ideal would be to concentrate resources on a smaller number of projects, manage implementation
better and ensure that they are completed within realistic deadlines.

5.2. Financing in foreign currency
A climate of national and international economic uncertainty and instability can occasion
significant currency risks for municipal governments with funding projects expressed in dollars,
since contracts are drawn up in local currency. If the national currency is devalued the projects
may become unviable. A reasonable way forward would therefore be to examine ways to
establish mechanisms to mitigate this kind of risk.

5.3. Counterparts
The value of the counterpart contributions of the municipalities should match their financial
reality. In the event of replicating projects of this type, the National Treasury must be fully
informed of the proposed arrangements.

5.4. Structure for project management
In the management structure of large-scale projects, special emphasis needs to be placed on
training local municipal technical staff in project management, and procedures are needed to
ensure that practitioners remain in office until the activities are completed.




                                                164
5.5. Deadlines for preparation and implementation
The time required for preparation of TOR and engineering projects should be strictly adhered to.
Late, incomplete or flawed preliminary studies can cause procurement problems and
implementation delays.

5.6. Training in procurement and financial controls
Training is recommended in procurement, finance and juridical procuracy areas for dealing with
bids involving international financing, accounting and financial controls. The aim would be to
ensure that staff are aware of the variety of technical and legal interpretations, especially the
differences between the requirements of the Bank and those of the national public accounting
system.

5.7. Community participation
Specific investment is needed in social participation processes for identifying needs and
evaluating outcomes with all stakeholders, thus enhancing social accountability.

5.8. Internal Communication
The communication plan must involve internal municipality staff members so that they can
assume ownership of the process and its results.

5.9. Intermunicipal liaison
Intermunicipal coordination can be fostered by the existence of a strong, legally-established
structure such as a consortium of municipalities, or by a technical coordination unit charged with
exchanging information and knowledge, consolidating data, information and results, etc. Such a
structure must be staffed by a small technical staff and receive external assistance if appropriate,
with well-defined roles and responsibilities as well as institutional mechanisms to ensure its
efficient operation.

5.10. Monitoring and evaluation
The M&E of projects must be considered a priority, through the observance of guidelines or
contractual clauses that require monitoring and assessments to be performed throughout the entire
process. M&E should cover procedures for defining goals, baselines and indicators. It is also
important to provide advice and training in M&E for municipal technical staff involved in the
projects.

5.11. Final evaluation of the project
The final project evaluation should consider which outcomes can be better assessed after a period
(of, say, one year) after project closure. It is worth noting that, from an operational point of view,
it is more difficult to obtain data and conduct interviews between the months of December and
February, which is the prime holiday season in Brazil, and also occasionally a period of
government transition.




                                                165
                            7B. Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR


Borrower Letters
The below are translated versions of the Borrowers’ commentary on the ICR. Scanned versions of
the original, signed letters are filed in the system.

Pelotas
Pelotas Prefecture
Project Management Unit
Cabinet of the Prefecture

OF/GAB/466/2014
Pelotas
June 10, 2014

Esteemed Madam:

Having received the draft of the Implementation Completion Report for the PDMI Program and
Projects, the Municipal Administration of Pelotas registers its agreement with the terms of the
document as presented.

We would like to take advantage of this opportunity to make several comments on the Polo do
Sul Project (7499-BR), the PDMI project in this municipality, which was developed with
resources and guidance from the World Bank in the period between 2008 and 2012.

The Municipality of Pelotas, after many years without significant investments due to the
economic depression affecting this region of the State of Rio Grande do Sul, had with Project
resources a new opportunity to achieve integrated and sustainable development. From 2008-2013,
the unemployment rate decreased and GDP grew substantially.

Among Project actions and activities, which obtained significant results for all three components,
the following in particular should be highlighted:

1.       For infrastructure activities, we can highlight the rehabilitation of public spaces and the
improvements to the roadway system, which included the paving of 73.3km and the improvement
of streets and avenues with extremely positive results for public transport, flow of vehicles, and
movement of people.

2.      With relation to the Generation of Work and Income, we can highlight in the rural area
the creation of a cooperative, which was necessary for the farmers’ organization to correctly
create and implement the Agricultural Products Processing Center (Central de Beneficiamento de
Productos Agricolas), resulting in an increase in value added for products and improved market
offering of products of improved presentation and quality.

3.       In the urban area, the construction of the Shopping Popular allowed all walking and
street vendors to move off of the streets. Support to these small entrepreneurs through microcredit
and formalization has made increased income for their businesses and a more comfortable space
for their consumers possible.



                                               166
Public management was modernized through capacity-building for public servants,
implementation of a real estate cadaster, and implementation of a project management program
for government program projects. The Strategic Plan for Municipal Development created will
serve as a goal for future public policy programs in the municipality.

Due to all the benefits which were obtained in the Municipality of Pelotas through the Polo do
Sul project, we would like to express our recognition for what it was possible to realize here to
benefit our population.

We would also like to express our gratitude to the management and technical team of the Bank,
whose support and guidance in assuring that the results achieved were at the desired level were
decisive.

Finally, given this successful experience, it seems to us that this institution, which focuses on
local development in relation to economic, social and environmental dimensions, could repeat
this initiative in other municipalities of our country, where the results would certainly also be
successful.

Attentively,

Eduardo Leite
Mayor, Prefecture of Pelotas




                                              167
Bagé
Municipal Prefecture of Bagé
Rio Grande do Sul State
Bagé, June 13, 2013

Esteemed Director,

The municipality of Bagé, through its Mayor, Mr. Luis Eduardo Dudu Colombo dos Santos,
acknowledges the receipt of the draft Implementation Completion Report concerning Loan
Agreement 7582-0 with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development – IBRD.
This agreement was possible through the creation of the Integrated Program for Municipal
Development – PDMI, which gathered together the municipalities of Bagé, Pelotas, Rio Grande,
Santa Maria, and Uruguaiana to make the loan viable.

Each municipality presented a project where the actions to be implemented aimed at improving
public service, urban infrastructure, and the generation of employment and income.
The financial contribution made available was a substantial sum, given that the municipality did
not have its own resources for the development of project actions.

The Rainha da Fronteria project involved actions within the established periods and achieving
the desired objectives, although not entirely. Some issues impeded the 100% realization of the
project’s goals. However, this did not affect the success of the same.

We would like to highlight the good relationship between the PDMI municipalities where,
primarily through the UAP- Program Linking Unit, there were exchanges of information and
interaction.

We emphasize, additionally, the excellent relationship with the World Bank team. The team is of
high professional quality and, from the beginning to the end of the project, was attentive to the
project’s needs, assisting and guiding the municipal team.

We consider this project of significant value to the municipality not only due to the actions
realized, which led to improved quality of life for our population, but also due to the new culture
brought by the Bank. Apart from learning of norms and processes and the execution of the work
by a multidisciplinary team, there was a different vision of everyday actions, as without
distancing ourselves from technical aspects, there was an increased social focus.

Thus, despite the difficulties encountered throughout the course of the project, and given the
analysis undertaken by the Bank, we consider it a success.

Reiterating our respect and esteem, we express our appreciation.

Attentively,

Luís Eduardo Dudu Colombo dos Santos
Municipal Prefecture of Bagé




                                               168
Rio Grande
Rio Grande do Sul State
Municipal Prefecture of Rio Grande
Cabinet of the Prefecture
Oficio No. 114/2014/GF/PMRG

Rio Grande
June 18, 2014

Esteemed Madam,

Sending our compliments, we acknowledge our receipt of the draft Final Implementation and
Completion Report (ICR) of the PDMI Projects.

In analyzing the referenced draft, we verified that the report evaluated the performance of the
Program in the municipality of Rio Grande, transcribing the data provided by this Prefecture.

We stress that the results of the Program are apparent in our city, in drainage and paving works
on the following streets and avenues:

The creation of a Sustainable Economic Development Plan (PDES), as well as an Action Plan for
Tourism Development, was also made a reality in the municipality through instruments of
strategic and participative planning.

Considering the above, we would like to take advantage of this opportunity to express our
satisfaction in participating in the Program; although all goals were not achieved, among those
that were achieved brought about improvements in the quality of life for the population directly
and indirectly benefited by the sanitation works.

This being our commentary for the moment, we sign

Attentively,

Alexandre Duarte Lindenmeyer
Mayor, Municipal Prefecture




                                             169
Santa Maria
Santa Maria
June 9, 2014

Madam Manager,

We would like to take this opportunity to send our compliments and acknowledge our receipt of
the document entitled "Implementation Completion and Results Report" (ICR) of June 4 of this
year, containing the final results of the evaluation of the PDMI program and the Santa Maria
2020 Project in particular.

Allow us, before beginning with the comments that we consider relevant, to thank you for the
loyalty and commitment shown to us by you and your staff during the period of implementation
of this project. Without this high-level dialogue, the obstacles faced would have been
insurmountable. We therefore extend to the whole team our sincere appreciation and
consideration.

In relation to the Integrated Municipal Development program (PDMI) and the final evaluation
results, we have to observe them in light of the objectives proposed by five most important
municipalities of less economically prestigious half of RS: "improve the capacity of the
municipalities of Bagé, Pelotas, Rio Grande, Santa Maria and Uruguaiana to provide
infrastructure services and income opportunities for its population.”

First of all, this is not just the goal of the program or the project. In reality, it is an everyday
challenge for mayors of small and medium cities in Brazil to do much with little. There is a
serious distortion in our federative model, which distributes responsibilities and obligations to
subnational levels, while concentrating more than 66% of resources at the national level. For
example, in 2013, the tax concentration was such that only 15.5% of the revenue of R$1.5 trillion
was passed on to Brazil's 5,500 municipalities to invest in sensitive areas such as education,
health, security and transport.

At this juncture, achieving the result of "Moderately Satisfactory" in fulfilling the aimed-for
development objectives of the program is encouraging. This shows how far the reforms, the
commitment and the organization of municipal administrations can do for the quality of life of
Brazilians. Therefore, managers of the municipalities that comprised the PDMI are to be
congratulated.

With regard to our project specifically, there were many challenges we had in the beginning of
the Government administration in preparing the management of the municipality in accordance
with our vision of the city and development. During this period our experiences proved limited in
the face of challenges undertaken—the report correctly identifies a "delay" in the initial project.

To correct the project’s course, we created the Office of Strategic Planning and Special Projects,
and structured the Project Management Unit to bring it physically near the Mayor's Office, in
order to closely monitor and control all issues pertaining to the Santa Maria Project 2020. With
consistent commitment and dedication, we were able to execute in less than 30 months a project
that in other municipalities took at least twice as long.

As pointed out by the report, we complied substantially with the effectiveness and efficiency
requirements of the project; achieved 100% of the final results indicators; and even more pleasing


                                               170
to us, obtained the recognition of more than 80% of the population with the infrastructure works
carried out.

I have no doubt that among the great achievements of our project are the two most complex
institutional development activities of all of PDMI: the Environmental Sanitation Master Plan and
the Urban Mobility Master Plan. These are plans whose quality is unparalleled in the recent
context of the Brazilian municipalities, and they represent a unique breakthrough in the public
management of Santa Maria. These, along with the information technology master plan, the
survey data collected though aerial photographs, and the consequent Multipurpose Cadaster (in
progress), prepare our city for the future, with respect to providing services with high quality and
efficiency for citizens.

As for employment and income generation, although investments were modest, they widen our
continuing efforts in the field of entrepreneurship and innovation to generate economic
development opportunities. Microfinance policy has been an area of special attention since the
beginning of our Government, with significant contribution of financial and technical resources,
and the artisanal sector presents great economic and social potential to be explored and
encouraged, under the General Municipal Law for Micro and Small Business.

In the field of social innovation, the establishment of a community center at the Clube 21 is a
pilot project for community development. This important structure will be managed by the city in
partnership with an association of friends of the Clube 21. At this time, we are taking all
measures necessary to make it operational in the short term, such as the creation of the
Management Plan and the Firefighting and Prevention Plan (PPCI).

Technology Park, as a physical area, will add to the environment of entrepreneurship created
through the Innovation Law. It has sparked the interest for major international investments in the
fields of military, aerospace, information and communication technology, among others. In this
sense, we consider the Santa Maria Tecnoparque a fully operational development instrument.

The huge investment made in urban mobility in the city, creating alternative routes of access to
the urban center and the bus station, such as the Rio Branco tunnel, the widening of Avenida
Helvio Basso, the paving of Avenida Liberdade, and the paving of Ruas Agostinho
Sangoi/Guilherme J. Fabrin, either due to the practical need for or the aesthetic quality of the
works, renewed the good spirits of the population and the confidence of citizens in the work of
the Municipal Government. As the research survey pointed out, more than 80% of the population
is fully satisfied or very satisfied with the activities performed.

However, the highlight of the improvement of infrastructure services is the first major city park,
the Jockey Club Park, an area of 30, 000 m2 for leisure, sports, concerts and shows like the recent
5th International Balloon Festival held on the occasion of the anniversary of the city. Without a
doubt, the Jockey Club is a gift to the city, one which we are dedicating to improving and
expanding, and which has already been approved by 74% of the population.

Meanwhile, we regret that Palotino Park, which would have been the largest green area in the
urban center with a bold architectural proposal by the standards of the State’s southern half, was
not constructed. However, we advanced substantially with the management plans for Palotino
Park and Morro Park, which will allow us to fundraise for investments to offer two further
alternatives for leisure, culture and entertainment for Santa Maria, perhaps with support from the
World Bank itself.


                                               171
Continuing in the environment area, in addition to the continued creation of municipal parks, we
are conducting actions together with Corsan and the Caixa Federal to conclude the Km 3
infrastructure works as soon as possible and ensure access to water and sewage services, as well
as paved and well-lit streets, for more than 1,300 residents of the locality. Complying fully with
the Bank's social and environmental safeguards, our Government is committed to quality of life
and environmental sustainability.

As promised in our correspondence of December 2010, we have managed to make up for lost
time. These last three years of conviviality and hard work were an important learning experience.
It is certain that the lessons learned will be replicated in other programs and projects of the
municipal administration.

To conclude, we would like to thank you on behalf of the population of Santa Maria for the
World Bank's support in all stages of this project.

Fraternally,
Cezar Schirmer
Municipal Mayor




                                              172
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                      ***Not applicable***




                              173
                          Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document / Pelotas (Report No. 39931-BR) – December 10, 2007
Project Appraisal Document / Uruguaiana and Bagé (Report No. 43889-BR) – June 26, 2008
Project Appraisal Document / Santa Maria (Report No. 45098-BR) – November 26, 2008
Project Appraisal Document / Rio Grande (Report No. 47688-BR) – June 5, 2009

Restructuring Paper 1 / Pelotas (Report No. 63733-BR) – November 4, 2011
Restructuring Paper 2 / Bagé, Rio Grande and Santa Maria (Report No. 72292-BR) – December
13, 2012

Environmental Impact Assessment – September 1, 2007
Resettlement Framework – January 1, 2007

Country Partnership Strategy 2008-2011 (Report No. 42677-BR)
Country Partnership Strategy 2012-2015 (Report No. 63731-BR) – September 21, 2011

Aide Memoire (Mid Term Review – Pelotas) – September 13-15, 2010
Aide Memoire (Mid Term Review – Bagé) – September 16-17, 2010
Aide Memoire (Mid Term Review – Rio Grande) – June 7, 2011
Aide Memoire (Mid Term Review – Uruguaiana) – May 2-3, 2011
Aide Memoire (Mid Term Review – Santa Maria) – May 4-5, 2011

Other previous AM’s
Aide Memoires (Uruguaiana, Santa Maria) – September / October, 2010
Aide Memoire (Rio Grande) – September, 2010
Aide Memoire (Pelotas) – June, 2011
Aide Memoire (Bagé) – September, 2011
Aide Memoires (Santa Maria and Uruguaiana) – October, 2011
Aide Memoires (Bagé, Pelotas and Rio Grande) – November, 2011

Aide Memoires (Bagé, Pelotas and Rio Grande) – May, 2012
Aide Memoire (Santa Maria) – June, 2012
Aide Memoire (Santa Maria) – October, 2012
Aide Memoires (Bagé, Pelotas and Rio Grande) – November, 2012

Aide Memoires (Supervision and Completion missions – Bagé, Pelotas, Rio Grande, Uruguainana,
and Santa Maria) – April, 2013
Aide Memoire (FM Supervision mission – Uruguaiana) – June, 2013
Aide Memoire (Santa Maria) – September, 2013
Draft Aide Memoire (Post Completion mission – Santa Maria) – April, 2014

Implementation Status Report 11 – January 19, 2014
Implementation Status Report 10 – July 10, 2013
Implementation Status Report 9 – November 18, 2012
Implementation Status Report 8 – April 29, 2012
Implementation Status Report 7 – July 20, 2011
Implementation Status Report 6 – February 21, 2011
Implementation Status Report 5 – April 29, 2010
Implementation Status Report 4 – November 23, 2009
Implementation Status Report 3 – April 15, 2009

                                           174
Implementation Status Report 2 – September 11, 208
Implementation Status Report 1 – March 4, 2008

Borrowers’ Independent Project Assessment (Phase I – Bagé, Pelotas and Rio Grande) –
February, 2013 (Instituto Publix)

Borrowers’ Independent Project Assessment (Phase II – Santa Maria, Consolidated for the
Program, and Executive Summary) – May, 2014 (Instituto Publix)

Economic Analysis (Complete document – Gerheim, Rogerio Dias) – May, 2014

Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results – November 21, 2012

World Bank (2008-2014), Additional Documents in Project’s Electronic File, including, among
others, Loan Agreements, Guarantee Agreements, Amendment Letters, Management Letters,
Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports, Project Financial Assessments, Project
Procurement Assessments; Washington, D.C.




                                             175
MAP




                              INSERT

                                MAP

                               HERE



            AFTER APPROVAL BY COUNTRY DIRECTOR

      AN ORIGINAL MAP OBTAINED FROM GSD MAP DESIGN UNIT

                       SHOULD BE INSERTED

                    MANUALLY IN HARD COPY

         BEFORE SENDING A FINAL ICR TO THE PRINT SHOP.




                 NOTE: To obtain a map, please contact

                 the GSD Map Design Unit (Ext. 31482)

             A minimum of a one week turnaround is required




                                  176
