Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14063-AZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
GREATER BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
JUNE 6, 1995
Infrastructure, Energy and Environment Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of February 1995)
Currency Unit  =  Manat
US$1   =  4,000 Manats
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC  - Average Incremental Cost
ARWC  - Apsheron Regional Water Company
BOD  - Biological Oxygen Demand
BWA  - Baku Water Agency - "Kommunpromvod"
BWD  - Baku Water Distribution Company - "Bakvodoprovod"
CAS  - Country Assistance Strategy
CDU  - Corporate Development Unit
CBD  - Central Business District
CIF  - Cost Including Freight
EBRD - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECU  - European Currency Unit
EIRR - Economic Internal Rate of Return
EU  - European Union
FSU  - Former Soviet Union
GDP  - Gross Domestic Product
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB  - International Competitive Bidding
IDA  - International Development Association
IMF  - International Monetary Fund
MIS  - Management Information System
MOG  - Ministry of Geology
MOH  - Ministry of Health
MOHCP  - Ministry of Housing and Communal Property
MOI - Ministry of Irrigation
NCB  - National Competitive Bidding
NPV  - Net Present Value
OD  - World Bank Operations Directive
PPF  - Project Preparation Facility
SEC  - State Ecology Committee
SDR  - Standard Drawing Rights
SOE  - Statement of Expenditures
TA  - Technical Assistance
WDR  - World Development Report
AZERBAIJAN - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
GREATER BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ...................................  i-1iii
PART 1. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND ..............                                                                                           1
A.  Country Context ..........................................    1
B.  Regional Context   .........................................    2
C.  Sectoral Context  ..........................................    4
D.  Government Strategy and Bank/IDA  Role  ..........................   7
E.  Bank/IDA  Experience in the Sector  ..............................    8
PART II. PROJECT SETTING AND REFORM STRATEGY ......................                                                                            9
A. Project Setting .                   ........................................... 9
B.  Reform   Strategy  ..........................................  14
PART  III.  THE  PROJECT                     .....................                          ........................  17
A.  Project Origin and Formulation   ................................  17
B.  Project Objectives and Description    ..............................  18
C. Project Costs .                     ........................................... 21
D.  Project Financing   .........................................  22
E.  Environmental Impact   ......................................  23
PART IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION ARRANGEMENTS  .... ......... 24
A.  Organization and Management  .................................  24
B. Procurement .                      ........................................... 24
C. Disbursements .                     ........................................... 27
D.  Project Monitoring   ........................................  28
E.  Project Supervision   ........................................  29
Part V.         FINANCES   .................... ..                                       .........................  29
A.  Past and Present Financial Performance   ...........................  29
B.  Future Financial Performance    .................................  32
PART  VI.  PROJECT  JUSTIFICATION                                  ................                    ....................  35
A.  Project Benefits   ..........................................  35
B.  Project Risks  ............................................  39
PART Vll. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ................. 39



TABLES
Table 1.1 - Greater Baku Population Estimates .....................                         2
Table 2.1 - Per Capita Water Production Capacity .......................... 12
Table 3.1 - Summary of Project Cost Estimates  ........................... 21
Table 3.2 - Summary Financing Plan .................................. 22
Table 4.1 - Procurement Arrangements  ................................ 25
Table 4.2 - Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds ............................ 27
Table 5.1 - Summary Revenue and Expenditure Statement ..................... 30
Table 5.2 - Distribution of Revenue and Water Consumption by Consumer Category  ... . 32
Table 5.3 - Baku Water Tariff Structure ................................ 32
Table 5.4 - ARWC Summary Financial Performance  ........................ 33
Table 6.1 - Distribution of Benefits ................................... 36
Table 6.2 - Average Incremental Cost of Water ........................... 37
Table 6.3 - Affordability of Water Tariffs ............................... 38
ANNEXES
A.  Social Assessment of The Greater Baku Water Supply Rehabilitation Project
B.  Provisional Organizational Structure of the ARWC
C.  Corporate Charter of the ARWC
D.  Terms of Reference for Corporatization Partner
E.  Corporate Restructuring and Training Requirements
F.  Project Implementation Schedule
G.  Detailed Cost Estimates
H.  Environmental Analysis
l.   List of Contracts for Project Implementation
J.   Quarterly Disbursement Estimates
K.  Eligibility Criteria for Special Accounts
L.  Project Monitoring Targets
M.  Project Supervision Forecast
N.  Financial Analysis
0.  Economic Analysis
MAPS
IBRD No. 26889 Greater Baku Sewerage System
IBRD No. 26890 Location of Major Pumping Stations
IBRD No. 26891 Greater Sewerage and Waste Disposal Sites
IBRD No. 26892 Country Map and Major Water Sources
IBRD No. 26893 Greater Baku Water Supply Network
This report is based on the findings of a joint IDA/EBRD Appraisal Mission which visited Azerbaijan
in February 1995. Members of the IDA Appraisal team included: R.C. Wildeman (Task Manager), Jan
Drozdz and Lea Donaldson (Sanitary Engineers), Williamn Mayville (Institutions and Training), Malcolm
Sumnnerfield (Finance and Economics), Piotr Krzyzanowski (Environment), and Ayse Kudat, Klaus
Moeltner and Nezahat Ozman (Social Assessment). Members of the EBRD Appraisal team included:
Johan Bastin (Task Manager), Rod Hewett (Water Resources Engineer), Gavin McDonell (Institutions),
and Richard Beardsall (Water Utility Operations).



AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
GREATER BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Azerbaijan Republic
Beneficiary:           Apsheron Regional Water Company (ARWC)
Amount:                SDR 38.8 Million (US$61 Million Equivalent)
Terms:                 IDA Standard with 35-years' maturity, including 10 years of grace.
Onlending Terms:       Ministry of Finance will onlend the IDA and EBRD funds to the ARWC over
25 years, including 5 years of grace, at 7 percent interest.
Objectives:            The primary objectives of the Project are to: (a) make emergency short term
improvements in the water supply system to restore the water supply to Baku,
in particular to the poorer elements of the population; (b) improve the water
supply system as a whole; and (c) provide the basis for longer term planning
and recovery.
Project Description:    The Project will comprise five major components:
Water Demand Management - conserving water at the household level through
a program of consumer awareness initiatives, through repairs to in-home
plumbing, valves, taps and other fittings, and by rationalizing water use
through meter installations and the implementation of a progressive water
tariff;
Operations and Maintenance Improvements - increasing the amount of water
available from the distribution system through a program of leak detection and
repair, workshop and equipment acquisition, and at least a one year inventory
of selected replacement valves and pipes;
Supply Improvements - improving the quantity and quality of water from the
treatment works and enhancing the reliability of the distribution network
through a program of selective rehabilitation of the major water treatment
plants and pumping stations;
Institutional Capacity Building - reorganizing the water utility into a joint
stock company (ARWC); consolidating its offices in a new headquarters
building; strengthening its institutional capacity through a twinning
arrangement with an experienced water utility; purchase and installation of
computers and requisite software programs; and the development and
implementation of training programs aimed at improving both operational and
administrative effectiveness; and
Studies - preparation and implementation of a national policy framework for
the water sector, preparation of a regional water supply and sewerage master



- jj -
plan, and the development of a second phase Project.
Project Benefits:      The Project is the least-cost solution in terms of yielding maximum benefits
and significantly reducing the public health risks associated with the existing
quantity and quality of water. The benefits resulting from the project would
include: (i) an improvement in public health standards by reducing the
incidence of waterborne and water related diseases; and (ii) a reduction in the
need to invest in "coping" mechanisms by the families who do not get
adequate water. In financial terms, the poor would benefit most from an
improved supply system. However, in terms of improved water quality, both
low and high-income families would benefit in equal proportions. Further,
improvements to the quality and quantity of water extend beyond Baku to the
half million or more people living within the metropolitan region. The Project
will also assist the productive sectors by increasing the availability of a
critically needed commodity, notably a reliable and sustainable supply of
potable water.
Environmental Impact: An environmental review has been prepared consistent with the provisions of
the World Bank's Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment"
and the applicable environmental procedures of the Government of Azerbaijan.
The Project has been placed in environmental screening category "B", since
most of the potential impacts are expected to be beneficial.
Project Risks:         There are risks inherent to a first-time investment operation for a new
borrower. These risks include: (a) delays in Project implementation due to the
limited experience of ARWC in this type of activity; (b) possible
understatement of construction costs due to the limited experience of ARWC
with actual costs for implementation and previous lack of construction
experience to meet international standards in this sector; (c) reluctance of the
Government to face up to the challenges of implementing the requisite sector
and institutional reforms; (d) underestimating the extraordinary effort and
long-term commitment required to achieve financial viability in the water
supply sector; and (e) unrealistic and hence demoralizing expectations that the
Baku water supply crisis could be resolved quickly. These risks will be
reduced through the early establishment of a twinning arrangement with
another water utility, by significant supervision by staff from Bank
headquarters, by the use of appropriate physical and price contingencies, by
the on-going dialogue with the Government and ARWC, by building the
capacity of ARWC to carry out its responsibilities effectively through
extensive technical assistance support, and by an extensive public
information/education program to be financed under the Project.
Project ID Number      AZ-PA-8288



- iii -
Project Costs (in US$ million): 94.9
US$ Millions
Project Components                                                          % of
Local  Foreign  Total     %    Base Cost
Foreign
A. Water Demand Management                 1.82    3.63    5.45    67         7
B. Operations and Maintenance Improvements    2.96   21.45   24.41    88     33
C. Supply Improvements                     4.12   27.09   31.21    87        42
D. Institutional Capacity Building         2.12    5.21    7.33    71        10
E. Studies                                 0.41    3.12    3.53    91         6
F. Project Supervision                     1.04    0.88    1.92    46         3
Base Costs                               12.47   61.38   73.85    83       100
G. Physical Contingencies                  1.39    6.56    7.95    83        11
H. Price Contingencies                     1.26    6.43    7.69    84        10
Total Project Costs                      15.12   74.37   89.49    83       121
I. Interest & Fees                         0.00    4.41    4.41    100        7
J. Repayment of PPF Advance                0.00    1.00    1.00   100         1
Total Costs to be Financed                15.12   79.78   94.90    84       129
Financing Plan:                                  US$ Millions
LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL
IDA                                 7.4      53.6      61.0
EBRD                                0.0      23.0      23.0
Government                          7.7       3.2      10.9
Total                              15.1      79.8      94.9
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year                1996     1997    1998    1999    2000       2001
Annual                           10.9    12.9    17.1    15.7       3.5       0.9
Cumulative                       10.9    23.8    40.9    56.6    60.1        61.0
Cumulative % of Total            17.8    38.9    67.0    92.6    98.5    100.0
Economic Rate
of Return:          26.7 percent
Poverty Category:     Program of Targeted Interventions






AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
GREATER BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Country Context
1.1        Country Profile. Azerbaijan lies on the southeastern flanks of the Caucasus mountains,
bounded on the north by Georgia and the Russian Federation, on the east by the Caspian Sea, on the
south by the Islamic Republic of Iran, and on the west by Armenia (see IBRD Map No. 26892). It is
one of the smallest countries of the Former Soviet Union (FSU), covering an area of about 86,000 kIn2,
similar to Austria. Azerbaijan is endowed with fertile agricultural land and natural resources, including
substantial underdeveloped petroleum reserves, and contains one of the oldest oil-producing regions of
the world. Oil production has been declining, however, because existing fields have reached a state of
advanced depletion and agreements to develop new fields are only now being concluded. The country
also has a diversified industrial structure, a relatively well-educated labor force, and a buoyant and
rapidly expanding private sector.
1.2        The population of Azerbaijan is estimated at about 7.4 million people in 1993, compared
to 6 million in 1979 and 5.1 million in 1970. These statistics indicate a declining growth rate, from 1.7
percent per annum during the period 1970-79, to about 1.2 percent during the period 1989-93. By 1993,
over half of the population lived in urban areas.
1.3        Notwithstanding its political independence in 1991, Azerbaijan has continued to remain
closely tied to the FSU. The country remained in the ruble zone throughout 1992, and the deeply
entrenched economic interdependence continues. In addition to transitional difficulties, the unsettled
situation in Nagorno-Karabakh and the continuous conflict with Armenia has contributed to a drastic
decline in output. The large number of refugees (about one million) and the occupation of territories by
Armenian forces have been a major contributor to political instability in the country. As a result,
Azerbaijan has undergone frequent governmental changes. These unfavorable developments have also
been influential in diverting the Government's attention away from addressing the economic and reform
challenges facing the nation.
1.4        During 1992, after three years of relatively small declines, Azerbaijan's economy underwent
a particularly sharp contraction with a rapid acceleration of inflation. These trends continued into 1993
and early 1994. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 1993 was only about 60 percent of its 1988 level.
The worsening economic situation in 1993 was also marked by a serious deterioration in both fiscal and
external balances. Nonetheless, the Government initiated reform measures to liberalize the economy and
ensure the transition to a market economy. In this connection, the Government took an early decision
to introduce a national currency, the manat, liberalized most prices, initiated financial sector reforms, and
began developing the necessary legal and institutional framework to support these changes. On the other
hand, enterprise restructuring and land reform were limited. However, the recent cease-fire and the
improved prospects for peace in Nagorno-Karabakh have strengthened the Government's determination
to accelerate comprehensive reforms. The Government has concluded the purchase under the IMF's
Systemic Transformation Facility for a comprehensive program of stabilization and structural reform,
and has requested the Bank to support its reform efforts with a Rehabilitation Credit.



B. Regional Context
1.5        Greater Baku. Because the economy of Azerbaijan relies heavily on a diversified range
of activities performed by the Central Government, Baku dominates the metropolitan region. Its position
as the seat of Government and the principal educational, cultural and industrial center of the country,
further increases its attractiveness to the most talented professionals, who are reluctant to locate outside
of the city because of less promising career prospects. Thus, the urban structure of Azerbaijan exhibits
a striking degree of primacy, with more than two-thirds of the urban population or 2.5 million people
concentrated in Greater Baku'. As shown in Table 1.1, the 1993 population of Baku was estimated at
about 1.7 million inhabitants, but this figure may have increased to more than 2 million as a result of the
influx of refugees from the conflict in and around Nagorno-Karabakh. However, it is envisaged that
future population growth will be moderate and many of the refugees are expected to return to their homes
once the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict is resolved. With the population of Greater Baku projected to reach
only about 2.8 million people by the year 2015, demographic pressures arising from rapid population
growth are not expected to be significant in the demand for urban services.
Table 1. 1: Greater Baku Population Estimates
(In Thousands)
1993      2000      2005      2010       2015
Baku City - Indigenous                1,732     1,798     1,899     2,017      2,147
Baku City - Refugees                   286        57        60         64         68
Total                                2,018      1,855     1,959     2,081      2,215
Other Areas - Indigenous               467       482       513        548        584
Other Areas - Refugees                  94         19       20         21         23
Total                                  561       501       533        569        607
Grand Total                          2,579     2,356      2,492     2,650      2,822
1.6        Urban Amenities. Early records mention the existence of Baku in the fifth century,
although present-day Baku did not really begin to develop until the middle of the nineteenth century when
the first oil well was drilled in Bibi-Eibat (1847) on the western promontory of Baku Bay. Additional
oil developments followed in the second half of the nineteenth century, and by the beginning of the
twentieth century, the area accounted for about 50 percent of the world's crude oil production. This new
wealth sparked the development of Baku's western waterfront with the construction of mansions, schools,
libraries, hospitals, parks and gardens, hotels, concert halls, museums, and an opera house. The city's
first public water supply system was constructed in 1917. Present-day Baku has all of the basic attributes
of a modern urban center, including an extensive transport network, an underground metro system, an
international airport, and the largest port on the Caspian Sea (nine general cargo berths, a ferry terminal,
and specialized facilities for dry and liquid bulk cargoes). Many of these facilities, however, suffer from
significant deferred maintenance.
' Includes Baku City, the industrial complex of Sumgait City and the Apsheron Districts of Karadag, Surakhani,
Sabunchu and Azizbekov.



- 3 -
1.7          Employment Base. A high proportion of the population in Greater Baku is recorded as
economically active--1992 estimates indicate a participation rate of 55 percent (which is common in
central and Eastern Europe, but is high in comparison to Western Europe). The unemployment rate was
estimated at 10 percent in 1992, although this figure may have risen sharply in the light of the difficult
economic conditions and the decline in industrial capacity utilization following the collapse of the
guaranteed market under the FSU. In Greater Baku, industry accounts for about 25 to 30 percent of
employment, while government, conmmercial and service sectors represents a further 50 to 55 percent of
employment. There are more than 400 industrial plants in the metropolitan region, mainly comprising
oil refining, chemicals, engineering, and machinery. This industrial base is complemented by a broad
range of medium-scale industries, notably food processing, tobacco and beverages, textiles, consumer
goods, building materials, metal and metal products, electrical equipment, plastics, and rubber products.
1.8        Health Profile. General health indicators show that in 1990 life expectancy at birth was
71 years of age, with infant mortality at 23 per 1,000 live births. These levels compare favorably with
other Central Asian Republics, but there is cause for concern that the general social and health conditions
may decline in light of the current economic crisis and the rapid deterioration of basic infrastructure and
environmental facilities. Morbidity figures indicate a high incidence of hospitalized cases of waterborne
and water-related diseases. Moreover, recent data suggest that the more life-threatening diseases such
as typhoid/para-typhoid, viral hepatitis, and cholera are spreading in the region.
1.9        Climatic and Spatial Characteristics. The capital city of Baku is located on the edge of
Baku Bay on the southern side of the long narrow Apsheron Peninsula, which extends about 60 km into
the Caspian Sea. The prevailing climate on the peninsula is dry and subtropical in the summer with
average daily temperatures of about +260 C in July and August, and dry and cold in the winter with
average daily temperatures of about +30 C in January. Annual precipitation is 110 to 250 nun per year,
and falls mainly in early spring and late autumn. Because of these climatic conditions, Baku traditionally
has had to rely on distant water sources to satisfy domestic, industrial, and agricultural demand (see IBRD
Map No. 26892). The spatial distribution of the city is divided into four main zones:
(a)  the Central Business District (CBD), with a population density of about 2,679 people per
km2, faces the waterfront at the western end of Baku Bay and comprises the old city, most
central government organizations, commercial offices, cultural amenities and almost all of
the hotels. A large industrial area is also located at the western point of the bay along with
oil wells;
(b)  the Central Eastern Area, with a population density of about 6,719 people per krn2, also
fronts the bay and comprises large industrial enterprises, heavy industries, informal
settlements established near the factories, and numerous high-rise apartment buildings along
the periphery;
(c)  the Western Area, with population densities ranging between 13,375 and 19,900 people per
km2, is dominated by residential high-rise apartment buildings, although future expansion
is constrained by the surrounding hills; and
(d)  the Eastern Area, with population densities ranging between 770 people and 7,950 people
per kmi2, comprises both medium and heavy industries, residential development and small-
scale garden agriculture.



-4 -
C. Sectoral Context
1.10       Institutional Setting. In the past, control over fiscal management and national and regional
planning was highly centralized in Moscow. Since independence, these functions have been assumed by
the national government, but continue to be administered through a conunand-style hierarchy similar to
that which existed before. Jurisdictionally, the water supply and sewerage sector is the responsibility of
the following five ministries:
(a)   Ministry of Irrigation (MOI) - is responsible for the overall national water balance
including the allocation of surface water resources between potable water and agricultural
use, and is also responsible for the operation, maintenance and ownership of all dams,
canals and lakes;
(b)   Ministry of Geology (MOG) - responsible for all groundwater resources and is the
originating agency for issuing groundwater extraction licenses as well as serving as an
advisor to the various Governmental agencies on matters associated with water resource
development;
(c)   Ministry of Health (MOH) - responsible for setting the quality standards for drinking
water, although in practice there is little or no effective enforcement of those standards,
despite the fact that many water samples in the Baku area do not meet the required
standards;
(d)   State Ecology Committee (SEC) - responsible for regulating environmental standards--
while this agency is developing an appropriate legislative framework, effective enforcement
is constrained by lack of resources due to the current economic situation; and
(e)   Ministry of Housing and Communal Property (MOHCP) - owns and operates regional
and municipal water supply and sewerage agencies, which are responsible for the bulk
transmission, treatment and distribution of potable water and the collection and disposal of
sewage. The exception is rural areas, which fall under the jurisdiction of the MOI, and
which are usually supplied by pipelines with the dual function of providing both agricultural
and domestic water.
1.11       Sewerage services are provided by the MOHCP in conjunction with the municipalities. To
optimize potential benefits of lower overheads and common maintenance facilities, there is a strong view
within the sector that water and sewerage services should be administered by a single agency. This view
has considerable merit and will be addressed in the context of a water and sewerage master plan to be
financed under the Project.
1.12         Water Service Levels. In large urban areas, more than 95 percent of all households and
industrial users are directly connected to the public water supply system. However, in the allocation of
piped water between domestic and industrial consumers, industry has historically received priority
according to planned quotas determined by the type of product and capacity of each individual factory.
Even in times of acute water shortages, priority has gone to serving the needs of industry first. Domestic
water rationing, therefore, has always been the norm. Recently the problem has been amplified, mostly
because of a marked physical deterioration in the systems. In the larger urban areas, many households



- 5 -
are restricted to six hours or less of piped water per day.
1.13       To gain a better idea about the potential impact of water service levels on Baku residents,
IDA initiated and designed a household survey/social assessment in July 1994, which was carried out by
the Azerbaijan Institute of Social Management and Political Sciences in conjunction with the State
University of Baku. The major findings of the social assessment on service levels are summarized in para
2.13 and described more fully in Annex A.
1.14       The objectives of the social assessment were to identify key stakeholders and to propose an
appropriate framework for their participation in project design and implementation, to evaluate the social
impact of the proposed interventions on households and to investigate whether certain social groups may
be adversely affected, to design social mitigation measures for those who would experience negative
impacts if necessary, and to ensure that project objectives and incentives for change are appropriate and
acceptable to all beneficiaries. The social assessment consisted of a rapid household survey, undertaken
with the assistance of local academicians and researchers, community-based discussions conducted through
informal household visits and interviews, informal interviews with private sector providers of water, and
case studies of a small subset of households from the rapid appraisal sample.
1.15       Sewerage Service Levels. Sewerage service levels are even lower than those for water.
In the larger urban areas, one-third of the population is not connected to a municipal sewerage system.
In the case of adjacent towns and villages outside of Greater Baku but still within the Apsheron Peninsula,
none of the urban centers have proper sewerage systems and virtually none of these areas have treatment
facilities. In fact, sewage is usually discharged into the nearest lake or ground soakway. Existing
sewerage systems are in poor condition, leading to groundwater contamination and imminent risk of
polluting the water supply system through pipes built too closely together. The rising water level of
many of the natural lakes on the Peninsula is attributed to wastewater discharge. In the smaller urban
and rural areas the situation is even more precarious.
1.16       Constraints to Water Sector Development. Three major constraints have been identified
that significantly impede the development of the sector, notably: (i) the lack of finance for maintenance,
rehabilitation, and, in the longer term, new investment; (ii) the lack of a proper policy and analytical
framework; and (iii) a non-comrnercial approach to pricing:
(a)   Lack of Finance. The planning and budgetary process followed by the Government
generally, and by the Baku Water Agency (BWA) in particular, does not appear to be
sufficiently analytical to help policymakers make the proper determinations that will
facilitate overall sectoral efficiency.  The sector's budgetary process and the related
mechanisms of fiscal management have been described as a chronic shortage of funds
coupled with a continuous search for an appropriate balance between competing needs.
Thus, the recent economic uncertainties, which have been exacerbated by the Nagomo-
Karabakh conflict, and the demand for scarce resources from other sectors, will continue
to impose difficulties for the water and sewerage sector in obtaining the resources it needs;
(b)   Lack of Policy and Analytical Framework. While the jurisdictional fragmentation of the
sector is well known and in many respects a holdover from the previous era, it will,
nevertheless, require immediate attention if progress is to be made in streamlining the
sector. Further, under present arrangements, individual projects are formulated by the



- 6 -
sectoral agency, and the task of producing detailed designs is assigned to state-owned
engineering institutes. In the analysis of projects, technical feasibility and compatibility
with narrow sectoral objectives appear to be the main emphasis, rather than the economic
analysis that would help policymakers make well-informed decisions. While a master plan
to be prepared under the Project is expected to provide some of the answers, it is important
to emphasize that for a metropolitan region the size and complexity of Greater Baku, the
master plan at best can only be a rough, although strategic guide to investment choices; and
(c)   Pricing. Pricing is a serious issue. Tariffs and charges bear little relation to production
and operating costs and sewerage services are provided free. The current low tariff levels
represent a major constraint in generating the resources needed to finance a program of
rehabilitation and maintenance. Arguably, some of the water "shortages" may well be
manifestations of underpricing, despite a consumer willingness to pay at a level that covers
the cost of provision. Bank/IDA experience has shown, for example, that the price charged
for water and sewerage services signals to the consumer its value--excessively low prices
often encourage the consumer to use more than is economically justified. Excessive use of
water in Baku is illustrated by the large number of constantly leaking faucets and faulty
sanitary fittings in many of the public buildings and private households.
1.17        Environmental Context. The Apsheron Peninsula is the site of one of the three most
industrialized regions in the FSU. Its ecosystem is replete with the residue and legacy of nearly a century
of environmental neglect. Importantly, this area is one of the oldest oil-producing regions in the world.
As a consequence of oil exploitation, as well as intense industrialization under the Soviets, the surface
and underground hydrosphere has caused 7,000 ha. of land to be polluted, with a thickness varying from
2.5 to 20 meters. This in turn has led to both flowage and underflooding, created bogs, increased
abrasion processes, polluted the Bay of Baku (with environmental imnpact on those who live near the Bay
or walk along its perimeter), and engendered serious pollution of the Caspian Sea--the level of which
is rising. A further problem pertains to the health care institutions themselves, which discharge biological
contaminants directly into the wastewater system. In addition, none of the 92 hospitals and 11 medical
institutes in the Baku area is equipped with adequate facilities for treating wastes before discharging them
into the municipal network (see IBRD Map No. 26889).
1.18        In the water sector, industrial contamination, generally inadequate water treatment, and
unreliable water supply and distribution pose serious social, health, and even industrial problems. Most
of the groundwater resources are contaminated by industrial and municipal wastes dumped or discharged
haphazardly (see IBRD Map No. 26891). The main source of pollution in the water distribution network
is the inflow of dirty groundwater that accumulates as a result of burst water and sewerage pipes which
the water company lacks the means to repair (to be addressed under the Project.)
1.19        Finally, there is a notable absence of realistic environmental standards and enforcement
mechanisms--although the Soviets developed rigorous guidelines, evidence suggests they were seldom
applied. Over time several industries developed their own environmental bureaus which theoretically
monitored environmnental impact; however, clearly self-policing has never worked. The result is a
widespread lack of coordination of environmental policies and standards.
1.20        There are four agencies involved in environmental monitoring and 200 monitoring sites,
including monitoring of marine ecosystems, freshwater, groundwater, and atmospheric pollution. In the



- 7 -
current austere economic climate, lack of resources has seriously jeopardized all such activities, including
research. Recently, the State Ecological Committee drafted a package of environmental legislation that
incorporates international experience and concerns in the areas where monitoring takes place. This
legislation was submitted for parliamentary action in the spring of 1994 and is still pending.
Additionally, the National Sanitary Board, in cooperation with the Ecological Commission, has prepared
a manual that would establish national enviromnental standards which also awaits parliamentary approval.
D. Government Strategy and Bank/IDA Role
1.21       As part of the country's medium-term development program, Government strategy now
places high priority on developing the country's natural resources, especially in the petroleum and
agricultural sectors; channelling increased revenues toward expenditures and investments that will best
contribute to a sustainable and broad-based development; strengthening its transition to a market economy
with modern institutions and a flourishing private sector; and providing adequate infrastructure. The
Government has held discussions with the IMF on implementing an economic stabilization program, and
is seeking assistance from the IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility (STF). It has also requested that
the Bank support its efforts with a Rehabilitation Credit, which will be considered in the framework of
the Government reaching an understanding with the IMF on the STF program, and with the Bank on a
credible program of structural reforms.
1.22       The Bank/IDA assistance strategy aims to support Azerbaijan in its transition to a market
economy through policy advice, economic and sector work, and lending for investments and technical
assistance (TA). A limited Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) has been developed. The Bank's main
focus includes support for economic transformation through assistance for institutional strengthening and
related financial support to the economy. At the sectoral level, Bank/IDA expects to focus on projects
in the energy, agricultural and social infrastructure sectors. An essential element of the Bank/IDA initial
assistance strategy is helping prepare the social safety net for the massive restructuring of the productive
sector that lies ahead. Bank/IDA is planning to develop two or three projects per year over fiscal years
1995-97. The amount of annual lending will depend on the pace of reform and resolution of critical
external factors, including the regional conflict with Armenia. Azerbaijan became eligible for IDA
assistance in December 1994, and the first two projects in the country will be on IDA terms.
1.23       The Greater Baku Water Supply Rehabilitation Project, which will be the Bank's first
infrastructure operation in Azerbaijan, is a critical component in strengthening the Social Safety net. The
Project has a strong poverty focus, as it will assist the poorer sections of to gain improved access to an
essential service. In addition to serving the residential population, the Project also benefits the productive
sectors by increasing the availability of a reliable and sustainable supply of potable water. The Project
has been designed with clear and simple objectives to facilitate implementation and have a high chance
of achieving its development impact quickly. Specifically, the Project would support the transition
process through key policy reforms and adjustment measures in the water sector. These include
strengthening cost recovery principles, pursuit of sound financing mechanisms (including financial
resource mobilization), and fostering the development of a strong institutional framework to contribute
effectively to the country's overall development process. This strategy aims also at institutionalizing a
rational decision-making process for new investments in the water and sewerage sector. In the absence
of IDA involvement, it is unlikely that the Government would be able to mobilize the financial resources
required to implement a water supply project for this economically and environmentally important area
of the country.



-8-
E. Bank/IDA Experience in the Sector
1.24       Bank/IDA  project experience in Azerbaijan is limited to implementation of Project
Preparation Facilities (PPF). This indicates that institutional capacity for implementation is limited, and
that responsibilities are often not well delineated between Government and enterprises. Close attention
will needed to be paid to procurement, due in part to the lack of familiarity with Bank procedures.
Further, the practical aspects of implementation, such as international communications and language
difficulties, can create delays.
1.25        The Project design, therefore, has relied on the extensive experience of Bank/IDA in the
sector. As of December 31, 1993, Bank lending to the water supply and sewerage sector totalled US$11
billion, funding 277 projects. While most of these projects were successful in achieving their physical
objectives and in achieving least cost solutions, there has been limited success in achieving strong and
financially viable institutions and poverty relief. In the few cases where physical objectives were not met,
the principal cause was cost overruns that resulted in some project components being dropped--mainly
those dealing with sanitation and pollution control initiatives. It is noteworthy that cost overruns were
seldom caused by poor cost estimating, but rather the consequence of inflation and delays in construction.
1.26        Bank experience also has shown that achieving institutioral and financial viability through
project design has proved elusive. In general, measurable success has been achieved only in projects that
enjoyed the full commitment of the borrower and substantial resources for training and technical
assistance. A recent World Bank study, which examined more than 120 urban water projects between
1967 and 1989, has concluded that despite efforts at capacity building for the public institutions
concerned, only four countries--Botswana, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, and Tunisia--have achieved
acceptable levels of performance for public water and sewerage utilities. The same report found that the
financial performance of water and sewerage agencies was equally poor. Some of the reasons for the less
than optimal results, which were also confirmed in the 1994 World Development Report (WDR), include:
(i) lack of clear sector policies; (ii) lack of management and financial autonomy; (iii) staff inexperience
in project implementation; and (iv) lack of participation by users and other stakeholders in the decision-
making process. Few Bank/IDA projects were able to demonstrate measurable success in meeting the
needs of the poor. This does not necessarily mean that the projects were unsuccessful, since a major
constraint in measuring poverty reduction was the lack of detailed data on the number of poor households
and their location, and when success was achieved, the lack of an empirical basis for measuring it.
1.27        In any event, the lessons are clear. From a demand perspective, the message is that the
various stakeholders must be trusted to choose from a menu of service levels that they want and are
willing to pay for. From a supply perspective, the lesson is that rigorous attention must be paid to water
conservation and system optimization, so that households can be provided with a particular level of
service at the lowest possible cost. These lessons, to the extent feasible, have been incorporated into the
design of the Project in four specific ways:
(a)   the IDA initiated social assessment was a first step towards generating informed public
participation in the design of the Project. The study also demonstrated a clear willingness
on the part of the consumer to pay for improved water supply. As a consequence of the
assessment, a larger Government constituency is evolving in support of policy and pricing
reforms. The question now, therefore, is not what should be done, but rather the conditions



- 9 -
and timing under which reforms might be successfully implemented;
(b)   care has been taken to elicit strong support for the Project at both the Government and
implementing agency level;
(c)  special emphasis has been given to increasing public awareness on the merits of water
conservation and environmental protection and to optimizing existing water production
capacity (no new investments for capacity increases are proposed under the Project); and
(d)  substantial amounts of training and technical assistance have been incorporated into the
Project to support initiatives aimed at streamlining the sector, restructuring the existing
water supply administration, and providing both operational and administrative training
opportunities geared to improve service delivery, clarify lines of authority, and set
appropriate pricing policies.
II. PROJECT SETTING AND REFORM STRATEGY
A. Project Setting
2.1        Sources of Water. The Greater Baku system obtains water from three separate sources (see
IBRD Map No. 26892): (i) Shollar and Hachmas Groundwater Aquifers; (ii) Jeiranbatan Reservoir; and
(iii) the Kura River. These sources represent exploitation of both surface and underground resources.
The Shollar and Hachmas extraction facilities, generally known as Baku I and Baku 2, respectively, were
constructed in 1917 and were the first sources to be developed to serve Baku. Located about 185 kms
to the northwest of the city, these sources exploit an aquifer flowing under artesian conditions.
2.2         The Jeiranbatan Reservoir is fed with water by canal from the Samnur River located about
200 km north of Baku on the Russian border. The reservoir has a storage capacity of about 186 million
m3 (150 million in3 net) and is recharged at the rate of about 25 m3/s, of which 15 m3/s is earmarked for
irrigation purposes. The most significant beneficial feature of the reservoir is that it acts as a long-
retention presettlement pond, thus greatly enhancing the final quality of the treated water. However,
during the winter months the supply of water is affected by significant seasonal variations due to freezing
of the Samur River and the transmission canal. The Kura River originates in Georgia and flows through
Azerbaijan where it is joined by the Araks River (which originates from tributaries in Iran and Armenia)
en route to the Caspian Sea. Both rivers are reputed to be heavily polluted2 and turbidity levels are high,
especially during the spring run-off.
2.3        The Kura, Araks and Samur Rivers are international waterways within the meaning of the
World Bank's Operational Directive (OD) 7.50. However, the Project is exempt from the notification
requirement pursuant to OD 7.50 for the following reasons: (i) the Project will finance only rehabilitation
2 Data available from the former USSR Ministry of Health indicate that ammonia nitrates are 2 to 3 times
higher, refinery waste products 8 times higher, copper and zinc 10 times higher, and phenol 20 times higher than
former USSR norms.



- 10-
and upgrading of existing systems; (ii) the rehabilitation activities will have no adverse affect on the
quantity or quality of water flows to or from any other riparian country; (iii) there is no indication that
the Project would be appreciable harmed by other riparians possible use of water and (iv) there have been
no findings to suggest that any international agreements exist between Azerbaijan and other riparians on
the sharing of international waters that mnight be affected by this Project.
2.4        Water Treatment Facilities. Ground water originating from the Shollar and Hachmas
Aquifers is of potable quality and treatment is not required. The combined production of these sources
is about 4.0 m3/s, of which about 1.5 m3/s is used by the towns and villages along the way. The water
flows by gravity to within 40 km of Baku before pumping is necessary.
2.5        The Jeiranbatan Treatment Works are located adjacent to the Jeiranbatan Reservoir. The
yield from the reservoir for domestic water supply is about 10 m3/s. Constructed in various stages from
1961 to 1978, the treatment works are of traditional design and use a mixture of horizontal and upward
flow settlement basins followed by rapid sand filters. Chlorination is provided at both inlet and outlet.
Although still functioning, the treatment works are in need of urgent rehabilitation.
2.6        The Kura River Treatment Works, which are located about 140 km to the south of Baku at
a point 45 km downstream from the confluence of the Kura and Araks Rivers, were constructed in two
stages between 1971 and 1988. It is noteworthy that the treatment works are provided with presettlement
tanks of unusual design based on radial flows and using polychromide as a coagulant. This unusual
design, together with shortages of the coagulant, are creating conditions whereby suspended solids are
not being sufficiently removed prior to conventional treatment. Under heavy sediment loads3 carried by
the river, the conventional horizontal tanks and rapid gravity filters become overwhelmed, leading to
inefficient chlorination and substandard water quality. In an attempt to overcome this problem, a start
was made on constructing presettlement lagoons covering an area of almost 170 ha; however, due to lack
of funds, these facilities have yet to be completed.
2.7        When operating at full capacity, the Jeiranbatan and Kura River Treatment Works can
supply up to 20 m3/s of potable water.
2.8         Pumping Stations and Transmission Mains.  All water from either the sources or
treatment works must be pumped at some stage. There are 13 pumping station sites (see IBRD Map No.
26890), some with more than one pumping station and all with more than one combination of pumps.
Most of the pumps and equipment are in very poor condition, so that equipment failure and service
interruptions are common. Further, the stations comprise a number of incompatible combinations of
pumps and motors, thus greatly reducing the overall efficiency of the system. In addition, most of the
pumping stations lack operating and maintenance manuals; operators often are not familiar even with the
basic instructions developed when the equipment was originally installed. Further, in most stations the
pumps and motors are mounted on separate foundation blocks, making proper alignment of the pump and
motor shafts almost impossible, thus resulting in excessive wear and frequent breakdowns. At prcsent,
motor failure is reported to be the largest single cause of service interruptions. The electrical stepdown
stations and transformers supplying power to the pumping stations are in equally poor condition.
I At point of intake, the Kura River averages a sedimentation level of 300 mg/l, but often reaches 1200 mg/l
and occasionally 6,000 mg/I.



- 11 -
2.9        The main transmission pipelines, while in generally good condition, are large-diameter,
unprotected steel pipe varying in size from 900 mm to 1,400 mm. Eventually, these pipes should be
protected with a corrosive resistant material. There are over 500 km of 1,400 mm mains and 300 kmn
of 1,200 mm mains.
2.10       Distribution Network. There are over 2,500 km of distribution pipes in Baku (see IBRD
Map No. 26893), mostly of unprotected steel. Generally, the pipes are badly corroded and in poor
structural condition. In 1993, for example, BWA records indicate that almost 3,500 bursts and leaks
were attended to. Because residential housing in Baku mostly consists of high-rise apartment buildings
that lack roof storage for water, local boosting is a requirement. The BWA has 261 such booster pumps,
most of which are also in very poor condition. A random sample in two districts during the 10-month
period from January to October 1994 showed that 65 booster pumps required 378 maintenance and/or
repair visits. The poor condition of the booster pumps has meant that most residents living above the
third floor must carry water from a standpipe on the ground floor to their apartments. On-site inspection
suggests that leakage and waste within the system is also high; however, due to the absence of meters or
other measuring devices, the amount cannot be determined with precision.
2.11       Storage Capacity. The total water storage capacity for the Baku system is about 850,000
m3 or about 21 hours of estimated daily demand. In theory, capacity of this magnitude would normally
be sufficient for diurnal and seasonal balancing of emergencies. However, some of the reservoirs are
known to leak badly and the majority have not been cleaned for a number of years. Moreover, a
considerable amount of sediment has accumulated in many of the reservoirs. This is suspected of being
the major reason why recent water samples taken from the reservoirs show evidence of bacteriological
and fecal contamination. In addition to the main service reservoirs, there are many smaller reservoirs
owned and operated by district housing authorities. These reservoirs are outside the control of the BWA
but are also known to leak and many have continuously running overflows.
2.12       Service Levels. About 95 percent of all households in Greater Baku are connected to the
system. Water connections within Baku total about 42,000, of which 41,000 are domestic subscribers
and just under 1,000 industrial. However, it is widely known that there also many illegal connections.
About 10,000 meters have been installed over the years but fewer than 400 work.
2.13       Thus, while nearly all of Baku's households are considered officially connected to the public
water supply system, on average water is available to individual families for only 22 days per month for
a maximum of 11 hours per day. The July 1994 Social Assessment revealed the following insights on
consumer "coping" strategies engendered by the low service levels:
(a)   virtually 100 percent of the households in all neighborhoods and income groups suffer from
unreliable, intermittent, and insufficient water service, while 87 percent of all households
believe the public water is unsafe to drink;
(b)   peripheral communities and infornal settlements that encroach on former industrial sites are
particularly disadvantaged with regard to public water supply--these peripheral settlements
also contain the largest proportion of low-income groups;
(c)   women, the elderly, and those on fixed incomes appear to bear the greatest burden of the
water supply crisis;



- 12 -
(d)   an estimated 40 to 60 percent of water billings are not collected because local officials are
reluctant to enforce payment in light of current service levels and the suspect quality of the
water;
(e)   most households have developed alternative water supply strategies to cope with the
insufficient and irregular supply of public water, including boiling tap water (75 percent),
installing storage tanks (53 percent), drilling private wells (23 percent), and buying water
from vendors (20 percent); and
(f)   households spend about 17 times more on alternative water supplies than on their monthly
water bills--the poor spend a significantly higher proportion of their income (7 percent) than
the wealthy (2 percent). In financial terms, therefore, the poor would benefit most from
an improved supply system. However, in terms of improved water quality, both low-and
high-income families would benefit in about equal proportions.
2.14        Unaccounted For Water. Because master flow meters have never been installed at any of
the treatment facilities or pumping stations, nor have individual water meters been installed at the
household level, the total production and consumption capacity of the Baku system cannot be accurately
measured. Water production data, therefore, are computed in a general approximation based on the rated
capacity of the pumps and the number of hours per day that each pumnp is in operation. This crude
measure indicates a total daily production capacity of about 23m3/s or 2 million m3/day. Meaningful
consumption levels are impossible to determine. Assuming a total population of about 2.3 million
consumers, overall per capita water production totals about 800 liters per person per day (lcd), which is
extremely high even for industrialized cities in Europe or North America4.
Table 2.1: Per Capita Production Capacity
1995     2000    2005    2010       2015
Population Served (OOOs)           2,338   2,239    2,473    2,650       2,822
Unaccounted for Water (%)             70      45       40       35        30
Total Production Requirements (lcd)    862   526      551      542        536
2.15       Against this backdrop, data provided by the BWA suggest that unaccounted for water is
extraordinarily high and varies between 65 percent and 70 percent of production. These figures
underscore the urgent need to reduce wastage in the system as quickly as possible and suggests that major
investments in system expansion should be delayed until the existing system is brought to order. For
example, Table 2.1 below shows the impact on water production requirements if leakage and waste of
water could be restricted to about 45 percent of production by the end of the decade and to 30 percent
of production by the year 2,015--additional capacity would not be required for at least 20 years and
possibly longer based on current population estimates.
I In highly industrialized cities such as Philadelphia, Rome, and San Francisco, consumption levels range
between 600-700 lcd; in major cities with industry or areas with liberal supplies such as London, Glasgow,
Marseilles, Turin, Sydney and Antwerp, the range is between 400-500 lcd; in cities with temperate climates such
as Liverpool, Bologna, Frankfurt, and Stockholm, it is between 300-350 lcd.



- 13 -
2.16       The condition of water pipes within public and private buildings is poor as is the condition
of the service connections and meters. Because billing is based on a flat rate computed on the number
of occupants per household, there is no pricing incentive to conserve water or repair leaks. Apart from
the losses attributed to leaks and bursts in the network and from overflowing local reservoirs, BWA data
suggest that the amount lost from sanitary fittings within households is equivalent to about 10 percent of
production. Therefore, a consumer education and water conservation program has been included in the
Project to address this issue. In most cases, the wastewater plumbing appears to be adequate and will
not be addressed under the Project.
2.17       The Baku Water Agency (BWA). The BWA employs a total staff of about 3,600 people
and is divided into two sub-units: (i) BWA, itself, which is responsible for producing the water and
selling it on a wholesale basis to the towns and villages along the transmission pipelines; and (ii) its
subsidiary, the Baku Water Department (BWD), which is responsible for water distribution within the
city of Baku, including the operation and maintenance of the Baku system. BWA employs a staff of
about 2,400 people and is divided into three functional departments: (i) Technical and Engineering; (ii)
Construction and Vehicle Transport; and (iii) Water Production Facilities.
2.18       BWD employs a staff of about 1,200 people and is divided into similar departments. In
addition, BWD operates through nine district headquarters, each with a full staff complement including
a manager, two senior supervisory engineers, a personnel officer, payroll clerk, cashier, technical teams
of three to four people, and field personnel at pumping stations and workshops (often nearly one-third
of total staff). The lines of reporting are idiosyncratic, and hiring often mirrors social realities of the past
and present (pensioners comprise most of the laborers at the pumping stations and in the workshops, and
some returning veterans of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict have been hired).
2.19        Five major institutional constraints have been identified that significantly impede the
effectiveness of BWA, notably (i) the corporate culture under which it must operate; (ii) the fragmentation
of its operations; (iii) major operational constraints; (iv) limited budgeting and planning capacity; and (v)
lack of transparency in the accounting and internal control system:
(a)   The Corporate Culture. BWA is a centrally managed government department with little
or no management and financial autonomy. Management is characterized by a top-down
style inherited from the previous Soviet system, with all decisions centrally controlled and
micromanagement pervasive. Clearly there is a need to implement fundamental changes in
the way the utility conducts its business;
(b)   Fragmentation of BWA Operations. The headquarters and key managers of BWA and its
subsidiary, BWD, are located in a small building in the central part of the city. On the
other hand, many of the key administrative and financial functions of these companies are
handled by offices scattered across metropolitan Baku, which is the consequence of the
corporate culture and inadequate space at the headquarters facility;
(c)   Major Operational Constraints. The general operating and maintenance standards of the
Baku system fall well below acceptable levels, partly because equipment, tools, and spare
parts are virtually unobtainable and partly because of the poor organizational and operating
methods that are currently in place.  Operationally, large water main bursts remain
unrepaired close to district headquarters (some of which are controlled by makeshift dikes),



- 14 -
which underscores the inadequacy of the water company to address even the most obvious
leaks. There are also numerous and clearly visible illegal water connections into urban
communities, including near reservoirs in Greater Baku. This points to a severe lack of
institutional capacity and responsiveness at the most basic operational level. Clearly,
commercial operations are impossible under these chaotic circumstances;
(d)   Liniited Budgeting and Planning Capacity.  Generally, there is extremely limited
collection and reporting of information vital to the commercial management of the water
company. In addition planning is on an ad hoc basis, and authorities are instead forced to
spend much of their time responding to the latest crisis in the water supply and distribution
system; and
(e)   Lack of Transparency in the Accounting and Internal Control System. The accounting
system, to the extent it exists, is a cash based, double entry, manual system with even the
most basic management information difficult to obtain. There are no computing facilities
available and recorded information is paper-based with few proformas in use. Basic internal
control systems such as perpetual inventory records or monthly balancing of accounts
receivable ledgers to control accounts have never been installed. Further, fixed asset
registers do not exist, so that BWA is uncertain as to precisely what it owns. In spite of
the size and complexity of BWA, it has no internal audit section. While external
government inspectors undertake selective audits on an annual basis, these do not approach
the level of sophistication required for a commercial undertaking.
B. Reform Strategy
2.20        Rationale. The profile that emerges from the Baku water and sewerage sector comprises
a number of different agencies and ministries, often with overlapping or unclear lines of authority. Each
ministry has independently progressed into sectoral implementation tasks, thus impeding the efficient
development of multisector planning, programming and budgeting initiatives. The result has been a
piecemeal response to sectoral needs that has tended to focus on the installation of large-scale physical
infrastructure facilities. Because many of these facilities were not operationally integrated into a program
of asset maintenance and improvement at the planning and implementation stage, operating and
maintenance requirements have traditionally assumed a low priority in the national budgeting process.
Today, many of the infrastructure systems, especially the Greater Baku system, have regressed into a state
of systemic degradation, exhibiting the accumulated effect of decades of inadequate maintenance.
2.21        Nevertheless, over the last three decades, the Government has made substantial investments
in water infrastructure. However, the focus of this investment policy has been on the quantity of
investments. Improving the quality of investments is also vital. Further, while the BWA is a public
utility and should be perceived as a commercially oriented undertaking, it should be recognized that until
recently it has always operated at a loss, never generating sufficient funds to meet day-to-day expenses
nor to cover its working capital needs, or the contributions required to finance new works; the BWA
became accustomed to operating as a highly subsidized institution, and its management philosophy has
been deeply ingrained along these lines. This, coupled with the sectoral fragmentation at the national
level and low operating efficiencies at the sectoral level, have all played a part in reducing the impact of
the earlier investments and point to the need for a major reform initiative. Creating the institutional and
organizational conditions that oblige the water agency to be more efficient and more responsive to the



- 15 -
needs of users is clearly the major challenge of this Project. This challenge will be addressed through
a five-point intervention program: (i) creating a macro environment conducive to change; (ii) acquiring
adequate working facilities; (iii) creating an appropriate institutional framework; (iv) establishing the
internal capacity to manage reform; and (v) corporatizing the new agency.
2.22       Creating a Macro Environment Conducive to Reform.  It is envisaged that the
Government will have a continuing but changed role in the new water company--from that of a direct
provider of services to that of a regulator. In this connection, it is important that a policy and regulatory
framework be established at the national level that coordinates cross-sectoral interactions, including
private involvement in the provision of infrastructure, safeguards the interests of the low income groups,
and improves environmental safeguards. Consultants, in cooperation with the water company and
designated ministries, will carry out a study and prepare an Action Plan to define overall sector goals,
recommend policy changes, develop a regulatory framework, and propose a developmental strategy and
an action plan for implementing the strategy. Agreement was obtained during negotiations that the study
will be carried out by June 30, 1996 by consultants acceptable to IDA and that the results of the study
will be discussed with IDA and implemented by December 31, 1996.
2.23       Acquiring Adequate Working Facilities.  In the context of the reform strategy. the
Government has agreed that all departments and entities associated with the Greater Baku water sector,
now widely scattered throughout the city, will be consolidated in one location under one management
structure. To facilitate this process and expedite the internal restructuring initiative, a new building has
been acquired and will be refurbished to house the new fully integrated institution. This will make it
easier to create a management environment within which decisions can be taken regarding appropriate
staff skill mix, institutional capacity gaps that constrain meeting sector needs, establishment of training
programs and ways and means identified to implement them, and internal reorganization changes to bring
about a more efficient water authority, including pinpointing operational areas suitable for privatization.
2.24       Creating the Appropriate Institutional Framework. As the first step in the reforn
process, the Government has established the water utility as a legal entity subject to company law,
including formal separation of ownership and management responsibilities through a board of directors.
The company has its own contracting and salary regime. The new company has been named the
Apsheron Regional Water Company (ARWC) because its service area generally comprises most of the
Apsheron Peninsula. In its earlier years the company will be initially owned by the Government, but as
the reform process becomes more firmly established, the company ultimately may be privatized through
public stock offerings. Initially, it is envisaged that the new company will be controlled through a severn
person Board of Directors comprising the Minister of Economy; Minister of Finance; Minister of Housing
and Communal Property; Mayor of Baku; Managing Director of the Company; and two members of the
private sector. The provisional organizational structure of the ARWC is shown in Annex B while the
corporate charter is shown in Annex C.
2.25       Establishing the Internal Capability to Manage Reform. In order to: (ii) facilitate the
transition of the BWA from a Government department to a joint stock company; (ii) integrate the
previously fragmented activities of the BWA into the ARWC; (iii) develop and implement the internal
operating systems for the ARWC; and (iv) manage all aspects of Project implementation, a Corporate
Development Unit (CDU) has been established in the ARWC. The CDU, in effect, will become the
nerve center of the corporatization process and will be assisted in its activities through a corporate
development arrangement with a qualified water agency acceptable to IDA from Europe, Asia, or North



- 16 -
America. Previous experience has shown that such an arrangement can be helpful in assisting a CDU
in introducing new mechanisms, in mobilizing reform constituencies, and in developing a strong
counterpart to speak for the enterprise in executive and legislative debates. The Terms of Reference for
the corporate partnership arrangement are contained in Annex D. Because of the importance of the
corporate partner, its selection is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
2.26       Corporatization of the ARWC. Responsibility for the corporatization of the ARWC will
rest with the CDU which will prepare an overall corporate restructuring plan. After review and approval
by IDA, the restructuring plan will be implemented by consultants acceptable to IDA. The plan will
include explicit performance objectives and well-defined budgets. As an important tool in this process,
a management information system linked with both operational budget planning and strategic planning
will be installed and will include, inter alia, a general ledger module with provision for departmental
accounting; an automated, fixed-asset module to provide all pertinent information on depreciation and an
easily retrievable means of handling revaluations; a general accounts receivable module for fully
automating the billing and collection process; a payroll module for processing salaries and wages with
provision for receiving data from timekeeping and job cost-modules; and a cost accounting module to
separately account for wages, materials, etc. in the central and district workshops, as well as in the
treatment facilities and major pumping stations. A description of the Corporate Restructuring Plan,
including the training components, is contained in Annex E. Agreement was obtained during negotiations
that the corporate restructuring plan will be prepared by December 31, 1995 and implemented by
December 31, 1996.
2.27       The corporate restructuring plan will place special emphasis on improving the maintenance
capability of ARWC. The existing entity currently operates a passive leakage control policy, in that leaks
are repaired only when they are visible above the ground. This was appropriate in view of the shortage
of materials for repairs and the high losses caused by burst mains and customer plumbing systems.
However, as the system is renewed and pressures increase, the incidence of pipe failure will likely
increase, thus escalating the need for efficient and responsive operational control.  Training will
undoubtedly need to take place and be sustained to ensure the quality of the repairs made. It is important,
therefore, that a leakage inspection repair team be set up and properly equipped to travel the routes of
trunk mains so that leaks may be promptly repaired. This effort will be targeted at those trunk and
transmission mains which are shown by measurement to have high losses. Agreement was obtained
during negotiations that such teams will be in place by December 31, 1995;
2.28       At present, public perception of the service provided by BWA is negative. The future
success of ARWC is largely contingent on successfully soliciting consumer cooperation. To ensure
proper implementation of this part of the restructuring plan, it will be necessary for the ARWC to recruit
a public information officer with a small department to develop and deliver a proactive public relations
strategy aimed at reversing the image of the agency and explaining its current and future plans and the
important role it plays in respect to the quality of life in the city. Agreement was obtained during
negotiations that such an individual will be appointed by September 30, 1995.
2.29       The present personnel function deals principally with personnel records and recruitment.
Little or no emphasis has been placed on staff demands, personal development, industrial relations and
structured training programs.  In fact, over the past several years staff training initiatives have
experienced a steady decline. To ensure the success of this part of the restructuring plan, therefore, it



- 17 -
will be necessary for the ARWC to recruit a qualified human resource and training coordinator to
rationalize personnel services and develop and deliver training programs aimed at both operational and
administrative personnel. Moreover, there will be a need to consolidate human resource functions within
the new corporate structure along with the training function. Agreement was obtained during negotiations
that such an individual will be appointed by September 30, 1995.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
3.1        Background. The Project will be the first Bank/IDA infrastructure investment operation
in Azerbaijan. During the reconnaissance mission in January 1994, Bank/IDA was asked to consider
making a sizeable credit to the Government to address the major problems associated with the water and
sewerage sector in Greater Baku. It was concluded, however, that: (i) the cost of such a program would
exceed all available resources for a single lending operation; and (ii) the current weak performance
capacity of the designated institutions, including poor maintenance practices and low tariff levels, would
preclude consideration of such an operation without substantial upfront institutional restructuring and
financial reforms. It was agreed, therefore, that a longer-term development program divided into two
or more phases would be the preferred strategic approach.
3.2        Current Phase.  In this nexus of service requirements and financial constraints, an
improved formal water supply service was clearly the first priority of Govermment in this sector. The
1994 reconnaissance mission concurred with this assessment. It was agreed with the Government that
the first phase, which is covered by the proposed Project, will focus on addressing the widespread
inefficiencies in the production and distribution of potable water through a major institutional reform
initiative (paras 2.20-2.29). It was also agreed that, in terms of physical works, the first phase would
be limited in scope and would comprise a five-year "time-slice" of the most urgent priority works that
would have an immediate and demonstrable impact on improving the reliability and quality of water
supply to domestic consumers and hence on the general living standards of the population. Such works
would be characterized by relatively low costs and high benefits. Given the need to complete the
sewerage master plan and the limited resources either at the Government level or with potential funding
agencies, it was agreed to defer any sewerage investments to a second phase program.
3.3        Subsequent Phases. The Government recognizes that full rehabilitation of the Baku system
will be a long and costly process. Second and subsequent Phases, therefore, will be aimed at water and
sewerage network rehabilitation and possible expansion to existing capacity. It is noteworthy that the
aggregate cost of dealing in a comprehensive way with the water and sewerage sector in Greater Baku
is expected to be large. Rehabilitation of the water network alone will probably exceed US$300 million.
Similarly, the collection and treatment of sewage is very expensive. Typical investment costs for
collecting sewage from a household are approximately US$1,000. Treatment costs increase this amount
to nearly US$1,500 for primary treatment alone. If these figures are applied to Greater Baku, this
translates into a potential investment requirement of about US$600 million. For higher levels of



- 18 -
treatment, as now mandated by many industrial countries, costs are much higher'. Compounding this
already formidable challenge is that sewerage services in Greater Baku are being managed with even less
efficiency than water services. It was agreed, therefore, that additional investments in the water and
sewerage sector should be preceded by the preparation of a regional water and sewerage master plan.
Typically, such a plan would take from one to two years to complete.
B. Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3.4         The primary objectives of the Project are to: (a) make emergency short term improvements
in the water supply system to restore the water supply to Baku, in particular to the poorer elements of
the population; (b) improve the water supply system as a whole; and (c) provide the basis for longer term
planning and recovery. Although such a rehabilitation effort does not normally have extensive policy
conditionality, the Project will ensure that the BWA: (a) Apsheron Regional Water Company (ARWC)6,
successor to the BWA, becomes a market orientated joint stock company; (b) establishes a twinning
arrangement with a modern, market-oriented water agency from a developed country; and (c) consolidates
its operations under one management structure in one location. In addition, the cost recovery covenant
in the credit agreement will ensure that ARWC makes substantial progress towards financial soundness.
Given the existing situation, this represents an appropriate balance arnong the needs to: (a) restore the
water supply; (b) lay the basis for long-term sustainability; and (c) recognize the modest institutional
capacity from which ARWC is starting.
Project Description
3.5         The Project has been designed collaboratively with the direct participation of the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). To achieve its objectives, the Project comprises five
main components: (i) water demand management; (ii) operations and maintenance improvements; (iii)
supply improvements; (iv) institutional capacity building; and (v) studies.
3.6         Water Demand Management (US$6.7 million, or 7.1 percent of total project costs).
Losses and wastage at the household level are significant, mainly because of the lack of incentives and
the lack of awareness to conserve water. To address this problem, the component has been divided into
the following three sub-components:
(a)   Metering and Billing. As a first step in the process of optimizing water use, a metering
program will be implemented in conjunction with the revision of existing billing practices.
About 15,000 domestic water meters will be installed. At the same time, the billing system
5 To cite one example, it is estimated that the United Kingdom will have to invest about US$60 billion (about
0.6 percent of GDP) in wastewater treatment over the next decade just to meet the new European water quality
standards.
6 Because the BWA is a regional producer of bulk water for most of the towns and villages in the Apsheron
Peninsula as well as a retail distributor of water for Greater Baku, Government authorities decided to name the new
company commensurate with its geographic responsibilities.



- 19 -
will be gradually changed from flat rate billing to metered billing. Where only the
installation of a single building meter is possible, follow-up inspections by ARWC staff will
be implemented to check for adequate customer plumbing systems;
(b)   Consumer Education. The second step in the process comprises a consumer awareness
program aimed at providing very practical advice on how to reduce water losses and how
to optimize water use. The campaign will include television commercials, posters and the
use leaflets in selected areas where losses are known to be high, where pressures are high,
or where remedial works are proposed; and
(c)   Household Leakage. About half of the households in Baku have continuously leaking toilet
cisterns and current data indicate that these leaks comprise about 10 percent of the total
unaccounted for water. Renewing these valves is relatively inexpensive so that about
180,000 such units will be installed by independent contractors.
3.7        Operations and Maintenance Improvements (US$28.7 million, or 30.3 percent of total
project costs). There are about 3,500 main repairs per year in Baku. However, such repairs have little
impact due to the lack of proper equipment and materials. To improve the effectiveness of such main
repairs, the operations and maintenance capacity of the ARWC will be strengthened. This will be
achieved through the following two sub-components:
(a)   Vehicles, Workshops and Equipment. A number of crew vehicles, light vans, trucks and
other construction equipment will be acquired. Workshops will replaced or refurbished and
supplied with the requisite tools, equipment, and communications equipment, including
compressors, welding sets and portable pumps, etc. and
(b)   Materials. As the leak detection and repair program takes effect and the incidence of burst
pipes become more significant as a consequence of the increasing line pressure, the need
for a significant inventory of materials will increase. In order to accommodate this
requirement, at least a one-year supply of pipes, valves and fittings will be purchased.
3.8        Supply Improvements (US$39.5 million, or 41.7 percent of total project costs).
Improvements to the reliability and quality of water to the consumers require a sustained supply of water
from the treatment works to the final end-user. This will be achieved through the following three sub-
components:
(a)   Rehabilitation of Jeiranbatan and Kura River Treatment Facilities. The quality and quantity
of water from these facilities will be improved through a turnkey contract arrangement (see
para. 4.6) which consist of: renovating the chemical dousing and filtration systems,
refurbishing the presettlement tanks and the filter washwater systems, replacement and/or
rehabilitation of electrical transformers, high-lift pumping stations, switching gear, pumps,
and internal piping and filtration facilities;
(b)   Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations. The Baku service area has 13 major pumping stations
and 261 booster stations. Many of these pumps are 20 to 25 years old; the typical useful
life of pump sets of this type is generally 15 years. These facilities will be rehabilitated on
an as-needed basis with pump replacements/repair, rehabilitation of electrical transformers,



- 20 -
and replacement of internal piping; and
(c)   Master Meters. To accurately measure water production and to control and monitor system
performance, master flow and turbine insertion meters will be installed at each of the water
sources, major pumping stations, service reservoir discharge outlets, and at key points in
the distribution network.
3.9        Institutional Capacity Building (US$8.3 million, or 8.7 percent of total project costs).
The ARWC recognizes that technical improvements will not of themselves lead to an improved and
sustainable level of service to the consumers. The organization and management of the ARWC needs
to be restructured through a comprehensive reform strategy in a fashion consistent with the systems of
administration locally in force, but able to operate the water supply system in an efficient manner
providing acceptable minimum levels of service. This will be achieved through two sub-components:
(a)   Technical Assistance. A twinning arrangement with a modern water utility and related
training will provide the framework for the commercial operation of the newly corporatized
water company.  Specific programs also will be designed to assist ARWC in the
implementation of the consumer education program, the introduction of new technology into
ARWC, and the implementation of an Institutional Restructuring Plan aimed at reorganizing
and strengthening the management systems, especially accounting, billing and collection,
financial management, information management, and operations management. Similarly,
both formal and informal on-the-job training to all staff will be provided; and
(b)   Office Consolidation. The administrative offices of the ARWC are inadequate both in size
and configuration to carry out nornal administrative and management functions. The
Government has agreed to obtain an existing building of adequate size for the ARWC with
adjacent property that would be suitable for constructing future maintenance and stores
facilities. The newly acquired building would be remodelled, furnished, and equipped with
appropriate office equipment, including computers, photocopying machines, drafting tables
and the like.
3.10        Studies and Construction Supervision (US$6.3 million, or 6.6 percent of total project
costs). The preparation of a Phase 11 Project for Baku will be placed within the context of (i) the
preparation and implementation of a national policy framework; and (ii) the preparation a regional water
and sewerage master for the Apsheron Peninsula, which will address all current sector issues by taking
into account possible future developments and options by looking to a 20-year design horizon. The
essential elements of the master plan will include, inter alia:
(a)   an estimation of water and sewerage demand taking into account demographic changes, city
regeneration requirements, domestic and industrial location and relocation options, and
agricultural needs;
(b)   an evaluation of existing abstraction, treatment and distribution facilities, including field
measurements of water pressure, flows, storage and system efficiencies, leading to the
creation of a computer model to identify areas of inadequate supply or pressure;
(c)   an evaluation of various sewerage schemes, including technical and economic evaluation of



- 21 -
different development scenarios using different treatment levels; and
(d)   an assessment of pricing mechanisms and consumer ability to pay leading to proposals for
a self-financing operation for the maintenance of the water and sewerage network.
3.11        Interest During Construction. (US$4.4 million or 4.6 percent of total project costs).
3.12        Repayment of the PPF Advance. (US$1.0 million or 1.0 percent of total project costs).
C. Project Costs
3.13        The total cost of the Project, including an allowance for physical and price contingencies
of US$15.6 million, is estimated at US$94.9 million, of which about US$79.8 million or about 84 percent
represents the foreign exchange component. The cost estimates were prepared by consultants and revised
during appraisal based on final designs, equipment specifications, and a survey of construction costs
undertaken during project preparation. The estimated cost by component is summarized in Table 3.1
below, while detailed cost estimates are presented in Annex F. Base costs are expressed in January 1995
prices. Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of a 2.5 percent annual international
inflation rate and a project implementation period of six years.
Table 3. 1: Summay of Proiect Cost Estimates
(In US$ Millions)
Project Components                                                                   % of
Local   Foreign   Total   % Foreign  Base Cost
A. Water Demand Management                      1.82     3.63     5.45      67         7
B. Operations and Maintenance Improvements      2.96    21.45    24.41      88        33
C. Supply Improvements                          4.12    27.09    31.21      87        42
D. Institutional Capacity Building              2.12     5.21     7.33      71        10
E. Studies                                      0.41     3.12     3.53      91         6
F. Project Supervision                          1.04     0.88     1.92     46          3
Base Costs                                    12.47    61.38    73.85     83        100
G. Physical Contingencies                       1.39     6.56     7.95      83        11
H. Price Contingencies                          1.26     6.43     7.69      84        10
Total Project Costs                           15.12    74.37    89.49     83        121
I. Interest & Fees                              0.00     4.41     4.41    100          7
J. Repayment of PPF Advance                     0.00     1.00     1.00    100           1
Total Costs to be Financed                     15.12    79.78    94.90      84       129
Status of Project Preparation
3.14        The Project has been prepared with the assistance of foreign consultants acceptable to IDA
and EBRD. The consultants completed a feasibility study and submitted their final report in January
1995. Final designs are expected to be completed in June 1995. Bidding documents for the procurement
of water meters, the repair of in-home plumbing fixtures, leak detection and repair, the purchase of



- 22 -
maintenance equipment, the construction of maintenance garages, and the acquisition of at least a one year
supply of maintenance stores are now prepared. Bidding documentation for the remaining components
should be ready for bidding by July 1995. A project implementation schedule is contained in Annex G.
D. Project Financing
3.15         Extensive discussions have been held between IDA and EBRD concerning the financing
arrangements between the two institutions. The summary financing plan is presented in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: Summary Financing Plan
(In US$ Millions)
Project         Financed By:               % Financed
IProject Components:                       Cost      IDA     EBRD    Govt    IDA    EBRD    Govt
1. Metering                                   2.06    1.55              0.51    75.0              25.0
2. Household Leakage                          4.61    3.45               1.16   75.8              25.0
A. Water Demand Management                    6.67    5.00               1.67    75.0             25.0
3. Vehicles & Equipment                      11.80   10.02      1.78            85.0    15.0
4. Leak Repair Materials                     13.28   10.62      2.66            80.0    20.0
5. District Depots                            2.96     1.69              1.27    57.2             42.8
6. Laboratory Refurbishment                   0.64    0.64                      100.0
B. Operations & Maintenance                  28.68   22.97      4.44    1.27    80.0    20.0       5.1
7. Treatment Plant Rehab                     21.86    18.58              3.28    85.0             15.0
8. Pumping Station Rehab                     16.53             16.53                    100.0
9. Master Meters                              1.10              1.10                    100.0
C. Supply Improvements                       39.49    18.58    17.63    3.28    47.0    44.7       8.3
10. Office Consolidation                      3.00    1.50               1.50    50.0             50.0
11. Corporate Partner                         2.16    2.16                     100.0
12. Staff Training                            0.73    0.73                     100.0
13. Consumer Education                        1.08    1.08                     100.0
14. Management Information System             1.13    1.13                     100.0
15. Billing System                            0.25    0.25                     100.0
D. Institutional Building                     8.35    6.85               1.50    82.0             18.0
16. National Policy Framework                 0.50    0.50                     100.0
17. Regional Environmental Plan               1.44    1.44                     100.0
18. Preparation of Phase 11 Project           2.06    2.06                     100.0
E. Studies                                    4.00    4.00                      100.0
19. Construction Supervision                  2.29    1.59      0.70            69.4    30.6
20. Interest During Construction              4.00     1.01              2.99    25.2             74.8
21. Financing Fees                            0.42              0.23    0.19             54.0     46.0
22. Repayment of PPF Advance                  1.00    1.00                      100.0
Total Financing Requirements                 94.90   61.00     23.00   10.90    64.3    24.2       11.5



- 23 -
3.16       IDA Lending Arrangements. IDA will provide a credit of SDR 38.8 million (US$61
million equivalent) to the Republic of Azerbaijan at standard IDA terms with 35-years' maturity and 10
years of race. The IDA credit will be used to finance contracts procured in accordance with IDA
guidelines for the purchase of goods, works and consultant services.
3.17       EBRD Lending Arrangements. EBRD will make a loan of ECU 17 million (US$23
million equivalent) to the Republic of Azerbaijan at standard EBRD terms with a 3-year grace period and
a 15-year maturity at an interest rate of one percentage point over LIBOR. The loan will be used to
parallel finance the purchase of goods works and consultant services in accordance with EBRD
procurement guidelines. Satisfactory evidence that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
EBRD loan have been fulfilled is a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
3.18       Onlending Terms. The Government will on-lend the proceeds of the IDA Credit and
EBRD loan (US$84 million equivalent) to the ARWC under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to
IDA and the EBRD. The subsidiary loan will carry repayment terms of 25 years with a 5-year grace
period at 7 percent interest. Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement is a condition of effectiveness of
the IDA Credit and the EBRD loan.
E. Environmental Impact
3.19       Environmental Impact. Preparation of the Project has included environmental studies
consistent with the applicable procedures of the Government of Azerbaijan and the provisions of World
Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment." In accordance with these procedures,
consultants have prepared an environmental analysis, complying with the requirements of a Category B
project (see Annex H). The Project is conceived as a package of urgent measures to restore order to the
water sector both institutionally and technically, along with identifying a menu of activities in a sector
master plan that ultimately will bring about the needed improvement in the quantity and quality of water
supplied to the Greater Baku area, thus leading to overall environmental improvement and increase in the
quality of life for all segments of the population.
3.20        Implementation of the Project will result in improvements to the quality of potable water
through reduction of potential cross-contamination from polluted soil and strengthen the capacity of
ARWC to monitor water quality and to develop and process reliable data that can be used to select
priority interventions. The Project will increase the volume of sewage discharged, although the total
solids and BOD loadings should increase only slightly especially if the Project's water conservation
strategy is successful. Resources are insufficient, however, to address the sewerage needs in the Project
area and the first priority and focus of the Project is to bring the water supply system to order. It is
envisaged that the next phase of investments will provide additional resources to improve the sewerage
collection systems in developed areas and to provide a minimum level of treatment, which would likely
comprise at least screening and grit removal. While only about 50 percent of the sewage is now treated,
the danger from hazardous wastes is not likely to increase.



- 24 -
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Organization and Management
4.1        Managing the Transitional Process and Implementing the Project. The implementing
agency for the Project will be the newly created Apsheron Regional Water Company (ARWC), successor
to the BWA. The ARWC has been established as a legally autonomous joint stock company with its own
contracting and salary regime. The sector reformn strategy and the ARWC corporatization process has
been outlined in paras 2.20-2.29. The technical capacity for institutional strengthening and Project
implementation will be established through a twinning arrangement between the ARWC and a modern
water utility acceptable to IDA. The need for a twinning arrangement is paramount, especially given
the demands associated with the transitional process in converting the former water utility into a new
institution based on international operational and administrative standards used by commercially viable
water companies.
4.2        To facilitate the corporatization process and to manage Project implementation, a Corporate
Development Unit (CDU) has been established within the ARWC. The CDU's principal activities have
been organized around ARWC's operational departments which, during the transitional period, will
parallel those of the BWA. The CDU will be staffed initially by five Azeri Nationals and five expatriates
provided by the corporate partner, each of whom will have appropriate experience in procurement and
construction management, water utility operations, treatment plant operations and finance and
administrative systems. While the CDU reports to the ARWC Managing Director (formerly head of the
BWA), day-to-day operations are the responsibility of a CDU Director. When operating at full capacity,
the CDU will have a staff of about 10-12 professionals and an equal number of paraprofessionals. The
corporate development partner is expected to remain an integral part of the CDU for about three to four
years, after which ARWC may decide to extend its services.
4.3        It is noteworthy that the twinning arrangement has been be tailored to generate institution-
building as an integral part of the deployment of the CDU, as well as direct involvement of those who
will become the future managers of the ARWC. At the same time, there is an immediate need for the
corporate partner to train the executive management of the former BWA (now the executive management
of the ARWC) in management techniques, especially those pertaining to organizational change and
transition management. This need is paramount, since the CDU and senior management will be those
charged with the responsibility to subsequently train selected managerial candidates to take over the
operations of key departments in the ARWC. Moreover, in line with the twinning exercise and the
training of executive managers, the human resource, technical, and managerial reforms contemplated over
the life of the project will be institutionalized with the direct assistance of the corporate partner. This
will involve training at all levels of personnel, both at headquarters and in field offices in a well
coordinated and targeted way.
B. Procurement
4.4        The procurement of goods and works will be carried out by the CDU with the assistance
of the consultants for final designs, bid documentation preparation, and construction supervision services.
The consultants will also advise the CDU on contract administration and additional experts will be
brought in on an as-needed basis. Most of the contracts will be fully engineered prior to bidding and
award. The contracts will require close supervision to instruct the contractors on the work to be carried



- 25 -
out on a day to day basis and to measure the quantity of work accomplished for payment purposes.
Careful records will also be kept of the changes that will be made to the system for the updating of water
system maps. All IDA financing components, including consultants services will be procured according
with IDA Procurement Guidelines of January 1995 and Consultants Guidelines of August 1981.
4.5         The procurement arrangements for the project components are described below and are
summarized in Table 4.1. A list of contracts for Project implementation is contained in Annex I.
Table 4.1 Procurement Arrangements
In US$ Millions
Procurement Methods (1) and (7)
Project Elements                         ICB         Other       NIF(6)       Total
1. Turnkey Contract                        21.85                   16.54        38.39
(18.50)                             (18.50)
2. Civil Works                               1.92    6.00 (2)        1.1         9.02
(1.54)     (4.20)                   (5.74)
3. Goods                                   24.86     3.01 (3)       4.44        32.31
(24.00)     (2.70)                  (26.70)
4. Consultant Services                               9.06 (4)       0.70         9.76
and Training                                       (9.06)                   (9.06)
5. PPF                                               1.00 (5)                    1.00
(1.00)                  (1.00)
Total                                      48.63       19.07       22.78        90.48
(44.04)    (16.96)                  (61.00)
Note:      (1) figures in parenthesis are the amount to be financed by the proposed IDA Credit.
(2) Local Shopping defined in Project Agreement.
(3) International shopping , plus Local Shopping .
(4) Hiring Consultant Firms according with IDA Guidelines.
(5) Consultants hiring for Project Preparation.
(6) Non IDA Financing.
(7) Excludes Interest During Construction
4.6         Turnkey Contracts.  Two turnkey contracts (US$38.39 million equivalent), one to
rehabilitate pumping stations (US$16.54 million equivalent to be financed by EBRD), and the other to
rehabilitate both water treatment plants, which will be financed by IDA (US$21.85 million equivalent)
will be procured under ICB procedures. To procure the rehabilitation of the treatment plant contract, a
two-stage bidding process for prequalified contractors will be used. The first stage will comprise
technical proposals on the basis of the conceptual designs already prepared by the consultants. The
second stage will comprise priced bids on the basis of the amended final technical proposals.



- 26 -
4.7        Civil Works. Small and scattered civil works in packages not to exceed US$100,000
equivalent, which would not be of interest to foreign contractors, in an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$6.0 million equivalent, would be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotation obtained from at least three prequalified contractors in response to a written invitation.
The invitation will include a detailed description of works, including specifications and drawings (where
applicable), the required completion date, and a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA.  These
contracts will be for the installation of equipment and material procured separately, such as the installation
of meters and the construction of workshops at the district level. Newly formed local contracting
companies with foreign capital are expected to qualify and create a competitive environment for the
procurement of these contracts.
4.8        Goods. Several goods contracts for the supply of water meters, computers, operating and
maintenance equipment, and maintenance stores with an aggregate value of US$24.86 million equivalent
which will be financed by IDA, will be procured through ICB procedures, using IDA Standard Bidding
Documents for Goods. A margin of preference equal to 15% of CIF price of imported goods or actual
custom duties and import taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed for domestic manufactures. Purchase
of goods in packages less than US$100,000 with an aggregate value of US$2.30 million equivalent,
comprising operation and maintenance equipment, and spare parts for repair work will be procured by
International Shopping. A minimum of three quotations from qualified suppliers from at least two
different countries will be required. Furniture and construction materials to be financed by IDA, in
individual contracts not to exceed US$50,000 equivalent and in an aggregated amount of US$0.71 million
equivalent will be procured under local shopping acceptable to IDA. There are a number of local
suppliers who create a competitive environment.
4.9        Consultant Services. Consultant services for: (a) developing the Consumer Education
Campaigns; and (b) implementing institutional capacity strengthening (US$9.06 million equivalent) will
be hired through Short Listing, in accordance with IDA Guidelines for Use of Consultants. The
institutional strengthening component will be procured under a twinning arrangement with a water utility
having consulting expertise. Selection of the twinning partner is underway and is in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
4.10       IDA Prior Review.  Prior review by IDA will be required for all prequalification
procedures, and civil works and goods contracts procured through ICB, including the turnkey contract.
Also, prior review by IDA will be required for the first two locally procured contracts for works, and
consultant contracts with firms over US$100,000 equivalent. Terms of Reference for all consultancies
will be pre-reviewed by IDA. Other contracts will be subject to selective post-award review.
4.11       Local Procurement Procedures A Country Procurement Assessment Report has not yet
been completed. However, procedures to be used for local shopping were discussed with authorities in
the Ministry of Economy who confirmed that there are no laws or regulations that would prevent the
ARWC from adopting shopping procedures acceptable to IDA. In future, IDA will be assisting the
Government in the development of a regulatory framework for public procurement.
4.12       Management and Supervision of Procurement The CDU will be responsible for all
procurement under the Project. The CDU will be assisted by foreign consultants and/or local institutes
who will prepare together with ARWC staff all documentation and evaluate all bids. While the staff of
the CDU initially may be inexperienced with IDA procurement guidelines, the foreign consultants



- 27 -
engaged to assist them should minimize potential procurement problems and excessive delays. The
consultants are expected to be hired by August, 1995.
4.13       Reporting Procurement information will be collected and reported by the CDU to IDA and
the EBRD for each contract award. In addition, information on the status of procurement under the
Project will be reported quarterly.
C. Disbursements
4.14       The Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of six fiscal years (1996-2001) with
an estimated closing date of December 31, 2001.  Forecasts of expenditures and disbursements are
shown in Annex J. Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds are shown below Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2 Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
In US$ Millions
Category             Amount            % of Expenditures to be Financed
Turnkey Contract                 18.5      85%
Civil Works                      4.0       65%
Goods                            27.4      100% of foreign expenditures
100% of ex-factory cost of local expenditures
85% of other local expenditures
Consultant's Services            4.0       100% of expenditures
Refund of PPF Advance             1.0      100% of expenditures
Unallocated                      6.1
Total                            61.0
4.15       Withdrawal applications will be supported by standard documentation, with the exception
of applications for expenditures against (i) the first two contracts for works, (ii) contracts of less than
US$100,000 equivalent for works and US$100,000 equivalent for goods contracts, which will be
submitted on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA. In such cases, procurement and other supporting documentation will be retained by the CDU.
Procurement and other documentation related to SOE disbursements will be subject to post review. The
minimum withdrawal application will be US$50,000. Use of the SOE procedure is justified based on the
relative simplicity of the Project's financing arrangements. The design and construction supervision
consultant will assist the CDU with the establishment of suitable accounting for all project expenditures
and particularly with the administrative procedures for the satisfactory handling of SOEs. The technical
assistance will include the preparation of a manual describing these procedures.
4.16       A quarterly disbursement schedule for monitoring disbursements is contained in Annex J.
The IDA credit closing date will be eight years from Credit approval (December 31, 2003). However,
it may well be that Project implementation will progress faster than the average IDA project for the water
and sewerage sector in which case disbursements to ARWC will be made at a higher rate. Revenue
generation and expenditure estimates used in the financial projections therefore have been made on the



- 28 -
conservative assumption that the Project will be completed in six years.
4.17       Special Account. To facilitate payment of small and medium-size amounts in foreign
currency and all payments in local currency, the ARWC would open a special account in US dollars at
a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The accounting records for this fund will be maintained by the
CDU. The maximum authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$1 million. The initial
amount to be deposited at the beginning of disbursements will be US$200,000, but this amount will be
increased to the maxirnum authorized allocation once the level of disbursement has reached SDR 2
million. The eligibility criteria for special accounts is given in Annex K.
D. Project Monitoring
4.18       Auditing Arrangements. Both the Project accounts and those for the ARWC will be
subject to a formal audit.  The auditor's report will include a statement on the adequacy of the
accounting system and internal controls, the reliability of the SOEs as a basis for Credit disbursements,
and compliance with covenants of the Credit Agreement. Agreement was obtained during negotiations
that beginning with calendar year 1995, the ARWC will have the Project accounts audited, the IDA
Special Account and its financial statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and
will submit annually to IDA such audited accounts within six months of the end of each year.
4.19       Monitoring Targets. Success in Project implementation will be measured against the
physical and financial targets established in Annex L. Agreement was obtained during negotiations that
actual performance for each of the targets will be compared against the appraisal estimates and reported
to IDA on a semi-annual basis.
4.20       Reporting Requirements. Semi-annual progress implementation reports will be due on
February 15 and August 15 for the six months ending December 31 and June 30. The quarterly reports
will be due on February 15, May 15, August 15, and November 15, for the quarters ending December
31, March 31, June 30, and September 30. Agreement was obtained during negotiations that ARWC will
submit to IDA, each year, until the Project is completed and the Credit is closed, semi-annual reports on
implementation and quarterly reports on their financial performance. The reports, which will be in
addition to BWA's annual report, will consist of at least the following:
(i) Semi-Annual Project Implementation Report:
a. a brief description of the progress in implementation;
b. status of the Action Plan for institutional strengthening of BWA;
c. a contract procurement schedule modified to include completion percentage of
those contracts in progress or to be completed;
d. project expenditures to date by contract and source of financing; and
e. proposed actions for the next six month period.
(ii) Quarterly Fnancial Performance Report
a. a comparison of BWA's actual performance against project targets;
b. a brief description of the financial condition of BWA at the end of each
reporting period;



- 29 -
c.  annual historical financial statements (balance sheet, income statement, cash
flows);
d.  annual projected financial statements (balance sheet, income statement, source
and use of funds);
e.  quarterly financial statements (balance sheet, income statement and source and
use of funds) for the preceding quarter and projections for the subsequent
quarter;
f.  tariff schedule in effect at the end of the reporting period and date of changes;
and
g.  proposed actions for the next quarter.
E. Project Supervision
4.21        Intensive supervision will be required for the first year following Credit effectiveness,
notably because the agencies involved in the Project lack experience not only with IDA but also with
project management and procurement methods.  Initially, supervision would focus on project
management, procurement, project financing, IDA disbursement procedures, and methods of payment
and reporting. In the second year, attention will focus on the institutional and financial aspects of the
Project. Normally, two supervision missions per year comprising an engineer, a financial analyst, and
(as needed) an institutional development specialist, each of two weeks' duration, would be sufficient to
supervise a project such as this. In the first year, however, this time allocation will be doubled to reflect
the needs of the borrower. In the second year, staff supervision will revert to two missions comprising
two (or three) staff members for two weeks each. A detailed project supervision forecast is given in
Annex M. On the basis of this forecast, and on an average cost of US$9,000 per staff member per
mission, the total IDA cost of supervision missions over a four year period for the Project will be about
US$270,000.
V. FINANCES
A. Past and Present Financial Performance
5.1         Past Financial Performance of BWA. A summary statement of revenues and expenditures
for the last four years is shown in Table 5.1, with further details contained in Annex N. The figures
indicate that, in terms of revenue growth, the financial performance of BWA has improved significantly
over the 1991-94 period; improving from a loss of Manats 0.1 million in 1991 to a pre-tax net income
of Manats 3,520 million (US$ 2.6 million) in 1994. This substantial improvement in pre-tax net income
was a function of the: (i) high rate of inflation in Azerbaijan7; (ii) significant decline in the international
value of the Manat8; and (iii) substantial increases in water tariffs. However, the increased revenue and
pre-tax net income has not resulted in an improvement in the overall financial position for BWA.
7 inflation increased by 202 percent in 1991, 1174 percent in 1992, 1081 percent in 1993, and about 15 percent
per month in 1994.
US$ = Manats 44.5 in December 1992, 265 in December 1993, and 3,900 in December 1994.



- 30 -
Accounts receivable, for example, have risen substantially in the last three years, from 40 percent of total
revenue in 1992 (Manats 49 million or US$ 1.1 million equivalent) to 66 percent of total revenue in 1994
(Manats 12.4 billion or US$3.0 million equivalent). This sharp rise in accounts receivable is largely
attributable to the current economic difficulties and to the poor level of service which BWA provides.
According to BWA records, at the end of 1994 delinquent accounts receivable comprised: industrial
enterprises at 57 percent of the total, government institutions 20 at percent, domestic consumers at 11
percent and others at 3 percent.
Table 5.1: Summary Revenue and Expenditure Statement
(in Manats Million)
1991        1992        1993         1994
Revenue                                      8.3       121.9      1,411.9     18,870.9
Operating Expenses                           6.6        86.1      1,060.1     14,571.3
Operating Income (Deficit)                   1.7        35.8        351.8      4,299.5
Depreciation                                 1.8          1.8        35.8        779.5
Net Income (Deficit)                        -0.1        34.0        316.0      3,520.1
Profit Tax                                   0.0         0.0        110.6      1,232.0
Net Income (Deficit)                        -0.1        34.0        205.4      2,288.1
Financial Indicators:
Working Ratio                           79.5%       70.6%       75.1%        77.2%
Operating Ratio                        101.2%       72.1%       77.6%        81.3%
Profit Margin                          -1.2%        27.9%       22.6%         18.7%
5.2        In order to balance the cash flow, the increase in accounts receivable was offset by a similar
increase in accounts payable. which have risen from 42 percent of direct operating expenses in 1992
(Manats 36.7 million or US$ 0.8 million) to 76 percent of direct operating costs in 1994 (Manats 11.0
billion or US$ 2.6 million). At the end of 1994, accounts payable comprised monies owing for : (a)
electricity at Manats 7.3 billion (US$ 1.8 million) or 69 percent of the total; and (b) raw water charges
at Manats 1.8 billion (US$ 0.4 million) or 17 percent payable. Raw water charges are payable to the
Ministry of Irrigation, and the local municipalities Sabirabad and Hachmas.
5.3        The 1994 balance sheet indicates that the gross book value of fixed assets in operation was
Manats 46.1 billion (US$ 11.8 million). In the last three years, assets have been revalued by a factor
28 in 1993 and by a factor of 31 in 1994 in an attempt to reflect the impact of high inflation and the
declining value of the Manat. Similarly, annual depreciation allowances have increased from Manats 1.8
million (US$ 96,000) in 1991 to Manats 779.5 million (US$ 423,000) in 1994. Despite these
adjustments, the book value of BWA assets is considerably lower than replacement costs.
5.4        A review of the BWA income statement revealed the following observations:
(a)   Staffimg and Salaries. While BWA staff has remained more or less constant at 3,000



- 31 -
employees, salary costs have decreased from 14 percent of direct operating expenses in
1991 to 8 percent in 1992, 5 percent in 1993 and 2 percent in 1994;
(b)   Electricity. Electricity is the largest component of direct operating expenses, accounting
for 44 percent in 1991, 42 percent in 1992, 56 percent in 1993 and 60 percent in 1994. In
line with the development of a market economy, there will likely be substantial real
increases in electricity tariffs in the near future. Because the Baku system is largely
dependent on pumped water supplies and the pumps are generally old and inefficient, it is
clear that improving the efficiency of these pumps is of utmost importance. Reducing the
amount of unaccounted for water will result in a significant reduction in electricity costs;
(c)   Maintenance.  BWA financial data indicate that maintenance costs range between 27
percent to 34 percent of annual direct operating expenses. This relative low proportion
(when compared to electricity) indicates significant deferred maintenance.
5.5        In tenns of overall financial management, there are three significant factors that impede the
performance of BWA, notably:
(a)   Lack of Explicit Financial Objectives. BWA has no clearly defined financial objectives.
Historically, the main aim of the utility was to provide water first to industry and then on
a heavily cross-subsidized basis to domestic consumers. The concept of providing an
improved cost-effective service which encouraged more effective use of available water
resources and optimization of existing facilities was not a prime concern under the old
centrally planned system;
(b)   Financial Accounting Systems. An adequate accounting system was never a priority in the
BWA. Even today, each operating department maintains its own accounting and payment
system. A small central accounting department consolidates the financial information and
reports in the manner prescribed by the Ministry of Finance. Recently, however, the
Government has prepared a draft Accountancy Law based on western practices. This law
is expected to be approved by late-1995 or early-1996, and the new accounting regulations
should greatly improve the financial transparency of business enterprises; and
(c)   Billing and Collection.  A responsive billing and collection system was also of low
priority. For example, two old desk-top computers are used for the billing system, but
memory limitations permit only one month's records to be stored at any given time. Bills
are delivered by hand and domestic consumers are expected to pay the charges directly to
the delivery clerk; while industrial companies and institutions are supposed to have their
water bills deducted by direct transfer from their bank accounts. Moreover, in the event
of nonpayment, there are no sanctions imposed on the consumer.
5.6        Water Tariffs. As shown in Table 5.2, industrial consumers historically have accounted
for the largest share of water revenue, although this proportion has declined from 72 percent of total
water sales in 1991 to 48 percent in 1994. Industrial companies accounted for about 35 percent of
estimated water consumption. On the other hand, domestic consumers accounted for about 52 percent
of water consumption in 1994 but only 20 percent of total revenue, indicating a substantial internal cross-
subsidy from industrial to residential consumers.



- 32 -
Table 5.2: Distribution of Revenue and Water Consurnption by Consumer Categorv
Water
Revenue                          Consumption
Category                     1991          1992          1993          1994           1994
Domestic                     14%           4%            9%            20%            52%
Communal                     14%           20%           27%           32%            13%
Industrial                   72%           76%           64%           48%            35%
Total                        100%         100%          100%           100%           100%
5.7         Although the regulation of water tariffs is provided by the office of the Mayor of Baku,
there is no specified formula for price increases. Nevertheless, water tariffs have increased substantially
over the last two years, partly in an effort to keep pace with inflation and partly to generate the minimum
cash flows required to establish BWA on a self financing basis. Table 5.3 illustrates the tariff structure
from December 1992 to October 1994. The figures show that over a period of 22 months, tariffs have
increased between 70 and 180 percent. In terms of US$ equivalent, the industrial and institutional tariffs
were effectively doubled, while domestic tariffs remained relatively unchanged. Although lower tariffs
are charged to domestic consumers and higher charges are levied on industrial and institutional
consumers, the tariff structure is based on a flat rate (most domestic consumers are charged on the basis
of 12 in3 per person per month or 400 liters per person per day). Industrial and institutional consumers
are in theory charged on the basis of metered consumption, but most bills are levied on a quota basis
because most of the water meters do not work.
Table 5.3: Baku Water Tariff Structure
(in Manats per m3)
Dec      Aug        Nov      Mar       Jun      July     Oct
Category                       1992      1993       1993     1994     1994      1994     1994
Domestic                        0.1       0.1       2.0      2.0       2.0      6.0       18
Communal                        1.0       2.5       5.0      9.0      21.0     40.0      125
Government Institutions:
Treated Water                 2.0        5.5      15.0     28.0      65.0    100.0      315
Untreated Water               2.0        5.5      15.0     23.0      23.0     46.0      140
Industry:
Treated Water                 2.0        5.5      15.0     28.0      65.0    100.0      315
Untreated Water               2.0        5.5      15.0     23.0      23.0     46.0      140
Bulk Tariff:
Sumgait                        1.5       3.6      10.0     16.0      37.0     37.0      116
Apsheron Towns                0.3       0.9        3.0      4.0      13.0     18.0       54
B. Future Financial Performance
5.8         Table 5.4 summarizes ARWC's financial projections for the period 1993-2005 (see Annex
N for details). The financial projections have been prepared in US dollars, largely because of the
uncertainty about the future rate of inflation in Azerbaijan. The financing plan included in the financial



- 33 -
projections assumes that about 50 percent of the capital requirements will be financed by IDA, 30 percent
by EBRD, 4 percent by the European Union and 16 percent by the Government of Azerbaijan. The
financial projections also assume that ARWC's repayment conditions to the Government will be as
follows: (i) IDA funds at 7 percent interest rate with repayment over 25 years, including five years grace;
(ii) EBRD funds at 7.5 percent interest rate (LIBOR plus one percent) with repayment over 15 years,
including three years grace; and (c) the Government's contribution treated as an equity investment.
Interest during construction will be capitalized.
Table 5.4: ARWC - Summary Financial Proiections
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Operational Data:
Water Billed (million n3)     266  261   254   247   241   244   248   252
Unaccounted For Water (%)      66    66    65    61    57    53    49    45
Average Water Tariff (US$/m3):
Current Prices                0.04  0.05  0.07  0.08  0.11  0.11  0.12   0.13
Constant 1994 Prices          0.04  0.04  0.07  0.08  0.09  0.10  0.11   0.11
Financial Data (US$ Millions):
Operating Revenue             11.4  12.1  16.4  19.9  23.3  27.2  30.4  32.5
Operating Expenses            8.6   9.0  16.3  15.8  14.3  16.0  17.4  17.6
Interest Charges              0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.4   1.8
Operating Income              2.8   3.1   0.1   4.1   9.0  11.2  11.6  13.1
Depreciation (1)              0.3   0.4   0.8   2.7   4.6   6.1   7.1   7.2
Net Income Before Tax         2.5   2.7  -0.7  1.4   4.4   5.1   4.5   5.9
Profit tax                    0.9   0.9   0.0   0.5   1.5   1.8   1.6   2.1
Net Income After Tax          1.6   1.8  -0.7  0.9   2.9   3.3   2.9   3.8
Financial Ratios:
Working Ratio (%)            75    74    99    79    61    59    57      54
Operating Ratio (%)          78    78   104    93    81    81    81      76
Profit Margin (%)            22    22    -4     5    12   12   10        12
Note (1): Depreciation Charges may increase as a result of future asset revaluations.
5.9        The financial projections show the operating revenue increasing threefold; from US$ 12.1
million in 1994 to US$ 23.3 million in 1997 and US$ 32.5 million by the year 2000. This level of
increase is required to cover the rising costs of operation (particularly much higher electricity costs) and
depreciation. ARWC's operating ratio is expected to rise to about 104 percent in 1995 and then steadily
fall to about 76 percent by 2000. This reflects a higher level of net income before interest in order to
cover the debt service requirements. Beyond the year 2000, this position will allow ARWC to build
additional cash reserves for financing subsequent investments. Thus, ARWC can be financially self-
sustaining, providing that (i) water consumption grows in line with the projections; (ii) unaccounted for
water is substantially reduced; (iii) the revenue projections are fulfilled; (iv) accounts receivable are



- 34 -
brought under control; (v) adequate levels of maintenance are sustained; (vi) reorganization, training and
technical assistance are implemented; and (vii) water tariffs are periodically adjusted to maintain progress
towards full cost recovery.
5.10       The financial projections also indicate that average water tariffs will need to be increased
by 40 percent in 1995, 25 percent in 1996, 20 percent in 1997, 15 percent in 1998, 10 percent in 1999,
and 5 percent in 2000. Therefore, average tariffs are expected to increase by about 180 percent over a
five-year period, from an average of US$ 0.046 per m3 in 1994 to US$ 0.13 per m3 in 2000 - all in terms
of current prices.
5.11       In order to ensure that ARWC is established and maintained on a financially viable basis,
the following agreements were obtained during negotiations:
(a)   a water tariff study will be commissioned to examine water charging policy, tariff structure
and rate levels by consumer category. The study will be completed by June 30, 1996. It
is expected that a long-term tariffstructure will be agreed upon during the mid-term review,
after the completion of the tarif study;
(b)  tariffs will be increased by an amount sufficient generate revenues at least sufficient to
cover: (a) all operating and maintenance expenses; (b) dcbt service requirements; and (c)
non-cash items, including depreciation and replacement costs. In this connection, assurance
will also be obtained during negotiations that ARWC will submit to IDA for review and
comment no later than June 30 of each year as part of its quarterly report for the third
quarter, its proposed budget and tariffs for the following year with supporting financial
projections;
(c)   no additional long-term debt will be incurred unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues
and expenses show that the estimated net revenues for each fiscal year during the term of
the debt to be incurred will be at least 1.2 times the estimated debt service requirements in
such year on all debt including the debt to be incurred;
(d)   an action plan for the effective recovery of outstanding water bills will be prepared and
initiated by December 31, 1995 and will include a provision in future financial statements
for bad debts;
(e)   establish a program to monitor and implement effective measures to improve efficiency in
energy utilization and conservation; and
Q9   commission an asset valuation study to be completed by December 31, 1997;



- 35 -
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
Project Justification
6.1        Besides being the capital city, Baku is the administrative, cultural, commercial and industrial
center of Azerbaijan. Therefore, it is imperative that the city should have a positive impact on the rest
of the nation which is struggling to develop an open-market economy and secure the long term benefits
of significant oil exports. In this context, infrastructural development will have a key role to play in
providing the framework for industry and commerce to prosper, and give ordinary citizens the confidence
that their general standard of living will gradually improve. The Project will make a significant
contribution in this development process.
6.2        The main justifications for the Project are sunmmarized as follows:
(a)   significant reduction in the high level of unaccounted for water, from the present estimated
level of 66 percent to less than 45 percent;
(b)  improvements in the hours of service from the current average level of six hours per day
to approximately 12 hours per day;
(c)   reduction in water pressure constraints in various parts of the city so more households in
high-rise apartment blocks will receive an acceptable supply;
(d)  improvements in water quality arising from a reduction in the intermittent service which has
allowed contaminated water to be ingested into the system. This will also have a significant
impact on reducing waterborne and water related diseases;
(e)   upgrading the maintenance, control and performance functions of the ARWC. This, coupled
with the reduction in unaccounted for water, will generate significant savings in operating
costs (particularly electricity) and improve productivity; and
(f)  firm proposals for institutional change and human resource development. These benefits will
not ordy be realized within the water supply operation, but also have an important
demonstration effect for other public utility enterprises.
6.3        Nevertheless, the Project represents only the beginning in a long campaign to provide Baku
with a modem and financially sustainable water supply system. One aspect which deserves particular
emphasis, to complement the physical rehabilitation and improvements in the water supply system, is the
initiative aimed at developing an effective and coordinated public health and environmental education
program to raise community awareness and encourage active participation.
Project Benefits
6.4        The main quantifiable benefits resulting from the Project will include: (a) willingness to pay
for an improved water supply system, particularly in terms of a reduction in the need for families to



- 36 -
invest in "coping" strategies to secure a reasonable arnount of water; (b) improvements in the standards
of public health and hygiene by reducing the incidence of waterborne and water related diseases; and (c)
incremental savings in annual operating costs. The resulting distribution of quantified benefits is
summarized in Table 6.1, with a more extensive analysis in Annex P. The figures show that by the year
2000, 60 percent of the quantified benefits are generated by savings in annual operating costs, with 32
percent attributable to willingness to pay and 8 percent to public health benefits. By the year 2005,
willingness to pay accounts for 48 percent, savings in annual operating costs 48 percent and public health
benefits 8 percent.
Table 6.1: Baku Water Supply Project - Distribution of Benefits
Value (US$ Millions)            Distribution (%)
Benefit                         1995      2000      2005       1995      2000      2005
Willingness to Pay               0.3       5.5       10.5       17        32        48
Public Health                    0.6       1.4       1.5        33        8         7
Savings in 0 & M Costs           0.9       10.5      9.8        50        60        45
Total                            1.8       17.4      21.8      100       100       100
Least-Cost Solution
6.5         The main investment objective of the Project is to increase the availability of water to
existing customers. The alternatives considered were to increase production capacity or to reduce leakage
and wastage by rehabilitation and a water demand management program. Current data indicate
unaccounted for water at between 65-70 percent of production. The next increment of supply would cost
la minimum of US$100 million and would have to be coupled with a major network rehabilitation
program. Financial constraints plus the fact that the existing per capita production capacity of 800 lcd
would be sufficient to meet system demands if the system were tight, household plumbing did not leak
and customers did not waste water, make rehabilitation the only feasible alternative and the least cost
solution.
Economic Internal Rate of Return
6.6         The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) to the project was calculated on the basis of
the quantified benefits outlined in para. 6.5, with a full presentation in Annex 0. The incremental cost
and benefit streams were compared over a period of 15 years, which represents the expected life of the
main project rehabilitation components. All costs and benefits are expressed in mid-1994 constant
economic prices, in which foreign exchange, labor and electricity are shadow priced. The resulting EIRR
is 26.7 percent, which clearly demonstrates that the project is a worthwhile investment. The sensitivity
tests also indicate that the results are generally robust to variations in the cost and benefit parameters. For
example, if costs are increased by 10 percent and benefits are lagged by two years, the EIRR is still in
excess of 12 percent which is considered to be the opportunity cost of capital in Azerbaijan.
Nevertheless, the rates of return are considered to be a conservative estimate of the real value of the
project to Baku because of the serious nature of the water supply problems in the city and the substantial
unquantified benefits as outlined below:
(a)   property value enhancement, which will become more apparent as the market for residential



- 37 -
property begins to develop;
(b)   environmental benefits through a substantial reduction in non revenue water, improvements
in water quality, reduction in the number of burst water mains, and less pumping from local
groundwater sources which are both polluted and suffering from saline intrusion;
(c)  recreation and amenity improvements through the rehabilitation of water supply facilities
which will enhance the city's development prospects as a tourism center;
(d)  industrial and regional development in the medium to long term will benefit from a more
reliable and adequate water supply to support the recovery program into the next century;
and
(e)   national and regional development objectives will receive a significant boost through an
improved public utility service which will raise living standards and enhance the public's
trust in other components of the Government's development strategy.
Average Incremental Cost (AIC) of Water
6.7         The average incremental cost (AIC) of water represents the marginal cost of increasing the
quantity of water delivered through a substantial reduction in the volume of unaccounted for water. The
results are presented in Table 6.2 (see Annex 0 for details). The AIC has been calculated only for the
Project and not for the next increment of production capacity which may be developed as part of a future
project. The results indicate that at a discount rate of 12 percent (assumed to be the opportunity cost of
capital in Azerbaijan), the AIC would be US$ 0.02 per m3 in economic prices and US$ 0.03 per m3 in
financial prices. These values are below the average water tariff for 1994 of about US$ 0.046 per i3,
largely because of the substantial electricity savings which will accrue as a result of the reduction in
unaccounted for water from the current level of about 65 percent to the projected level of less than 45
percent when the Project is fully operational.
Table 6.2: Average Incremental Cost of Water Compared with Existingan
Projected Average Water Tariffs in 1995 Constant Prices
Rate, US$/m3
Economic       Financial
Average Incremental Cost of Water:
10% Discount Rate                                        0.01           0.02
12% Discount Rate                                        0.02           0.03
14% Discount Rate                                        0.04           0.04
Oct. 1994     Year 2000
Average Water Tariff                                      0.046          0.11
Affordability
6.8        Affordability and ability to pay are key parameters in assessing whether the proposed



- 38 -
investment is affordable in view of the more stringent financial objectives, the need to repay the
international loans and credits, and the aim of sustaining a viable future development program. The
general conclusions are that the projected water tariffs would not impose an unacceptable burden on
average and low income households in Baku. Table 6.3 summarizes the affordability of forecast water
tariffs after project completion in the year 2000 (see Annex P for details). For the average income
household, the monthly water bill would amount to 2.6 percent of projected income (compared with I
percent in 1994); and for the low income household, it would amount to 3.7 percent of projected income
(2.2 percent in 1994).
Table 6.3: Affordability of Water Tariffs after Project Completion - Year 2000
Households
Average Income Low Income
Family Size (persons)                                       4.5             4.5
Monthly Income (US$)                                         55             25
Billing Basis (lcd)                                         150             100
Billed Water Consumption (m3/month)                         20.2           13.5
Domestic Water Tariff (US$/m3)                             0.064           0.064
Monthly Water Bill (US$)                                    1.30           0.87
Water Bill as % of Income                                   2.4             3.5
6.9        The Social Assessment Survey commissioned by the Bank in July 1994 indicates that the
stated average household income was US$ 44 per month and low income households at about US$ 20 per
month (45 percent of the average household income). The Survey also reported that families would be
willing to pay 5 to 10 percent of household income for a reliable water supply service. The standard
normally used in Bank/IDA Projects is 5 percent of household income and is the target adopted for the
Project. Because there are no sewerage charges at present, no allowance was made for sewerage in
determining affordability.
Poverty Impact
6.10       The impact of the project on the urban poor and other vulnerable groups (e.g. the elderly
and pensioners on fixed incomes) is an important consideration for the Government and the Bank Group.
The investment package will have a direct and beneficial impact on these groups by reducing the time
and effort spent locating, transporting, storing, boiling and filtering water. The results of the Baku Social
Assessment Survey (July 1994) show that households on low incomes spend about 7.1 percent of their
monthly income in securing minimal quantities of water from a variety of sources; compared with higher
income households who spend about 2.1 percent of their income in securing an adequate supply.
Therefore, an improved public water supply system will be of greater benefit to the urban poor.
6.11       The project will improve service delivery and reduce the burden on women in the Greater
Baku area. The present water problems place the heaviest burden on women as managers of household
affairs. Normal household duties may take twice as long because of the daily water shortages and
intermittent supply. Women have to be in their house or apartment when water is available in order to
ensure that storage tanks and other receptacles are filled. On the occasions when there is no water or the



- 39 -
pressure is low in the high-rise apartment blocks, women and other members of the family must carry
water from apartments on lower floors, purchase water from street vendors and use old wells in the peri-
urban areas which are often polluted. The project will help to alleviate these conditions by providing a
more continuous water service.
B. Project Risks
6.12       There are risks inherent to a first-time investment operation for a new borrower. These
risks include: (a) delays in Project implementation due to the limited experience of the ARWC in this type
of activity; (b) possible understatement of construction costs due the very limited experience of ARWC
with actual costs for implementation and previous lack of construction experience to international
standards in this sector; (c) reluctance of the Government to face up to the challenges of implementing
the requisite sector and institutional reforms; (d) underestimating the extraordinary effort and long-term
commitment required to achieve financial viability in the water supply sector; and (e) unrealistic and
hence demoralizing expectations that Baku water supply crisis could be resolved in a short period of time.
These risks will be reduced through the early establishment of a twinning arrangement with another water
utility, by significant supervision by staff from Bank headquarters, by the use of appropriate physical and
price contingencies, by the continuing dialogue with the Government and ARWC, by building the
capacity of ARWC to carry out its responsibilities effectively through extensive technical assistance
support, and by the public extensive information and public education programs to be financed under the
Project.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1        During Credit negotiations, agreement was obtained from the Government and/or the ARWC
on the following:
(a)  establishment of a national policy and regulatory framework for the water and sewerage
sector to be completed by June 30, 1996 and implemented by December 31, 1996 using
consultants satisfactory to IDA (para 2.22);
(b)  a corporate restructuring plan will be prepared by December 31, 1995 and implemented by
December 31, 1996 (para 2.26);
(c)  establishment of a properly equipped leakage inspection repair team to be in place by
December 31, 1995 (para 2.27);
(d)  appointment of a Public Information Officer of suitable background by September 30, 1995
(para 2.28);
(e)   on the appointment of a Human Resources and Training Coordinator of suitable background
by September 30, 1995 (para 2.29);
(f)   beginning with the calendar year 1995, ARWC will have the Project accounts audited, the



- 40 -
IDA Special Account and its financial statements audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA, and will submit annually to IDA such audited accounts within six months
of the end of each year (para 4.18);
(g)   ARWC will prepare a semi-annual report to IDA comparing actual performance for each
of the monitoring targets to the appraisal estimates (para 4.19);
(h)   ARWC will submit to IDA semi-annual reports on implementation of the Project (para
4.20);
(i)   ARWC will commission and complete by June 30, 1996 a water tariff study to examine
water charging policy, tariff structure and rate levels by consumer category (para 5.11);
(j)   ARWC will generate revenues at least sufficient to cover: (a) all operating and maintenance
expenses; (b) debt service requirements; and (c) non-cash items, including depreciation and
replacement costs and the ARWC will submit to IDA for review and comment no later than
June 30 of each year as part of its quarterly report for the third quarter, its proposed budget
and tariffs for the following year with supporting financial projections (para 5. 11);
(k)   ARWC will submit to IDA for review and comment no later than November 30 of each
year as part of its quarterly report for the third quarter, its proposed budget and tariffs for
the following year with supporting financial projections (para 5. 11);
(I)   ARWC will not incur any additional long-term debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenses show that the estimated net revenues for each fiscal year during the
term of the debt to be incurred will be at least 1.2 times the estimated debt service
requirements in such year on all debt including the debt to be incurred (para 5.11);
(m)  ARWC will prepare and initiate an action plan for the effective recovery of outstanding
water bills by December 31, 1995; and include a provision in future financial statements
for bad debts (para 5.11);
(n)   ARWC will establish a program to monitor and implement effective measures to improve
efficiency in energy utilization and conservation (para 5. 11); and
(o)   ARWC will commission an asset valuation study to be completed by December 31, 1997
(para 5.11).
7.2         The following conditions for Credit effectiveness have been stipulated:
(a)  the selection of a corporate partner (para 2.25).
(b)   satisfactory evidence that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EBRD loan
have been fulfilled (para 3.17); and
(c)  the execution of a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA between the Government
and ARWC (para 3.17);



- 41 -
7.3        With the above agreements and conditions, the Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR
38.8 million (US$61 million) at standard IDA terms.






ANNEX A
Page 1 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.           Between August 1994 and January 1995 a social assessment (SA) was carried out as part
of the preparation of the Baku Water Supply Rehabilitation Project. The objectives of this assessment
were to: identify stakeholders and propose a framework for involving them in project design and
implementation; evaluate the social impacts of the proposed interventions on households and enterprises
in Baku, and if necessary, propose mitigation measures for those who may be adversely affected; help
identify priority interventions to improve the water supply situation; and ensure that the project's
objectives and incentives for change would be acceptable to all beneficiaries, particularly the poor.
2.           The SA consisted of: a household survey on water availability, quality, and strategies
for coping with an inadequate public water supply; a household survey on water consumption,
conservation, and leakage; and an industrial water use survey. These surveys were complemented by
informal interviews with private sector providers of water and water supply equipment, discussions with
key stakeholders, and selected case studies. These activities revealed that there is a large and effective
demnand for water supply improvements and confirmed that the key beneficiaries supported the project's
priority A interventions. The key findings are:
*     Although almost 100 percent of the population has access to safe water, the water is of
poor quality and available to individual households on average about 22 days per month,
4 hours per day. Moreover, only 13 percent of the households believe that the water
they receive is clean.
*     Although the public water service is inadequate throughout Baku, low-income groups
suffer the most from the current water situation. Other groups who appear to be largely
affected are women (who bear the responsibility for securing alternative water supplies),
the elderly (who have problems fetching and carrying water), residents living on the
higher floors of buildings (who receive even less water due to insufficient pressure), and
residents of peripheral communities and informal settlements (who have less developed
water pumping and distribution infrastructure than the other areas).
*     Households spend up to 17 times the cost of their monthly water bills on alternative water
supplies. And the poor spend a significantly higher percentage of their income on
strategies to cope with inadequate public water supplies than wealthier families. Not
surprisingly, these high costs reflect a relatively high willingness to pay by households
for a better water supply with the poor willing to spend a significantly higher share of
their income on a more reliable public supply than higher income families. These
findings show that the poor would profit the most from the planned project.
*     There are important geographic and socioeconomic variations in the distribution of water
and the way people in various neighborhoods deal with an insufficient and unreliable
public water supply. Interventions, therefore, should be designed to meet the needs of
specific communities.



ANNEX A
Page 2 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
*     The main reasons for intermittent water supply and poor water quality are dysfunctional
pumping stations, illegal pipe connections, and leakages. On average there are 2.1 water
leaks in a Baku household. Assuming that water is supplied by the water agency an
average of 4 hours a day throughout the city, water loss will be approximately 100 liters
per day. Assuming that water is supplied an average of 6 hours a day, the water loss
will be about 150 liters per capita/day.  Similarly, if water is supplied for 11 hours a
day, water loss can be expected to be 275 liters per capita/day. As the water supply
is improved and the number of supply hours increase, therefore, the level of water loss
also will increase unless preventive measures are adopted at two levels:  at the
community and household level and the main supply network. The project is responding
to both of these.
*     The extent of water losses from leaks in households and in the water distribution system
point clearly at the urgent need for community-based repair and maintenance as well as
a major network repair program.  Furthermore, sufficient cost recovery through
improved metering and billing procedures is a critical prerequisite for a better repair and
maintenance performance.
*     Cost recovery from enterprises has been unsatisfactory. Only around 35 to 50 percent
of industrial units have fully functioning water meters. This is mainly a result of
inadequate meter material (plastic) and unsatisfactory meter durability. Currently, of the
91 percent of enterprises still working, only 15 percent pay their water bills. The
project, therefore, should address the need for improved metering and cost recovery.
3.    In addition to confirming the need for the proposed project, which already had included measures
to improve water pressure and quality as well as institutional reform, the findings of the SA and related
participation led to several additional interventions. The following were discussed at a stakeholder
workshop in February 1995 (see para. 6) and are now included in the water demand management and
institutional capacity building components:
*     A metering and billing program designed to conserve water and improve cost recovery.
The SA revealed a willingness to pay for improved water supply and a need to improve
citywide water metering and billing. Based on the SA, specific recommendations were
made on the design and implementation of this program, including guidance on the types
of households and enterprises to be metered in the first phase of investment.
*     A consumer outreach and awareness raising program designed to provide information and
advice on reducing water losses and to build public awareness about the scarcity of water
and need for conservation, the importance of community participation in leakage repair
programs, the need to pay for water, and the advantages of metering for improved cost
recovery. The SA identified the need for two types of programs: those to help mobilize
communities to carry out the necessary repairs and metering, and those required to
sustain longer-term public support for the project and future investments.



ANNEX A
Page 3 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
*     A community-based household leakage prevention program to improve water supply
conditions for 40,000 households. The SA and related participatory activities led to the
design of this intervention, highlighted key criteria for selecting the first group of
beneficiaries, and ensured community mobilization to this end..
*     Institution building in participatory planning to ensure effective user participation in
project implementation and monitoring as well as in designing follow-up projects to
sustain development impacts. The findings of the SA pointed to the need for technical
assistance to help the water agency implement the consumer education program. An
appropriate means for building capacity in this area is to establish a consumer relations
unit within the water agency.
4.            Although started after the initial design of the project, the SA generated important
information that ordinarily is unavailable at such an early stage of project preparation. The insights
gained from the SA allowed the project designers and other stakeholders to fine-tune the project to meet
specific local needs and identify priority measures. The remainder of this annex describes in more detail
the components and key findings of the SA as well as their implications for project design and future
investments.
B. Components of the Social Assessment
5.            The SA provided a framework for incorporating participation and social analysis into the
design of the Baku water supply project. It was a highly participatory process that consisted of the
following components:
*     Rapid survey of 400 households, undertaken with the assistance of local academicians and
researchers, with a main focus on water availability, quality, willingness to pay, and
strategies to cope with the water shortage.
*     Rapid survey of 410 households focusing on water consumption, water conservation, and
water leakage in households.
*     Rapid survey of 51 Baku enterprises focusing on water consumption, recycling, metering
and cost recovery.
*     Community based discussions, conducted through informnal household visits and
interviews.
*     Institutional assessments and discussions with key informants in national and local
governments, international institutions, enterprises and NGOs.
*     Informal interviews with private sector providers of water and water supply equipment.



ANNEX A
Page 4 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
0      Case studies of a small sub-set of households and enterprises, including households with
on-site gardens or other small-scale urban agricultural activities.
6.            The results of the SA were presented at a stakeholder workshop at the start of project
appraisal. The participants included 71 participants which encompassed representatives from all sectors
of society and user groups as well as government ministries, local NGOs, members of the academic
community. local experts, the media, and donors (EBRD, World Bank). The meeting generated
substantive participation and a high level of consensus on each component and policy aspect of the
project. With respect to the findings of the social assessment, the participants strongly endorsed the
establishment of (1) an autonomous water agency to ensure full cost recovery, (2) a leak prevention and
community repair program, and (3) a public information campaign to encourage water conservation.
C. Major Findings of the Social Assessment
7.     The following presents the findings from the rapid household and industrial surveys and other
supporting SA activities. The first household survey (initiated on July 14, 1994 and completed in 14
days) identified important trends in water availability, quality, willingness to pay, and strategies to cope
with an inadequate water supply. The second household survey responded to a finding of the first survey
which revealed a discrepancy between the apparent abundance of water resources, the seemingly
economical use of water in households, and the inability of the local water agency to satisfy local
demand. The objectives of this second survey, therefore, were to: (a) examine the number, location,
and size of leaks within individual households (b) assess the costs of leakage repair and households'
ability to invest in leakage repair; (c) calculate the amount of water used by households for various
purposes; (d) compare the amounts of water used and lost, and (e) based on the results of this survey,
formulate policy recommendations for future improvements in the water supply situation in Baku.
Finally, the industrial water use survey involved macroeconomic studies on industrial output and water
use (carried out by local academicians) complemented by reports provided by Baku's water agency and
a survey of 51 enterprises.
Household Water Availability and Coping Strategies
8.            The overall performance of the public water supply system in Baku cannot be measured
only in terms of the percentage of the population having access to safe water. This frequently used index
often exaggerates what has been accomplished and conceals the presence of major obstacles to further
progress. As the situation in Baku shows, access to a public water supply system does not mean that
adequate water services are actually provided to users. While close to 100 percent of Baku's households
are officially connected to the public water network, water is available to individual families on average
only 22 days per month, 11 hours per day. Moreover, only 13 percent of households believe that the
water they receive is clean.
9.            Insufficient water pressure is the single most important cause for the unreliable and
intermittent water supply as well as poor water quality. Low pressure is caused by leakages, illegal
connections, and the poor condition of pumping stations. Low pressure in the water mains makes it
easier for sewage, contaminated ground water, and other pollutants to enter the distribution system.



ANNEX A
Page 5 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
10.          There are important geographic and socioeconomic variations in the distribution of water
and the way people in various neighborhoods deal with insufficient and unreliable public supply.
Peripheral communities and informal settlements that encroach on former industrial sites are particularly
disadvantaged with regard to public water supply. Interventions in the Baku water supply, therefore,
should be designed to meet the needs of specific communities. Community-tailored pilot projects will
be important building blocks in the effort to improve the overall system.
11.           An estimated 40 to 60 percent of public water is not paid for. Apart from illegal
connections and leakages, one reason for lost water revenue is the overall lack of metering equipment.
Only public institutions and industries have water meters. However, they neglect to pay water bills and
fail to repair meters, as required by the local authorities. In turn, the local government is reluctant to
enforce water payments because of the possible adverse impact on productivity and employment.
12.          Most households in Baku have developed various strategies for coping with a poor
quality, insufficient, and irregular public water supply. These strategies include boiling tap water (75
percent of all households), installing storage facilities (53 percent), drilling private wells (23 percent)
and buying water from vendors (20 percent). Moreover, households incur high costs to secure additional,
non-public water. On average, households spend about 17 times more on alternative water supplies than
on their monthly water bills (1680 manat versus 100 manat) with the poor spending a significantly higher
percent of their income (7 percent) on coping strategies than wealthier citizens (2 percent) (figure 1).
Thus, low income households experience a much greater welfare loss from unreliable public water supply
than households in higher income categories. Accordingly, the poor would profit the most from an
improved supply system.
13.          Although the inadequate water supply affects the entire population, low-income
households suffer the most because they cannot resort to expensive coping strategies. To deal with an
unreliable water supply, they are more likely to reduce the amount of water consumed rather than retrieve
additional water from alternative sources. Among the poor, women and the elderly appear to bear the
greatest burden of the water supply crisis. Women have the primary responsibility for fetching water
from alternative supplies and for caring for family members who suffer from illnesses caused by unsafe
water. The elderly, living on small retirement incomes, cannot afford to invest in alternative supply
systems and have difficulties in fetching and carrying water from outside their homes.
14.          Households would be willing to pay substantially more than their current monthly water
charge for better public water service. In fact, 84 percent would consider it "fair" to pay twice the
amount of their monthly bill (on average 100 manat) even without any improvements at all. A substantial
portion of households (63 percent) is willing to pay over ten times the current level. The study revealed
that poorer households are willing to spend a significantly higher share of their income (6 percent) on
improved water services than better-off families (1 percent) (figure 1). Although these figures seem to
be extremely high, especially the ones for the poor, they become more realistic when seen in relation to
current coping expenditures. The average household now spends 1680 manat per month to cope with
inadequately piped water supply, thus a willingness to pay up to 2000 manat for a reliable public water
service actually corresponds to a household's real experience.



ANNEX A
Page 6 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
Household Water Consumption, Conservation, and Leakage
15.           The extent of the Baku water supply crisis is clearly evident when water quantities lost
through leaks are compared to quantities actually consumed by households. While the average Baku
family uses around 300 liters of public water per day, it loses at the same time 1.3 times more (a daily
total of 400 liters). On a per capita basis, these figures are 80 liters and 100 liters respectively. Real
per capita water consumption (not including losses) for various household activities lies at about 80 liters
per day, well below western average of 200 to 300 liters per day. Per capita water consumption is
highest on low floor levels (1-3rd floor: 82.5 liters per day), considerably lower on middle floor levels
(4-6th floor: 75.6 liters), and lowest on high levels (above 6th floor). This correlates with better water
pressure and supply on low floor levels. In order to consume even these small amounts, high-floor
residents have to store more water than their neighbors below. While up to the sixth floor around 15
liters are stored daily per capita, this amount increases significantly to 20 liters per day on higher floor
levels (figure 2).
16.           With respect to the relationship between household size and water consumption, the
survey revealed that larger households use more water than smaller families. However, the situation is
reversed when per capita consumption is used as a criterion. In this case, large households (over 6
persons) have a much lower real per capita water consumption (47 liters/day) than medium-sized
households (4 to 6 persons; 64 liters/day) and small families (1 to 3 persons, 106 liters/day), with high
statistical significance (figure 3). Given the current water tariff system, introduced by Kommunpromvod
in December 1994 and based on household size (US$.07 per household member/month), the bigger a
family, the higher the tariff per liter of public water consumed. This clearly suggests that the water
agency should base its tariffs on water quantity consumed by individual recipients. Of course such a
system would require water metering, which to date exists only for public institutions and industries.
17.           Intermittent water supply and poor water quality are mainly caused by leakage, the poor
condition of pumping stations, and illegal connections. On average there are 2.1 leaks in the Baku
household, including yard and garden plot leaks, regardless of household income. The average total
water loss in a household from all leaks is roughly 100 liters per hour. Given the average household size
of 4 and assuming an average water availability of 4 hours per day in the greater Baku area, this loss
amounts to roughly 100 liters per day/person in water losses due to leakage. If water availability is
assumed to be 11 hours, as indicated in the household survey, the loss could be as high as four times per
capita consumption. Considering the planned improvement measure for pumping stations, the higher
figures for water availability and loss through leaks become more realistic values for the near future. An
increase of water pressure alone without accompanying leakage repair will only aggravate the leakage
situation. Once supply hours and water pressure throughout the network increase, preventive measures
to control for leakage will have to be adopted at two levels: household/community and the main supply
network. The project is responding to both needs in its design.
18.           Most water is lost from toilet leaks (26.08 liters/hour) and bathroom leaks (19.95



ANNEX A
Page 7 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
Figure 1:
Baku Soc o IAssessm ent
CophngEpend1Ures andWTP by hcnmeGroups
B.
6.d
4
2.                                                                        Percenbgeofhcasne
Spentm Ccp
WItqiess tPay
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ hPercentof kicae
hcan,oGeuplI                  fxraneGroup3
Ian eGroup 2                  Incn e G sup 4
hcaneGros
(1= tuest,4=huhest)
Figure 2:
Baku W aterConservatDn Survey
PerCapbW aterConsLr ptbn andW at rStrage byF borLe*el
3i                                                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~PerCaphWalw
CaisLmtbnp,
PerGqptWatB
Stnge
4-6th F bor
F borLeeI



ANNEX A
Page 8 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCLAL ASSESSMENT
liters/hour.). Kitchen leaks and leaks directly from public pipes contribute slightly much smaller amounts
(14.52 and 13.49 liters respectively) to the overall water loss from leakage in Baku's households. A
substantial amount of water (15.70 liters/hour) is lost through leaks in storage units (installed by families
to store water for periods in which no public water is available) (figure 4). An important factor
influencing the occurrence of leaks in buildings seems to be the responsible agency for leakage repair for
a specific building. Whenever a house maintenance office or the water agency is responsible for dealing
with leakage problems, the number of leaks per household is significantly smaller (1.78 and 2.19,
respectively) than in cases where the residents themselves or other parties (private repair persons) have
to take care of water leaks (2.88 and 4.0 respectively). These findings will be important in the
preparation of the implementation plan.
19.          Across income groups, households assess leakage repair costs to fall between US$12.5
and US$17.5. Most households do not even have 50 percent of the amount necessary for exhaustive
leakage repair. Only families in the highest income category (22.7 percent of the population) could
theoretically afford to repair all leaks in their home (Figure 5). The survey showed, however, that, in
reality almost all respondents pursue a monthly "leakage control" strategy rather than spending a high
lump sum for complete repairs. These monthly expenses average around US$1, or about 3 percent of
average household income (US$30). Residents claim that they continuously have to invest small sums
in leakage repair to avoid considerable damages to water installations and apartments. They do not have
time to save enough for thorough repairs and major replacement parts. The project, therefore, will build
on this existing potential for community mobilization and cost recovery for repairs.
Industrial Water Use
20.           Over the last few years, patterns of potable water consumption in Baku have changed
significantly. While the amount of water consumed by the population for household and communal needs
reached its peak in 1993 ( 477.7 million n3, an 18 percent increase from 1989), and fell back to 391.7
million rn3 in 1994, industrial water use decreased steadily and quite dramatically in the same period,
from 146 million rn3 (26 percent of total 1989 water consumption) in 1989 to 45 million in3 in 1994 (11
percent of total) (figure 6). Since the ratio of drinking water to technical water used by industries
(roughly 4:6) did not changed over this period, it can be concluded that industrial consumption of both
public water (including potable and technical water) and potable water in 1994 was only about one third
of consumption at full capacity, observed in 1989. This dramatic decline in industrial water consumption
is a direct consequence of lower output, which, in turn, is mainly a result of the disruption of economic
links with Russia and other former Soviet Republics after the break-up of the Soviet Union. Other
reasons are the general economic hardships brought forth by the process of privatization and transition
to a market economy. Overall reductions in industrial output between 1989 and 1994 was estimated to
be as much as 32 to 35 percent.
21.           Baku industries use three different types of water: sea water, technical water (untreated
or recycled public water), and potable public water. When working at full capacity, sea water accounts



ANNEX A
Page 9 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
Figure 3:
BakuW al2rConservatbn Stidy
W atrConsuw  ptbn perHH and perCap t byHouseho US B
4M
ThmIlHai-rdot
W otBrwtsnptb,
PerCalaWaltr
CorsLmpttri
1-3 Pamons                              >S Pewnsor
4.6 Pemrsm
Hctsdob Sis
Figure 4:
w Waor Ccnarvuia Survy
Averap Hished Wabr Low by S80 (Ubrerj
6:3 , , ~...........  ...... ==   1.208
=='-- ~........    ''........=gTlt
k            _uaiiD. -
iiTiiiiiiidii.                             BO Look
_             ,      g      ~~~~~~~~~15 1.7011NJ 1 US
*  tMAR14.11
PunP La*%
ei PJkA



ANNEX A
Page 10 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
Figure 5:
Baku W aterC onservatbn Survey
Leakage Repa r-Estfn atd CostandA \ibb b Funds
(1$ =4000MOts)
8000
0 1                                                B  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Afbiabeswn b~
- 0 0                                             X    Esthta costof
wj3re ie fbt
ffepi- E _2 s h f hAt
cOXINMamts                 10U00-150mDMats
500101aManalB                 >15000Mamr
hooneGrmups
Figure 6:
Baku hdustrulW alerUseStudy
Polb l W atrConsum ptDn 1989 ,1993 ,1994
tn illiDn m 3 peryear)
son
40
31i                                                                          Houst,
m                                                                             C19miM19
1999                 1993                 1994



ANNEX A
Page 11 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
for 80 percent of total water consumption, followed by technical water (12 percent), and potable water
(8 percent). All Baku industries together consume, at full production capacity, 146 million m3 of potable
water per year (figure 7). By far the highest share is used by the oil producing and oil refining industry
(58,4 million m3, or 40 percent), followed by light industry (20.4 million m3, 14 .0 percent), and the food
industry (15.5 million m3, 10.6 percent).
22.            During the peak period of industrial water consumption in the late 1980s and early 1990s,
some enterprises had to dig private wells or recycle water at the end of the production process in order
to cope with insufficient supply of public water. Of these two strategies, recycling was much more
widely used than wells. In 1992, only around 6 percent of all Baku enterprises with water limits had a
private well or were planning to dig one. Of this group, 44 percent had abandoned the construction
process or the retrieving of water from the well, either because of insufficient quantities or, more
frequently, because of the high salinity of groundwater. According to the water authorities, well digging
activities stagnated in the last two years; thus, the 1992 figures are still valid. By 1989, around 48
percent of industrial units with water limits in Baku had installed water recycling facilities'. This figure
remained basically unchanged over the last few years. On average, around 1200 m3/hour of supplied
water can be recirculated into the production cycle by these plants at full output capacity, but there is
potential for increased recycling capacity in the future.
23.            To control water consumption by Baku industries, a law was passed in 1989 by the city
authorities, making the purchase and installation of water meters obligatory for all enterprises with
consumption limits (around 80 percent of all Baku enterprises). However, the level of full metering of
all enterprises with limits was never reached. At the end of 1989, in 56 percent of enterprises all meters
worked, in 10 percent some meters worked, in 32 percent none of the installed meters functioned
properly, and 3 percent of enterprises had no meters at all. Over the last five years, the situation has
hardly improved. The number of industrial units with properly working meters was smaller as well
(figure 8).
24.            Recently representatives of Bakvodoprovod, Kommunpromvod's department for metering
and water sales, reported that the percentage of enterprises with correctly working meters may have
decreased even further in the last few weeks, presumably to 35 percent to 40 percent. One reason for
this phenomenon may be inadequate meter quality and durability. Lacking raw supplies of appropriate
metals, the national water meter production plant has to resort to plastic for specific meter parts.
Depending on water quality and intensity of meter use, the instruments life span may be as short as a few
months, despite best maintenance efforts. As a result of the current economic crisis, firms are simply
unable to purchase meters and to pay for installation and maintenance. Even the payment of monthly
water bills seems to be beyond the current financial scope of most enterprises. In the last three months,
'The term "recycling" is used in this report to describe the process of recirculating used water back into the production cycle. This does
not necessarily imply that water is cleaned or otherwise treated before the second usage.



ANNEX A
Page 12 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
Figure 7:
Baku ndwtrla WOr U. Study
onsumpmn of PoSbIe War by Type d Ixnsmy
pAwn mtwy
M 01 PrndJR6fltg
9*14040%
2 1~~~~~~~~~~~ur ilb   me
EJl mom" Bkdg
1.4lt  92%
as~~~~~~3.40/2V
Figure 8:
Baku hdustraElW aterUseStudy
MelerPerbrnance 1989,1994
g m itd entrprBes on
5L
WASaeiersettirc
mMearsdntwqt



ANNEX A
Page 13 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
around 9 percent of Baku's enterprises have applied to the water agency to stop water supply to their
facilities, where production had come to a complete halt. Of those enterprises that are still running, only
around 15 percent are paying their water bills. The project will focus on this issue, giving priority to
the installation of functioning meters to industries.
D. Implications for Project Design and Future Investments
25.           The findings derived from the rapid household and industrial surveys and agreed by key
stakeholders had clear implications for the design and implementation of the Baku Water Supply
Rehabilitation Project.  The following highlights implications for the current project and future
investments.
Project-Specific Implications
26.           The proposed project meets one of the most critical needs of the city's 2.5 million
population and will be particularly beneficial to the poor. Major improvements in the water supply
system will be achieved at an investment cost of less than US$18 per person. The rapid participatory
assessment of over 400 households and discussions with members of two major NGOs representing
vulnerable groups of women and displaced populations both strongly indicate full beneficiary support for
the project.
27.           Savings will include the conservation of the water resource itself, the time and energy
spent fetching, transporting, storing, boiling and filtering water, the gas and electricity used for water
boiling and for pumping from individual wells and pipes to overhead storage units, and the reduced costs
of ill health as measured by foregone labor productivity and medical expenses.
28.           The success of this project in improving the reliability of water delivery will enhance trust
in the service itself, and will provide public support for other components of the Goverrnent's reform
agenda. By meeting the basic need for water through institutional development measures that focus on
institutional autonomy, commercialization of the utility sector and participation of stakeholders, the
project can help to set the stage for similar reforms in the delivery of other infrastructure services.
29.           Improvements in the reliability of the water supply will create clear opportunities for cost
recovery. The strongly perceived need for the project and the high cost of coping strategies adopted to
mitigate adverse impacts of unreliability reveal preferences for a reliable water supply at a level of
affordability that could justify tariff increases to at least five times the current levels for the household
sector. These increases, however, would have to be complemented by an adequate metering system and
the elimination of illegal connections.
30.           Sufficient cost recovery by Kommunpromvod will be a crucial prerequisite for a better
repair and maintenance performance. A system of water charges is needed that endows the water agency
with operational and financial autonomy for the efficient and sustainable delivery of services. The current



ANNEX A
Page 14 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
system of "per capita" charges' is not only unfair to larger households and families that receive below
average amounts of public water, but also fails to act as incentive for economical water use by recipients.
Although actual water use may be comparatively low presently (80 to 120 liters/day), they are likely to
increase substantially once the technical and institutional improvements are initiated. Currently, public
water is treated as a scarce good and generally used efficiently because it is not always available.
Sustainable conservation efforts among the population will only be reached through a pricing strategy that
is economically viable and socially equitable. Of course the effectiveness of this measure will depend
on the installation of properly functioning and well maintained water meters to allow a quantity based
tariff structure.
31.            The implementation of the community metering programs will take into account the
specific conditions of each community covered by the project. To help ensure the effectiveness of
household metering, the program should be implemented first where households already have low leakage
and 24 hours of continuous supply as well as garden plots. Moreover, it will be necessary to ensure
strong comnuunity mobilization and public education and outreach programs to support the community
household leakage repair program.  All of these measures will help to promote water resource
conservation and are included in the project.
32.            Given the need for overall improvement in cost recovery by the water agency from all
industry groups, an adequately designed debt repayment schedule for enterprises will be necessary. At
the same time, ongoing consumption must be correctly metered and paid for not only for effective cost
recovery, but to ensure the sustainability of water resources.
Implications for Future Investment
33.            Although in the late 1980s adequate public water supply was a major concern of Baku's
industries, water related issues have lost their priority ranking to the economic hardship experienced by
enterprises in the last few years. Once the regional conflicts in neighboring areas are solved, and the
influx of western investment and technology in connection with the exploration of oil fields in the Caspian
Sea reaches expected dimensions, industries will recover rapidly, and public water, potable and technical,
will once again be in high demand. This assumption is strengthened by the fact that, out of all branches,
the oil industry, which can be expected to grow faster than any other industrial branch in the near future,
consumes by far the largest share of potable water (40 percent). According to the most optimistic
forecasts for industrial development in Baku in the next ten years, potable water consumption by
enterprises may be as high as 160 m3/year in 2005, 10 percent higher than water consumption during the
last peak period of production in 1989. In addition to industrial water demand, potable water use by
households and comnunal institutions is expected to increase to 600 m3 in the same time period, an
amount 25 percent higher than the quantity of potable water consumed by the population in the peak year
of 1993. Thus the Bank's focus on a series of future water supply and sanitation projects in Baku is
2 In theory, Kommunpromvod sells water to the population for $0.0045 per nm. The agency further assumes a monthly per capita
water consumption of 12 m3. Since, due to the lack of meters, actual household water consumption can not be measured, this figure is used
as proxy for the calculation of water tariffs. Multiplying "assumed" monthly consumption by 0.0045, and adding taxes, a tariff of $0.07 per
person per month is obtained.



ANNEX A
Page 15 of 15
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
desirable and fully justified. Goals for the future must include improved supply of technical water,
increased water recycling, improved metering and cost recovery, reduced water leakage, and control of
the pollution of ground water and the Caspian Sea by industrial discharges.
34.           Future investments in environmental improvement in Baku will address wastewater
management and additional improvements in water supply services. To support these investments further
investigation will need to focus on water leakage within industrial units and the treatment of industrial
waste water. According to the findings of SA on water losses from leaks in households, large amounts
of public water are lost through leaks in the public distribution network. The industrial water use survey
indicated that water leaks also occur at individual industrial units. To assess industrial water losses
correctly, therefore, a thorough study on industrial leakage will be necessary. In addition, the treatment
of industrial wastewater will have to be more closely inspected.
35.           Unreliability of the water supply system is partially induced by the unreliability of other
infrastructure components: electricity and communications. Consequently there is a need to examine the
interdependencies within the infrastructure system and to develop solutions accordingly. There is also
a need to increase public awareness of this interdependency to avoid frustration with results that may be
unavoidable.
36.           Several of the coping strategies adopted by households, such as the storage of large
quantities of water and the drilling of wells, may have adverse environmental and health impacts.
Dramatic growth in the private production of vegetables and flowers, especially in the Epsheron
Peninsula, increases demand on the water supply and causes illegal exploitation of underground water
resources. Preliminary results of aquifer studies indicate high levels of oil infiltration to the ground
water, which is further contaminated by sewage dumps and the rising level of the Caspian Sea. In
designing future investments, therefore, there is a need to study the environmental and health impacts of
these practices and to adopt an appropriate incentive structure for change, including the development of
a regulatory framework.
37.           Large capital investments made in alternative water supply systems, such as storage tanks
and wells, may discourage participation in system improvements. For this reason, it is particularly
important to undertake the study recommended above (para. 36). Because drilling wells is largely a
response to the increased attractiveness of urban agriculture, household investments in wells has to be
viewed both as a response to the inadequacy of potable water as well as a strategy to maximize income.
Thus, the productivity implications of this use of water must be weighed while developing incentives to
discourage well drilling.



I



MANAGING DIRECTOR
INTERNAL AUDIT                               COMPANY SECRETARY I LEGAL
CORPORATE AFFAIRS                                   S   :
AD.          A.D.           AD. Finance 8    A.O. Info &  A.D. Scientjfic    A.D.    A.D.          A.D. Cust. Services |
Engineering  Operations     Administration    Technology  Services     Personnel     BAKU          & Corporate Affairs  tO
0 
-ENGINEERING  - METERING       GENERAL    - COMPUTING    LABORATORIES - PERSONNEL   RANSMISSION   USTOMER
DENGIGNEERINKGOP              ACCOUNTING _RECORDS    &RESERVOIRS  SERVICES                                             
DESIGN       -WORKSHOPS    ACUTN
-PLANNUNG                       CUSTOMER    INFORMATION  QUALITY                         ISTRIBUTION                      N    >
& NEW-WORKS   DISTRIBUTION    ACCOUNTS    SYSTEMS         CONTROL        TRAINING                                       >
SYSTEMS                      UPPORT                          Mj 
TRANSMISSION   BILLINGA &                                              SERVICES                         0    >
TRANSPORTFIAC                                                                                                                >
PRODUCTION                                                METHOD
STORES &                                  STUDY
PURCHASING                                                                               (    Z
0
Iz
til
o 






ANNEX C
Page 1 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CORPORATE CHARTER
JOINT STOCK COMPANY
CHARTER
OF THE
THE APSHERON REGIONAL WATER COMPANY
Established by Order of The Cabinet of Ministers, Baku City, Dated _ , 1995, No.



ANNEX C
Page 2 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CORPORATE CHARTER
CHARTER
OF
THE APSHERON REGIONAL WATER COMPANY
1.     The name of the Company is THE APSHERON REGIONAL WATER COMPANY.
2.     The Registered Office of the Company is situated in the City of Baku in the Republic of
Azerbaijan.
3.     The administrative offices shall be at such place as the Board shall from time to time appoint.
4.     Any branch or kind of business which the Company is either expressly or by implication
authorized to undertake may be undertaken by the Company at such time or times as the
Board of Directors shall think fit.
INCORPORATORS OF THE COMPANY
5.     The incorporators of the Company are as follows:
NAME                           NUMBER OF             SIGNATURE OF
SHARES               SUBSCRIBER
Government of Azerbaijan                             100%
DEFINITIONS
6.     Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.
7.     Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender.
OBJECTS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COMPANY
8.     The objects and functions of the Company are as follows:
(a)    to carry on the business of producing, buying and selling of water, including
maintaining, repairing, operating, designing and constructing water treatment works,
pumping stations, pipelines and equipment of all kinds whatsoever either alone or in
any combination with other persons or entities;



ANNEX C
Page 3 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CORPORATE CHARTER
(b)   to enter into contract with the Government, customers and others on such terms as
may be considered desirable for the purpose of providing the aforesaid services either
individually or separately;
(c)   to act as commission agents, estate and other asset agents in Azerbaijan;
(d)   to transact any other business in any activity whatsoever;
(e)   to pay salaries, pensions, allowances, and bonuses to existing or former directors,
officers and employees of the Company;
(f)   to draw, make, accept, assign, discount, negotiate and execute promissory notes, bills
of exchange, bills of lading, scripts, warrants and other transferable or negotiable
instruments connected with the activities of the company;
(g)   to permit the Company to be recognized in any foreign country or place; and
(h)   to do all such other things as are incidental or may be thought conducive to the
attainment of the above objects or any of them.
INDEPENDENCE OF THE COMPANY
9.    The Company shall be independent of all governmental structures, organizations and
authorities and shall be managed exclusively by a Board of Directors selected for one-year renewable
terms by the shareholders at the annual general meeting.
VESTING PROVISIONS
10.   All assets presently owned and operated by "Kommunpromvod" shall automatically vest to the
Company upon the proclamation of this Charter.
LIABILITY OF THE SHAREHOLDERS
11.   The liability of the shareholders is limited.
SHARE CAPITAL STRUCTURE
12.   The authorized share capital of the Company is 100,000,000 voting common shares with a par
value of US$2.00 equivalent each and 100,000,000 non-voting redeemable preferred shares
with a par value of US$2.00 equivalent each. A dividend shall be fixed at the date of issue of
each redeemable preferred share. The company has the power to increase or reduce its share
capital and to issue any part of its capital with or without any preferential priority or special
privileges, or subject to any postponement of rights or to any conditions or restrictions unless



ANNEX C
Paae 4 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CORPORATE CHARTER
the conditions or restrictions shall otherwise be expressly declared. Every issue of shares,
whether preferred or otherwise, shall be subject to the powers hereinbefore contained.
13.    No part of the funds of the Company shall be employed in the purchase of or in loans upon
the security of the Company's shares, except as may be authorized by this Charter.
14.    Subject to any special rights to be attached to shares in any increased capital, the profits
determined to be distributed by way of divided and all surplus assets in a winding up shall be
distributable among the shareholders in proportion to the capital paid up or credited as paid
up.
15.    Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders of any shares or
class of shares already issued, any share in the Company may be issued with such preferred,
deferred or other special rights, or such restrictions whether in regard to dividend, return of
capital, voting or otherwise, as the Company may from time to time by resolution determine,
and the Company may issue preference shares which are, or which at the option of the
Company are to be liable, to be redeemed.
16.    The company may, upon any offer of shares, pay a commission or brokerage to any person in
consideration of selling shares for the company, but such commission or brokerage shall not
exceed 10 percent of the nominal value of each share and may be paid in cash or shares.
17.    Where any shares are issued for the purpose of raising money to defray the expenses of the
construction of any works or buildings or the provision of any plant or activity which cannot
be made profitable for a lengthened period, the Company may pay interest on so much of
such share capital as is for the time being paid up for the period, and may charge the same to
capital as part of the cost of the construction of the works, buildings, plant or activity.
18.    Subject to any direction given by resolution of the Company in a general meeting, the shares
shall be at the disposal of the Board, and the Board may allot, grant options over, or
otherwise deal with or dispose of them to such persons at such times and generally on such
terms and conditions as it thinks proper, but no shares shall be issued at a discount.
19.   If two or more persons are registered as joint holders of any share, one of such persons may
give effectual receipts for any dividends, bonuses or other moneys payable in respect of such
share.
20.    No person shall be recognized by the Company as holding any share upon any trust, and the
Company shall not be bound by or recognize any equitable, contingent, future or partial
interest in any share or any interest in any fractional part of a share or any other right in
respect of any share, except an absolute right to the entirety thereof in the registered holder.
21.    Every person whose name is entered as a member in the shareholder register shall without
payment be entitled to receive within two months after allotment or transfer, or within such



ANNEX C
Page 5 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CORPORATE CHARTER
other period as the conditions of issue shall provide, a certificate under the seal specifying the
shares allotted or transferred to him and the amount paid up thereon, provided that in the case
of joint holders the Company shall not be bound to issue more than one certificate to all the
joint holders, and delivery of such certificate to any one of them shall be sufficient delivery to
all.
22.   If any such certificate shall be worn out, defaced, destroyed, or lost, it may be renewed on
such evidence being produced as the Board shall require and on payment of such sum as the
Board may from time to time require. In case of destruction or loss the member to whom
such renewed certificate is given shall also bear and pay to the Company all expenses
incidental to the investigation by the Company of the evidence of such destruction or loss and
to such indemnity.
MODIFICATION OF RIGHTS
23.   Whenever the capital of the Company is divided into different classes or groups of shares, the
special rights attached to any class or group may, subject to the provisions of this Charter,
and with the consent in writing of the holders of three-fourths of the issued shares of the class
or group modified or abrogated, may be so modified or abrogated either while the Company
is operating or during or in contemplation of a winding up. The special rights conferred upon
the holders of any shares or class or group of shares issued with preferred or other special
rights shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided by the conditions of issue of such shares,
be deemed to be modified by the creation or issue of further shares ranking equal therewith.
LIEN
24.   The Company shall have a first and paramount lien on every share for all moneys (whether
presently payable or not) called or payable at a fixed time in respect of that share, and the
Company shall also have a lien on all shares standing registered in the name of a single
person for all moneys presently payable by him or his estate to the Company; the Board may
at any time declare any share to be wholly or in part exempt from the provisions of this
regulation. The Company's lien, if any, on a share shall extend to all dividends payable
thereon.
25.   The Company may sell any shares that have been issued and remain unpaid in such manner as
the Board thinks fit.
26.    For giving effect to any sale, the Board may authorize some person to transfer the shares sold
to the purchasers thereof. The purchasers shall be registered as the holder of the shares in
any such transfer and shall not be bound to see to the application of the purchase money nor
shall his title to the shares be affected by any irregularity or invalidity in the proceedings in
reference to the sale.



ANNEX C
Page 6 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CORPORATE CHARTER
27.    The proceeds of the sale shall be received by the Company and applied in payment of such
part of the amount in respect of which the lien exists as is presently payable and the residue
shall be paid to the person entitled to the shares at the date of the sale.
CALLS ON SHARES
28.    Subject to the provisions of this Charter and to any conditions of allotment, the Board may
from time to time make such calls upon the shareholders in respect of all moneys unpaid on
their shares as it thinks fit, provided that at least fourteen days notice is given of each call and
that no call shall be payable in less than one month from the period fixed for the payment of
the last preceding call, and each shareholder shall be liable to pay the amount of every call so
made upon him to the persons and at the times and places appointed by the Board. A call
shall be deemed to have been made as soon as the resolution of the Board authorizing such
call has been passed and a call may be made payable by installments.
29.    The joint holders of a share shall be jointly and severally liable to pay all calls in respect
thereof.
30.   If a call payable in respect of a share is not paid before or on the day appointed for payment
thereof, the person from whom the payment is due shall pay interest on such amount at the
rate of 12 per cent per annum from the day appointed for payment, but the Board shall have
power to waive such interest or any part thereof.
31.    No shareholder shall be entitled to receive any dividend or to be present or vote at any
meeting or to exercise any privilege as a shareholder until he has paid all calls due and
payable on every share held by him, whether alone or jointly with any other person, together,
with interest and expenses (if any).
TRANSFER OF SHARES
32.    All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in the usual common form under
hand only.
33.    The instrument of transfer of a share shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferrer and
transferee and the transferrer shall be deemed to remain the holder of the share until the name
of the transferee is entered in the register in respect thereof. Shares of different classes shall
not be transferred by the same instrument of transfer without the consent of the Board.
34.    The Board may, in its absolute discretion, and without specifying the reason, refuse to
register a transfer of any share to any person whom in its opinion it considers to be
undesirable in the interests of the Company.
35.    The Board may refuse to register any transfer of a share where the Company has a lien on the
share.



ANNEX C
Page 7 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CORPORATE CHARTER
36.   If the Board refuses to register a transfer it shall send to the transferee notice of the refusal
within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company.
37.   The Board may decline to recognize any instrument of transfer unless:
(a)    such fees as the Board may from time to time require are paid to the Company in
respect thereof; and
(b)   the instrument of transfer is deposited at the office or such other place as the Board
may appoint and is accompanied by the certificate of the shares to which it relates,
and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require.
38.   The Board may waive production of any share certificate upon evidence satisfactory to it of its
loss or destruction.
39.   There shall be paid to the Company such fee as the Board may from time to time require or
prescribe in respect of the registration of any probate, letters of administration, certificate of
marriage or death, power of attorney or other document relating to or affecting the title to any
shares.
TRANSMISSION OF SHARES
40.   In case of the death of a shareholder and where the deceased was a joint shareholder, the
surviving holder shall be the only person recognized by the Company as having any title to
the shares.
41.   Subject to any other provision of this Charter, any person becoming entitled to a share in
consequence of the death or bankruptcy of a shareholder and upon such evidence as to his
title, may be registered as a holder of the share or elect to have some person nominated by
him registered as the transferee thereof.
42.   Subject to any other provisions of this Charter, if the person so becoming entitled elects to be
registered himself, he shall deliver or send to the Company a notice in writing signed by him
stating that he so elects.
43.   A person becoming entitled to a share in consequence of death or bankruptcy of a member
shall be entitled to receive and may give a good discharge for all dividends and other moneys
payable in respect thereof, but shall not be entitled to receive notices of or to attend or vote at
meetings of the Company until he has become a shareholder.
FORFEITURE OF SHARES
44.   If any shareholder fails to pay the whole or any part of any call on or before the day
appointed for the payment thereof, the Board may at any time demand the whole or any part



ANNEX C
Page 8 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CORPORATE CHARTER
thereof which remains unpaid, together with any accrued interest and any expenses incurred
by the Company by reason of such non-payment.
45.    The notice shall name a further day (not less than fourteen days from the date of the notice)
when all such interest and expenses are to be paid. It shall also name the place where
payment is to be made, and shall state that in the event of non-payment, at or before the time
and at the place appointed, the shares in respect of which such call was made will be liable to
be forfeited. But notwithstanding any such notice the Board may waive payment of the whole
or any portion of such interest and expenses.
46.    If the requirements of any such notice are not complied with, any share in respect of which
such notice has been given may at any time thereafter before payment of all calls, interest and
expenses due in respect thereof has made, be forfeited by a resolution of the Board.
47.    A forfeiture of shares under the preceding Article shall include all dividends declared but not
actually paid in respect of the forfeited shares.
48.    Where any share has been forfeited in accordance with this Charter, notice of the forfeiture
shall forthwith be given to the holder of the share, or the person entitled to the share by
transmission, and an entry of such notice shall be made in the shareholder register opposite
the entry of the share; no forfeiture shall be invalidated by any omission or neglect to give
such notice or to make such entry as aforesaid.
49.    Notwithstanding any such forfeiture, the Board may, at any time before the forfeited share has
been otherwise disposed of, permit the share so forfeited to be redeemed upon the terms of
payment of all calls and interest due and expenses incurred in respect of the share, and upon
any further or other terms it may think fit.
50.    Every share which shall be forfeited becomes the property of the Company, and may be either
canceled or sold, or re-allotted or otherwise, either to the person who was the holder thereof
before forfeiture, or entitled thereto, or to any other person, upon such terms and in such
manner as the Board shall think fit, and whether with or without all or any part of the amount
previously paid on the share being credited as paid. The Board may, if necessary, authorize
some person to transfer a forfeited share to any such other person.
51.    A person whose shares have been forfeited shall cease to be a shareholder in respect of the
forfeited shares but, notwithstanding, shall remain liable to pay to the Company all moneys
which, at the date of forfeiture, were presently payable by him to the Company in respect of
the shares, with interest thereon at such rate as the Board may determine, but his liability
shall cease if and when the Company receives payment in full of the nominal amount of the
shares.
52.    A statutory declaration in writing that the declarant is a director of the Company, and that a
share in the Company has been duly forfeited on a date stated in the declaration, shall be



ANNEX C
Page 9 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CORPORATE CHARTER
conclusive evidence of the facts stated therein against all persons claiming to be entitled to the
shares. The Company may receive the consideration, if any, given for the share on any sale
and shall thereupon be registered as the holder of the share, and shall not be bound to see to
the application of the purchase money, if any, nor shall its title to the share be affected by any
irregularity or invalidity in the proceedings of the forfeiture, sale or disposal of the share.
53.    The provisions of these regulations as to forfeiture shall apply in the case of non-payment of
any sum which, by the terms of issue of a share, becomes payable at a fixed time, whether on
account of the amount of the share, or by way of premium, as if the same had been payable
by virtue of a call duly made and notified
INCREASE OF CAPITAL
54.    The Company may from time to time by Ordinary Resolution increase the share capital by
such sum, to be divided into shares of such amount, as the resolution prescribed.
55.    Subject and without prejudice to any rights for the time being attached to the shares of any
special class, upon an increase of capital the new shares shall be issued upon such terms and
conditions and with such rights and privileges annexed thereto as the resolution creating the
same shall direct, and, if no direction be given, as the Board shall determine, and in
particular such shares may be issued with a preferential or qualified right to dividend and in
the distribution of assets of the Company and with a special or without any right of voting and
may be preference shares which are, or at the option of the company are to be liable to be
redeemed.
56.    The Company may, by resolution increasing the capital, direct that the new shares or any of
them shall be offered in the first instance either at par or at a premium to all the holders for
the time being of shares of any class or classes in proportion to the number of such shares
held by them respectively or may make any other provisions as to the issue of the new shares.
In default of any such direction or so far as the same shall not extend, the new shares shall be
at the disposal of the Board, which may offer, allot, or otherwise dispose of them to such
persons and on such terms as it shall think fit.
57.    Unless otherwise stated in the terms of the issue the new shares shall be subject to the same
provisions with reference to the payment of call, lien, transfer, transmission, forfeiture, and
otherwise as the original share capital.
ALTERATIONS OF CAPITAL
58.    The Company may by Ordinary Resolution:
(a)    consolidate and divide all or any of its share capital into shares of a larger amount
than its existing shares;



ANNEX C
Page 10 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CORPORATE CHARTER
(b)    sub-divide its existing shares into shares of a smaller amount that is fixed by the
Charter; and
(c)    Cancel any shares which, at the date of the passing of the resolution, have not been
taken or agreed to be taken by any person, and diminish the amount of its capital by
the amount of the shares so canceled.
BORROWING POWERS
59.   The directors may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage
or charge its undertaking property and uncalled capital or any part thereof and to issue
debenture, debenture stock whether outright or as security for any debt liability or obligation
of the Company of any third party.
60.   No debt incurred or security given shall be invalid or ineffectual except in the case of express
notice to the lender or the recipient of the security at the time when the debt was incurred or
security given that the limit hereby imposed had been or was thereby exceeded.
GENERAL MEETING
61.   No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless a quorum  comprising at least
two persons representing at least 50 percent of the paid up capital of the Company either in
person or proxy is in attendance. The general meeting shall determine the main guidelines of
the Company, revise this Charter if so desired, determine the scope and duties of the auditor,
establish the general authority of the Board of Directors, authorize share issues, approve the
annual financial reports and decide on procedures for liquidating company asset if so desired.
Revisions to this Charter shall require the approval of 75 percent of the paid-up capital of the
Company represented either in person or proxy.
VOTES OF MEMBERS
62.   Every member present, either personally or by proxy, shall have one vote for every share
held by him upon which there are no calls in arrears.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
63.   The business of the Company shall be managed by the directors who may exercise all such
powers of the Company as are not by this Charter required to be exercised by the Company
in general meetings. No future regulation made by the Company shall invalidate any prior act
of the directors.
64.   Any directors may only purchase, deal, sell and acquire or dispose of any immovable
property with the prior consent of the Company given by the way or ordinary resolution.



ANNEX C
Page 11 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CORPORATE CHARTER
65.   All cheques, promissory notes, draft, bills of exchange and other negotiable instruments and
all receipts for money shall be signed, drawn, accepted, endorsed or otherwise executed, as
the case may be in such manner as the directors shall from time to time by resolution
determine.
66.   If at any time more than 50 per cent of the issued paid up ordinary share capital of the
Company shall be handled by a single shareholder, the power of appointing new directors or a
new director shall be vested in such shareholder and such power of appointment shall be valid
by such shareholder giving notice in writing to the Company stating the name of the director
to be appointed.
67.   Each director shall have the power to appoint either another director or any person approved
for that purpose to act as alternate director in his place during his absence and at his
discretion to remove such alternate director.
68.   The quorum of directors shall be four but such that if a managing director shall be appointed
must include such managing director unless such managing director shall agree in writing to
any directors meeting being held in his absence.
69.   A resolution signed by all directors shall be as valid and effectual as if it had been passed at a
duly constituted meeting.
70.   A director shall not be required to be a shareholder.
71.   The directors shall be paid out of the funds of the Company by way of remuneration for their
services such sum as the Company in general meeting may from time to time determine and
such remuneration shall be provided among them in such proportion and manner as the
directors may determine. The directors shall also be paid all reasonable travelling and hotel
expenses incurred by them in connection with attending and returning from Board meetings.
72.   If any director who performs extra services or who travels or resides abroad or otherwise for
any of the purposes of the Company, the Company may remunerate such director may also
refund to such director all reasonable expenses incurred by him while on the Company's
business.
DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
73.   The office of a director shall be vacated as follows:-
(a)   if he becomes bankrupt or insolvent;
(b)   if he becomes of unsound mind or be found a lunatic;
(c)   if he is convicted of an indictable offence;



ANNEX C
Page 12 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CORPORATE CHARTER
(d)   if he is removed from office by the Company by ordinary resolution; and
(e)   if he gives the secretary in writing that he resigned his office.
74.   A director may hold any office for profit with the Company other than that of audit in
conjunction with the office of directors and may enter into contracts or arrangements or have
dealings with the Company and shall not be disqualified from office thereby, nor shall he be
liable to account to the Company for any profit arising out of such contract, arrangement or
dealing to which he is a party or in which he is interested by reason of his being at the same
time a director of the Company, provided that such director discloses to the meeting of the
directors at which such contract, arrangement or dealing is first taken into consideration the
nature of his interest therein, or if such interest is subsequently acquired, provided that he
discloses the fact that he has acquired such interest at the next meeting held after such interest
was acquired.
NOTICES
75.   When a notice is sent by post it shall be deemed to have been served at the expiration of
seven days after it was posted.
WINDING UP
76.   If the Company shall be wound up, the assets remaining after payment of the debts and
liabilities of the Company the costs of the liquidation shall be applied, first, in repaying to the
members the amounts paid or credited as paid up on the shares held by them respectively
provided always that the provisions hereof shall be subject to the rights of the holders of
shares issued upon special conditions.
77.   In winding up any part of the assets of the Company including any shares or securities such
assets, with the sanction of the Company, be divided among the members of the Company or
may be vested in trustees for the benefit of such members and the liquidation of the Company
may be closed and the Company dissolved but no member shall be compelled to accept any
shares whereon there is any liability.



ANNEX D
Page 1 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
Introduction
Background
1.           The Government of Azerbaijan has requested assistance from the World Bank and the
EBRD for the preparation and funding of an emergency program for the improvement of the water supply
system for the Apsheron peninsular, which has a population approaching three million people and which
includes the capital city of Baku.
2.           As a result of inadequate system design, substandard operational management and chronic
under investment, the quality of water supply services has badly deteriorated over the past 10-15 years.
In this period, almost no investments for capital improvement have been made and the entire system is
in a very poor state of maintenance and operation.
3.           The Government of Azerbaijan considers the project a priority for the country as it
recognizes the crucial importance of urban services, including water supply, for its economic restructuring
and reform program. The availability, reliability, and quality of water supplies are critical not only for
the welfare of large parts of the population (the system serves almost 40% of the population of
Azerbaijan), but also for the emergence of competitive, small and medium-size enterprises. Moreover,
the Government accepts that the long-term viability of water services depends on the organizational form
in which these services are provided and their capacity to become self-financing.
Institutional Organization of Water Supply
4.           Responsibility for the production and distribution of water in Azerbaijan is divided among
a number of Central Government departments. The Ministry of Irrigation (MOI) is responsible for the
development and allocation of surface water resources, while the Department of Geology controls and
license groundwater extraction. The MOI has the responsibility for water supply to rural areas, both for
private consumption and irrigation.
5.           The Ministry of Health (MOH) is responsible for setting the quality standards for drinking
water while the State Ecology Committee (SEC) is responsible for regulating environmental standards.
Neither agency is able to achieve effective enforcement largely due the lack of resources.
6.           The Ministry of Housing and Communal Property (MOHCP) owns and controls regional
and municipal water supply and sewerage departments, which are responsible for the transmission,
treatment and distribution of water and the collection, treatment and disposal of sewage, except in rural
areas where the responsibility for water supply, both for domestic and agricultural use lies with the MOI.
Kommunpromvod
7.           Greater Baku is supplied with water through a regional agency, Komnmunpromvod, which
has the dual responsibility of a regional supplier of bulk water for the towns and villages along the supply
pipelines and, through its subsidiary Bakvodopromvod, which is the retail distributor of water within the



ANNEX D
Page 2 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
Greater Baku metropolitan area. Kommunpromvod and Bakvodopromvod-henceforward jointly referred
to as Kommunpromvod - currently employ 3,850 staff divided over several offices with headquarters
functions, several water supply offices and 9 distribution districts.  Pursuant to a Special Act of
Parliament, Kommunpromvod will be converted into a joint stock company, the Apsheron Regional Water
Company (ARWC).
8.           Besides the technical functions implied in water production and distribution,
Kommnunpromvod's responsibilities include revenue administration. The company operates a basic,
computerized billing system. It also collects charges from industrial and commercial consumers. The
City of Baku collects water charges from domestic consumers, together with user charges for other
municipal services, and transfers the proceeds to the Central Government which subsequently redistributes
(part) of it to Kommunpromvod. The tariff of water charges for domestic users is set in consultation with
the Mayor of Baku and in most cases is based on a fixed assumed consumption of 22 m3 per person per
day. Industrial tariffs are set by the Ministry of Economy. Industrial and commercial users are billed
on the basis of metered consumption. Interest is charged on late payments at 1 % per day but this is
currently less than inflation and arrears are very high. Due to inadequate financial management and
revenue administration practices, inform,ation on financial performance is incomplete and unreliable.
Performance
9.           Service Quality. The production and distribution facilities of Kommunpromvod are in
a state of severe degradation caused by the virtual absence, over the past two decades, of expenditure for
asset maintenance and replacement. Also, due to the lack of systematic planning of network extensions,
exacerbated by the lack of adequate financial resources, the distribution system is poorly configured.
10.          Based on western standards, the total design capacity of water production exceeds needs
by a factor of about two. In spite of this, the supply of water to consumers is unreliable and services are
provided for only part of the day. Estimated water losses from leakage, illegal connections, and wastage
amount to as much as 70 percent of production. Because of low pressures in the distribution system,
consumers living in elevated parts of the city or on top floors of apartment buildings frequently have no
services at all. Also, it is suspected sewage inflow through leaks in the distribution network causes
contamination of drinking water. Mortality from waterborne diseases, especially among children, is high,
and in 1993 Baku experienced an outbreak of cholera which was ascribed to the poor condition of the
water system. A recent survey indicates that 90 percent of the population do not consider the water to
be clean and 75 percent boil their drinking water.
11.          Financial performance. In many respects Kommunpromvod's finances are marked by
difficulties common to water enterprises in many former command economies. Due to an inadequate
billing system, undercharging consumption by a large margin, politically determined tariffs, and
inefficient revenue collection, operating income currently just covers cash expenses, without allowance
for maintenance. Although recently tariff increases for water charges leave tended to keep pace with
inflation, taken over a longer period tariffs have decreased sharply in real terms. The accounts receivable
turnover ratio is low, as a result mainly of problems in collecting revenue from government offices and
state enterprises.



ANNEX D
Page 3 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
12.          Low  revenue levels are not offset by government transfers of any significance.
Kommunpromvod receives only very limited funds for capital expenditure. Also, operating expenses are
severely under-recorded as Ministry of Finance regulations prevent Kommunpromvod from property
depreciating its assets.
Apsheron Regional Water Company (ARWC)
13.          As stated earlier, the Government has recently approved and promulgated a decree
creating the Apsheron Regional Water Company (ARWC), a joint stock company which will own and
operate the water production and distribution system and other assets formerly owned and operated by
Kommunpromvod and its subsidiaries. Initially the company will be 100% owned by Government but this
may be reviewed in the future. The intention is to give the water company financial and managerial
independence.
14.          To facilitate both the transfer of Kommunpromvod operations to the ARWC and the
implementation of an investment program, a Corporate Development Unit (CDU) is being, established
within ARWC. The primary responsibilities of this unit are:
a.    to facilitate the establishment and development of the ARWC;
b.    to facilitate the transition to a new corporate structure and improve operational and
financial performance; and
c.    to manage all aspects of the implementation of the improvement program.
Status of Project Development
15.          The Government signed a contract in June 1994 with the consulting firm, Brown & Root,
to prepare an emergency project for financing urgently needed improvements to the water supply for
Baku. Copies of the latest reports prepared under this contract may be obtained locally and provide
detailed additional background information. However, following discussions with Government and
appraisal by the World Bank and the EBRD, changes in the investment program have been made. These
have placed greater emphasis on the problems of household wastage and leakage and on providing an
effective and immediate response to the many bursts and leaks from which the distribution network
suffers.
16.          In relation to the institutional development program, it has been agreed that the CDU will
be assisted in its work by the CP who will be contracted to provide the support and services detailed in
these terms of reference.
II. Objectives
17.          The primary objective of the CP is to assist the CDU in meeting its objectives and
discharging its functions. Specifically, the objectives of the CP are to:



ANNEX D
Page 4 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
a.    ensure the timely and effective implementation of the improvement program, including
all the obligations under the various agreements with the World Bank and the EBRD;
b.    lay the groundwork for the corporate development of ARWC and, in particular, to
improve its operational and financial performance;
c.    strengthen the technical, operational, financial and managerial capacity of ARWC; and
d.    define the long-term objectives and a corporate development strategy for ARWC.
18.          These objectives will be achieved by providing support to the ARWC through the CDU.
Thus, the aim of the CP is to assist and enable the CDU to achieve its objectives.
III. Scope of Work
19.          To achieve overall objectives of the ARWC and the CDU, the CP will be responsible for
performing the following main tasks:
a.    provide general support to the CDU in carrying out its day-to-day tasks;
b.    provide immediate inputs of water utility management, operational, and financial skills
and ensure that these skills are transferred to the staff of ARWC;
c.    assist the CDU with the implementation and management of the Improvement Program;
and
d.    prepare, in conjunction with the CDU, a an overall Corporate Development Plan (CDP).
These task are described in detail below.
Technical Support of the CDU
20.          The CP will provide support to the CDU in discharging its functions and achieving its
objectives. In this general support role the CP will:
a.    review the work that has been carried out by the CDU and advise on any necessary
changes relating to:
(i)    mission statement, corporate objectives etc;
(ii)   organizational structure;
(iii)   operation and maintenance of the water system;
(iv)   establishment of ARWC;
(v)    rehabilitation of new office building;



ANNEX D
Page 5 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
(vi)   analysis of personnel; and
(vii)   management of key functions,
b.    assist the CDU in preparing a Personnel Development Plan (PDP) for the staff of
ARWC. This will include an analysis of the staff employed, their age, experience,
qualifications etc. and a plan for developing those staff to meet the needs of the
organization. This may include training, job rotation or personal development
counselling. Where it is apparent that the necessary skills are not, or will not, be
available, a program of replacement and/or recruitment will be required.
c.    assist the CDU in preparing a strategic plan for water services (initially, the strategic plan
will be for water services only but with time may evolve into a more detailed plan with
a complete program of improvements, including sewage services). The strategic plan
should contain, inter alia:
(i)    a description of the Company's assets, their location, condition, capacity and
performance;
(ii)   an assessment of the demands to be satisfied and the standards (both internally
and externally) to be achieved at present and in the future;
(iii)   an analysis of the shortfalls predicted in meeting these demands at the prescribed
standards; and
(iv)   a program of the improvements necessary through operational means or capital
investment to satisfy these shortfalls.
d.    assist the CDU with the preparation of an information strategy for the organization, the
information needs of the Company across all areas of its activities including asset
information, income and expenditure, operational performance, customer, etc.;
e.     help the CDU to prepare an awareness program for the staff of the ARWC which seeks
to inform all employees of what the ARWC is trying to achieve, how this is to be done,
what their part in achieving the ARWC's objectives is and how the ARWC will help
them to do this; and
f.    assist CDU in the implementation awareness program for customers concentrating
initially on those domestic customers who will be affected by the household leakage and
metering campaigns.
Skills Transfer in Water Utility Management
21.          The CP has the task of not only providing an immediate input into water utility
management, operational, and financial skills, but also to ensure that these skills are transferred to the



ANNEX D
Page 6 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
staff of ARWC. In addition to on-the-job skill transfer, the CP will arrange for more formal training in
Azerbaijan or the home office of CP.
22.           The CP will arrange formal training in Azerbaijan for staff at all levels in ARWC in all
aspects of water utility management and operations. The nature, content and timing of this training will
be agreed with ARWC by January 1, 1996 and the training will commence before April 1, 1996. It is
envisaged that the CP will undertake some urgent training of key personnel relating to the initial
components of the improvement program and the management of the financial aspects of the program
before the main training begins. This will be separately agreed with ARWC. A total 20 man months
of training time for specialist trainers has been allowed. The CP will set out provisional proposals for
this training in his bid.
23.           CP will arrange for formal and informal on-the-job training for three members of ARWC
at the home office of the CP. It is envisaged that ARWC will select, in consultation with the CP, three
members of staff, one engineering, one operations, and one finance, from the middle levels of the
organization who are thought to be most likely to gain from the experience and produce the greatest
benefit to the Company. The three selected members of staff will each undertake a continuous period
of four months training at the same time from September to December 1995. Part of this training will
be common to all three and part specific to their own discipline. The CP will set out his proposals for
this training in his bid and will show how much is to be formal and how much on-the-job. The aim will
be to build upon the knowledge and skills possessed by the trainees and to show them best practice in
their field in a modern utility.
24.          The CP will arrange for informal training for three senior managers from ARWC at the
home office of the CP for a continuous period of three weeks each early in 1996. In this case, the three
members of staff will attend at different times. The CP will set out proposals for this training in his bid.
The aim will be acquaint each manager with a broad knowledge of best practice in their field in a modern
utility.
Management of the Improvement Program
25.           Although project implementation is the responsibility of the ARWC, the CP will play a
leading role in program implementation, given the lack of experience in managing an investment program
of this nature. The CP will advise and assist the CDU in all aspects of the successful delivery of the
improvement program which will include, inter alia, procurement, financial management, monitoring and
supervision, and reporting.
26.           Procurement All advice given on procurement matters shall be impartial, and be based
on the principles of economy, efficiency, quality and transparency and will include:
i.    review the arrangements for the procurement of the first components of the
improvement program (i.e. the vehicles, plant, equipment and materials, and the
contracts for the rehabilitation of treatment works and major pumping stations)



ANNEX D
Page 7 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
and subsequent components--these arrangements will include procedures,
timeframe, and composition of the evaluation team;
ii.    become fully conversant with the Procurement Policies and Rules of IDA and the
EBRD, and to ensure that tender documentation, required evaluation reports,
contacts for prior and post review and other relevant documentation is consistent
with the requirements of both banks;
iii.   keep updated with the procurement plan for the project;
iv.    assist in the identification and targeting of potential suppliers for contracts
involving international shopping as a procurement method; and
v.     prepare standard documentation as may be required to facilitate the procurement
process.
27.           Financial Management The CP will assist in establishing and implementing mechanisms
for financial operation, control and monitoring, including project accounting systems, procedures for
payment of contractors, assistance in preparation of project audits;  assist in making drawdown
applications, and preparing the appropriate documentation required for drawdowns by IDA and EBRD.
and, to establish financial reporting systems meet the requirements of IDA and EBRD.
28.           Monitoring and Supervision The CP will assist in preparing the implementation plar
setting out a detailed timetable for the entire program; develop systems for, and assist in carrying out.
physical project monitoring and supervision, ensuring that works are carried and equipment supplied in
a timely manner in accordance with the contracts, and monitoring actual against expected performance;
review proposals for the secure storage of items and its efficient deployment and propose improvements
where appropriate; assist in establishing mechanisms for quality control and inspection, and coordinate
with any government agencies responsible for inspection; provide advise with regard to the resolution of
any potential or actual legal disputes with contractors or suppliers; and, to ensure close coordination
between physical and financial monitoring; and
29.           Reporting Assisting CDU to establish a physical and financial project reporting system
which will satisfy the requirements of IDA and EBRD.
The Corporate Development Plan (CDP)
30.          The CP will prepare a CDP which will integrate the key development activities necessary
to make ARWC a modern, efficient, cost effective and customer oriented water company. The CDP will
provide the focus for the technical assistance to be given under the CP and provide an opportunity for
all the participants - Government, ARWC, the lenders and the CP - to set down the contribution they will
make and against which they will be monitored.



ANNEX D
Pane 8 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
31.          It is proposed that the CDP should include, but not be limited to:
a.    corporate aims - mission statement, objectives, targets and milestones;
b.    structure and organization of the ARWC;
c.    transition measures;
d.    a human resources development and training program;
e.     a strategic plan for water and sewerage services;
f.    a detailed capital investment program including the improvement program and proposals
for a second phase program;
g.    an information strategy identifying information requirements across all areas of the
business of ARWC, the proposals for collecting this information and the systems required
to utilize it;
h.    internal and external awareness programs; and
i.    performance measures through which the implementation of the plan can be monitored
and controlled.
32.          The CDP should be viewed a rolling plan which should evolve with time to reflect
changing circumstances, improved information and progress made. The first Plan, CDP '96 should be
completed by October 31, 1995 allowing two months before the full take up of operational activities on
January 1, 1996. It will be at a high level reflecting the time available for its preparation and the quality
of existing information.  It should, however, be sufficiently detailed to form  the basis for the
establishment of the new organization, ensure that it is operating as effectively as possible from the start
and, most important, it should set out the key areas for action and improvement in the following year.
33.          The preparation of subsequent plans will begin at the start of April of each year with a
review of the previous year's plan. The new plan will be finalized by the end of September. Thus, CDP
'97 will be completed by the end of September 1996, allowing 3 months for discussion and approval by
all the parties before implementation begins on January 1, 1997.
34.          It is envisaged that within the plan, some components will develop at different rates.
Thus, while the plan for water services may not be fully complete by 1998, the personnel development
program and the implementation plan must be completed well before CDP '97 is prepared.
35.          The first plan, CDP '96, will cover the period to December 31, 2001, i.e., some five year
after the completion of the CP. Subsequent plans will retain the same end date so that, with the
completion of CDP '99 in 1998, ARWC will have a refined and detailed plan covering the five years



ANNEX D
Page 9 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
following the CP. Thereafter, it is envisaged that plans will be rolled forward annually covering the next
five years.
36.          The plan should include performance measures against which the implementation of the
plan can be monitored and controlled. Performance against these measure will be reported in the plan.
Initially these measures will be limited to the delivery in terms of time and cost of components of the
improvement program and to the achievement of the covenants specified by IDA and EBRD. Subsequent
plans should include measures of cost-effectiveness and quality of service in key areas of activity.
Staffing of the CP
37.          The CP's team will consist of four long term experts, four short term experts and a
number of specialist trainers. It is an essential quality that members of the CP's team use their own skills
and experience to seek out the most appropriate way in which the can assist the ARWC rather than follow
a detailed specification. The requirements set out below should be regarded as guidelines a to the
minimum which is expected and the basis on which the bid is prepared. The proposed time periods may
be subject to review when the detailed implementation plan for the improvement program is known. The
Corporate Partner may also wish suggest amendments.
38.          Each member of the CP's team should be a leading professional in his or her sphere wi,h
considerable experience in a water utility. Overseas experience will be particularly valuable. IL is
strongly recommended that at least one long term expert should have a knowledge of Russian, Turkish
or Azeri. Equally important is the ability and willingness to transfer their experience and knowledge to
others and the flexibility of approach which will enable that to be done in a different cultural background.
39.          Water Utility Management Expert The detailed tasks, requirements, and timing of the
required experts are described below:
a.    provide overall direction and coordination of the Corporate Partner's team;
b.    help the CDU to prepare a Human Resources Development Plan, a Strategic Plan for
water services, proposals for the next stage of asset improvements, an awareness program
for staff, and an Information Strategy;
c.    help the CDU to prepare a Corporate Development Plan which integrates the activities
and outputs of the CDU and CP team;
d.    help the CDU to monitor progress against the CDP and advise on appropriate corrective
action where necessary;
e.    help the CDU to develop proposals for a longer term partnership with an experienced
utility which will provide for reimbursement on the basis of the achievement of specified
objectives; and



ANNEX D
Page 10 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
f.    coordinate the provision of training in Azerbaijan and at the CP's place of work.
40.          The Water Utility Management Expert will be professionally qualified and have extensive
experience in all aspects of the business of a water utility, part of which will have been gained overseas.
He/she will have demonstrated particular ability in working with others to achieve objectives and will
have been involved in development and training.
41.          This expert will lead the CP's team and will therefore have to be in place at the
commnencement of the Partnership on I August 1995. The expert will remain in Baku continuouslv for
15 months and return for two separate periods of seven and three months each.
42.          Project Implementation Expert The detailed tasks, requirements, and timing of the
required experts are described below:
a.    help the CDU with all matters relating to the implementation of the Improvement
Program and with the development of project procurement and management expertise
generally;
b.    collaborate with the Financial Implementation Expert in the establishment of financial
implementation systems and procedures, and provide assistance to the CDU in ongoing
project financial implementation;
C.    review the arrangements already made by the CDU for the implementation of the
Emergency Tranche and the rehabilitation of treatment works and major pumping stations
and advise on changes where necessary;
d.    advise the Project Implementation Manager on the management of the preparation,
procurement and supervision of all the components of the Improvement Program;
e.    help the Project Implementation Manager to prepare the Implementation Plan for the
project;
f.    assist the Water Utility Management Expert with the development of those aspects of the
Information Strategy related to the implementation of the Improvement Program;
g.    assist with the training program; and
h.    coordinate and direct the input of the Financial Implementation Expert.
43.          The Project Implementation Expert will be professionally qualified and have extensive
experience in the physical and financial implementation of investment programs in the water sector,
preferably including those financed by Oafs. Preferably, the Expert will have direct experience of
investment implementation within a water utility. The Expert will need to be familiar with procurement,



ANNEX D
Page 11 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
disbursement, monitoring and reporting arrangements for water utility investment programs, and have
familiarity with typical AFT requirements in these areas.
44.          This expert will be required to be in place for a continuous period of 14 months,
commencing August 1, 1995.
45.          Finance Expert The detailed tasks, requirements, and timing of the required experts are
described below:
a.    help the CDU in all matters relating to the financial management of an efficient, cost
effective utility including the billing system;
b.    review the work carried out by the CDU on the management of the finance function and
advise the Revenue Administration/Financial Manager on the steps required to improve
all aspects of financial management of the Company;
c.    review the loan conditions and other requirements of the Oafs, particularly those relating
tariff increases, and advise the Revenue Administration/Financial Manager on the
appropriate course of action;
d.    assist the Water Utility Management Expert with the development of the financial aspects
of the Information Strategy;
e.    liaise closely with the Project Implementation Expert and the Financial and Management
Information Systems Expert to ensure that all financial advice is consistent and
coordinated; and
f.    assist with the training program.
46.          The Finance Expert will be professionally qualified and have extensive experience in all
aspects of the financial management of a water utility.
47.          This expert will be in place for a total of 18 months. An initial period of eight months
commencing 1 September 1995 will be followed by three further visits as shown in Figure 2. These
subsequent visits will be timed to coincide with the year-end accounts and tariff cycle.
48.          Operations Expert The detailed tasks, requirements, and timing of the required experts
are described below:
a.    help the CDU in all matters relating to the efficient operation of a water utility, in
particular, the organization and management of District offices and central facilities; the
operation of sources, treatment works, pumping stations transmission mains and
reservoirs; network management including the development and implementation of
leakage control; and the management of the customer interface;



ANNEX D
Page 12 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
b.     assist the Water Utility Management Expert in the preparation of the Strategic Plan for
water services, proposals for the next stage of asset improvements, the Information
Strategy, and the Corporate Development Plan;
c.    advise and assist the CDU and the Project Implementation Expert on all operational
matters in connection with the Improvement Program;
d.    advise and assist the Customer Awareness Program for customers;
e.    coordinate and direct the input of the Mechanical/Electrical Engineering Expert;
f.    assist with development and implementation of the training program.
49.   The Operations Expert will be professionally qualified and have extensive experience in all aspects
of the operation of a water utility, part of which will have been gained overseas.
50.           This expert will be in place for a total of 18 months. An initial period of 14 months
commencing 1 September 1995 will be followed by two visits of two months as shown in Figure 2.
51.          Financial Implementation Expert The detailed tasks, requirements, and timing of the
required experts are described below:
a.    assist the Project Implementation Expert with all financial aspects of the implementation
of the Improvement Program, having set regard to the requirements of the Oafs. Specific
task will include assisting in the establishment of project accounting systems, financial
monitoring and control, payment of contractors, disbursement application from Oafs,
liaison with the Ministry of Finance, and financial reporting both to the World
Bank/European Bank and to the Azerbaijan authorities; and
b.    assist with the training program;
52.          The Financial Implementation Expert will be professionally qualified and have extensive
experience of the financial aspects of investment programs, and particularly those funded by Oafs.
Experience of the management of projects funded by the World and/or European Banks would be
advantageous.
53.          This expert will be in place for a total of four months. An initial period of three months
commencing 1 September 1995 will be followed by a second visit in August 1996.
54.          Mechanical/Electrical Engineering Expert The detailed tasks, requirements, and timing
of the required experts are described below:



ANNEX D
Page 13 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
a.    assist the Operations Expert in all matters requiring detailed mechanical/electrical
knowledge particularly in the management and maintenance of treatment works, pumping
stations, plant and equipment; and
b.    assist with the training program.
55.          The Mechanical/Electrical Engineering Expert will be professionally qualified and have
extensive experience of mechanical/electrical equipment in a water utility. (S)he will have been involved
with the specification and installation of new equipment as well the management and maintenance of
existing plant.
56.          This expert will be in place for a total of six months. An initial period of four months
commencing October 1, 1995 will be followed by two visits of one month each
57.          Customer Awareness and Public Relations Expert The detailed tasks, requirements,
and timing of the required experts are described below:
a.    review the Social Report which has been prepared as part of project preparation;
b.    in discussion with the Distribution Manager and the Operations Expert make proposals
for the implementation of a customer awareness program which can be launched
immediately before the program of household metering and household leakage reduction;
c.    assist the Distribution Manager to oversee the implementation of the awareness program;
and
d.    assist with the training program.
58.          The Customer Awareness and Public Relations Expert will have extensive experience in
this field in a water utility and will have demonstrated an ability to communicate in different cultural
environments.
59.          This expert will be in place for a total of four months. An initial period of two months
commencing January 1, 1996 will be followed by a second visit of two months in June/July 1996 to assist
with the implementation of the program.
60.          Financial and Management and Information Systems Expert The detailed tasks,
requirements, and timing of the required experts are described below:
a.    assist the Water Utility Management Expert and other members of the CP's team to
assess the information systems needs of ARWC across its activities, including the billing
system;



ANNEX D
Page 14 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
b.     make recommendations for information systems to be installed (both paper and electronic)
and advise on their implementation; and
c.     assist with the training program.
61.           The Financial and Management and Information Systems Expert will be academically
qualified and will have extensive experience in this field, some of which will have been with a water
utility. In particular, (s)he will have a detailed knowledge of the design and establishment of billing
systems.
62.           This expert will be in place for a total of four months. An initial period of three months
commencing October 1, 1995 will be followed by a second visit of one month in May 1996.
63.           Training Experts A provision of 20 man months has been included in the agreement
for specialist trainers. The training is to take place over 12 months commencing not later than April 1,
1996. Details of this training will be agreed with ARWC and the funding agencies when the CP is in
place. The CP will set out his provisional proposals, including the details of the experts he wishes to use,
in his bid (see Section).
64.           Support Service A secretariat will provide a central administrative resource to the CDU.
It is envisaged that the staff specifically identified to serve members of the CP's team in the CDU will
be: (a) for the first 15 months, 2 secretaries (at least one should be bilingual in English/Russian) and 2
clerical assistants; and (b) for the remaining 21 months, 1 secretary (bilingual) and 1 clerical assistant.
These staff will be recruited locally. In addition, the CP will employ local interpreters, translators and
cars/drivers as required.
65.           Working Arrangements and Equipment ARWC will provide serviced accommodation,
furniture and local telephones for the whole Corporate Development Unit, including the Corporate
Partner's team. However, the CP, in addition to providing all fuel, supplies, charges and maintenance
for the three year period of the consultancy, will also be required to provide:
i.    Two International telephone/fax lines;
ii.    Fax machine;
iii.    6 PCs for the local CDU team;
iv.    6 PCs for the CP's team;
v.     All PCs to be loaded with an approved suite of office software including word-
processing (English and Russian ), spreadsheet and database;
vi.    6 laser printer;
vii.    1 high volume and 1 low photocopier;
viii.   5 cars for the local CDU team;
66.           The CP will procure the computer and other equipment through shopping, and will
produce a report summarizing the procurement process and explaining the selection of suppliers. For
computer and other equipment, on-site maintenance agreements should be obtained. The CP will need



ANNEX D
Page 15 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
to ensure that these logistics are in place immediately after the CP agreement is signed, to ensure that
both the CDU and the CP team can mobilize rapidly.
67.   Timetable - The key institutional dates are:
Corporate Partner in place                                            August 1, 1995
Corporate Development Plan '96 completed                            October 30, 1995
ARWC fully operational                                               January 1, 1996
68.           The final dates for project implementation will be agreed between ARWC and the CP.
However, the initial components must be in hand before the CP is in place and an outline program for
the later components must also be established for physical and financial planning purposes. The key dates
for project delivery are:
Commence Delivery and implementation of Emergency
Tranche of Vehicles
Equipment, Plant and Materials                                     September 1, 1995
C(ommence rehabilitation of treatment
works and pumping stations                                           January 1, 1996
Commence implementing of the Water
Demand Management component                                             July 1, 1996
Commence implementation of remaining components                      October 1, 1996
69.           Details of the timing of the visits of the CP's experts and of the training are to be
determined.
Deliverables and Performance Measures
70.          The performance of the Partnership will be judged initially by the successful delivery of
the following "deliverables":
a.     Commence and completion of preparation; bidding; implementation and of each contract
and/or component of the Improvement Program on time and within budget in accordance
with the agreed Implementation Plan;
b.     Completion of each scheduled visit by the CP's experts and the output achieved;
c.    Completion of each element of the agreed training program;
d.     Completion of the PDP, the Strategic Plan for water services, the Implementation Plan
for the improvement program, the Information Strategy and the awareness program for
staff;
e.     Completion of Corporate Development Plan '96, '97, '98, and '99.



ANNEX D
Page 16 of 16
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CORPORATIZATION PARTNER
71.           The development and agreement with ARWC and the funding agencies of performance
measures of cost-effectiveness and quality of service in key areas of ARWC's activities is scheduled by
September 30, 1996. These may include:
Tariffs levels
Unit costs of water delivered to customers
Outstanding debt
Total number of staff employed
Percentage of customers with working meters
Percentage of customers receiving target levels of service for reliability, pressure and
quality.
72.           The performance measures will be incorporate in CDP '97 and subsequent Plans. After
September 30, 1996, Corporate Development Plans and all reports by the CP will include commnentary
on performance against the agreed performance measures.
73.           The establish of these performance measures and their subsequent achievement will be
included in the Project loan covenants.
Reporting
74.           The CP will report formally to ARWC and the funding agencies on November 30, 1995
and March 31, 1996 and thereafter at six-month intervals until March 31, 1998. Each report will set out:
a.     Progress on each component of the improvement program including physical progress
and disbursements made;
b.     Progress of the project as a whole including "deliverables" delivered;
c.     Performance measures (where appropriate);
d.     Financial statement for ARWC;
e.     Financial statement for the project;
f.     Commentary on compliance with loan conditionalities;
g.     Commentary on any difficulties experienced; and
h.     Recommendations for any amendments to the Improvement Program or to the project as
a whole.



ANNEX E
Page 1 of 7
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
1.           The Greater Baku Water Authority (Kommunpromvod--BWA) was established by charter
in 1989 to provide water supply to the Baku Metropolitan Area and the Aspheron Peninsula. It also
provides bulk water supply to Sumgait and numerous other settlements along the length of the Kura
transmission mains. The distribution system in Baku is operated by a subsidiary of BWA, the Baku Water
Distribution Company (Bakvodoprovod--BWD), established in the early 1960s, which operates nine
subdepots in the major districts of Baku.
2.            The headquarters and key managers of the Baku Water Company and its subsidiary, the
Baku Water Distribution Company, are located in a small building in the central part of the city.
Management is characterized by a top-down style inherited from the previous Soviet system, with all
decisions centrally controlled and micromanagement pervasive. On the other hand, many of the key
administrative and financial functions of these companies are handled by offices scattered across
metropolitan Baku, which is the consequence of inadequate space at the headquarters facility. Generally
there is extremely limited collection and reporting of information vital to the commercial management
of the water company and ineffective enforcement of collection of arrears. The authorities are instead
forced to spend much of their time responding to the latest crisis in the water supply and distribution
system.
3.           The nine subdepots of BWD show a full staff complement, including a manager, two
senior supervisory engineers, a personnel officer, payroll clerk, cashier, technical teams of three to four
people, and field personnel at pumping stations and workshops (often nearly one-third of total staff). The
lines of reporting are idiosyncratic (basically technically rather than managerially oriented), and hiring
often mirrors social realities of the past and present (pensioners comprise most of the laborers at the
pumping stations and in the workshops, and some returning veterans of the Nagorno-Karabagh conflict
have been hired).
4.            Operationally, large water main bursts remain unrepaired close to district headquarters
(some of which are controlled by makeshift dikes), which underscores the inadequacy of the water
company to address even the most obvious leaks a few yards from its own facilities. There are also
numerous and clearly visible illegal water connections into urban communities, including near reservoirs
in Greater Baku. This points to a severe lack of institutional capacity and responsiveness at the most basic
operational level. Clearly, commercial operations are impossible under these chaotic circumstances.
Moreover, rusted generators and miscellaneous, mostly unusable spare parts litter workshop grounds, and
most buildings are dilapidated, underdimensioned, and should to be razed. Many personnel appear to be
idle, awaiting the next emergency repair they will be unable to effectively make because they lack the
means to do so.
5.           The reason for this deplorable state of affairs is readily apparent: inadequate,
inappropriate/inoperable, or (usually) nonexistent equipment; an inability to coordinate even the little
existing capacity effectively; and a dramatic need for comprehensive technical and managerial training
throughout BWA, which will be required to restore order to the water sector of Greater Baku. All of the
foregoing renders the institutional incapacity of BWA an issue of considerable social significance as well.
This is attested to by the findings of a recent social survey conducted by the Bank, which found all
socioeconomic strata equally willing to pay significantly higher water tariffs to obtain reliable potable



ANNEX E
Page 2 of 7
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
water in their residences.
6.           Transitional issues include: constituting the Corporate Development Unit (DU) to oversee
and participate in project implementation; corporatization of BWA/BWD into a new entity--the Apsheron
Regional Water Company; obtaining a new headquarters building (already identified); selection of a
twinning partner to rationationalize administrative and operational policies and procedures--the process
of which is underway; strengthening of the executive and middle management tier in the early stages of
the project; ongoing training associated with technical improvements (new equipment, techniques);
development of a human resources strategy in consonance with the evolving skill requirements of a
reconstituted water company; phasing of organizational restructuring and related training over the life of
the project.
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
7.           The BWA is run by a chairman (CEO) who reports to the Minister of Housing and
Communal Property--although there are other governmental actors involved in the operations of the
sector. In many countries, the only contact the water service has with the government is through the
parent ministry. And in fully commercialized water suppliers government contact is the same as for any
other private sector business. In Baku management of water resources is spread across a number of
bodies, including the mayor of the city, the State Committee of Natural Resources, Department of
Geology, Committee of Irrigation, Azvod Canal, and the Institute of Water Problems. There is always
the potential for a conflict of interest and decisionmaking among these various entities.
8.           Four deputies (department heads) report to the CEO of BWA: the Deputy for Finance and
Administration (accounting, salaries, budget, security, personnel, and administration); a First Deputy
responsible for technical areas, including safety, metering and sales, as well as the subsidiary Baku Water
Distribution Company; a First Deputy in charge of the Water Institute (the planning and design group),
transport and mechanization, the Vodostroy Trust, and a Board that oversees construction of water supply
facilities; and a Deputy in charge of water treatment at Kura, Jeiranbatan, Hachmas, Tagiev, and
Sangachal. Branches of BWA are in the same locations as the water treatment sites just listed. In addition,
there are offices of Water Meters and Customer Accounts; Construction; and Purchasing and Stores.
9.           The Water Distribution subsidiary, BWD, reports to the First Deputy for Technical
Services in BWA. Each department has a manager responsible for the areas of: Administration; Customer
Accounts; Personnel; Vehicle Maintenance; Booster Station Operation and Maintenance; Customer
Accounting; Mechanical and Technical Operations (Chief), and Security; Network Repair Center; and
Laboratory (divisions of Bacteriology, Sampling, Physical Chemistry, and Radiation).
10.          There appear to be three personnel groups: one reports to the chairman of the BWA;
another is part of the First Deputy for Finance and Administration; and the third is for the subsidiary
distribution company (BWD).
11.          No clear operational basis for decisionmaking exists between BWA or BWD. In fact, they
operate independently of each other despite the organizational dependency of BWD on BWA. Although



ANNEX E
Page 3 of 7
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
there are grade levels within job categories and differentiated functions, it difficult to ascertain with
precision individual roles and responsibilities, since the company is unable to meet minimum water system
needs. The lack of adequate delineation of responsibilities by position and the absence of formal
management structures and relationships greatly reduce the potential for efficient operations. Under
current circumstances, staff must use initiative and ingenuity to maintain and operate, even in a marginal
way, essentially obsolete plants and a technically defective, undermanaged water supply and distribution
network.
12.          The sanctioning of expenditures and requests for finance can, in cases of large amounts,
require the approval of the Housing Committee, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy,
Cabinet of Ministers, the mayor of Baku, and the National Bank. At any stage agreements can be
rescinded giving rise to a reinitiation of the process from the beginning. The Housing Communes are able
to frustrate the debt collection process by appealing to the mayor, who has significant power to overrule
business decisions made by the officials of BWA.
13.          In summary, the complexity of organizational relationships and the lack of clear lines of
authority over policy and operations create an environment where the basic functions of the Baku water
supply and distribution system, technical problems notwithstanding, can easily be paralyzed.
HUMAN RESOURCES ISSUES
14.          Staff Complement.    The Baku Water Authority (Kommunpromvod) employs about
3,600 people. The production unit employs a staff of about 2,400 and its subsidiary Baku Distribution
Unit (Bakvodoprovod) employs a staff of 1,200. Hiring of staff and grading systems involve the Housing
Communes and the Ministry of Employment, and on occasion the Cabinet of Ministers.
15.          Educational Levels. The four basic categories of staff are: engineers/technicians, clerks,
skilled (lower-level technicians) and semi- and unskilled workers. Generally, the engineer/technicians
require formal degrees or the equivalent. Skilled workers must have attended a technical institute and
obtained relevant practical and technical skills appropriate for their job. Similarly, clerks must be trained
sufficiently before employment. The greatest number of staff are skilled workers. At the top of their pay
band, they receive a salary equivalent to a beginning engineer/technician. Currently, no rniddle
management or supervisory designation exists in the organization.
16.          Management Approach. One of the greatest challenges to the water utility currently is the
proposed transition from the pyramid style of management to that of a corporate style. Directors and
senior managers, middle managers and foremen of the utility will be required to gain a wide range of
skills to enable them to carry out their duties in an effective and efficient manner. The aim of the
proposed training is to further broaden the experience of managers/supervisors at all levels in current and
anticipated assignments under the project.
Training and Development
17.          Over the years the training and development functions of the BWA have steadily declined.



ANNEX E
Page 4 of 7
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
Currently, there is little or no training carried out by the utility. As a result, human resource development
is at a virtual standstill. The situation is further aggravated by a general lack of tools and equipment.
18.          Training is coordinated through the Ministry of Housing and Community Property (MOH)
and not the BWA. The MOH selects the number and category of personnel to receive training and which
programs are to be reviewed annually. Training is carried out by the senior staff at the BWA or other
ministries within their respective organizations. None of the staff involved in the delivery of training
receive training as trainers.
19.          When utility personnel begin their employment they are issued a written outline of their
responsibilities, a copy of which is then placed in the employee's personnel file. Quarterly performance
reviews are conducted for all staff. There are opportunities to apply for vacancies within the organization.
And staff may apply for posts outside their current occupational category. Turnover is low because there
is the expectation of permanent employment, which was generally the case under the previous political
system.
20.          There is external influence on pay levels and the number of staff employed. If this is not
addressed, it will become a major constraint to obtaining efficiency gains anticipated under the project.
The organizational transition program will need to be sensitive to develop appropriate ways to refocus
the current management culture.
Administrative Issues
21.          The key procedural/administrative bottlenecks confronting the water sector in Greater
Baku are the following.
a.    Management of Information. Management information is extremely limited. There are
no computing facilities, recordkeeping is done manually, and there are few standardized
forms. Also, photocopying capacity is limited.
b.    Billing System. Only two computers are used in the billing system. And computer
memory limitations permit only one month's records to be stored. Information on
outstanding accounts receivable is not available and billing totals on reports supplied
cannot be reconciled with supporting detail.
c.    Budget Recordkeeping. Quarterly budgets are prepared by both the Greater Baku Water
Authority and the Baku Water Distribution Agency. These budgets are compared with
actual expenditures but little information on the results are routinely communicated to
management. Analysis of BWA for the nine months ending September 30, 1994 showed
wide budget variances ranging from 1,489% positive to 439% negative.
d.    Accounting System. The financial system is a cash-based, double-entry manual system
that each department of the organization maintains independently from the others, with
a subsequent lack of standardization. The balance sheets are then consolidated quarterly



ANNEX E
Page 5 of 7
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
by the central accounting staff but with uncertain internal consistency.
e.     Metering. Approximately 80% of consumer meters are inoperative, there is no meter
maintenance/replacement policy, and meter calibration facilities do not exist.
f.    Tariff Setting. There are no working bulk flow meters in the system. Therefore quantities
of water supplied are not known and figures may be manipulated to suit a wide range of
scenarios. This seriously compromises the ability to manage the water system and
rationalize tariffs.
22.   Maintenance, Repair, and Customer Service Issues
a.    Maintenance. There is no asset registration within the organization and no maintenance
schedules. Moreover, maintenance is performed on a fire- fighting basis. It is severely
limited in scope for lack of spare parts due to age of the equipment, obsolescence, and
financial constraints. In the distribution system the quality of pipe materials and repair
methods used result in many leakage repairs being only temporarily successful, requiring
repeat visits sometimes after very short intervals.
b.    Repairs. Central workshops for mechanical plant repair and vehicle maintenance are well
organized. However, basic equipment, hand tools, and spare parts are in short supply,
which hampers productivity. Major repairs beyond the capability of these workshops are
subcontracted. Local workshops at the distribution depots, pumping stations, and
treatment works are severely limited.
c.    Customer Service. The Network Emergency Repair Unit has only one telephone manned
24 hours each day receiving customer complaints and dispatching road crews. Moreover,
there is no place for recording the number of calls, the number of customers without
service, or the time taken to respond to customer complaints.
Commercialization Issues
23.          The legal and political environment of the Greater Baku Water Authority affects in critical
ways the ability of the organization to adapt to changing circumstances and to reform its approach to
operate on a more commercial basis. For example, there are almost no guidelines that prescribe the
expected operation and performance of BWA; and there are no technical guidelines governing acceptable
customer service levels nor are there efficiency criteria established for the distribution system against
which to measure performance.
24.          The consequence of these factors is a series of interrelated institutional and technical
problems that will need to be addressed before the institutional capacity of the water sector in Greater
Baku can be modernized sufficiently to capitalize on the intended benefits from planned improvements
under the project.



ANNEX E
Page 6 of 7
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
25.          Legal Framework--(a) legislative changes will be required to reflect the changing role of
the BWA; (b) the Water Law being drafted will need to incorporate the organizational needs of the water
sector; (c) regulatory instruments will be required to facilitate the formation of a joint stock company,
whereby the Ministry of Housing grants to the Corporation the authority to provide water services; and
civil and legal codes to provide protection to water company property.
26.          Organizational--(a) the 1994 revision of the BWA charter needs to be successful in
streamlining the relationship with government departments; (b) the relationship with the Mayor of Baku
needs to be clarified within the organizational structure and fully understood by both parties.
27.          Financial--(a) many government-controlled organizations are not paying BWA for water
supplied; (b) the level of tax on profits of the water authority needs to be rationalized so as not to
handicap capital investment.
Institutional Strengthening Component
28.          Overview. The need for a twinning arrangement is clear, given the need to establish a
new institution based on international operational and administrative standards used by commercially
viable water companies. Twinning will need to be tailored to generate institution-building as an integral
part of the deployment of the Corporate Development Unit as well as direct involvement of those who
will become the future managers of the new water authority. At the same time, there is an imnmediate
need to train the executive management of BWA/BWD (now Aspheron Regional Water Authority--
ARWA) in management techniques, especially those pertaining to organizational change and transition
management. This need is paramount, since the CDU and senior management will be those charged with
the responsibility to subsequently train selected managerial candidates to take over the operations of key
departments in the new water company. Moreover, along with the twinning exercise and the training of
executive managers, there is a requirement to institutionalize the human resource, technical, and
managerial reforms contemplated over the life of the project. This will involve training all levels of
personnel, both at headquarters and in field offices in a well coordinated and targeted way. See Annex
D, Corportization Partner, for detailed Terms of Reference.
29.          Human Resource Strategy. The human resource development strategy is designed to
gradually transform the new ARWA into a modern, well-administered water company based on reliable
service and commercial viability. Because of the deteriorated state of the water sector and the company
to be reconstituted, as well the nature of the planned technical interventions, which initially will be labor
intensive, rationalization of the personnel complement will occur in synchrony with the leak detection and
repair program and the pumping station rehabilitation and network repair efforts. Hence, in phase one,
training provided by suppliers will occur simultaneously with the delivery of urgently needed equipment
to address immediate needs, which are widespread. At this time an initial screening by site supervisors
should take place to identify those most able to carry out the contemplated work during the first phase
of the project (years one and two). These supervisors will need to receive short-term training in
evaluating technicians and workers on the job, which skill can become an part of an ongoing field
supervisor role as the project evolves and the staff complement is thereby reduced.



ANNEX E
Page 7 of 7
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
30.          A preliminary analysis of subdepot facilities suggests that a reduction of over half (based
on level of between 70 to 120 employees) of current full-time staff might be possible based on systematic
attrition, i.e., pensioners currently employed given incentives to retire, staff who lack the requisite skills
transferred out of the sector or selectively retrained if needed, personnel replaced by technology and
network improvements, and moving duplicative administrative functions out of the subdepots into the
central administration.
31.          During phase two, the twinning partner will have been selected and begin to integrate into
the CDU and, in so doing, provide the requisite technical assistance to rationalize administrative and
commercial practices of the new water company. Further downsizing will occur as modem human
resources policies and procedures are established and implemented. The computerization of the ARWC
will require the complete range of associated training, since there are no computers and little evidence
of even typewriters. This will need to include basic keyboard skills, software packages, office
management skills, and reporting formats, among others. Once the support requirements are ascertained,
recruitment should take place to identify suitably prepared staff (including current staff) to meet staffing
targets. Additionally, managers will need to receive tailored computer skills training as well, from basic
keyboard skills to the use of management information systems and their specific application to enhance
water company performance.
32.          Institutionalization of the Reforms. During phase three, the institutionalization of the
reforms should be taking place. Human resource policies should be implemented routinely and training
needed on an ongoing basis in place. This will require the establishment of a Human Resources and
Training Unit within the water company or, at a minimum, the coordination and contracting with external
sources for training that can provided cost-effectively. See Annex D for Terms of Reference regarding
the development of such a unit, the human resource strategy, and institutional reforms under
corporatization.






ANNEX F
Page 1 of 2
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
Azerbaijan
Baku Water Supply Rehabilitation
Components Project Cost Summary
Apsheron Regional Water Company
%     % Total
(Manat Billion)               (USS Million)       Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign      Total     Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange Costs
A. Water Demand Management
Metering                                                 3.24       7.05       10.29    0.56     1.23    1.79       69        2
Household Leakage                                       7.20       13.76       20 96    1.26    2.40    3.66        66        5
Subtotal Water Demand Management                          10.44      20.82       31.26    1.82    3.63    5.45        67        7
B. Operations & Maintenance Improvements
Vehicles                                                 4.50      51.62       56.12    0.78    9.00    9.78        92       13
Equipment                                                0.27       3.10        3.37    0.05    0.54    0.59        92        1
Materials for Mains Repair                               9.00      43.01       52.01    1.57    7.50    9.07        83       12
Materials for Booster Stations                           1.51       9.08       10.60    0.26     1.58    1.85       86        2
Distrct Depots                                           1.26      13.31       14.57    0.22    2.32    2.54        91        3
Laboratory Refurbishment                                0.43        2.90        3.32    0.07    0.51     0.58       87        1
Subtotal Operations & Maintenance Improvements            16.97     123.02      139.99    2.96   21.45   24.41        88       33
C. Supply Improvements
Rehabilitation of Jeiranbatan Treatment Plant           3.42       22.03       25.44    0.60    3.84    4.44        87        6
Rehabilitation of Kura Treatment Plant                   9.67      62.35       72.02    1.69   10.87   12.56        87       17
Rehabiliation of Pumping Stations                       10.19      65.70       75.89    1.78   11.46   13.23        87       18
Master Flow Meters                                       0.36       5.28        5.64    0.06    0.92    0.98        94        1
Subtotal Supply Improvements                              23.63     155.36      178.99    4.12   27.09   31.21        87       42
D. Institutional Capacity Building
Corporate Partner                                        0.54      10.78       11.32    0.09     1.88    1.97       95        3
Office Consolidation                                     8.55       6.31       14.86    1.49     1.10    2.59       42        3
Billing System                                           0.16       1.06        1.22    0.03    0.18    0.21        87        -
Consumer Education                                       2.03       3.09        5.12    0.35    0.54    0.89        60        1
Management Info. System                                  0.45       5.16        5.61    0.08    0.90    0.98        92        1
Staff Training                                           0.44       3.45        3.89    0.08    0.60    0.68        89        1
Subtotal Institutional Capacity Building                  12.17      29.85       42.02    2.12    5.21     7.33       71       10
E. Studies
Nat. Policy Framework                                    0.13       2.59        2.72    0.02    0.45    0.47        95        1
Project Preparation Facility                                -       5.05        5.05       -    0.88    0.88       100        1
Regional Environmental Plan                              0.94       6.78        7.71    0.16    1.18    1.35        88        2
Preparation of Phase II                                  1.28       9.21       10.49    0.22    1.61     1.83       88        2
Subtotal Studies                                           2.34      23.62       25.97    0.41    4.12    4.53        91        6
F. Supervision
Constructon Supervision                                  5.94       5.05       10.99    1.04    0.88     1.92       46        3
Subtotal Supervision                                       5.94       5.05       10.99    1.04    0.88     1.92       46        3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      71.50      357.72     429.22   12.47   62.37   74.84         83     100
Physical Contngencies                                   7.98       37.64       45.62    1.39    6.56    7.95        83       11
Price Contingencies                                   115.77      589.20      704.97    1.26    6.43    7.69        84       10
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      195.24      984.56    1,179.80   15.12   75.36   90.48        83     121
Interest During Construction                               *       48.02       48.02       -    4.00    4.00       100        5
Commitment Charges                                          -       5.57        5.57       -    0.42    0.42       100        1
Total Costs to be Financed                               195.24    1,038.15    1,233.40    15.12   79.78    94.90      84     127



Azerbaijan
Baku Water Supply Rehabilitation
Components by Financiers
Apsheron Regional Water Company (US$ Million)
Io>
Local                           e*
IDA           EBRD        The Government       Total           For.  (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %            Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes
A. Water Demand Management
Metering                                            1.54    75.0       -       -    0.51    25.0    2.06     2.3   1.41    0.65
Household Leakage                                   3.45    75.0       -       -    1.15    25.0   4.61      5.1    3.02    1.58        -W
Subtotal Water Demand Management                       5.00    75.0      -       -    1.67    25.0   6.67      7.4   4.44    2.23         ->
B. Operations & Maintenance Improvements
Vehicles                                            9.47    85.0    1.67    15.0   0.00        -   11.14    12.3  10.25    0.89         -
Equipment                                           0.55    83.0   0.11    17.0   0.00         -    0.66     0.7   0.61    0.05         -
Materials for Mains Repair                          8.76    80.0   2.19    20.0   0.00         -   10.95    12.1    9.05    1.89        -            q
Materials for Booster Stations                      1.86    80.0    0.47    20.0    0.00       -    2.33     2.6   2.00    0.33         -     tI    a
District Depots                                     1.70    57.2       -       -    1.27    42.8    2.97     3.3   2.71    0.26         -      .   r,
Laboratory Refurbishment                            0.64   100.0       -       -       -       -    0.64     0.7   0.56    0.08               p
Subtotal Operations & Maintenance Improvements       22.98    80.1    4.44    15.5    1.27     4.4   28.69    31.7  25.18    3.51         -
C. Supply Improvements                                                                                                                          3    r
Rehabilitation of Jeiranbatan Treatment Plant       4.65    85.0       -       -    0.82    15.0   5.47      6.0   4.74    0.73         -     Q 
Rehabilitation of Kura Treatment Plant             13.93    85.0       -       -    2.46    15.0   16.39    18.1   14.19    2.20        -
Rehabiliation of Pumping Stations                      -       -   16.54   100.0   0.00        -   16.54    18.3  14.32    2.22         -
Master Flow Meters                                     -       -    1.10   100.0   0.00        -    1.10     1.2    1.03    0.07        -           >
Subtotal Supply Improvements                         18.58    47.0   17.63    44.6    3.28     8.3  39.49    43.6   34.27    5.22         -
D. Institutional Capacity Building
Corporate Partner                                   2.16   100.0       -       -    0.00       -    2.16     2.4   2.06    0.10         -  
Office Consolidation                                1.50    50.0       -       -    1.50    50.0   3.00      3.3    1.28    1.73        -
Billing System                                      0.25   100.0       -       -       -       -    0.25     0.3   0.21    0.03         -           0
Consumer Education                                   1.08   100.0      -       -    0.00       -    1.08     1.2   0.65    0.43         -     c    z
Management Info. System                             1.13   100.0       -       -    0.00       -    1.13     1.3   1.04    0.09         -
Staff Training                                      0.73   100.0       -       -    0.00       -    0.73     0.8   0.65    0.08         -           C
Subtotal Institutional Capacity Building              6.85    82.0       -       -    1.50    18.0   8.35      9.2   5.89    2.46         -
E. Studies
Nat. Policy Framework                               0.50   100.0       -       -    0.00       -    0.50     0.6   0.48    0.02         -
Project Preparation Facility                        1.00   100.0       -       -       -       -    1.00     1.1    1.00       -        -
Regional Environmental Plan                         1.44   100.0                    0.00       -    1.44     1.6   1.26    0.17         -
Preparation of Phase II                             2.06   100.0       -       -       -       -    2.06     2.3   1.81    0.25         -
Subtotal Studies                                      4.99   100.0       -       -    0.00       -    4.99     5.5   4.54    0.45         -
F. Supervision
Construction Supervision                            1.59    69.4   0.70    30.6        -       -    2.29     2.5   1.05    1.24         -
Total Disbursement                                    59.99    66.3   22.77    25.2    7.72     8.5  90.48   100.0  75.36   15.12         -



ANNEX G
Page 1 of 7
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
!~                        l                                             [  I.,
1; ...   . -   =   ..  ..|..   -   .--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........  ..     . ..   ...- . ..- -.-.-.-...............
;V                 !   =                    -s              a"1   ,
co    a: : W
~~~~~ a~~~~~~a
MIii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  of
2-.-     .  r. -  *-~~~~~~~~~~~~C
0  -  C4    V  -.   1.~~~~~~



1 995t57 I""7                                                    199S                  1999                  2000
ID    Task Name                                             Ql tf 2 QIr 31Qlr 4 Qtr I    2Qtr2Qi r    1Qr   QQt    2IQt3 23|Qtr4QI Qr2         3 |Qtr 4 Qlr I |QU 2 |Qtr3Qtr 4Q   Q,I  2 JQt, 3
23            IDA Non-objecio0n
24            Selection oa Contractors
25            Signing Corarac                                                   _
26            Installation of Meters
27        lifliug System
2S             Shon list of Consul,.
29            Teum of reference
30             IDA Non-objectionQ
31            Call for Propoulo  s_
32             Evaluation
33            IDA Non-objection                                                                                                                                                                 Z
34            Signing Cortract                                 i                     2<
35             Provide Experts
36             Design System                                   i                            _                                                                            -
37             Ptocum Equipnmnt
3S            Initialt Operations                                                                           -
39        CoeNUner Education                                                                                                                                                             I _
40             Soi List Advrtising Co.                             I                                                                                                                            t       z
41            Ternms oftReerennce
42            IDA Non-objection                                i
43             Call for Proposals                              I 
44             Evaluationu
Task                                              Basellne Milestone         O                      Baseline Summary
Projecti                                 Progress                                          Summary                                           Rolled Up Baseline
Dale: 31919                              Baselhe                                           Rolled Up Task                                    Rolled Up Baseline Mileslone O
Miles;onr                                         Rolled Up Milestone                               Robed Up Progress
Page 2



XH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
.......    .....                                      . . ...   .   ......  ... . .. .  . _ '_
S {  ]Ii 1 I                                       1                    ''9        S
Ia                           I                                    i . 
a         a
aTmaHHas NOIIVINawadSal
IDWfO'd NOI.LVJIl'IdVHHN AlddfIS FULVA fNV'd
L JO  azed
0 XEINNV



g i1l! - - 11l~~~~~~~~~~~-- :   -l::
r~~                   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ <2 ;;I
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.~~~~~ I. 1X IE    I                                     E
a          r  -g- 
Iaaso NOL3-    0:       0      -   e
-~~~~~~~ -4      b .e
a
... ...................-.--....-
IF~~~~~ 
I~ ~~ 
~~~~~0fOJINIV I                                        'HaAldIS'3lA fXE
Eu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ot 3u
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~  RN



ANNEX G
Panze 5 of 7
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHiEDULE
CL 0    0.
ri~~~~ol
rr~~~~
Ul    rI6  e
I           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1C



t      -   -I- -   -I- I  -  -  ,         I IlI rl^I-|-|-| - |~l
~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~... . ................I...
co      a 
almuaHaS NOIJLVJLNguglid-I 
,LDgfO'd NOIJLVJI'IIGVH9' AIddfIS 'gLVM fnwsV
L JO 9 3ZedB
ID XNNV



ANNEX G
Page 7 of 7
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ji~~~~~~Fj






ANNEX H
Paige 1 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
Environmental Overview and Evaluation
A. Project Impact and Environmental Rating
1.    The Baku Water Supply Rehabilitation Project, as an emergency project, is designed to address
urgent operational and administrative needs of the water sector. The project has been assigned a category
B rating. No significant environmental effects are anticipated other than a slight increase in vehicular
traffic in some parts of the city and some disruption in traffic flows caused by pipelines being replaced.
Mitigating measures will be taken to abate noise and dust from construction activities as well as to
redirect traffic so as not to impede normal flows unnecessarily or for extended periods. There will also
be a slight increase in sewage flows as a result of increased water pressure; however, the increase in
water supply in targeted areas and better water quality will offset this effect. A sewage operation is
planned as a second phase following implementation of the proposed rehabilitation project. The expected
operational and administrative improvements under the current project should quicken the pace of
implementing a subsequent operation to improve the sewage situation of the Apsheron Peninsula.
B. Synopsis of Environmental Issues
2.    The Apsheron Peninsula, which includes the capital city of Baku, is one of the three most
industrialized regions in the FSU. Its ecosystem is now replete with the residue and legacy of nearly a
century of environmental neglect. Importantly, this area is one of the oldest oil-producing regions in the
world. As a consequence of oil exploitation, as well as intense industrialization under the Soviets, the
surface and underground hydrosphere has caused 7,000 ha. of land to be polluted the Bay of Baku (with
environmental impact on those who live near the Bay or walk along its perimeter), and engendered
serious pollution of the Caspian Sea.
3.    In the water sector, wastes leaking from poor sewage network into the ground, industrial
contamination, generally inadequate water treatment, and unreliable water supply and distribution pose
serious social, health, even industrial problems. Most of the groundwater resources are contaminated by
industrial and municipal wastes dumped or discharged haphazardly. Only a small number of industrial
plants pretreat their effluent before discharge to the sewers. The majority discharge raw effluent that
jeopardizes the municipal sewage network and the biological treatment process at Govsani sewage works.
The source of pollution in the city water distribution network is the inflow of dirty ground water or cross-
contamination with the sewage.' The Baku Water Company for many years has lacked the means to
address any of the myriad of problems besetting the water sector in the Apsheron Peninsula.
4.     Large quantities of municipal and industrial wastes are discharged directly into the sea,
affecting the marine ecology and making the Bay of the Baku a biological dead zone, with several
consequences to the local health profile and the economy. Additionally, the rising level of the Caspian
'Lack of sewage network, made that in part of the city the surface water sewer have been converted into
sewage.



ANNEX H
Page 2 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
sea is causing problems with ground water quality in many areas along the peninsula.
5.     The incidence of medically determined waterborne diseases in Baku remained relatively stable
over the last decade, ranging between 634 and 797 per 100,000 inhabitants, but with a significant
increase in 1993 to 985 per 100,000. This surge will need to be monitored given the recent outbreak
of cholera in the country. In two regions within greater Baku, Azbekov and Sabunhinsky, there is
direct relationship between water quality and epidemic diseases, where as much as 30 percent of the
population suffers from unacceptable water quality.
6.    In addition, many housing areas and settlements on the Peninsula lack proper sewage
collection and disposal facilities. In the absence of municipal sewage collection capacity, residents,
both individuals and groups, have installed private systems, which discharge wastes directly into the
nearest lake or ground soakway. Nearly 60 percent of Baku now lacks an appropriate sewage system.
7.     A further problem pertains to health care institutions themselves, which directly discharge
unsterilized wastes into the municipal sewage network. None of the 92 hospitals and 11 medical
institutes in the Baku area are equipped with adequate facilities for treatment of their wastes before
discharging into the water and sewage network.
8.     Finally, there is a notable absence of realistic environmental standards and enforcement
mechanisms. Although the Soviets developed rigorous standards, evidence suggest thy were seldom
applied. Over time several industries developed their own environmental bureaus that theoretically
monitored environmental impact; however, clearly self-policing has never worked. The result is
widespread lack of coordination of environmental policies and standards.
9.    Institutionally, ineffective structure stemmed from the past sectoral division of the countrv by
the ministries together with their institutional capacities, lack of coordination, political influence, and
lack of clear lines of responsibility. There are four agencies involved currently in environmental
monitoring and about 200 monitoring sites, including monitoring of the marine ecosystem, freshwater,
groundwater and atmospheric pollution. In the current austere economic climate, lack of resources has
seriously constrained all such activities, including research.
10.   Recently, the State Ecological Committee drafted a package of environrmental legislation that
incorporates international experience and concerns in the country. This legislation was submitted for
parliamentary action in the spring of 1994 and is still pending. Additionally, the National Sanitary
Board, in cooperation with the State Ecology Committee, has prepared a manual that would establish
national environmental standards, which also awaits parliamentary approval.
11.   The following discussion describes in detail the environmental problems facing Azerbaijan in
the project area, some of which will be addressed under the proposed loan.



ANNEX H
Page 3 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
C. Overview of the Water Sector
Water Supply Sources and Quality
12.   Baku City and the Apsheron Peninsula are fed with water from three principal sources:
Shollar and Hachmas intakes, Jeiranbatan reservoir, and the Kura river. In addition, there is local
exploitation of ground water. For the public potable system, the water from the Shollar and Hachmas
intakes requires only chlorination. The water from Jeiranbatan reservoir and Kura river receives full
treatment at two large treatment works. There is no systematic collection of water quality data on
exploitation from ground sources. Available data from research studies confirmed a wide range water
quality depending on the source.
13.   Sources of drinking water supply include Shollar and Hachmas intakes, with a flow rate of
1.27 m3/s. They are named after towns located 180 km north of Baku. Both intakes are fed by
underground water of sediments of quaternary age represented lithologically by gravel and mixed
sands. The water bearing strata are protected against vertically migrating pollutants by relatively thick
clay rocks. The water from these intakes is fresh and meets national standards for potable water.
Mineralization ranges between 1-3 and 15-30 g/l and more. The water composition is chloride-
sulphate and chloride-hydrocarbonate sodium.
14.   The Jeiranbatan reservoir, situated 25 km north of Baku, is supplied by the Samuron canal,
built in 1956, with a total storage volume of 186.6 Mm3 and a useful storage capacity of 150.3 Mm3.
The Samuron canal carries freshwater originating in a mountainous area that is thinly populated, with
no large industries. After treatment, water quality meets national standards (GOST 2874-82). Solid
residuals range between 126426 mg/I, and total hardness from 2 to 14 mgeq/l. Among anions,
hydrocarbonates (177-647 mg/l) dominate over sulphates (32-236 mg/1) and chlorides (4-16 mg/1).
Last summer light algae blooms were observed in some areas of the reservoir, which confirmed
potential for airborne or agricultural pollution. The unfavorable location of the reservoir and lack of
buffer zone will need to be addressed to minimize this source of water pollution.
15.   Lack of reliable environmental monitoring data make estimation the scale and nature of Kura
river pollution extremely difficult to measure. There are many examples where estimations are too
general or contradictory. Lack of industrial and municipal treatment facilities in the river basin as
well as intensive agriculture production (cotton) in the river's upper reaches lead to the conclusion
that riverain water is polluted. The hydrochemical composition and quality of riverain water are
related to the intensity of industrial production, community infrastructure, and the type of agricultural
activity in the basin. Water that belongs to the sulphate-hydrocarbonate category of sodium or
calcium group, with very high natural turbidity, varies seasonally, ranging from 500 to 60,000 mg/I.
16.   Groundwater in the peninsula appears sporadically. In the western part, it appears in the
form of patches and in the east and around Baku it occurs everywhere at a depth of 1-30m. The
quality of water depends on the area, i.e, salinization typically varies between 1 to 50 g/l and more.
The best quality of water resources can be found near or in Bilga, Buzavna, and Mandakyan. Water is
poorly mineralised (1-3 mg/1) and reaches almost 90,000 m3/d.



ANNEX H
Page 4 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
17.    As a consequence of the rise in the level of the Caspian Sea, in several areas in the east part
of the peninsula (e.g., Guzavny), water from the dikes has begun flooding settlements and arable
cultivated fields.
18.    Most of the groundwater resources are contaminated by industrial and municipal wastes
dumped or discharged in the area. The source of water pollution in the distribution system is inflow
of dirty ground water, accumulated due to bursts of sewerage and water supply pipes. Open-cast
mines and rubbish dumps filled with water are possible sources of pollution, not only for the
distribution pipework but for reservoirs as well. 2
Underground water that is unprotected from pollutants in the natural environment should only be used
by industries, which today is not the case.
19.    According to the results of a survey by the Baku Sanitary and Epidemiological Center, of 764
water samples taken from the distribution system in all 11 districts of Baku over a 9-month period in
1994, 24.6% do not meet state standards for potable water on bacteriological indices and 86.8% on
chemical analysis.3
Waste Water Collection and Treatment
20.    The City of Baku is served by a sewerage system most of which was constructed during the
1950s. About 1,300,000 m3/day has been estimated by the Baku Sewage Company as the total
quantity of sewage generated within the Baku administrative area. Other calculations indicate that the
quantity may be about half this amount, and that the per capita volumes of sewage generated are
about half of the values of official estimates.
21.    Nearly 60% of Baku is not provided with communal sewerage. Hence, waste water from
Azizbekov, Bingadi, Surachani, and the Nizami-Karadag region is discharged into lakes and pits in
the neighborhood. Only 70,000 and 17,000 in'3 respectively, of waste water (per day) are discharged
into Beuyk-Shor and Byul-Byul lakes; however, the water in four lakes-- Beyuk Shor, Byul Byula,
Ganii Gel and Krasnoye (southwest Baku)--is reported to be rising to dangerously high levels.
Houses in Amiradzhany, east of lake Byul Byula, have been flooded. According to the Baku Sewage
Company, the rise in water level is attributed to sewage inflows. 4
2 According to the State Ecological Committee, there is a significant problem with the operation of reservoirs
69 East, 69 West, and 110 East, which suggests the bacteriological pollution of the reservoirs.
I Maximum pollution with coloforms is registered in water from Surachami (46%), Azizbekov (36,9%),
Yasamal (32,4%) and Mazurani (22%) districts.
4 One pumping station has been constructed at lake Beyuk Shor to pump water out of the lake. Another one is
under construction to intercept inflows from the Binangadi area. Similar schemes are planned to reduce the water
level in lakes Buly Bulya and Ganii Gel.



ANNEX H
Page 5 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
22.   In the Baku area, pollution is also caused by health care institutions. There are 92 hospitals
and 11 medical institutes in the Baku area, and none of them is equipped with adequate facilities for
the sterilization of wastes before they are discharged into the sewage network. 5
23.   In the city, area the sewerage system and storm water systems have become partially
combined in response to the rainfall in some of the newer districts of the city, where surface water
sewerage is absent or inadequate to handle the sewage overflow. According to rough estimates, about
700 m3/day of untreated effluent is discharged into the sea. There are 50 outfalls discharging sewage
into the Bay of Baku, of which 19 are industrial, 17 are municipal and 14 combined systems, some of
them visible from the sea front promenade.6
24.    Several housing areas and settlements throughout the Apsheron Peninsula do not have proper
sewage collection and disposal facilities. In the absence of municipal sewerage, residents, either
individually or in community groups, have installed private systems. Sewage is discharged into the
nearest lake or a ground soakway. Settlements served by such sewerage facilities include: Binagadi
and Rasulzadi near lake Beyuk Shor, and Syul Byula, Surakhani, and Amiradzhany near Lake Byul
Byula.
25.    Another problem is created by 45,000 summer houses located on the Apsheron Peninsula.
Only a few of them are connected to the sewage network, while the others use septic tanks, allowing
wastes to penetrate the groundwater. Owners of those settlements either bring drinking water in
containers or drill their own wells and use local groundwater resources. Wastes are disposed of
illegally on land in the neighborhood.
26.    There are four sewage treatment plants serving the Baku administrative area: Govsani
(mechanical and biological) with a nominal treatment capacity of 600,000 m3/day; Zikh (mechanical)
with a treatment capacity 70,000 m3/day; Mardakan/Shuvelan (mechanical) with the treatment
capacity of 18,600 m3/day; and Khodzhasan with the treatment capacity of 18,600 m3/day. The total
nominal treatment capacity of the plants located in the Baku area is 707,200 m3/day.
Industrial Effluent
27.    The Apsheron Peninsula is one of the oldest oil producing regions in the world. As a result of
over a century of oil exploitation, the surface and underground hydrosphere has greatly changed. Oil
exploitation and its distribution has led to deterioration of soil and water caused by oil spills and oil
exploration activities. There are nearly 7,000 hectares of land polluted by the oil, with thickness
varying from 2.5 meters to 20 meters. This has led to flowage, underflooding, bogging, an increase
of abrasion processes, pollution of the Caspian Sea, and other deleterious effects. The absence of
I For example, the "Bolnica Semashko" hospital, which has an isolation ward, located in the central part of the
city, is equipped with a septic tank that has a capacity of 18,000 m3, with a daily discharge of 72 m3 of untreated
or sterilized wastes into the municipal wastewater network.
6 The map at the end of the annex shows the location of the municipal and industrial sewage outlets.



ANNEX H
Page 6 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
a sewage network and treatment system and the lack of legal regulation and enforcement facilitates
dumping municipal and industrial wastes into the Apsheron Peninsula area and the surrounding lakes,
as discussed below.
28.    Many years of mismanagement practices in oil exploitation--e.g., cleaning of the pipelines
caused an accumulation of radionuclides (from radium-226, thorium-228, potassium 40) in the soil of
the Apsheron Peninsula. In some places, soils should be buried as radioactive waste. In the past, the
city of Baku together with the neighboring city, Sumgait, were among the leading industrial centers in
the Soviet Union, with a total production value of about 3.5 billion rubles in 1988. The following
types of industrial activity are represented in the area: petrochemical, metal processing, machine
building, pulp and paper, and food processing. Concentration of such industrial activities, in
conjunction with a total lack of environmental concern, resulted in tremendous environmental
devastation of the region caused by uncontrolled emissions and dumps.
29.    Officially, Baku has one disposal site for solid waste, in Balakhanskaya. For many years, no
precise measurements were taken of the quantity of solid industrial and domestic wastes, and currently
the area of dumping has not been estimated. The utilization, disinfection, and incineration of
industrial toxic wastes is extremely unsatisfactory.'
30.    A resolution was passed in 1979 instructing industry to pretreat effluents from all industrial
plants before they are discharged into the sewage system. A small number of industrial enterprises
pretreat their effluent before discharging it into the sewers. The majority discharge effluent without
pretreatment, and thus jeopardize the treatment processes at sewage treatment plants.
31.    A large number of artificial ponds and reservoirs appear on the surface as a result of waste
water discharge. At Biby-Eybat, a (main dumping area), about 140 reservoirs have appeared. The
ground water table in the area has risen five meters since 1940. Another problem is the deterioration
of the relict (glacial) lakes on the Apsheron Peninsula, with their tremendous biodiversity (Beyuk-
Shor, Byul-Byuly, Gadji-Gasan, Zykh, etc), which are now completely polluted.
Bay of Baku
32.   The location of the Bay of Baku, which fronts a densely populated area of the city with
promenades, theatres, restaurants, and crowded streets, makes the quality of its environment of
utmost importance. The high concentration of activities on the periphery of the Bay together with
heavy pollution creates an additional health hazard with the population of the Baku Metropolitan area.
33.   The Bay is heavily polluted by discharges from several industrial and municipal facilities.
The daily anthropogenic input on the Bay of Baku is estimated at about 500,000-700,000 m3 of
untreated sewage and industrial wastes discharged by 50 outlets located along the harbor and the bay
7 According to the State Ecological Committee, in 1993 alone, 80,000 tons of toxic wastes from industrial
activities accrued; and for the past 30 years, 15-20 million tons of solid domestic wastes was accumulated at the
city disposal site.



ANNEX H
Page 7 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
(see attached map).
34.   The bottom layer of water is heavily polluted by oil compounds (80-150 mg/i). As a result of
continuous oil spills, the sediments of the Bay are polluted by oil as well. Some estimations are from
2.9 to 4.5 million tons of oil substances have been deposited in the sediments of the 5-meter deep
bay. Also, there is a lack of benthic organisms in the central part of the bay, and there are
occurrences of zooplankton and fitobenthos on the stones. The bacterioplankton flora are dominated
by saprofits. The bottom part of the water is inhabited by anaerobic organisms or sedimentation
organisms.
35.    From spring until early autumn, anaerobic processes appear in the lower part of the bay of
H2S and ammonia. Biological life is represented by bacteria and zooplankton and fitobenthos
(diatomea) in the Shihowskij Plose area. In the bay, fish appear sporadically with a broad variety of
parasites and pathogenic changes on their bodies in form of red patches, ulcers, or genetic changes of
the organs.
D. Environment and Health Issues
36.    The main findings of the environmental analysis showed that low quality of drinking water
and related health risk are mainly caused by the poor condition of both water supply and sewage
systems in the city, which creates the potential for cross-contamination of the drinking water by
leaking sewage and industrial wastes.
37.    Lack of adequately designed special waste disposal sites, which would meet sanitary
requirements for toxic waste; damage to sewage pipes; the absence of sewerage in some districts of
Baku; poorly operated reservoirs and water distribution networks; and excessive air pollution--all
have aggravated the ecological situation of the Apsheron Peninsula and the City of Baku, and
negatively affected the health of the population. The total incidence of the medically determined
waterborne and water diseases in Baku has remained relatively stable over the last 10 years at
between 634 to 797 per 100,000 population, but with a significant rise to 985 in 1993.
38.   Whereas in the Baku diseases can be related to several causes, in the city of Sumgait there is
a clear link between diseases there and industrial activities. Some of the chemicals produced there are
carcinogens, especially chlororganic products such as hexachlorane, DDT, Lindane, etc. Others cause
severe birth defects and embriotoxic effects. On average, 27 out of 1,000 newborns do not survive
the first year and others are affected by numerous illnesses. On the other hand, the majority of
industrial plants in Baku or the Apsheron Peninsula have been developed without environmental
control equipment or adequate buffer zones.
39.   The only regions in Greater Baku where there is an evident relationship between the quality of
water and epidemic diseases are the Azbekov and Sabunhinsky regions, where it is reported that about
30% of the population suffers from unacceptable water quality.



ANNEX H
Page 8 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
E. Environmental Institutions
40.   Degradation of the environment in the Baku Metropolitan area can be largely attributed to the
inherent inefficiencies of a centrally planned economy. Centralized, ineffective enforcement of
environmental laws and standards, an inefficient system of environmental management, and lack of
public participation in the process of environmental protection and management, has resulted in the
degradation of the environment.
41.   Most of the environmental issues described above result from lack of an environmental legal
and regulatory framework, including a permit system and appropriate industrial zoning. Improvement
of city planning based on realistic environmental standards and regulations is a matter of urgency.
42.   Environmental protection is currently under the supervision of the following institutions: State
Committee for Ecology and its 25 regional offices, which is placed under the authority of the Office
of the President; the State Committee for Hydrometerology; the Ministry of Agriculture; and the
Ministry of Construction. In addition, within the Ministry of Health, the Sanitary-Epidemiological
Authority is responsible for monitoring water quality relative to public health.
43.   There is a urgent need to upgrade the existing environmental monitoring system in two
respects: first, the Baku Water Company will need to monitor water quality in the reservoirs and
distribution system in the city; and second Hydromet will need to monitor the quality of the Kura
river Samuron channel. Lack of resources caused a recent reduction in existing potential to monitor
water quality.
44.   A significant amount of expertise and training will be required at all levels to strengthen the
enforcement capabilities for dealing with polluters who do not comply with the conditions established
by environmental permits and licenses.
45.   The environmental monitoring structure system in the Republic has been developed according
to the past sectoral administrative division of the country, which involves a number of ministries. In
the past, four institutions were responsible for environmental monitoring; the Water Management
Committee; Comwodhos; Goscomgeologija; and Azgoshydromet. All of them are now facing serious
problems caused by the lack of financial resources. The following institutions are additionally
involved in environmental monitoring and research:
*     Department of Water Supply and Canalization of the Azerbaijan Engineering Institute
No. 2. The Construction Institute--standards of drinking water for the industrial
sector;
*     "Azwodgeo", Water Treatment Laboratory--hydraulics of the municipal network;
*     International Ecoenergy Academy, Department of Water Ecosystems;
*     Oil Academy--water and wastewater treatment processes;
*     Laboratory for Water Treatment Technology; and
*     Committee on Hydrogeology and Geology of the Republic of Azerbaijan.



ANNEX H
Page 9 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
46.   There are 200 monitoring stations (sampling points) in the Republic where samples are
analyzed in several mobile and central laboratories. According to the Committee on Ecology, these
laboratories have the capacity to analyze all the main parameters, excluding detergents and herbicides.
a.    Marine Monitoring. Nine vessels in service in 1990 under the; Hydromet,
Goskomecologia, Academy of Sciences, Yuzazrybwod; now only three of them are
partially involved in monitoring/research activity.
i.    Hydromet - two vessels and central stationary laboratory in Baku established
nine marine monitoring stations located along the sea coast. The measures
covered the following main hydrochemical parameters: oils, phenols,
detergents, oxygen, visibility, and temperature;
ii.    Goskomecologia - two vessels and central stationary laboratory in Baku
established monitoring stations focused mainly on oil pollution;
iii.    Academy of Sciences - lack of resources caused the cancellation of all
research cruises and no scientific activity will continue.
b.    Fresh Water Monitoring.. There are 28 permanent monitoring stations established by
the Hydromet service located at 20 sites along the Kura river, and 14 stations on the
lakes. The following main elements are analyzed: dissolved oxygen, BOD5, ammonia,
nitrates, nitrites, phenols, phosphorus, sulfates, hydrocarbons, detergents, Cu, Zn, Al,
Mn, Ti, Hg, and some pesticides;
c.    Groundwater. Geological Committee has established a grid of 46 monitoring stations
where the main water quality parameters are measured;
d.    Atmospheric Pollution. Monitoring of atmospheric pollution is done by the
Azerbaijan Hydromet. Available data show high levels of industrial discharges and
pollutants caused by vehicular transportation in the city of Baku.
F. Legal and Regulatory Framework
47.   Lack of adequate legal and regulatory framework in Azerbaijan creates an urgent need to
adopt a full package of environmental legislation and regulations that would supersede and update the
old and inefficient framework issued by the FSU. The legislation and regulations to be revised and
introduced should be transparent to all relevant parties, and should be easily enforceable.
48.   Currently, ambient standards for water, air, and soil quality are very stringent and not
compatible with the current institutional capacity of the environmental management system in the
country to encourage compliance. Adherence to those standards will either force continued
noncompliance, thereby weakening the credibility of environmental protection activities, or close



ANNEX H
Page 10 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
much of the country's industries.
Table. 1. Water Ouality--Reservoirs and Distribution Points, September 1994
Sample Location             Bacteriological Indexes   Physical and Chemical Indexes
No. of  Did not meet      No. of  Do not meet GOST              2874
tests   GOST 2874 82   tests    82 for Potable Water
for Potable
Water
turbid       residual   smell
chlorine
I     Reservoir 69 West    32        22               31       29            28        -
2     Reservoir 110 West   60        1                 60      59            18         -
3     Reservoir 160 West   13        5                 13       13           12         -
4     Reservoir 160 North  10        2                 10       10           10         -
5     Reservoir 119 West   26        3                26       -             20         -
6     Kura II 135,  135    13                          13       13           13         -
Km,    Pump
station
7     Binagadi Pump         10       3                 8       7             8
station
8     Binagadi Water        1-       4                 11      11            6
Distribution Junction
9     Reservoir 69 East    46        5                46       46            11         3CI
10    Reservoir 110 East    6        5                6        6             6         -
11    Reservoir 126 East   6        6                 6        6            6          -
12    City Waterpipe        107      15               108      92           91         -
network
13    Binagadi technical    7        2                10       10            10        -
water
TOTAL                346      76                346      298          247        6
49.    According to the State Ecological Committee, several new legislative acts, based on



ANNEX H
Page 11 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
international experience and market economy conditions, covering a spectrum of environmental issues
were submitted to the Parliament of the Republic in the spring of 1994 and are awaiting passage. The
national sanitary authority in cooperation with the Ecology Commission have prepared a manual on
national environmental standards that also is awaiting action by the Parliament.



Municipal / Industrial Wastewater Outlets into the Bay of Baku
V~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~JhX2Ytiihzs  (QI'I.~~~~~~~~~~~~ t(f  1  A; 51' KPAq Y,YR
| _   Industrial Discharge                                          I
CD  Communal Discharge |



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
LIST OF CONTRACTS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Nature      Number  Est. Cost  Proc.      Issue     Contract  Start
of         of        US$       Method     Doc.      Signature  Execution
Package    Contracts Million
Water Demand   Civil Works         9      0.71 Shopping  - .                 _
Management                                2.09 Shopping    __            ___
Goods              1      1.35 ICB           Jun-95    Sep-95    Dec-95
70      2.52 Shopping .     .
O&M             Civil Works       3        2.5 Shopping  T          _          ____
Improvements                      2       0.44 Shopping X                  _  _-
1      0.19 Shopping                     _
1      0.05 Shopping
________ Goods              2       9.47 ICB    u_nJun-95    Sep-95    Oct-95
1      0.55 ICB           Jun-95    Sep-95    Nov-95
_ _ __2  6.26 [CB          Jul-95    Nov-95    Jan-96
3      11.42 ICB          Aug-95    Dec-95    Feb-96
________  1  2.78 ICB     Sep-95    Feb-96    Apr-96
5      0.59 ICB           Sep-95    Feb-96    Apr-96
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~1 .6 7  N IF- _ _- _   _ _ _ _ _ _
_________          ~~~0.11   NIF
2.19 NIF_
0.47 NIF      _   ___          __-
Supply          Turn-key           1     21.85 ICB            Jul-95 15/95        Feb-96
Improvements    _                                    _   i
16.54 NIF             _    ___
Civil Works                1.1 NIF        |                   |
Institutional  Civil Works         1      1.92 1CB       TJun-951  Dec-95    Feb-96
Capacity       |_ _                1      0.02 Shopping        _      _
Building       Goods              2       1.08 1CB            Jul-95    Sep-95    Dec-95
|________  1   0.23 1CB           Mar-96    Jul-96    Sep-96
6      0.49 Shopping   _          ___
2      1.13 1GC            Jul-95   Aug-95    Oct-95
NA        0.73 Training  Ij
Technical          1      2.16 Short-List     Jul-95    Oct-95    Jan-96
Assistance         2      0.59 Short-List    Jan-96   May-96    Jul-96
Studies        Technical   _               0.5 Short-List    Aug-95   Nov-95    Dec-95
Assistance ! _            1.43 Short-List 1   Jan-96    Apr-96    Jun-96
|______  2.06 Short-List  Mar-97    Jul-97   Aug-97
.___________ |_______ ______        1.59 Short-List    Aug-95    Nov-95    Dec-95
0.7 NIF      t
PPF               3          1 IS. Sources






ANNEX J
Page 1 of 1
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENT ESTIMATES
IDA FY          Quarterly        Cumulative Disbursement
IDA FY& QTR.    Disbursement
Ending         (US$ Million)    (US$ Million)   (% of Total)
FY 1996
9/30/95            1.50            1.50      2.5%
12/31/95           0.45             1.95      3.2%
3/31/96           4.45             6.40     10.5%
6/30/96           4.45            10.85     17.8%
FY 1997
9/30/96           4.80            15.65     25.7%
12/31/96           2.25            17.90     29.3%
3/31/97           2.70            20.60     33.8%
6/30/97           3.15            23.75     38.9%
FY 1998
9/30/97           4.05            27.80     45.6%
12/31/97           4.05            31.85     52.2%
3/31/98           4.50            36.35     59.6%
6/30/98           4.50            40.85     67.0%
FY 1999
9/30/98           4.25            45.10     73.9%
12/31/98           4.00            49.10     80.5%
3/31/99           3.75            52.85     86.6%
6/30/99           3.65            56.50     92.6%
FY 2000
9/30/99            1.35           57.85     94.8%
12/31/99           0.90            58.75     96.3%
3/31/00           0.90            59.65     97.8%
6/30/00           0.45            60.10     98.5%
FY 2001
9/30/00           0.45            60.10     98.5%
12/31/00           0.45            60.55     99.3%
3/31/01           0.45            61.00    100.0%






ANNEX K
Page 1 of 4
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SPECIAL ACCOUNTS
Introduction
1.           In view of the evolving situation of the banking sector in Central Asia, a number of
minimum conditions should be met by banks to be selected to hold IBRD Special Account funds, as
specified below:
a.    financial soundness and stabilitv: the banks should have received a general operating
license from the Central Bank of Azerbaijan. Moreover, any bank selected for a Special
Account should be subject to an assessment by an IBRD Task Manager in consultation
with the Disbursement Officer to ensure that it meets adequate standards for financial
soundness.
b.    audit: the bank should have been audited by a recognized auditing firm for the past year
and the audit report must be found acceptable to the Bank.
c.    reasonable fees: even the most competitive banks charge high fees for each transaction,
although they claim to be making profits on the cash value of their operations rather than
on the number of transactions. However, they are ready to negotiate their fees down and
in some instances some of the banks were willing to waive their charges for the benefit
of holding IBRD Special Account funds.
d.    foreign correspondent bank network: the bank should have a significant network of
correspondent banks for all major currencies (USD, DM, FF, SWF, Pounds Sterling) and
the capacity to handle transactions with foreign banks on a routine basis. References on
an Azeri bank can be obtained from its correspondent banks abroad.
e.    full bankinz services: the bank should be capable of performing a wide range of banking
services (wire transfers to foreign banks, cash withdrawals, issuance of monthly Special
Account statements/debit notes, issuance of conversion rate).
as the Azeri banking system does not provide checks, small payments covering
operating cost will be covered by cash withdrawals. In some instances, the banks
may not be favorable to small cash withdrawals;
ii.    Azeri banks typically do not provide regular monthly statements to their
customers.  They provide debit notes only for the larger transactions.
Implementing agencies have been able to obtain monthly statements as required
by IBRD at an extra charge. In one instance, the statement was prepared by the
implementing agency and certified by the bank, which is not recommended under
IBRD rules.
f.    capacity to issue letter of credit: most banks have limited experience in issuing Letters
of Credit and even less so in obtaining Letter of Credit confirmations from foreign banks.
The size of the Letter of Credit department and the volume of operations handled should



ANNEX K
Page 2 of 4
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SPECIAL ACCOUNTS
provide an indication as to the reliability of the bank in this respect.
g.    member of SWIFT: the bank should be a member of SWIFT (Society for Worldwide
Interbank Financial Telecommunications) and routinely use this facility to expedite
payment transfers.
h.    issuance of a Comfort Letter: to protect the interests of borrowers and the Bank, the
commercial bank should be willing to provide a letter of comfort to assure that amounts
deposited in a Special Account will not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to
satisfy amounts due to the commercial bank by the borrower. Such a letter is a
precondition for the Bank to disburse the initial authorized allocation.
i.    training/familiarity with Western banking practices: the staff from the foreign transactions
department should possess a good knowledge of the English language and should
normally have been trained by the former "Vnesheconombank" or by foreign commercial
banks abroad or in Azerbaijan.
j.     annual rePorts/statement of fees: a bank should be willing to provide information of this
nature, satisfactory of IBRD.
Selection Procedures
2.           It is recommended that the selection of a bank to hold a Special Account should be based
on competitive local shopping procedure. To initiate this process an implementing agency would send
to at least three commercial banks a letter inviting them to submit proposals. This should be done on
project by project basis and the bank's proposals would be tailored to the size of the Special Account
under each loan and possibly the borrowing sector. This procedure would best protect the interest of
borrowers in the long run as well as foster transparency and facilitate disbursement of loan funds. This
process will also provide the implementing agency with a written commitment from the bank, which
should result in better control of funds.
3.           A draft invitation to submit proposals with accompanying sample formats will be made
available to implementing agencies by the Bank's Resident Mission in Moscow for their guidance in the
selection of a Special Account bank. Although it is the borrower's responsibility to select the commercial
bank, the choice of bank must be approved by IBRD. Under these circumstances, the selection process
will be carried out as follows:
a.    as soon as possible after Board approval of the Loan, the implementing agency (provided
that it has been established) will send to at least three conmmercial banks (listed in par.
7 below) the letter of invitation to submit a proposal.
b.    the implementing agency head will establish a Selection Committee composed of at least
three parties (e.g. the PIU head, representatives from the Ministry of Finance and the
Central Bank). This committee will review the proposals and make its decision. If, with



ANNEX K
Page 3 of 4
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SPECIAL ACCOUNTS
prior approval of the Task Manager, no Selection Committee is formed, the selection and
accompanying conclusions made by the implementing agency should receive formal no-
objection from tlhe Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank.
c.    the head of the implementing agency will report the findings (together with no-objections
referred to above) to the Task Manager and state that they have assessed the depository
bank being nominated against the above criteria and are satisfied that it is an appropriate
choice for the Bank's consideration. The borrower should also advise the Task Manager
of their internal procedures governing the control and use of interest income earned on
the Special Account.
d.    IBRD will provide its approval on the basis of the above. The Task Manager should also
refer to (i) the September 8, 1993 "Report of the Working Group for Review of Special
Accounts" issued by the Loan Department and (ii) O.D. 12.20 in Special Accounts.
4.           Banks which are eligible to participate in selection procedure include:
a.    banks participating in the FIDP/ESP projects;
b.    banks designated by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance as eligible to hold
deposits of Government's funds; and
c.    banks which have been evaluated by the Bank's specialists and are most likely to provide
satisfactory banking services in regard to Special Accounts.
5.           Banks which previously have held Special Accounts and provided satisfactory services
(as ascertained by the Bank's staff and the borrower) will not be disqualified from continuing to hold the
Special Account (provided their performance continues to be satisfactory), but they will not be eligible
to hold additional Special Accounts unless they can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Bank that they
have met the minimum criteria outlined in para. 4. Other local commercial banks may be considered
provided that the Task Manager and the Loan Department have concluded on the basis of submitted
documents that the bank meets the minimum criteria. However, banks which are not on the list approved
banks may not make more than one-third of the number of banks invited to submit proposals.
Agreement Regarding the Special Account
6.           In order to avoid potential misunderstanding regarding the term is of the Special Account
in the future, an agreement regarding such terms should be concluded between the implementing agency
(or PIU) and the bank, which, inter alia, should include:
a.    confirmation of the opening of the Special Account to be maintained in USD;
b.    account number;



ANNEX K
Page 4 of 4
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SPECIAL ACCOUNTS
c.    name and adders of the beneficiary, names and titles of the persons who will be entitled
to give payment orders to the bank, and a copy of their specimen signatures (two persons
should sign jointly);
d.    full address of the bank, as well as their SWIFT code, and if possible a contract name;
e.     a copy of the Terms and Conditions listing the terms of the account, fees for transactions,
exchange commission, fees for investigating international transactions, payments which
need additional treatment, documentary credit, collections, guarantees and other fees;
f.    description of the bank's services:
(i)  prompt transfer in foreign and local currencies;
(ii)  establishing (issuing, advising, negotiating, corresponding, confirming, paying)
letters of credit;
(iii)  issuing of monthly bank statement showing all transactions made during the
month, dates of transactions, rate of exchange used, opening and closing balance
and provision of debit advice for each transaction;
g.    the rate of interest that the account will be given; the account number where the interest
will be deposited and the name of the beneficiary; and
h.     Names of major correspondent banks with which they have an active account.
7.           A copy of this agreement should be sent for IBRD approval (Task Manager and Loan
Department) together with other findings specified in para. 6(c).



ANNEX L
Page 1 of 2
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING TARGETS
Objectives/                       1995       1996      1997       1998       1999       2000
Indicators
1-Water Demand
Management
Delivery of Meters    Plan       100%
Actual
Meters Installed      Plan                  3,000     4,000      4,000      4,000
Actual
Billing System        Plan                                 1
Actual
Consumer Education    Plan                        1 phase                         2 phase
Actual
Leakage Repaired      Plan         5%        19%        19%        19%       19%        19%
Actual
2-Operation &
Maintenance
Vehicules             Plan                   10%        50%       40%
Actual
Equipment             Plan                   10%        50%       40%
Actual
Materials             Plan                   10%        50%       40%
Actual
3- Supply
Improvements
Treatment Plant       Plan                                 1
Actual
Pumping Stations      Plan                      2          4         4
____ ____ ___ ____ ___ A ctual  _ _ _ _ _
Master Meters         Plan       100%
Actual



ANNEX L
Page 2 of 2
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING TARGETS
1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000
4-Capacity Building
ARWC Building        Plan                     1
Actual
Twining              Plan           1
Actual
Master Plan          Plan                                                    1
Actual
Follow-up Study      Plan                           _   _
_Actual



ANNEX M
Page 1 of 2
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION FORECAST
The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision at headquarters
for procurement review, correspondence, and review of reports, which is estimated at 16 staff-weeks
during the first and second project years and about 11 staff-weeks thereafter.
Approx.             Activities                 Skill Needs                       Staff
Dates                                                                            Weeks
September 95        -Expedite start-up         -Institutional Exp.               10
-Review Twinning           -Sanitary Eng.
-Update Action Plan        -Financial Analyst
agreed during
Negotiations
January 96          -Review Inst.              -Institutional Exp.                10
-Review Proc. Progress     -Sanitary Eng.
-Review Household         -Information System
Leakage Program            Specialist
-Consumer Educ. Camp.      -Financial Analyst
September 96        -Annual Review of          -Institutional Exp                 11
Action Plan               -Financial Analyst
-Agree on Action Plan     -Information System Spe.
following year
January 97          -Review Inst. Streng.      -Institutional Exp.               9
-Inspect progress and     -Sanitary Eng.
quality of Works          -Financial Analyst
-Procurement Progress
September 97        -Annual Review of          -Institutional Exp                10
Action Plan               -Financial Analyst
-Agree on Action Plan     -Information System Spe.
following year.           -Sanitary Eng.
-Procurement Progress
January 98          -Review Inst. Streng.      -Institutional Exp.               8
-Inspect progress and     -Sanitary Eng.
quality of Works          -Financial Analyst
-Procurement Progress
September 98        Annual Review of           -Institutional Exp                 10
Action Plan               -Financial Analyst
-Agree on Action Plan      -Information System Spe.



ANNEX M
Page 2 of 2
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION FORECAST
Approx.             Activities                 Skill Needs                       Staff
Dates                                                                            Weeks
following year.           -Sanitary Eng.
-Procurement Progress
January 99          -Review Inst. Streng.      -Institutional Exp.               8
-Review Consultants       -Sanitary Eng.
works, and agree on       -Financial Analyst
their recommendations
-Procurement Progress
September 99        Annual Review of           -Institutional Exp                 10
Action Plan               -Financial Analyst
-Agree on Action Plan     -Information System Spe.
following year.           -Sanitary Eng.
-Agree scope follow-up
project.
January 2000        -Review Inst. Streng.      -Institutional Exp.                8
-Inspect progress and     -Sanitary Eng.
quality of Works          -Financial Analyst
September 2000      -Review Inst. Streng.      -Institutional Exp.               8
-Inspect progress and     -Sanitary Eng.
quality of Works.         -Financial Analyst



ANNEX N
Page 1 of 10
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.    General Introduction
1.           This annex presents: (a) Konmunnpromvod's past and present financial position; and (b)
the assumptions and projections for ARWC's financial performance from 1995 to 2005.
B.    BWA's Past and Present Financial Position
2.           BWA's (Kommunpromvod) past and present financial performance is presented in three
tables covering:
(a)    Table 0.1 Kommumpromvod - Revenue and Expenditure Statement 1991-1994;
(b)    Table 0.2 Konmmunpromvod - Balance Sheet 1992-1994; and
(c)    Table 0.3 Kommunpromvod - Water Tariffs 1992-1995
C.    ARWC - Financial Assumptions and Projections 1995-2005
General
3.           The financial projections from 1995 to 2005 assume that ARWC's financial accounting
system will be improved to conform with accepted western commercial practices. The information
developed should also be fed into a regular management information system.
4.           All the financial projections are presented in US$ at current prices (i.e. including an
annual allowance for inflation) at the following rates: 2 percent 1995; 2.5 percent 1996; 2.7 percent 1997;
2.5 percent 1998; 2.6 percent 1999; and 2.7 percent per year thereafter.
Revenue and Expenditure Statement (Table 0.4)
5.           The total population, population served and water demand reflect the projections prepared
by the Project Consultants.
6.           It is assumed that ARWC will set water tariffs which will generate by 1998 revenues
equivalent to not less than the sum of: (a) total operating expenses; (b) debt service requirements; and
(c) provision for non-cash items, including depreciation and replacement costs.
7.           Revenue will be derived from continued direct charges on water consumers. In order to
satisfy the financial objective set out in Item 6 above, it is envisaged that average water tariffs would be
increased in terms of current prices by 40 percent in 1995, 25 percent in 1996, 20 percent in 1997, 15
percent in 1998, 10 percent in 1999 and 5 percent in 2000.



ANNEX N
Page 2 of 10
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
8.           Operating expenses were prepared on the basis of two main sources of information: (a)
Kommunpromvod financial accounts for 1993 and 1994; and (b) estimates of the cost savings and
incremental costs attributable to the Project investment. The cost estimates for 1995 are based on the 4th
quarter 1994 and some of the latest unit prices. All costs have adjusted to current prices using the
inflation rates specified in Item 4 above.
9.           Salaries and wages include a social insurance contribution of 35 percent, employment fund
of 2 percent and refugee aid of 1 percent. Staffing of the water enterprise is projected to be reduced by
about 60 percent over the next 10 years. Therefore, in 1995 prices, the staff costs are expected to rise
from an estimated US$ 370,000 in 1995 to US$ 468,000 in 2000 and US$ 596,000 in 2005 - this includes
an annual adjustment of 15 percent per year to reflect productivity gains.
10.          Electricity - substantial savings are expected to accrue in annual electricity costs through
the reduction in non revenue water, improved system operation and higher pump efficiencies. The
projected values in 1995 prices are presented below based on the unit cost of electricity which has been
projected in line with the tariff requirements which were agreed recently as part of a loan agreement
between EBRD and Azerenerji (see: Azerbaijan - Yenikend Renewable Energy Project, Staff Appraisal
Report, EBRD, October 1994):
Electricity Consumption   Unit         Total
Water Prod.  Unit Cons.   Total        Cost          Cost
Year  (m3 mln)      (kWhIm3)    (kWh mln)   (US$/kWh)   (US$ 000)
1994  771          0.87          668
1995  726          0.87          632          0.015        9,480
1996  634          0.74          466          0.0175       8,155
1997  559          0.58          324          0.020        6,480
1998  519          0.58          301          0.024        7,224
1999  486          0.58          282          0.027        7,614
2000  458           0.58         266          0.028        7,448
2001  466           0.58         270          0.028        7,560
2002  474           0.58         275          0.028        7,700
2003  481           0.58         279          0.028        7,812
2004  489           0.58         284          0.028        7,952
2005  497           0.58         288          0.028        &064
11.          Chemicals - the consumption of chemicals will decline in line with the projected reduction
in water production and non revenue water, from an estimated US$ 590,000 in 1995 to US$ 351,000 in
2000 and US$ 380,000 by 2000 - all in 1995 prices.
12.          Materials and Supplies are projected to increase in real terms at 10 percent per year for
the next five years from a base of US$ 455,000 in 1995.
13.          Repairs and Maintenance - repairs and maintenance costs consist of two components: (a)
projected increase in existing costs in real terms at 5 percent per year for the next five years from a base



ANNEX N
Page 3 of 10
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
of US$ 3.9 million in 1995; and (b) incremental maintenance costs on all new civil works plus machinery
and equipment to be financed by the proposed investment package. The latter costs are estimated as a
proportion of the capital cost: (i) civil works - 0.05 percent per year; and (ii) machinery and equipment -
1 percent per year.
14.          Administration - set at 2.5 percent of all other operating costs.
15.          Bad debts - set at 5 percent of total revenue in 1995 and 1996; 2.5 percent in 1997; and
1 percent thereafter.
16.          Depreciation allowances were calculated on the following bases:
(a)    Existing assets - according to Komimunpromvod's records, the existing fixed assets of the
water supply system had a gross book value of US$ 11.8 million as at 31st December
1994. The annual depreciation allowance used in the accounts yields a factor of 3.6
percent per year (equivalent to an average asset life of 28 years);
(b)    Project investments - for the new assets, the depreciation allowances were calculated on
a straight-line basis without annual revaluation, using the following asset lives:
40 years - civil works, pipes and pipework.
15 years - equipment and materials for mains repair, booster stations and the
rehabilitation of the water treatment plant and the pumping stations.
10 years - equipment and materials for household leakage, master meters, the new office
building, depots and stores.
5 years - vehicles; and equipment and materials for metering, billing system, consumer
education, laboratory and information systems.
17.          Interest Charges reflect the following onlending conditions:
(a)    IBRD/IDA - 7 percent interest rate with repayment over 25 years, including 5 years
grace;
(b)    EBRD - 7.5 percent interest rate with repayment over 15 years, including 3 years grace;
(c)    European Union - assumed to be on a grant basis to ARWC; and
(d)    Government contribution - treated as an equity investment.
18.          Profit Tax - set at 35 percent of net income.



ANNEX N
Page 4 of 10
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Balance Sheet (Table 0.5)
19.          Accounts Receivable have increased as a proportion of billed revenue in terms of US$
in the last two years from 23 percent in 1993 to 26 percent in 1994. The level of arrears is likely to rise
in the short term and the following levels have been assumed in the financial projections: 40 percent in
1995; 35 percent in 1996; 25 percent in 1997; and 17 percent (i.e. 2 months of revenue) from 1998
onwards.
20.          Inventories set at 1.5 percent of fixed assets in operation from 1995 onwards.
21.          Long term debt consists of future borrowing less principal repayments. The conditions
for the international loans are set out in Item 17.
22.          Accounts Payable have increased as a proportion of operating expenses in terms of US$
in the last two years from 18 percent in 1993 to 32 percent in 1994. The following levels have been
assumed in the projections: 40 percent in 1995; 35 percent in 1996; 25 percent in 1997; and 17 percent
(i.e. 2 months of operating expenses) from 1998 onwards.
Sources and Application of Funds (Table 0.6)
23.          Loans represent borrowing from the international loans and the requirements of the
proposed investment schedule.
24.          Applications of capital expenditure represent the planned phasing of the proposed
investment programme (1995-2000).
25.          Debt service represents payment of the principal and interest due on the international
loans.



ANNEX N
Page 5 of 10
TABLE 0.1          KOMMUNPROMVOD - REVENUEAND EXPENDITURE
1991 - 1994
(Manats million)
Component                         1991      1992      1993      1994
|REVENUE|
Water Sale - Domestic               1.1       4.9     122.7   3753.3
- Communal               1.1      24.6    382.7   6102.3
- Industrial             6.0      92.2    905.6   9015.3
Others                              0.1       0.2       0.9
Total Revenue                       8.3     121.9   1411.9  18870.9
IEXPENDITURE
Salaries and Wages                  0.9       6.6     47.9    288.7
Electricity                         2.9     35.8    594.1    8809.1
Chemicals                           0.5      9.1      71.0    619.2
Materials and Supplies              0.5      5.5      55.3    501.4
Repairs and Maintenance             1.8     29.1     290.1    4350.6
Administration
Others                                                  1.7      2.3
Total Cash Expenditure              6.6      86.1    1060.1   14571.3
Depreciation                        1.8       1.8     35.8    779.5
Operating Income (Deficit)         -0.1      34.0    316.0   3520.1
Interest Charges
Net Income (Deficit)              -0.1      34.0    316.0   3520.1
Profit Tax                                            110.6   1232.0
Net Income (Deficit) after Taxes  -0.1      34.0    205.4   2288.1
IFINANCIAL INDICATORS
Working Ratio                      79.5     70.6      75.1      77.2
Operating Ratio                   101.2     72.1      77.6      81.3
Profit Margin (before Taxes)       -1.2     27.9      22.4      18.7
Source: Kommunpromvod.



ANNEX N
Pane 6 of 10
TABLE 0.2           KOMMUNPROMVOD - BALANCE SHEET 1992- 1994
(Manats million)
Component                                    1992      1993      1994
ASSETS  |
FIXED ASSETS
Fixed Assets in Operation                    53.8    1489.8  46147.8
Less: Accumulated Depreciation               26.5     717.0  25415.2
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                27.3     772.8  20732.6
Work-in-Progress
Total Fixed Assets                           27.3     772.8  20732.6
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Bank                                10.0      59.8     388.3
Accounts Receivable                          49.0     686.3   12391.7
Inventory                                     1.2       9.5    248.3
Others                                                           13.4
Total Current Assets                         60.2     755.6   13041.7
TOTAL ASSETS                                 87.5    1528.4  33774.3
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY CAPITAL
Capital                                      28.7     214.8    1057.1
Revaluation Reserve                           1.6             20476.6
Other Reserves                               14.6     699.5    1208.5
Others                                        5.1
Total Capital                                50.0     914.3  22742.2
DEBT LIABILITIES
Central Government                            0.8     207.3
Total Debt Liabilities                        0.8    207.3        0.0
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                             36.7     406.8   11032.1
Others
Total Current Liabilities                    36.7     406.8   11032.1
|TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                87.5    1528.4  33774.3



ANNEX N
Page 7 of 10
TABLE 0.3          KOMMUNPROMVOD - WATER TARIFFS 1992 - 1995
Dec.     Aug.      Nov.    March      June      July      Oct.      Feb.
Category                1992      1993     1993      1994      1994     1994      1994      1995
IMANATS PER M3    I
Domestic                 0.1       0.1       2.0      2.0       2.0       6.0      18.0     24.0
Communal                 1.0       2.5       5.0      9.0      21.0      40.0    125.0    450.0
Govemment Institutions
Treated Water          2.0       5.5      15.0     28.0      65.0    100.0    315.0    880.0
Technical Water        2.0       5.5      15.0     23.0      23.0      46.0    140.0       n.a.
Industry
Treated Water          2.0       5.5      15.0     28.0      65.0    100.0    315.0    880.0
Technical Water        2.0       5.5      15.0     23.0      23.0      46.0    140.0       n.a.
Bulk Tariffs
Sumgaylt               1.5       3.6      10.0     16.0      37.0      37.0    116.0    136.0
Apsheron               0.3       0.9       3.0      4.0      13.0      18.0      54.0     83.5
IUS$ PER M3        I
DomesUc                0.002     0.001     0.009    0.004     0.002     0.006    0.008     0.006
Communal               0.022     0.019     0.023    0.018     0.021     0.041     0.056    0.113
Govemment InstituUons
Treated Water        0.045     0.042     0.070    0.056     0.066     0.103     0.140    0.220
Technical Water      0.045     0.042     0.070     0.046    0.023     0.047     0.062    0.000
Industry
Treated Water        0.045     0.042     0.070     0.056    0.066     0.103     0.140    0.220
Technical Water      0.045     0.042     0.070     0.046    0.023     0.047     0.062    0.000
Bulk Tariffs
Sumgayit             0.034     0.028     0.047    0.032     0.037     0.038     0.052    0.034
Apsheron             0.007     0.007     0.014     0.008    0.013     0.019     0.024     0.021
EXCHANGE RATE
US$ 1 = Manats          44.5    130.0    215.0    500.0    990.0    970.0   2250.0   4000.0
Source: Kommunpromvod and Mission estimates.



TABLE 0.4            APSHERON REGKINAL WATER COMPANY - REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE STATEMENT (00f 000)
Actual    Actual                                                     Proen                                                                                          1
ComPoent                                                       1993       1994      1995       1996      1997       1998      1999      2000       2001      2002       2003      2004       2005
TOTAL POPULATION                            (000)              2579      2591       2552       2513      2474      2436       2397      2356       2382      2409       2436       2464      2492
Seoyd by SWSS                               (000)              2447      2458       2421      2384       2348      2311       2274      2235       2281      2328       2376      2425       2473
Proportion Swd                              (%)                94.9       94.9      94.9       94.9      94.9       94.9      94.9       94.9      95.6       96.6      97.5       96.4      99.2
PER CAPITA tSUMPiI
Domestic                                   (kcd)                150        150       150        150       15f        150       150        150       152        154       156        158       160
Overall    -bsw so)                                             297       291        287       284        281       289        299       309        318       327        337       347        358
Producton                                             675       660                             652       615       586        562        56        557        555       553        551
WATER1PRODUCTION                                                781        771       734                  559        519       486        456       466        474       481        489       497
WATER DEMAND
Domestc                                    (m3 mulin)           134        135       132        131       128        127       124        122       126        131       135        140       145
Communal                                    (m3milibn)           33         34        33         32        32         32        31         31        32         33        34         35        36
IndusI -PobLe                               (m3mtlln)            63        60         57         64        51        55         59        64         69        74         79        85         92
-Non-Potable                     (m3millon)            35        33         31        30         26        31         33        35         38        41         44        47         51
Total Demand                               (m3 ml9on)           266       261        254       247        241       244        248        252       265        278       292        307       323
NON-REVENUE WATER                           (m3m6lon)           516       510        472       387        319       275        238        206       201        195       189        182       174
RARIFFS             I                       (%I                66.0       66.1      65.0      t61.1       67.0      53.0      49.0       45.0      432        41.2      39.2       37.1      34.9
CLURRENT PRICES                                            Novmber   Octber
Domee                                      (USVm3)            0.009      0.008
Communal                                    (USVm3)           0.023      0.055
ndubltrol  - Potble                        (USV/m3)           0.070      0.140
- NonPotable                     (US$m3)            0.070     0.062
Averge                                     (US$/m3)            0.043     0.048      0.065     0.081      0.097     0.111      0.123     0.129      0.132     0.135      0.139     0.142      0.148
1994 PRICES
Domeulc                                    (USWm3)            0.009      0.008
Communal                                    (US$hm3)           0.023     0.055
Industrtul  - Pobtab                       (USVm3)            0.070      0.140
- Non-Potabl                     (US$m3)            0.070     0.062
N O WREVENU                    ~~~~~(US$fm3l        0.043     0.046      0.063     0.077      0.090     0.101      0.109     0.111      0.111     0.111      0.110     0.110      0.110
DomSeaic                                                       9we
Communal                                                       3063      12061     16414      19949     23312      27217     30385      32467     34948      37631     40535      43678     47102
InduatrIgI  - Potable                                    )     7294
- Non-Potable
Ohw Income                                                        7
Total Ope( hgr Rvenuo                                         11372      12061     16414      19949     23312      27217     30385      32467     34948      37631     40535      43676     47102
IOPERATING EXPENSES
Saarie and Wage                                                 368       213        377       403        435       468        504        543       587       630        680        733       790
Ecbtry                                                         4765      5234       9670      8526       6958      7951       6598      6637       9004      9418       9613      10259     10664
Chemlcal                                                        572       439        567        507       460        437       420        407       425        444       462        482       503
MaUtolrs and SuppUle                                            445       376        464        523       591        666       751        647       669        893       917        942       967
Re9m and Mahbtnanea                                            2337      2713       4001       4458      4957       5453      5934      6365       6558       6735      6916       7103      7295
AdmInltaton                                                      14          3       377        360       335        374       405        420       436        453       470        4e8       506
Bad Deobb                                                                            821        997      5s3        680        760        325       349        376       405        437       471
TotaI Cash Expenas                                             8539       6978     16277      15774     14318      16029     17371      17564     16229      18949     19664      20444     21216
Deprecltlon                                                    268       423        837       2757      4548       6088      7089       7248      7246       7248      7248       7248      7248
OperatIng Income (Drell)                                       2545      2660       -700       1418      4447      5100       5925       7655      9471      11434     13623      15967     1t638
Intereat tClierge                                                                                                             1433       1790      4987      4780       4558       4320      4065
Net Income (Oa&6)                                              2545      2660       .700       1416      4447       5100      4493      565        4484      6654       9065t    11666      14S73
PnotU Tax                                                       891       931          0        496      1556       1785      1572       2053      1569       2329      3173       4083      5100
Ne In         (Desfkl tar Taxes                                164        1729      -700        921      2890       3315      2920       3812      2915      4325       5692      7563       9472
IIAC   INDIrCATORS
WorkingRatb                                (M)                  75.1      74.4       99.2      79.1       61.4      56.9       57.2      54.1       52.2      50.4      48.5       46.8      45.0
Operal Ratl                                (%)                  77.6      77.9      104.3      92.9       80.9      61.3       80.5      76.4       72.9      69.6      66.4       63.4       60.4
ProftMeginL(beforePrftTax)                  (%)                 22.4      22.1        4.3       7.1       19.1      18.7       14.8      16.1       12.8      17.7      224        26.7       30.9
POft Margkin(OaProtTax) (TE)                                    14.5      14.3       -4.3       4.6       12.4      12.2       9.6       11.7        8.3      11.5       14.5      17.4       20.1
Aveege Revenue prUntD  mand                 (USVm3)            0.012     0.046      0.065     0018       0.097     0.111      0.23      6.129      0.132     0.135     0.139      0.142      0.146
Averag CostperUntDemand                     (USSm3)            0.033     0.036      0.067     0075       0.076     0.091      0.104     0.105      0.115     0.111      0.108     0.104      0.101
Average Coat oar Unk Produced                U0011                       0 012      0.024     0.029      0.034     0.043      0.053     0.058      0.065     0          0.065     0.065      0.065



TABLE 0.5           APSHERON REGIONAL WATER COMPANY - BALANCE SHEET (USS 000)
Actual    Adual                                                     Projedions
Componen                                        1993       1994      1995      1996      1997       1998      1999      2000      2001       2002      2003      2004      2005
|ASSETS|
FIXED ASSETS
Fxed Auets inOpwaion                            5622     11833      15228     35833     56158      73336     84613    87130      87130      87130     87130    87130      87130
Leu: Accumulated Depredation                    2706      6517       7354     10112     14659     20747      27836     35084     42332      49580     56828    64076      71324
Net Fbced Aset hI Operdion                      2916      5316       7874     25721     41499     52589      56777     52048     44798      37550     30302     23055     15807
Work-In-Progress
Toal Fbced Asset                                2916      5316       7874     25721     41499      52589     58777     52046      44798     37550     30302     23055     15807
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and a*                                      226        100       858      2142      7769      17051     25716     33335      37451     41336     44961     48320     51375
Accourts Receivable                             2590      3177       6566      6982      5828       4537      5065      5412       5826      6273      6757      7281       7852
Invritocy                                         36         64       228       537       642       1100      1269      1307       1307      1307      1307      1307       1307
Ohers                                                         3
Total Current Auds                              2852       3344      7652      9662      14439     22688     32050     40054      44584     48916     53025     56908      60534
|OTAL ASSETS                                     5768      8660     15526     35383      55938     75277     88827      92100     89382     86486     83328      79963     76341
IEQUITY AND LUABILMES
EQUITY CAPITAL
Captl                                            811        271       271       271        271       271       271       271        271       271       271       271        271
Revaion Rerve                                             5250       5250      5250      5250       5250      5250      5250       5250      5250      5250      5250      5250
Other Reserves                                  2640        310
Govemnmn                                                              794      4941      8737      11584     13547     14160      14160     14160     14160     14160      14160
Total CapibTl                                   3451       5831      6315     10462      14258     17105     19068     19681      19681     19681     19681     19681      19681
DEBT LIABILmES
WoddBwnMADLoen (1)                                                   2300     13700     26500      36400     43000     45000      43902     42728     41471     40126      3688
EBRD Loan                                                             400      5700     11800      19100     23863     24491      22760     20899     18898     16748      14436
Centr  Governmt                                  782
Total Debt Liabit                                782          0      2700     19400      38100     58500     66863     69491      86862     63627     603089    56874      53123
CURRENT LIABILmES
Accwunts Payl                                   1535       2829      6511      5521       3579      2672      2896      2928       3039      3159      3278      3408       3537
Ttial Currert LabiUe                            1535       2829      6511      5521       3579      2672      2896      2928       3039      3159      3278      3408       3537
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIA8ILME8                      5768       8660     15526     35383      55938     75277     88827     92100      8938      86466     83328     79963      76341
(1) change in loan amounts from IDA/EBRD
z
o z



Io>X
TABLE 0.6           APSHERON REGIONAL WATER COMPANY - SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS (US$ 000)
Actual    Actual                                                   Projedions
Cornponent                                                1993      1994       1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      2001      2002      2003       2004      2005
SOURCES OF FUNDS
NotIncomnbeforel teresl&afterTax                          1654      1729       -700       921      2890      3315      4353       5602      7902      9105     10451      11903     13537
Depreciation                                               288       423        837      2757      4648      6088      7089       7248      7248      7248      7248       7248      7248
Internal Cash Flow                                        1942      2152        137      3679      7438      9403     11442      12850     15149     16353     17698      19151     20785
LOANS AND GRANTS
World BanMIDA Loan                                                             2300     11400     12800      9900      6600       2000
EBRO Loan                                                                       400      5300      5900      7500      5800       2100
European Union Grant                                                            260      2400       900       240        160        50
Govewnment Contribution                                                         794      4147      3796      2846       1964       612
Total Loans and Grants                                                         3754     23247     23396     20486      14514      4762         0         0          0         0         0
TOTAL SORCS OF FUNDS                                       1942      2152      3891     26926     30834      29889     25955     17612     15149      16353     17698     19151     20785
IAPPUILCATKIN OF FUNDS 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Proposed Proect                                                                3754     23247     23396     20486      14514      4762
Other Invest_met
Total Capltal Expandlture                                    0          0      3754     23247     23396     20486      14514      4762         0         0          0         0         0
DEBT SERVICE
World Bank/IDA Loan   - Principal Repayment                                                                                                 1098      1175       1257      1345      1439
- Interest Repayment                                                                                                  3150       3073      2991      2903      2809
EBRD Loan            - Principal Repayment                                                                              1037      1472      1731      1861       2001      2151      2312
- Interest Repayment                                                                              1433      1790       1837      1707      1567      1417       1256
Total Deot Service                                           0          0         0         0         0          0      2469      3262      7816      7816       7816      7816      7816
WORIONG CAPITAL                                           1942      2152        137      3000      6719      9156       9139      7972      4419      4212       3990      3753      3497
TOTALAPPLICATION OF FUNDS                                 1942      2152       3891     26247     30115     29642      26122     15996     12234     12028      11806     11569     11313
Surplus                                                                                   679       719       247       -166      1616      2915      4325       5893      7583      9472



ANNEX 0
Page 1 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. General Introduction
1.           This annex presents the three main components of the economic analysis of the Baku
water supply project: (a) economic internal rate of return (EIRR); (b) average incremental cost (AIC) of
water; and (c) affordability calculations. Each component is presented separately below.
B. Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
2.           Introduction. All costs and benefits are expressed in US$ at 1995 constant economic
prices. The adjustments to economic border prices include the following shadow price factors: (a) foreign
exchange 1.05; (b) labour 0.80; and (c) a standard conversion factor 0.90. The border price for electricity
has been estimated separately (see Item 16 below).
3.           The economic life of the rehabilitation and improvement works is assumed to be 15 years
after the completion of construction and installation in 2000.
4.           Incremental Water Delivered. The incremental water delivered to the consumer has
been estimated on a "with" and "without" project basis. In the "with" project case, the projected water
delivered is presented on an annual basis in Annex 0, Table 0.4. In the "without" project case (i.e.
without the proposed rehabilitation and improvement package) the water supply system will continue to
deteriorate thereby reducing the volume of water available for direct consumption. It has been
conservatively estimated that water production will decline by about 1 percent per year unaccounted will
increase at the rate of 1 percent per year in the "without" project case.
5.           The difference between the "with" and "without" project cases represents the incremental
water delivered to the consumer which will be generated by the proposed investment package. Table P.2
indicates that the incremental water delivered will increase from a modest 3 million m3 in 1995, rising
to 25 million m3 in 1998, 55 million m3 in 2000 and 105 million m3 in 2002 - which is assumed constant
thereafter.
6.           Costs. Capital Costs - the capital costs of the proposed investment in Baku's water
supply system are summarized below in terms of financial and economic costs. The economic costs are
derived by applying the standard conversion factor to local costs and the shadow price factor for foreign
exchange. The results are as follows in US$ 000:
Financial Costs           Economic
Year          Local        Foreign       Total        Costs
1995           720         2,980        3,700         3,780
1996         4,000         17,880       21,880       22,370
1997          3,550        17,350       20,900       21,410
1998         2,580         14,660       17,240       17,710
1999          1,880        9,330        11,210       11,490
2000           250         2,120         2370         2,460
Total        12j.980       71,381       77.          79,22



ANNEX 0
Page 2 of 12
BAKU W'ATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
7.            Replacement Capital Costs - these have been included for the following: (a) every five
years: vehicles and equipment for consumer metering, billing system, consumer education, laboratory and
information systems; and (b) every 10 years: equipment for household leakage equipment, master flow
meters, the new office building, depots and stores. The resulting replacement costs are as follows in US$
000:
Financial Costs            Economic
Local        Foreign       Total         Costs
Every 5 years (2005 & 2010)  1,110       11,400        12,510        12,970
Every 10 years (2010)        190          6,990         7,180         7,510
8.           Residual Values - given the fact that the discount period is 15 years and a number of the
proposed investment components have an asset life which is greater than 15 years - then there will be a
saving in residual costs which should be taken into account at the end of the discount period. These are
US$ 9.58 million in financial prices and US$ 9.36 million in economic prices.
9.           Incremental Annual Operations and Maintenance Costs - the incremental recurrent costs
attributable to the project are: (a) salaries and wages - based on an annual adjustment of 15% per year
to reflect productivity gains; (b) increased materials and supplies plus repairs and maintenance to ensure
that existing assets, new equipment and other improvements are adequately
maintained; and (c) higher administration costs (see Annex 0, items 9, 12, 13 and 14). The resulting
incremental costs are as follows in US$ 000:
Financial Costs
Mats. &      Repairs &                                 Economic
Year          Staff  Supplies     & Maint.      Admin.        Total         Total
1995          -        -            137         370            507           456
1996          15      45           402          345            807           725
1997          35      95            678         312           1,120         1,005
1998          55      150           937         340           1,482         1,328
1999          76      210         1,157         359           1,802         1,614
2000          98      275          1,326        363           2,062         1,846
2001          123     275          1,242        366           2,006         1,793
2002-2015     140     275          1,157        370           1,947         1,738
Benefits
10.          The principle benefits have been quantified under three main headings: (a) willingness
to pay for an improved water supply service; (b) public health benefits through a reduction in waterborne
and water-related diseases; and (c) costs savings through a reduction in the annual recurrent costs of
operating the water supply system. These three components are addressed separately below.
11.          Willingness To l'ay - the Baku Social Assessment Survey 1994 clearly demonstrates that
households in the project area are willing to pay a much higher price for an improved water supply
system. The results of the survey indicate that in July 1994 households would be willing to pay a



ANNEX 0
Page 3 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
weighted average of US$ 0.065 per m3 (assuming that effective consumption is 150 liters per head per
day and a household size of 4.5 persons), which was 10-times higher than the domestic tariff of US$
0.006 per m3 in July 1994. However, this incremental percentage cannot be applied to the other consumer
categories, particularly industry which still receives priority in the allocation of water. Nevertheless, it
is not unreasonable to apply an incremental factor of 50 percent on domestic willingness to pay, because
of the risk that the level of non revenue water will continue to rise in the "without" project case (see Item
4 above) and therefore jeopardize the medium to long term recovery of local industry. On this basis, the
estimated overall willingness to pay is US$ 0.10 per ni3, which is then multiplied by the incremental
water delivered to derive the annual benefit estimates. The resulting annual value of willingness to pay
for incremental volumes of water in the "with" project case shows the total increasing from US$ 0.2
million in 1995 to US$ 5.5 million in 2000 and US$ 10.5 million in 2005 (see Table P.2).
12.          Public Health Benefits - The quantification of health benefits has been based on the
estimation of economic loss related to the incidence of waterborne and water-related diseases under
three main headings:
(a)    Value of lost production time due to illness. This is a loss incurred by the economy and
more especially by the family concerned. However, the real loss to the economy should
take account of the long-term rate of unemployment and under-employment;
(b)    Economic loss due to premature death; and
(c)    Economic cost of medical treatment.
However, in using basic health data several important factors should be borne in mind: (i) health statistics
are often inaccurate and subject to under-reporting; (ii) many people accept that they will contract the
milder forms of waterborne and water-related diseases, and do not consult a doctor or a health clinic,
particularly among low-income groups; and (iii) the incidence of filth-related diseases is generally more
prevalent among the lower-income groups.
13.          Basic data for the health benefit calculations were derived from three main sources: (a)
data provided by the Department of Sanitary and Epidemiological Control in the Ministry of Health; (b)
Baku Social Assessment Survey (July 1994); and (c) investigations by the Consultants and the Bank
Mission. Many waterborne and water related diseases (e.g. typhoid, hepatitis, dysentery, gastro-entiritis,
cholera and others) are prevalent in the Baku area. They are a source of considerable distress, hardship
and even death for the citizens of Baku; and they are a significant cost to the national economy. The
notifiable cases of waterborne and water related diseases over the last 10 years are summarized below:



ANNEX 0
Page 4 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Disease                     1984          1987         1990          1993
Reported Cases
Typhoid/para-typhoid         119           86            24           21
Bacillary dysentery         1,645        1,240          786           948
Gastro-entiritis             623          554           533           699
Diarrhoea                  3,647         3,817         3,281        3,425
Salmonella                 2,088         1,884         1,315        1,703
Viral hepatitis            5,000         5,492         6,000        10,221
Cholera                                     2                         37
Total                      13,122        13,105       11,939        17,054
Baku City Pop. (000)        1,647        1,720         1,746         1,732
Incidence (per 100,000)      797          762           684           985
Recorded deaths from waterborne and water related diseases have varied from 69 in 1992 to 288 in 1988,
most of these deaths are among children under five years of age. The totals account for 0.1 percent to
0.6 percent of deaths every year in Baku City.
14.          The health calculation parameters are expressed as follows:
(1)    TEL   = CTI + CME + ELDP
(2)    CTI   = BP x EAP x MBWd x ADWd x WD
(3)    CME  = BP x MBWd x MF x ACME
(4)    ELDP  = BP x EAP x MRWd x PVW
(5)    PVW   = (WD x 264) x [1 + {(1-(1+iy'/i)]
where:
TEL   = Total economic loss
CTI   = Cost of productive time due to illness
CME  = Cost of medical expenses
ELDP = Economic loss due to premature death
BP    = Benefiting population (see Appendix P, Table P.1)
EAP   =  Economically active population (55%  for Baku, with an unemployment
rate of 10%)
MBWd  =   Morbidity rate attributable to waterbome and water-related diseases
(incidence of 120 per 1,000 population)
MF    =  Morbidity factor - average annual number of occasions ill with waterborne
or water-related diseases (mild - 3 per year; and serious - 1 per year)
ADWd  =  Average number of days lost due to illness from waterborne and water
related diseases (estimated at 10 days - for more serious reported
cases)
WD    = Average daily wage (low level wages set at US$ 1 per day)
MRWd  =   Mortality rate attributable to waterborne and water-related diseases
(incidence of 8 per 1,000,000 population)



ANNEX 0
Page 5 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ACME = Average cost of medical expenses for incidence of waterborne and water-
related diseases (mild - US$ 2 per case; and serious -
US$ 30 per case)
PVW = Present value of wages lost (based on working days of 264 days per year
i.e. 22 days per month; i = discount rate set at 12%; and t = 10
years)
15.          The total resulting health costs attributable to the population served by the Baku water
supply system are presented in Table P. 1. The total health costs rise from an estimated US$ 3.7 million
in 1995 to US$ 3.4 million in 2000 and US$ 3.8 million in 2005 (note: the small fall between 1995 and
2000 is related to the assumption that a significant proportion of the refugees who are currently in the
Baku area will be able to return to their homelands). In terms of the Baku Water Supply Project, it has
been assumed that the following proportions of the total health costs will be savings attributable to the
proposed project: 1995 - 15%; 1996 - 20%; 1997 - 25%; 1998 - 30%; 1999 - 35%; and 2000 - 40%
(see: World Development Report: Investing in Health, World Bank, June 1993). The figures show the
health savings increasing steadily from US$ 600,000 in 1995 to US$ 1.4 million in 2000 and US$ 1.5
million in 2005.
16.          Incremental Savings in Annual Operating Costs - incremental savings will accrue
through: (a) a substantial reduction in electricity consumption resulting from improved system operation,
higher pumping efficiencies and lower non revenue water; and (b) reduced chemical requirements as a
result of the decline in non revenue water.
17.          Electricity - based on the Consultant's projections, it is expected that substantial electricity
savings will accrue from the reduction in water production resulting from the decline in non revenue
water which will enable the water company to reduce pumping from Kura 1, Kura 2 and Sangachel -
which currently account for more than 60% of Kommunpromvod's electricity consumption. The net
savings in electricity have an economic value of US$ 0.028 per kWh (see: Azerbaijan - Yenikend
Renewable Energy Project, Staff Appraisal Report, EBRD, October 1994). The resulting savings are
summarized below:
Electricity Consumption (kWh million)
Water Prod.  Unit Cons.   With          Without      Net          Saving
Year  (m3 mln)      (kWh/m3)    Project       Project      Saving        (US$ 000)
1994  771          0.87          668          668            -              -
1995  726          0.87          632          664           32             896
1996  634          0.74          466          658          192           5,376
1997  559          0.58          324          651          327           9,156
1998  519          0.58          301          645          344           9,632
1999  486          0.58          282          638          356           9,968
2000  458           0.58         266          632          366           10,248
2001  466           0.58         270          626          356           9,968
2002  474           0.58         275          618          343            9.604



ANNEX 0
Page 6 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
18.          Chemicals - the consumption of chemicals will decline in line with the projected reduction
in water production and non revenue water, as follows in US$ 000:
Financial Costs
With          Without      Net           Economic
Year         Project       Project       Savings       Savings
1994         590           590            -
1995         556           590            34            31
1996         485           590           105            95
1997         428           590           162           146
1998         397           590           193           174
1999         372           590           218           196
2000          351          590           239           215
2001          357           590          233           210
2002          363          590           227           204
19.          Results. The results of the Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) calculations are
presented in Table P.2.
C. AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST OF WATER (AIC)
20.          Introduction. The Average Incremental Cost (AIC) is the cost per m3 of water over the
expected economic life of the proposed works at a defined discount rate (which represents the opportunity
cost of investing the same capital resources in another project).
21.           All costs are presented in US$ at 1995 constant prices (i.e. excluding inflation). Economic
border prices are derived using the shadow price factors in Item 2.
Notes and Assumptions for the Calculations
22.           The AIC of additional water from the rehabilitation programme is computed by dividing
the Net Present Value (NPV) of the cost stream by the NPV of the incremental volume of water delivered
to the final consumer (i.e. water sold). The discount rate is the opportunity cost of capital, which is
estimated at 12%. Alternative rates of 10% and 14% have also been used for comparative purposes.
23.          The economic life of the proposed works is assumed to be 15 years after the completion
of construction and installation in 2000.
24.          The incremental water delivered to the consumer has been estimated for the "with" and
"without" project case on the same basis as specified in Items 4 and 5.
25.          Capital Costs, replacement capital costs and residual values - these are the same as in
Items 6, 7 and 8.



ANNEX 0
Page 7 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
26.          Incremental Annual Operations and Maintenance Costs - in view of the fact that the
proposed project is aimed at improving the efficiency of the existing water supply system and reducing
the high levels of non revenue water, then the applicable values must be examined in terms
of both the incremental savings and the incremental costs. These were evaluated in Items 9, 16, 17 and
18, and are summarized in both financial and economic costs as follows in US$ 000:
Financial Prices           Economic Prices
Incremental   Incremental   Net         Incremental   Incremental   Net
Year         Savings       Costs        Incremental   Savings       Costs    Incremental
1995            514         507            -7           927          456           -471
1996          3,465         807         -2,658         5,471         725         -4,746
1997          6,702        1,120        -5,582         9,302        1,005        -8,297
1998          8,449        1,482        -6,967         9,806        1,328        -8,478
1999          9,830        1,802        -8,028        10,164        1,614        -8,550
2000          10,487       2,062        -8,425        10,463        1,846        -8,617
2001          10,201       2,006        -8,195        10,178        1,793        -8,385
2002-2015      9.831       I.947        -7.884         9.808        1,738        -8,070
27.          Table P.3 presents the calculations of the AIC. The results indicate that at a discount rate
of 12%, the average incremental cost of water would be US$ 0.03 per m3 in financial prices and US$
0.02 per ml in economic prices.
D.    AFFORDABILITY CALCULATIONS
28.          A summary analysis for average-income and low-income households is presented in Table
P.4. The calculations are based on the following data and assumptions:
29.          Average household income - in mid-1994, average household income was US$ 44 per
month (source: Baku Social Assessment Survey, July 1994). Average incomes are projected to increase
as follows: 2.5 percent per year from 1995 to 1997 (which reflects the projected rate of inflation in US$
terms - see Annex 0, item 4); 5 percent per year from 1998 to 2000; and at 10 percent per year
thereafter (i.e. at 2.5 and 5 percentage points above the projected rate of inflation) reflecting a return to
sustained economic growth and a real improvement in living standards (see: Azerbaijan: From Crisis to
Sustained Growth, World Bank, September 1993).
30.          Low income household - income for the low income household is set at 45% of the
average, which corresponds to approximately US$ 20 per month. Low incomes are projected to increase
at the same rates as average household income (see item 29 above).
31.          Average family size for both average-income and low-income households is 4.5 persons
(source: Baku Social Assessment Survey, July 1994).



ANNEX 0
Page 8 of 12
BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
32.          Per capita water consumption:
(a)    Average income household: average domestic water consumption projected in Table 0.4
in Annex 0; and
(b)    Low income household: 100 litres per capita/day (equivalent to household with basic
plumbing facilities).
These values assume that future domestic water bills will use consumption figures are more realistic (i.e.
not 400 litres per capita/day as at present).
33.          Domestic water tariffs are assumed to increase as a proportion of the average tariff - from
20 percent in late-1994 to 50 percent from 1995 onwards. This assumption reflects the need to reduce
the level of cross-subsidization within the existing tariff structure.



ANNEX 0
Page 9 of 12
TABLE P.1           PUBLIC HEALTH BENEFITS
HEALTH
ECONOMIC LOSSES (US$ million)                   BENEFITS
YEAR POPULATION    ILLNESS  MEDICAL    DEATH    TOTAL               ATTRIBUTABL
SERVED                   COSTS                               TO PROJECT
(000)                                                    (US$ million)
1995      2421           1.3       2.3        0.1       3.7                  0.6
1996      2384           1.3       2.2        0.1       3.7                  0.7
1997      2348           1.3       2.2        0.1       3.6                  0.9
1998      2311           1.2       2.2        0.1       3.6                  1.1
1999      2274           1.2       2.1        0.1       3.5                  1.2
2000      2235           1.2        2.1       0.1       3.4                  1.4
2001      2281           1.2        2.2       0.1       3.5                  1.4
2002      2328           1.3        2.2       0.1       3.6                  1.4
2003      2376           1.3        2.2       0.1       3.7                  1.5
2004      2425           1.3        2.3       0.1       3.7                  1.5
2005      2473           1.3        2.3       0.1       3.8                  1.5
2006      2473           1.3        2.3       0.1       3.8                  1.5
2007      2473           1.3        2.3       0.1       3.8                  1.5
2008      2473           1.3        2.3       0.1       3.8                  1.5
2009      2473           1.3        2.3       0.1       3.8                  1.5
2010      2473           1.3        2.3       0.1       3.8                  1.5
2011      2473           1.3        2.3       0.1       3.8                  1.5
2012      2473           1.3        2.3       0.1       3.8                  1.5
2013      2473           1.3        2.3       0.1       3.8                  1.5
2014      2473           1.3        2.3       0.1       3.8                  1.5
2015      2473           1.3        2.3       0.1       3.8                  1.5



ANNEX 0
Page 10 of 12
TABLE P.2            BAKU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
(USS million, 1995 prices)
COSTS                                BENEFITS
WATER DELIVERED (m3 million)                                           WILLING-                                         NET
YEAR   WITH    WITHOUT   INCR'AL                      INCR'AL               -NESS TO      PUBLIC  SAVINGS                   BENEFIT
PROJECT  PROJECT   WATER            CAPITAL      O & M     TOTAL         PAY      HEALTH   IN O & M      TOTAL       STREAM
1995       254        251         3            3.8       0.5        4.2           0.3       0.6        0.9        1.8          -2.4
1996       247        240         7           22.4       07        23.1           0.7        07        5.5        6.9         -16.2
1997       241        230        11           21.4       1.0       22.4           1.1       0.9        9.3       11.3         -11.1
1998       244        219        25           177        1.3       19.0           2.5       1.1        9.8       13.4          -5.7
1999       248        208        40           11.5       1.6       13.1           4.0        1.2      10.2       15.4           2.3
2000       252        197        55            2.5       1.8        43            5.5        1.4      105        17.3          13.0
2001       265        185        80                      1 8        1.8           8.0        1.4      10.2       19.6          17.8
2002       278        173       105                       1 7       1.7          10.5        1.4       9.8       21.7          20.0
2003       278        173       105                       1.7       1.7          10.5        1.5       9.8       21.8          20.0
2004       278        173       105                       1.7       1.7          10.5        1.5       9.8       21.8          20.1
2005       278        173       105           13.0       1.7       147           10.5        1.5       9.8       21.8           7.1
2006       278        173       105                       1 7       1 7          10.5        1.5       9.8       21.8          20.1
2007       278        173       105                       1.7       1.7          10.5        1.5       9.8       21.8          20.1
2008       278        173       105                       1 7       1.7          10.5        1.5       9.8       21.8          20.1
2009       278        173       105                       1.7       1.7          10.5        1.5       9.8       21.8          20.1
2010       278        173       105           20.5       1.7       22.2          10.5        1.5       9.8       21.8          -0.4
2011       278        173       105                       1.7       17           105         1.5       9.8       21.8          20.1
2012       278        173       105                       1 7       1 7          105        15        9.8       21.8          20.1
2013       278        173       105                       1.7       1.7          10.5        1.5       9.8       21.8          20.1
2014       278        173       105                       17        1.7          10.5        1.5       9.8       21.8          20.1
2015       278        173       105           -9.4       1.7       -7.6          10.5        1.5       9.8       21.8          29.5
ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN                                         %
1  Base Case                                                            26.7
Sensitivity Tests
2. Costs    + 10%                                                        23.1
3. Costs    -10%                                                         31.4
4  Benefits  + 10%                                                      30.9
5. Benefits  - 10%                                                       22.7
6. BeneFits lagged 2 years                                               15.9
7. 2 and 6                                                               14.1



ANNEX 0
Page 11 of 12
TABLE P.3           BAKU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST OF WATER
WATER DELIVERED (m3 million)       COSTS (US$ million, 1995 prices)
YEAR   WITH    WITHOUT   INCR'AL                   ANNUAL FINANCIALECONOMIC
PROJECT PROJECT   WATER           CAPITAL     0 & M    TOTAL    TOTAL
1995      254        251         3          3.7       -0.0      3.7        3.3
1996      247        240         7         21.9       -2.7      19.2      17.6
1997      241        230       11          20.9       -5.6      15.3      13.1
1998      244        219        25          17.2      -7.0      10.3       9.2
1999      248        208        40         11.2       -8.0      3.2        2.9
2000       252       197        55           2.4      -8.4      -6.1      -6.2
2001       265       185        80                    -8.2      -8.2      -8.4
2002       278       173       105                    -7.9      -7.9      -8.1
2003       278       173       105                    -7.9      -7.9      -8.1
2004       278       173       105                    -7.9      -7.9      -8.1
2005       278       173       105          12.5      -7.9       4.6       4.9
2006       278       173       105                    -7.9      -7.9      -8.1
2007       278       173       105                    -7.9      -7.9      -8.1
2008       278       173       105                    -7.9      -7.9      -8.1
2009       278       173       105                    -7.9      -7.9      -8.1
2010       278       173       105          19.7      -7.9      11.8      12.4
2011       278       173       105                    -7.9      -7.9      -8.1
2012       278       173       105                    -7.9      -7.9      -8.1
2013       278       173       105                    -7.9      -7.9      -8.1
2014       278       173       105                    -7.9      -7.9      -8.1
2015       278       173       105          -9.6      -7.9     -17.5     -17.4



TABLE P.4           APSHERON REGIONAL WATER COMPANY - AFFORDABILITY CALCULATIONS
ESt                                                    Projections                                                      tQ
Component                                                                             1994       1995      1996      1997      1998       1999     2000      2001 _   2002        2003      2004      2005
IAVERAGE INCOME HOUSEHOLD                  I
Average Family Income                                US$/month                          44        45        46         47        50        52        55        60         66        73        80        88
Water Consumption - Per Person                       Ltreslday                         400       400       150        150       150       150       150       152        154       156       158        160
- Per Family                       m3/month                         54.0      54.0       20.3      20 2      20.3      20 2      20.2       20.5      20.8      21.0      21 3       21.6
CHARGES
Water Tariff                                         USS/m3                          0 008      0.011     0.040     0.048     0 056     0 061      0 064     0 066     0 068     0.069      0.071     0.073
MONTHLY CHARGES
Water Charges                                        USS/month                        043       0.59       0.82      0,98      113        1.24      1.30      1 35      1.40      1.46       1.51      1.57
% of HH Income                                       %                                098        1.32      1.78      208       2.28      238        2.38      225       212       2.00       1.89      179
LOW INCOME HOUSE6OL0
Family Income                                        USS/month                          20        20        21         21        23        24        25        27         30        33        36        40
Water Consumption - Per Person                       Litres/day                        400       400        100       100       100       100        100       100       100       100       100        100
- Per Family                       m3/month                         540       54.0       13.5      13.5      13.5      13.5       135       13.5      135       13.5      13.5       135
CHARGES
Water Tarff                                          US$/m3                          0.008      0.011     0 040     0.048     0 056     0.061      0.064     0.066     0 068     0.069      0.071     0.073
MONTHLY CHARGES
Water Charges                                        US$lmonth                        0.43       0.59      0.55      0 65      0 75       0.83      087       0.89      0.91      0.94       096       098
% of HH Income                                       %                                216       2.91       2.61      305       3.34      3 50       3.50      326       3.04      2.83       2.64      2.46



I



I



'BRED 26893
-- p-                                                                  ~~ ~SABUNCHU /DISTRICT
/                                                                    /                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AZERBAIJAN
:_________             _                                                  /                                                -=- ==- =-=GREATER  BAKU  WATER SUPPLY
7___)</                                             U                                     ---'' S== t----                                                    =--I__ / / ,                 REHABILITATION  PROJECT
X/X/ - X t -' I - - =---:::-=- t---t- -' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
I@  =    Y   5  *   ce ;r-X: -N                                                       '==                  GRAVITY MAINS
t 9 ;  ,,,  ,'                                                                                                                                                                         PUMPING MAINS
/L                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIPE DIAMETER IN MILLIMETERS
'"""'/      v           RICT  *                 ---3PUMPING STATIONS
N                                                             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESERVOIRS
-  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~MIXING STATIONS
MAIN ROADST
OTHER ROADST
             /                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
/  N                                 /                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUJILTUP AREAS
7/]                            - r" e_ -                                                       A-        3          a        / L -; g x ~ -                 SGREENG 1  S SPACES
/ 7T~'   *               b/.                                     a                       I     D                   I'                                                               '    A&L. DISTRTICT BOUNDARIES
I  B A                                                                                         &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AK.U ADMINISTRATIVE AREA EGUNSDARES
DI TRICT                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIEU (INSETI
<I-~~~~~~~~~~~RC
Il  C 141%'     N      \\   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              KHA+                   I I CT     I / i                                                    
<                                                                                                                                         F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4FEEAO
A    Rt--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GO17                                                                               .
T                                                                                                                                            R               "SC
* <~~~~~~~-~~~~'-'-                                                             N   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~  $AM.C BR' 0' TAt.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






RBRD 26392
.3  N                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50-
rb   >                            RUSSIAN                                                                                            A Z E R B A I J A N
/   HOLLAR GROUND
G E O  R G I A                                                         FEDERATION                  ,,  A/ QUIFER                                            GREATER BAKU WATER SUPPLY
( <,  g sg 'i rs                        X      <        .n  ,e,502gND                                 REHABI LATTAERMANppPL SOURCE)
Ccqc'MaKS                                           /. (,.  \\,   Lo   ;>_ rAhKUI RCEHmA5 GROUND           REHABILITATION   PROJECT
,-WATER AQUIFER
K  ~                       /             >.--  IRAR(~J 2 SOURCE(PRINCIPAL  WATER  SUPPLY  SOURCES
WATER MAO
C,                  OLAc                                               O~~~~~~~~~~~  ROJNDWATRR TREATMENT PTJMP*N'Q  PI:RNE
A \,\   ' .                                 >                             GU3A                                                    AQUIFERS   PLANT STATIONS IAzom'*' A
,Rt g V                                                                        ~--% i. 4 + , 3 ,  N  SHOLLAR/HACHMAS
Tb.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Sheki                                                                                                                                             JE "'A    IRANRATAN
LGo,,l>< A k                              / )N                                                              DE                                                                     --    KURA RIVER
t    ?q    9  3uT  SIAZAN\&<                                         0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
T. 05.,h    \            -.                                                    *ly                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
K                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
/'<   \   -8   v Do LG@Oyc3TJY /                             W TAGIEV                                                    RAILROADS
7->Jc )                                       ~= ==? Sha -ckhy                                                   -                APSHERON                              -    AIRPORTS
A   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~SIlRFFDISTRICT                                                   RIVERS
EIRANRAMTAN WATER                                               - -erd$\ >k  KU    -- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
TREATMENT PLANT 
ARMENIA                                                            B,-d.                                                                                     K
AgHd-0et                                                                           D,STremr>;KRX/
KeN.1b.,,                                             KURA RIVER WATER                               AC-A
/   OqR,~ch.A, /                       \                                                                                                                                                           AREA)MENrFLANr  X .  llACHGICGUD SI G
Aghdb d AZmEAM f                                                                                                                 T       , CA,. d                            .0 -
-,o N,                                                                                             VW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,d~yApT./id~.FLR
UERhN                       C---- KiZAd ..T-N
A=   - *h., - do - -, m   d Th. -d S- GrOUD,
;<0                                       <        1                                                                                     E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EDERATOtN
C-                                                                                            h. __.      -
ISLAMIC  REPUBLIC  OF  IRAN                                                     V-,--                                                                                              GEORGIAr
.   Asl=ra                                                             i te~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V,  * oQ 
\,  Y./    0  25     50          75 KNLETERS                                                        -
,5                                                                                                      50                                 , '92 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>AN a'I';  A _ ,   SAFAUT C' RAP,tN
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~p L: .:I






A E  R E                                                  5 EA  Z   E   R   B   A   I   J   A   NC                    O lC
GREATER BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SEWERAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL SITES
GEORGIA S.
-A.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             K 
~~~ I   5?R.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ARM  EE                                                                        IRAQ      l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SL"IC  REP GE  RA
f~~~   > 0                                                                                           1C;2S     
.  0 f:  -,;,.X;,   ;,;'                                                                                                                                                '*-, ''1                                          D'O{N 
.~~~~~~~-                                                  /                    J                                     (.J,,_>
.0 20 . < ,> r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WASTE DISPOSAL SITES                                                                                                                              0 20 *D2
SEWERAGE AREAS
-A   ---:,                                                                                          BAKU CIY CONNECTED To MUNICIPAL
_   _  f                                                                                                      _           SEWERAGE SYSTEM
f ,. ,. _ - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREAS WITH PARTIAL SEWERAGE
  v /  r  I    -                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~AREAS WITHOUr SEWERAGE 
MAIN ROADS
- OTHER ROADS
; RAILROADS
rBULT-UP AREAS
GREEN SPACES
C      A    S   P   Z  A    N   5                           L A                  AIRPORT                                                                     Th. b-d.o- xk,,
RIVERS
BAKU DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                    _,, or dpt
-  BAKU ADMINISTRAIIVE AREA BOUNDARIES          onfWRodiRRRGEO 1
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARlfS 0INSETj                                            r       =
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'                                                                            0D                                                       5Q~ 15                                                L0NOA






49-45                                                     50f                                                       50'1S  .
A Z E R B A I J A N
GREATER BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOCATION OF MAJOR PUMPING STATIONS
'~~~~~ .    ':N V   ,[' '                                                                                          -._ - -     
'2               -'                                                                                                                                                                 .C ' 0', l' 5     E _".
,0,30                                                                                                                                                                              .0 30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23
qOI                                                   /                                  -,S  ,=                                                    OTE  OD
1 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,SUDA                                                                         -    RIVERS 
A
T-hc~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                               RITU  RA
j BAKU DISTRIEA                                                                             T BOUNDARIESr
I I - T      ,                  -                                                                                                                           I.bpp,,pI,
,~~~~~~~~~~~ --  R AKU ADMINISTRATIVE AREA ROUNDARIE5                                                                                                                                              A.nom.AP,o  oPooy
PUMPINTERNATIONAL 5OUNDARIES (INSETm
.                                                                                                                                              0   2  4   S  E  IeaRIIGEPfS                                                  P,e Ad Axr.I..*lS
J9'45                                                     SO'C0                                                      SC'IS SPACES
AIRPORT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F  Q






BRED 26889
AZERBAIJAN
(                   .-<            'N                            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'ABUNCHU 't DISTRICT                                                                      GREATER BAKU WATER SUPPLY
REHABILITATION PROJECT
SEWERAGE SYSTEM
______MAIN SEWERS
kAC,A                                                                                                        AZIZB ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----PUMPING MAINS
RAILROADS8
BUILT-UP AREAS
GREEN SPACES
RAKU DISTRIC-T BOUJNDARIES
BAKU ADMINISTRATIVE AREA ROUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARiES IINSET)
',OTES
z:                                       IPa.,                 13~~~~~~~ISU      -3Id 16d.,OdlIoRI
NARIAAANOV  IC                                                                                                         2I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~~~~~~h- i2No  X;, .  e~g  T.o-, . .oI   - iAod.k-/51,o .I
5           3   1   S KILOMETERS
D I 5 T R I CT  ~ ~ ~~~~~~01)'IATI~lIOI A..gIOh,oI             ThII,I Ao,l OI-yi, -,,lII
Y, AMA'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I1Al
PISTRICT                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UKRAINE  S.~ KAZAKIISTA).
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
cIA          ~~RUSSIA
FEDSTR AT 1O 
C'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~RoiSc                                                                                              .-.-
GFRIA7 ~
GEOR I,
01                                                                                                                                                          51-    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~F-  I  2AN~~~~~~~~~~~1SyINcAt  r  A  ILMCBR    KIA
APRIl 1995









I MNG I NIB
Report NO:        1406'  AL
Type: SAR



