                           Document of
                        The World Bank


                                            Report No:ICR-000039




      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS

                           REPORT

                    ( IDA-27510 IDA-27511 )


                             ON A


             LOAN / CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF

                      US$ MILLION 65.99


                 (SDR 48.47 MILLION CREDIT)


                              TO


               THE REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN


                             FOR


               GREATER BAKU WATER SUPPLY

                 REHABILITATION PROJECT




                        August 30, 2006




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA REGION

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective 04/18/2006)

                    Currency Unit           =       Manat
                    Manat 1.00              =       US$ 1.09325
                    US$ 1.00                =       Manat 0.9147

                                     Fiscal Year
                              January 1 to December 31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ARWC Apsheron Regional Water Company

CAS  Country Assistance Strategy

CDP  Corporate Development Partner

CDU  Corporate Development Unit

DPL  Development Policy Loan

EBRD European Bank for Reconstruction and Development

IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

IBTA Institution Building Technical Assistance

ICR  Implementation Completion Report

IDA  International Development Association

IDP  Internally Displaced Persons

MDP  Medium Term Development Program

O&M  Operations and Maintenance

PPF  Project Preparation Facility

SAC  Structural Adjustment Credit

SAR  Staff Appraisal Report

SECO State Secretariat for Economic Affairs of the Government of Switzerland

UFW  Unaccounted for water

WHO  World Health Organization

WSS  Water Supply and Sanitation


                           Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                        Country Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
                         Sector Manager: Sumter Lee Travers
                   Project Team Leader: Andreas Rohde

                            REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
    GREATER BAKU WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION
                                      PROJECT
CONTENTS                                                                 Page No.


1. Basic Information                                                        1

2. Key Dates                                                                1

3. Ratings Summary                                                          1

4. Sector and Theme Codes                                                   2

5. Bank Staff                                                               2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                       2

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                        9

8. Assessment of Outcomes                                                  17

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                               23

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                            23

11. Lessons Learned                                                        26

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners   27

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis                                        30

Annex 2: Restructuring                                                     33

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing                                       34

Annex 4. Outputs by Component                                              36

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis                                   39

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes     40

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                 43

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Result                                         43

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                           43

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR           44

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders         46

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents                                     47

1. Basic Information
                                                                      GREATER BAKU

Country:                                                              WATER SUPPLY
                         Azerbaijan           Project Name:
                                                                      REHABILITATION
                                                                      PROJECT
Project ID:              P008288              L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-27510,IDA-27511
ICR Date:                07/26/2006           ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:                                                   GOVT OF
                         SIL                  Borrower:
                                                                      AZERBAIJAN
Original Total
Commitment:              XDR 38.8M            Disbursed Amount:       XDR 48.5M

Environmental Category:B
Implementing Agencies

AzerSu Joint-Stock Company
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners

European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD)
Swiss Agency for Development Cooperation

2. Key Dates

      Process              Date            Process        Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:     03/09/1994       Effectiveness:     02/14/1996        02/14/1996
Appraisal:          02/08/1995       Restructuring(s):                    12/10/2002
Approval:           06/28/1995       Mid-term Review:                     12/01/1998
                                     Closing:           12/31/2001        01/31/2006

3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
  Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
                                  No          Quality at Entry (QEA):         None
time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time       Yes         Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None


                                            1

(Yes/No):
DO rating before Closing/Inactive
                                    Satisfactory
status:

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                     Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Water supply                                                    94                  94
Sewerage                                                        6                   6
                                                                Original Priority     Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                            Primary             Primary

5. Bank Staff
                          Positions                                   At ICR           At Approval
Vice President:                                                 Shigeo Katsu        Johannes F. Linn
                                                                D-M Dowsett-
Country Director:                                                                   Yukon Huang
                                                                Coirolo
Sector Manager:                                                 Sumter Lee Travers Jonathan C. Brown
Project Team Leader:                                            Andreas Rohde       Robert Wildeman
ICR Team Leader:                                                Andreas Rohde
ICR Primary Author:                                             Sanyu Lutalo


6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design (this section is descriptive, taken from
other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative):


6.1 Context at Appraisal (brief summary of country and sector backgrounds, rationale for
Bank assistance):
Country Background: The Republic of Azerbaijan is located on the western coast of the Caspian Sea.
It covers an area of about 86,000 square kilometers, and is endowed with various natural resources
including agricultural resources and minerals such as oil, which accounts for almost one third of
GDP. The country is also endowed with a diversified industrial structure, a relatively educated labor
force, and rapidly expanding private sector. Baku, the capital city, is located on the southern side of
the narrow Apsheron Peninsula along the coast of the Caspian Sea. The Greater Baku area, which
covers the city and its environs is not just the political capital, but also the economic, industrial and
cultural center of Azerbaijan. By 1993 more than two thirds of the urban population, or about 2.5
million people, were concentrated in this area. Immediately after independence from the FSU in
1991 the country underwent a period of dramatic economic decline, and by 1993 Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) had dropped to about 60 percent of its 1988 level. The Government initiated reform
measures to liberalize the economy and ensure transition to a market economy.


                                                 2

Sectoral Background: Azerbaijan inherited from the Former Soviet Union (FSU) a highly centralized
top-down system of managing utility services, including water supply and sewerage.              Sector
management was also highly fragmented at the central level, and at the time of project appraisal,
responsibility for the sector was divided between five different agencies and ministries. On a day to
day basis, water supply services were run by the Baku Water Agency (BWA), a centrally managed
Government department with little or no autonomy, which was responsible for production and bulk
supply of water to towns and villages along the transmission lines. A subsidiary to BWA, the Baku
Water Department (BWD) was responsible for water distribution and operation of water services in
the city of Baku. The high level of management fragmentation impeded the efficient development of
integrated planning, programming, and budgeting initiatives for the sector, and resulted in a
piecemeal response to sectoral needs. Sectoral investments focused on the installation of large scale
physical infrastructure facilities, which were not integrated into an adequate asset maintenance
regime at the planning and implementation stages, resulting in serious deterioration in their condition
over time. Thus although as a result of the Soviet legacy about 95 percent of households were
connected to the piped water network in Baku, the quality of services had declined significantly at the
time the project was appraised.

A Social Assessment carried out during project preparation revealed that virtually 100 percent of
households in all neighborhoods and income groups had unreliable, intermittent, and insufficient
water service. On average water was available to individual families for only 22 days per month, for
a maximum of 11 hours a day. In some areas households were limited to less than 6 hours of piped
water a day, and domestic water rationing was not uncommon. The poor quality of services was
exacerbated by the lack of equipment, tools and spare parts, and the poor organizational and
operating methods that were in place at the time. The water treatment plants serving the city were in
serious need of repair and rehabilitation, and the distribution pipe network was badly corroded and in
poor structural condition. In 1993 alone, almost 3500 leaks and bursts were attended to on the 2500
km long network in the city, and unaccounted for water was estimated at between 65-70 percent.
Sewerage service levels were even lower than those for water supply, with only about a third of the
population having access to a sewerage connection. Existing facilities were also in poor condition
and most sewage was discharged untreated into the environment.

Rationale for Bank Involvement: During a reconnaissance mission in January 1994, the Government
requested the Bank to consider providing a credit to finance a water supply and sewerage project that
would address the most urgent needs in the sector. Additional financing was mobilized from the
EBRD. The Project was the Bank's first infrastructure operation in Azerbaijan. In view of the
magnitude of resources that would be required to address the investment needs as a single lending
operation, and the weak performance capacity of the designated institutions given their unfamiliarity
with Bank operations, it was agreed that a longer term approach divided into two or more phases
would be taken. It was also agreed that the first phase would focus on the most urgent needs in the
production and distribution of potable water through major institutional reforms.




                                                 3

The project was consistent with the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which was
discussed by the Board on April 20, 1995. The CAS aimed to support Azerbaijan in its transition to a
market economy, and its main focus included support for economic transformation through assistance
for institutional strengthening and related financial support to the economy. At the sectoral level, the
CAS expected to focus on projects in the energy, agricultural and social infrastructure sectors. The
project was also in line with the Government Medium-term Development Program (MDP). Under
the MDP the Government sought to channel its increasing revenues from the petroleum and
agricultural sectors towards expenditures and investments that would: (i) contribute to sustainable
and broad based development; (ii) strengthen its transition to a market economy; and (iii) provide
adequate infrastructure.

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved):

The primary objectives of the Project were:
(a)     to make emergency short term improvements in the water supply system to restore the water
        supply to Baku, in particular to the poorer elements of the population;
(b)     to improve the water supply system as a whole; and
(c)     to provide the basis for longer term planning and recovery.

Although the Government later requested IDA assistance through a Supplemental Credit to the
ongoing credit to permit financing of the cost of repair and reconstruction of Apsheron Regional
Water Company (ARWC) facilities damaged by the November 25, 2000 earthquake, the objectives
remained unchanged.

The performance indicators with respective to the above objectives were:
(i)     Improvement in hours of service from the pre-project average of 6 hours/day to an average of
        12 hours/day by the end of the project;
(ii)    Reduction in unaccounted for water (UFW) from the pre-project level of 66 percent to less
        than 45 percent by the end of the project;
(iii)   Improvement in water quality and water pressure by the end of the project;
(iv)    Adjustment of residential and industrial water tariffs as necessary to cover operating costs;
(v)     Change in the billing system from flat to metered rate;
(vi)    Reduction in the ratio of employees per thousand service connection or households; and
(vii)   Reduction in the Working Ratio from the pre-project level of 0. 75 to less than 0.60 by the
        end of the project.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification:


The project objectives were not revised.




                                                 4

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised (briefly describe the "the primary target group"
identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and
organizations expected to benefit from the project):

The main beneficiaries of the project were the population of the Greater Baku area, including the
poor, who would all receive improved water supply services as a result of the improvements made
under the operation. This would result in significant benefits in terms of convenience and savings on
the costs of coping measures such as investment in storage tanks and water purification measures to
deal with the poor services. The Social Assessment carried out during appraisal revealed that
households in the Greater Baku area spent about 17 times more on coping measures for the poor
quality of water supply services that they were receiving at the time than on the cost of their monthly
water bills. The poor, who spent an average of about 7 percent of their income on water compared to
the non poor who spent an average of 2 percent, were particularly vulnerable. Other beneficiaries of
the improved services from the operation included the businesses, commercial enterprises, and
industry that were dependent on the Greater Baku water supply system.

6.5 Original Components (as approved):

The project comprised five major components: (A) Water Demand Management; (B) Operations and
Maintenance Improvements; (C) Supply Improvements; (D) Institutional Capacity Building; and (E)
Studies.

A: Water Demand Management (US$ 6.7 million or 7.1 percent of project costs). This component
focused on improving demand management of water at the consumer level, and was designed to
reduce the losses and wastage at the household level, which were largely caused by the lack of
awareness and/or lack of incentives to conserve water. It was divided into three sub-components: (i)
a metering and billing sub-component which comprised implementation of a metering program
through which about 15,000 domestic water meters would be installed. The billing system was also
to be gradually transferred from flat rate to metered billing; (ii) a consumer education sub-
component which comprised implementation of a consumer awareness program aimed at reducing
water losses and optimizing water use; and (iii) a household leakage sub-component which
comprised reduction of household leakage through installation of about 180,000 toilet cisterns.

B: Operation and Maintenance Improvements (US$ 28.7 million or 30.3 percent of project costs).
This component was designed to provide the utility with proper equipment and materials to improve
the effectiveness of pipe main repairs which were extremely frequent in Baku at the time (an average
of about 3500 repairs were made every year). It comprised procurement of materials and equipment
to strengthen ARWC's operations and maintenance capacity, and included: (i) provisions for
vehicles, workshops and equipment; and (ii) procurement of at least one year's supply of pipes,
valves, and fittings.   Provision of these supplies and equipment were expected to facilitate
improvements in ARWC's O&M capacity, thus improving the water supply system as a whole.




                                                5

C: Supply Improvements (US$ 39.5 million or 41.7 percent of project costs). This component was
designed to improve the reliability and quality of water to consumers by providing a sustained supply
of water from the treatment works to the end user.           It comprised three main activities: (i)
rehabilitation of the Jeiranbatan and Kura river water treatment works; (ii) rehabilitation of
pumping stations; and (iii) supply and installation of master meters. These activities were together
expected to contribute significantly to improving the quality and reliability of water supplied to the
city.

D: Institutional Capacity Building (US$ 8.3 million or 8.7 percent of project costs). This component
involved the introduction of a reform strategy for ARWC to enable them to operate the water supply
system in an efficient manner providing acceptable minimum levels of service. It comprised two
main activities: (i) technical assistance provided through a twinning arrangement with an
international water Operator experienced in the sector; and (ii) office consolidation, including
provision of relevant equipment. These activities sought to address the key institutional constraints
that the water utility was facing at the time, which included: a corporate culture lacking management
and financial autonomy; fragmentation of operations with administrative, financial and operational
units dispersed widely across the city; major operational constraints due to lack of tools and
equipment, and inadequate organizational and operating methods; limited budgeting and planning
capacity; and lack of transparency in the accounting and internal control system.

E: Studies and Construction Supervision (US$ 6.3 million or 6.6 percent of project costs). This
component comprised activities geared towards longer term planning and development of the sector
that would form the basis for a second phase intervention for Greater Baku, including: (i) preparation
and implementation of a National Policy Framework; (ii) preparation of a regional Water and
Sewerage Masterplan for the Apsheron Peninsula, which
would address all current sector issues by taking into account possible future developments and
options looking at a 20-year design horizon; and (iii) consultant services for construction
supervision.
In addition to the five major components outlined above, the project cost estimates included:

F: Interest during construction (US$ 4.4 million or 4.6 percent of project costs); and

G: Repayment of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance (US$1.0 million or 1.0 percent of
project costs).

Overall, the project components were in line with the Government's development priorities at the
time, and the scope of activities with respect to each one of them was adequate and appropriate for
meeting the intended objectives. The design of the investment components combined activities
geared at system optimization in order to improve efficiency, with activities geared at improving
demand management, a lesson taken from other Bank operations. The anticipated outcome of that
effort, substantially increased loans of service and improved water quality, responded to an acutely
felt need of the population.      The institutional component was designed to improve ARWC's
operational efficiency and sustainability by ensuring that the company was restructured and: a)


                                                 6

became a market oriented joint stock company; b) established a twinning arrangement with a modern
market oriented agency from a developed country; and c) consolidated its operations under one
management structure in one location. The above steps, combined with other measures such as
improvements in accounting, billing and collection, financial management, information management
and operations management, aimed at strengthening ARWC's management systems, would in
principle set the stage for achieving the desired efficiency improvements.

The scope of Studies included in the project was quite comprehensive, covering not only physical
investment planning, but also seeking to address key policy reform issues, that would together
provide a basis for longer term planning and recovery of the sector. The capacity to translate policy
recommendations from the relevant studies into actions that would achieve intended outcomes was
however beyond the project's jurisdiction, and was subject to other factors such as political
commitment and Government support for the recommendations. Similarly achievement of the
intended reform outcomes was also subject to the presence of several conditions including a
supportive political environment, a readiness for change of the implementing agency, and availability
of adequate capacity at various levels. Policy dialogue carried out by the Bank under a series of
Development Policy Loans (DPLs) in parallel to the project, included measures on increasing tariffs,
improving the financial viability of Azersu, which contributed to the positive steps achieved in this
regard.

6.6 Revised Components:

The original project components were not revised. Their scope was however expanded as a result of
the Supplemental Credit in the amount of SDR 10.3 million (US$ 12.92 million) approved by the
Bank's Board in November 2002 to finance emergency works aimed at repairing damage done to
water supply facilities by an earthquake that occurred on November 25, 2000. The original credit
funds including all contingent funds were already fully committed by the time the earthquake
occurred.    The main activities financed under the Supplemental Credit were: (i) Repair of
components of the Kura and Jeiranbatan water treatment facilities and an operational warehouse; (ii)
Repair of sections of the water distribution network and related structures; and (iii) Consulting
services for construction supervision and project implementation.           Project implementation
arrangements, which were being carried out effectively through the CDU, remained under the
Supplemental Credit. The breakdown of these activities in terms of the project components was as
follows:

(a) Operation and Maintenance Improvements (US$ 7.5 million or 58 percent of the credit). This
included: provision of earth-moving equipment, bulldozers and tractors; procurement of pipes, valves
and fittings; and provision of warehouse facilities.

(b) Supply Improvements (US$ 4.63 million or 35.8 percent of the credit).            This included:
rehabilitation of Jeiranbatan and Kura river water treatment works including chlorination building;
rehabilitation of pumping stations; supply and installation of master meters; and rehabilitation of
water distribution networks.


                                                  7

(c) Institutional Capacity Building (US$ 0.25 million or 1.9 percent of the credit): This basically
comprised provision of office equipment.

(d) Studies and Construction Supervision (US$ 0.4 million or 3.1 percent of the credit): This
comprised consultancy services for construction supervision.

6.7 Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and
schedule, and funding allocations):

The main changes in project scope and schedule, and funding allocations were directly related to
implementation of the Supplemental Credit. As a direct result the project costs increased by about
US$ 12 million, and the implementation timeframe was extended by more than three years, including
extensions made to accommodate delays in achieving effectiveness. In addition to these direct
changes related to the Supplemental Credit, a few other project activities were cancelled or scaled
down due to higher than anticipated costs for the rehabilitation of the water treatment plants and the
depreciation of the SDR against the US dollar. The actual costs of the works for the water treatment
plants amounted to US$26.3 million instead of the originally estimated cost of US$21.9 million (an
increase of about 20 percent).    Activities that were cancelled included the development of a
Management Information System (MIS) and the Household Leakage Reduction Sub-component
which was to have involved installation of about 180, 000 toilet cisterns. There were no major
changes in implementation arrangements over the course of the project.




                                               8

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry (including whether lessons of earlier
operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations identified, and adequacy of
participatory processes, as applicable):

a) Soundness of the background analysis: Background analysis carried out by the Bank during
project identification and preparation was sound. In this regard the project was prepared with due
diligence based on a sound analysis of the issues facing the sector at the time. Relevant economic,
financial, technical, and institutional factors were taken into consideration in the design of specific
components. The Bank's Safeguard Policies were also taken into consideration, and environmental
studies were carried out consistent with the Bank and the Government's procedures. Although the
Bank had no implementation experience in Azerbaijan, relevant lessons were identified and design of
the project was informed by lessons from similar operations in other countries. The design of
components was thus informed by several lessons from similar operations.              From a supply
perspective, the key lesson was the need for paying rigorous attention to water conservation and
system optimization so that households can be provided with a particular level of service at the
lowest possible cost. Difficulties in achieving institutional and financial viability through project
design were also recognized from experiences elsewhere, from which it was noted that full
commitment from the Borrower and substantial resources for Technical Assistance and training were
essential to achieving improved outcomes in these respects. The choice to focus on water supply
alone given the resource limitations also helped to concentrate the available resources on activities
that would be able to have a demonstrable impact on development outcomes.

b) Assessment of the Project's design: The project's design was generally sound. Project objectives,
as stated in the SAR, focused on addressing the most critical challenges facing the water sector in the
Greater Baku area at the time, which can be summarized as: (i) inefficiencies in the production and
distribution of potable water. On average water was only supplied 6 hours a day with some areas
receiving even less, and low water quality was a severe health risk for the population; and (ii) weak
financial and performance capacity of the institutions responsible for managing service delivery.
They were responsive to the Borrower's development priority of improving water supply service
delivery in Greater Baku, and consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Azerbaijan.
In prioritizing implementation of investments to meet the most urgent needs while planning for
longer term recovery of the sector, the objectives supported the long term phased development
strategy taken by the Government and the co-financiers. While the decision to focus on water supply
alone without sewerage is not ideal, it was justified in this case given the limited funding available
and in view of the significant needs normally involved in sewerage operations. The sewerage aspects
were thus included in the longer term planning.

During project preparation the team documented the relatively greater burden of coping costs borne
by the poorer elements of the population. As in other post-Soviet cities, Baku did not have a
settlement pattern segregating the poor, rather they were inter-mixed with wealthier elements of the



                                                 9

population. The PDO assertion that the poor would particularly benefit from the project was based
on the logic of relative coping costs, not on targeted interventions for the poor. While logically
sound, the project lacks a baseline or poverty based monitoring mechanism that would allow
evaluation of this assertion.

The project components were generally in line with the objectives, and most of the activities with
respect to each one of them were realistic and appropriate for achieving the desired development
outcomes. Physical investments which were mostly of a rehabilitative nature were generally not
complex in design. However, the demand management component included only the installation of
15,000 water meters, sufficient to pilot a program but much below what is needed to make an impact.
The institutional component which was designed to improve ARWC's efficiency and sustainability of
operations by ensuring that the company was restructured and became a market oriented joint stock
company, as well as involve other activities such as improvements in accounting, billing and
collection, financial management, information management and operations management, aimed at
strengthening ARWC's management systems, was in principle adequate to set the stage for achieving
the desired efficiency improvements. Actual achievement of the intended reform outcomes was
however subject to several risks and dependent on the presence of a set of conditions including a
supportive political environment, a readiness for change of the implementing agency, and availability
of adequate capacity at various levels. One risk that was not foreseen during the project design was
the transformation of ARWC into Azersu. By expanding the service area to include most of the
rayons in the country, an additional financial and operational burden was put on Azersu and makes
the evaluation of the changes in performance of the original company difficult.

In hindsight, the reading of the political environment and readiness of the Government to implement
consistent tariff increases and enforce tariff collection was over-optimistic. Similarly, although
studies designed to provide a basis for longer term planning and recovery of the sector were
included, the Government moved much more slowly than expected to translate the policy
recommendations from the relevant studies into actions that would achieve intended outcomes The
Bank expanded policy dialogue on these issues beyond the project itself through DPLs including the
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) II and the Second Institution Building Technical
Assistance Credit (IBTA II), which included measures addressing key issues such as the need for
Government support in improving utility's such as ARWC/Azersu's financial situation, and
development of social assistance programs to alleviate the impact of utility sector reform on the poor,
respectively. The level of cost recovery expected under the project was high, because at the time of
project design it was not foreseeable that Government would be able to provide significant
investment funds. The project team did not anticipate that oil revenues would increase to a level
which allows significant Government contribution to investment and therefore provides for
sustainability at a lower cost recovery level.

c) Adequacy of Government commitment: Government's overall commitment and support to the
project was a key factor in ensuring that it was generally implemented in a satisfactory manner
despite the existing challenges. The following section (7.2) however highlights those aspects subject
to Government control that in some way hindered or failed to enhance implementation progress.


                                                 10

d) Assessment of risks: Potential risks to the project were identified during appraisal. In this regard,
inherent risks expected for a first time investment operation for a new Bank borrower, such as: (i)
delays in implementation due to limited experience of ARWC with this type of activity; (ii)
reluctance of the Government to face up to the challenges of required reforms; (iii) under-estimation
of construction costs, and of the effort and commitment required to achieve financial sustainability;
and (iv) unrealistic expectations that the water supply crisis could be resolved in a short period of
time; were identified up-front. Measures to mitigate the risks, such as establishment of the twinning
arrangement to support implementation, adequate supervision from the Bank, application of
appropriate physical and price contingencies, public education, and continuing dialogue between the
Bank and Borrower, were identified and incorporated in project design. While it would seem in that
these measures would in principle address most of the risks, their effectiveness was subject to
additional factors such as political will to make required changes, and the level of engagement and
effectiveness of the dialogue. As a result they were not able to adequately mitigate some of the risks
such as the ability to achieve financial outcomes through adequate tariff adjustments.

In response, the Bank broadened the dialogue through the SAC II DPL (May 2002 to December
2003) to advocate required reforms. The conditions for withdrawals from this Credit after the
aggregate of the proceeds withdrawn from the Credit Account exceeded the stipulated SDR 24.2
million, included satisfactory progress of the Borrower with respect to the following: (i) implicit
subsidies in the water sector reduced by at least 30%, through a combination of better cash
collection, tariff adjustments and/or increased efficiency; (ii) budgetary institutions current with
utility payments for at least six months; (iii) cumulative payments to Azerenergy by ARWC equal 20
percent of the cost of the electricity supplied to ARWC in 2002; (iv) six months compliance with
Decree prohibiting water bill payment with netting operations involving budgetary institutions and/or
state-owned enterprises; (v) approval of draft regulations to ensure adequate private sector
participation in the water sector; and (vi) appropriate economic prices for electricity, gas, water,
wastewater and solid waste, approve and a published time-bound plan to move tariffs to economic
prices, and implementation of appropriate country-wide tariff changes in 2002. Implicit subsidies in
the water sector were reduced by 23 percent in 2002. However, losses continued and the 2005 tariff
increase, while sufficient if matched with a high collection rate, resulted in a drop in collections,
hence no immediate improvement in revenue.

7.2 Implementation (including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at
Risk status, and actions taken, as applicable):

(a) Effects of the Earthquake: Project implementation was affected by the earthquake that occurred in
Baku on November 25, 2000. It caused major damage to various water supply and wastewater
facilities in the city, including water treatment structures and sections of the distribution network. As
a result, some achievements such as reductions in water losses were set back significantly due to a
sharp escalation in the occurrence of bursts in the distribution network. The Supplemental Credit
was approved by the Bank primarily to finance major repairs and rehabilitation to the most damaged
facilities. The Supplemental Credit was negotiated in May 2002 and approved by the Bank's Board


                                                  11

in December 2002. However it did not become effective until October 2003 - almost a year and a
half after negotiations were held and ten months after approval.           At negotiations, the project
completion date was expected to be at the end of June 2004, with the credit closing at the end of
December the same year. However, another eighteen months of the planned two-year project had
elapsed before any disbursements were possible. The combination of these delays cost the project
significant time. While implementation progress picked up considerably in 2004 and 2005, the
closing date had to be rescheduled to January 31, 2006, to recover time lost in delayed effectiveness
and allow for completion of the works. In the end the project implementation period was ten years,
double the original implementation period of five years.

(b) Macroeconomic Environment: During the course of project implementation, Azerbaijan's
economy went through some difficult suffering from the economic crisis of 1998 and relatively low
oil prices, during a period when the country was still making the adjustment from a command
economy to a market economy. Related exchange rate fluctuations, Government budget stress and
the earthquake of 2000 contributed to difficulties in project implementation. It was at this point that
the Management Information System and Household Leakage Reduction sub-component were
cancelled. The upswing in oil prices in recent years, coupled with increasing Azeri production, have
had the opposite effect. Growing budget resources and personal incomes convinced Government to
increase transfers to the water sector, and to allow substantial tariff increases. Government has now
turned its attention to environmental problems and has declared its commitment to implementing
wastewater collection and treatment plans for the Apsheron Penninsula, offering the prospect of a
delayed pay-off to the earlier planning effort under this project.

(c) Limited Experience with Bank Operations: Being the first Bank investment operation in the water
sector in Azerbaijan, the Borrower and implementing agency lacked adequate implementation
experience with Bank operations. Although the project design provided for technical assistance
through the CDU to support the Borrower in several aspects of implementation, the Borrower's
decision-making process was sometimes slow.          ARWC, the Implementing Agency was newly
created and still undergoing a learning process.       The challenges of managing the institutional
transitions during the restructuring exercises while implementing the project concurrently, had some
impact on implementation progress, particularly due to factors such as time lost in finding and
appointing suitable candidates to manage key positions in the utility, and building their capacity for
decision-making.

(d) Policy Oversight over the Water Utility: Policy oversight over ARWC, and later Azersu, was not
strong enough to push through some of the required reforms in a timely manner. The risk of
Government being reluctant to face up to the challenges of implementing the required sector and
institutional reforms had been identified during appraisal, and according to the project design it had
been agreed that in order to create a macro environment conducive to reform, the Government's role
would need to be changed from that of a direct provider of services to that of a regulatory body with
a policy and regulatory function. A study to recommend required policy changes, develop the
regulatory framework, and propose a development strategy and action plan for implementing it was
to have been prepared by June 30, 1996 and the results to have been discussed with IDA and


                                                 12

implemented by December 31, 1996.            While most relevant actions including the institutional
restructuring, were successfully completed, the establishment of a regulatory framework for the
sector was not completed.

(e) Approval of tariff adjustments: It was agreed at appraisal that periodic tariff adjustments would
be made over the course of implementation, in order to improve ARWC's financial standing and put
it in a position to make contributions to its investment programs from internally generated funds.
The Government in principle supported adjustment of tariff structures to meet operational costs, and
adjustments were made several times, albeit not to the levels required to reach full self financing.
With the 2005 tariff adjustment, the increase was substantial enough to cover full operational costs.
Nevertheless, while Azersu is now expected to slowly improve its revenues, the company's debt
level remains substantial and debt service continues to rely on Government support. One of the
issues being discussed with Government through the new Sector Strategy is the need for debt
restructuring, which will require Government intervention and financing. Successful restructuring
would permit sustained improvement in the company's financial standing.                In the interim,
Government has contributed investment subsidies that allow continued physical improvements in the
system but do not respond to the underlying financial problems. It has also showed renewed
commitment to increase metering which should help on collections. While not optimal, given the
large financial resources available to Azerbaijan, there is a strong probability that services will be
sustained and improved even if the need for a Government subsidy continues.

(f) Loss of experienced staff: The CDU lost several trained staff to better paying jobs and further
studies during the course of implementation. One of the reasons for this turnover was the large
salary difference between the CDU and ARWC staff which reduced the long-term attractiveness of
the company to the former. This was a major hindrance to the long-term capacity benefits of Azersu
from the CDU who were expected to eventually merge with the Utility staff after the project.

(g) Inadequate Metering: While Azersu made significant progress in terms of installation of bulk
water meters, metering levels at the individual/domestic consumer level remained low (only 6.2
percent by the end of the project), and Azersu was not able to make the transfer to a metered billing
system by the end of the project. This had consequences on the project's achievement of the
envisaged demand management and billing improvement outcomes, and contributed to weaknesses
in the project monitoring system. More recently, the Government has shown renewed interest in
metering and has begun its own ambitious metering program which aims for universal metering and
is currently installing about 300 water meters per day.

The project was a `problem project' for a total period of about fifteen months on two different
occasions over the project's life (February 1996-September 1996) and (May 2004 to April 2005) due
to unsatisfactory progress towards meeting its development objectives. The problems were mainly
with respect to the utility's poor financial performance and its implications on financial sustainability
of the operation. The latter downgrade, made in response to persistently poor financial performance


                                                 13

was maintained until 2005 when the substantial tariff increase to cover O&M costs was made. The
Bank team continued to hold dialogue with the Government and to recommend measures to try to
address the financial situation through the project and parallel policy dialogue.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

(a) Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design: According to the project design, implementation
progress was measured against a list of physical and financial targets. Agreement was obtained
during negotiations that actual performance would be compared against the appraisal estimates and
reported to IDA on a semi-annual basis. The M&E targets were linked to achievement of different
project outputs over given timeframes. A list of seven performance indicators relating to various
operational aspects including service quality improvements (hours of service, reduction in
unaccounted for water, water quality, and pressure), financial efficiency (tariff adjustments to cover
operating costs, and reduction in Working Ratio), and measures to improve operational efficiency
such as reduction in staff per thousand connections was also monitored to measure achievement of
project outcomes. It should be noted that robust baseline data with respect to some operational
indicators such as physical losses, total unaccounted for water, and system pressures were not
available during project appraisal (in the first two cases due to the lack of metering), and were based
on estimates. M&E was thus affected by the overall lack of reliable baseline data which stemmed
from the inadequate monitoring, reporting, and information management system from which ARWC
was starting at the onset of the project.

(b) M&E Implementation: While the CDU with the help of the consultants carried out overall
monitoring of project outputs and reported these on a quarterly basis to the Bank, outcome indicators
were not monitored regularly. In addition to weaknesses in ARWC's operational monitoring system,
and accountability to its management in this regard, there were other methodological limitations. It
was for instance difficult to carry out accurate assessment of indicators requiring the measurement of
water volumes (UFW, total losses, etc) given the weak baseline data and the fact that metering levels
were very low and full system metering was not completed by the end of the project. Other
limitations are linked to the failure of the project to implement a sub-component that would improve
the internal financial and accounting reporting systems. In this regard, although the project design
had required a Management Information System (MIS) to be put in place, this sub-components was
cancelled due to insufficient funds in the IDA credit resulting from a drop in the exchange rate
between the SDR and the US dollar. Improvement of the monitoring and benchmarking system for
the sector is one of the issues that is addressed under the new sector strategy.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution, as
applicable):

Safeguards: The main Safeguards issue under the project was Environmental Assessment. Project
preparation with respect to environmental assessment was carried out in accordance with the World
Bank Operational Directive 4.01 Environmental Assessment and environmental procedures of the
Republic of Azerbaijan. The Project was a Category B project given that the rehabilitation works for


                                                  14

the water supply facilities had by their general nature potential environmental impacts on human
populations or environmentally important areas, which were site-specific. The analysis accordingly
examined the project's potential negative and positive environmental impacts and recommended
measures needed to prevent, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse impacts and improve
environmental performance.        There were no major problems that arose due to environmental
assessment during project implementation.

Fiduciary Aspects
Financial Management: Financial Management of the project was carried out in accordance with the
arrangements agreed upon in the legal agreements. A formal audit for both the Project and the entity
was carried out on an annual basis, stating the adequacy of the accounting system and internal
controls, the reliability of the Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) as a basis for credit disbursements,
and compliance with covenants of the credit agreement. While the audits were carried out in
accordance with International Standards of Auditing each year, there were delays in achieving the
agreed upon deadlines for report submission on several occasions.

Procurement: Given the limited capacity within the implementing agency, responsibility for
procurement of goods, works and services under the project was by design carried by the CDU with
the assistance of consultants who prepared final designs, prepared bidding documents, and carried
out construction supervision. An independent Procurement Review commissioned by the Bank in
2005 confirmed that the function was generally carried out in a satisfactory manner in accordance
with relevant World Bank procurement procedures, with minor discrepancies on a few contracts.
The preparation of tender documents and procurement proceeded smoothly without any major
problems, and the record keeping and filing systems were good. The CDU reported procurement
information to the World Bank and EBRD on a quarterly basis, and issues arising were addressed
with support from the Bank Procurement Staff. Change orders were agreed with contractors and
ARWC and were subject to the Bank's 'no objection'. On balance there were a few delays in the
procurement process, some of which occurred due to other factors such as counterpart funding not
being readily available.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase (including transition arrangement to post-
completion operation of investments financed by present operation, Operation & Maintenance
arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up
operation, if applicable):

Investments financed under the project are already being successfully operated and maintained under
Azersu's regular operations, which have contributed to improved overall performance in terms of
service delivery. The World Bank has worked with the Government to develop a Strategy for the
Water Sector in Azerbaijan, which among other things identifies operations for development of the
sector over the next decade. Key components of the Sector Strategy seek to address not only the
required investment needs for improving sector performance and achieving Government investment
goals, but also address financial and institutional strengthening needs.




                                                 15

Investments for the Greater Baku area are largely based on the Masterplan that was prepared as a part
of the project and Government goals. The Government has requested for funding from the Bank for
further development of water supply and sewerage services in the Greater Baku area in order to
provide reliable services to the city. It has already allocated funding in its budget over the next three
years to provide counterpart funding for investments in the water and sewerage sector in Baku.
Other activities have also been initiated in parallel to improve sector performance. For instance, a
Government decree instituted in 2004 requiring universal metering by 2008 also presents an
opportunity for propelling the metering program forward beyond the project. In response to this
decree, by 2006 about 50,000 new meters will have been installed in Baku outside of the project, the
Government budget has estimated funds to complete the work, and all new buildings have metered
connections. A Financial Restructuring and Recovery Plan is one of the key components of the
Sector Strategy that is expected to contribute to improving Azersu's financial situation in order to
ensure sustainable service delivery.




                                                  16

8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and global
priorities, and Bank assistance strategy):

Relevance of the project objectives is rated high. The project objectives, as stated in the SAR,
focused on addressing the most critical challenges facing the water sector in the Greater Baku area at
the time, which were: (i) inefficiencies in the production and distribution of potable water. Baku had
inadequate water treatment facilities resulting in water that failed to meet bacteriological standards,
placing the population under a severe health risk, and water was supplied on average only six hours a
day; and (ii) weak financial and performance capacity of the institutions responsible for managing
service delivery. They were responsive to the Borrower's development priority of improving water
supply service delivery in Greater Baku, and consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
for Azerbaijan. Although the project was able to make some improvements, several issues in the
sector still remain, and are a priority for both Government and development partners including the
Bank. The project objectives are thus still relevant at the time of the ICR, and remain consistent with
Azerbaijan's development priorities. Improving infrastructure is one of the intermediate objectives of
the Government's current Poverty Reduction Strategy - the State Program for Poverty Reduction and
Economic Development (SPPRED). It is also linked to the other SPPRED objectives which include:
(i) creating an enabling environment for growth of income generating opportunities, (ii) maintaining
macroeconomic stability, and (iii) improving living conditions of Internally Displaced People (IDPs)
of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. Infrastructure service delivery has also been a central theme in
each of the past and on-going CASs during the life of the project. One of the objectives outlined in
the current World Bank Country Partnership Strategy with Azerbaijan (dated April 2003) seeks to
improve access to services by reversing the decline in social services and infrastructure, such as
water supply. The link between improving water supply and water quality to health issues is also
important. As a result, continued improvements in water supply in Baku, and extending this
improvement to the rest of the country is expected to feature prominently in the next CPS.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives (including brief discussion of causal
linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in Annex 4):

The project outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory based on its having achieved satisfactory
outcomes with respect to physical investments, substantial quantifiable improvements in water
access and quality, corporatization of the sector, increased tariffs and better planning, albeit with
shortcomings. The doubling of the hours of water supply from 6 to 13, and the compliance with
WHO water quality standards, represent a significant achievement. Indeed, this level of quality
improvement, coupled with reduced water losses, is rare among water projects in ECA. Outcomes
related to financial sustainability were rated unsatisfactory because despite tariff increases Azersu
continues to rely on budgetary support which the project anticipated ending, not having foreseen the
capability of Government to contribute to capital investments. The working ratio deteriorated
substantially over the project life, rather than improving. It should be noted that the Government has



                                                  17

shown renewed interest this year in improving metering and self sustainability of Azersu on its own.
Also, while not the optimal approach, given the growing financial wealth of Azerbaijan and
commitment to improving water supply, it is likely that even if the need for budgetary support
continues, the improved outcomes in water supply will be sustainable.

Achievement of individual objectives and their associated outcome indicators based on the
performance indicators identified at appraisal are outlined briefly below.

(a) Achievement of Objective a). To make emergency short term improvements to the water supply
system to restore the water supply to Baku, particularly to the poorer elements of the population:
Achievement of this objective was satisfactory. Works in respect of urgent short term physical
improvements to the water supply system including leakage reduction and other facility repairs were
completed, resulting in improvements in the reliability of water supply to domestic consumers in
Baku. Water production also increased through the rehabilitation of the Jeiranbatan and Kura River
Water Treatment Plants, and physical losses were reduced through the rehabilitation of the
distribution network. Although water supply was still intermittent in some parts of the city by the
end of the project, the average number of hours of service had increased from the pre-project 6 hours
a day to an average of about 13 hours a day, exceeding the targeted average 12 hours of service. This
improvement benefited all areas of the city, and the poor together with the non-poor. The reduced
coping costs and higher network water quality were likely more important to the poor, but
monitoring was not in place to evaluate this result.

(b) Achievement of Objective b) To improve the water supply system as a whole: This objective has
been rated satisfactory on the basis of the impact of water supply investments in terms of
improvements in service quality and reliability, and reduction in physical losses. Official estimates
from Azersu in 2004 put UFW in the area at about 35 percent, which is better than the targeted 45
percent envisaged at appraisal, and physical losses in the distribution network at the ICR stage were
reported to be as low as 20 percent. It is however difficult to accurately assess the extent of the
reduction in UFW given the lack of metering at the start and the low level of metering at the end of
the project. It could also be argued that the overall almost five year extension of the project due to
the Supplemental Credit and the two other Closing Date extensions meant that achieved targets
reached before the revised project closing date, appeared to have been over-achieved by the end of
the project when measured against the original performance indicators.          On balance however,
achievement of targets directly related to the facilities affected by the earthquake were set back by
the damage caused them. Planned physical investments including rehabilitation of the two main
water treatment plants serving the Greater Baku area were substantially completed, and 30
chlorination stations for disinfection of water were installed. Consequently, the quality of water
treated at the rehabilitated facilities is fully compliant with the relevant standards of the World
Health Organization (WHO). As a result of the successful implementation of the leak detection and
distribution system repair program the number of bursts in the city reduced, contributing to the
ultimate reduction in water losses.




                                                 18

(c) Achievement of the Objective c) To provide the basis for longer term planning and recovery:
Achievement of this objective is rated moderately unsatisfactory given the mixed outcomes with
respect to two main aspects. First, it is assessed against satisfactory completion of the studies and
analytical work geared towards the longer term planning and recovery of ARWC and the sector.
This aimed at: (i) strengthening ARWC's technical, operational, financial, and managerial capacity;
(ii) defining ARWC's long term objectives and development of a corporate development strategy;
and (iii) laying the groundwork for ARWC's corporate development. Second, it is assessed against
the extent of achievement of the desired outcomes of the reforms. While the first assessment
comprised satisfactory results in view of the successful completion of relevant studies, analytical
work, and other activities relating to strengthening ARWC, achievement of most of the intended
outcomes was only moderately satisfactory even though the relevant activities were carried out: the
extent to which they translated into required actions varied.

A key achievement of the project was the corporatization of ARWC. The company was successfully
restructured and provided with necessary facilitation to improve its overall capacity to manage
services, including transfer to a newly refurbished building and provision of equipment required to
run the systems administration and financial functions. Another major restructuring took place in
2004, when ARWC was formed into a new company Azersu Joint Stock Company (Azersu) which
was based on similar commercial principles.           There is evidence of improvements in overall
operational and managerial capacity of the entity. For example, there was a reduction in staffing
over the project implementation period. The staff ratio was reduced from about 12.3 employees per
1,000 service connections in the base year to about 7.8 per 1,000 connections at the end of the
project. A maximum of 5 employees per 1,000 connections average is advised for international good
practice. According to the Corporate Development Plan for 2005, manpower levels are to be further
reduced by 100 employees a year up to the end of 2009.

Improvements in Azersu's financial situation on the other hand have been marginal, and are rated
unsatisfactory in view of their implications for the overall financial sustainability of the investments.
In spite of putting in place several measures to improve the company's financial viability, these have
not yet resulted in the company's financial viability in the absence of significant Government
financing. After several significant increases, tariffs were at a level to cover the company's O&M
costs by 2005, the end of the project. However, these have not yet been enough to ensure self
sustainability because of collection problems. At the time of preparing this ICR, Azersu's end of
project Working Ratio based on audited financial accounts was not yet available, and figures for
2004 have been used. The company's audited accounts for 2004 indicate a Working Ratio of about
1.1 which is significantly higher than the 0.6 ratio targeted, and even higher than the pre-project level
of 0.75. Audited figures for total liabilities for the Greater Baku area by the end of the project,
though not yet available, are not expected to have changed significantly in spite of the tariff increase
due to an initial drop in revenue collection levels experienced after the increase. Moreover, even if
revenues are expected to slowly improve, the company's financial situation still remains precarious
due to the high debt burden it has, unless the Government is able to intervene in restructuring it. The
mitigating factor in this outcome is the on-going Government allocation of budget resources to sector
investments. Unusually for a company in this revenue situation, Azersu has been able to improve


                                                 19

and sustain system quality measured in hours of service, service pressure, and the quality of
delivered water. The budget has supported sustainable service and allocations continue to increase.
Given high probability budget scenarios, based on the rapidly growing oil wealth of the country, this
behavior is itself sustainable. However it does not accord with the project vision of a self-financing
service provider.

Key commercial objectives such as improvement of billing methods through metering were also not
achieved. Consequently, the billing system could not be changed from a flat rate to a volumetric
system by the end of the project, due to the low level of metering achieved (only about 5 percent for
domestic consumers).       However in 2005, as noted above the Government made a renewed
commitment to introduce universal metering with initial very positive results, and has made
budgetary allocations towards meeting this objective over the next three years.

8.3 Efficiency (Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate
norms, least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return):

A detailed economic analysis of the project was carried out at appraisal. The EIRR on the water
supply investments was estimated at 27 percent on the basis of the quantified benefits, which
included (a) willingness to pay for an improved water supply service; (b) public health benefits
through a reduction in waterborne and water-related diseases; and (c) cost savings through a
reduction in the annual recurrent costs of operating the water supply system, indicating that the
project was a very robust investment. Sensitivity tests carried out at the time also indicated that the
project was generally robust to variations in cost and benefit parameters. The net present value and
the EIRR were recalculated at ICR, on the basis of assumptions outlined in Annex 5. Because of
lack of data, public health benefits have been assigned a zero value despite the significant
improvements in water quality, and no reduction coping cost was taken into account despite the
doubling of time water is supplied now. The costs involved in achieving the project benefits are
deemed to have been reasonable, given the positive net present value of the project (US$ 10.3
million) and the 19 percent EIRR, demonstrating the satisfactory economic performance of the
operation.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and
efficiency):

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The overall outcome of the project is rated moderately unsatisfactory on the basis of the foregoing
arguments on its relevance (Section 8.1), the level of achievement of the objectives (Section 8.2), and
efficiency (Section 8.3). In this regard, improvement of water supply services in the Greater Baku
area, which formed the basis for the project, was significant: Hours of water supply have increased
on average from 6 to 13 hours and water quality is in compliance with WHO standards. The project
was able to achieve most of its development objectives in terms of service and quality improvements,
tariff increases, and the corporatization of the sector, with moderate shortcomings. At the same time,
the shortcomings in respect to its financial accounts are concern, although given the growing wealth


                                                  20

of the country this is not expected to affect the overall sustainability of its outcomes. Fortunately,
Government has committed to improving services, has continued to back this up with needed budget
allocations, and has launched a long delayed effort to install consumption meters with its own funds.
Building upon the achievements so far and the lessons learnt, the project sets the stage for future
operations that will enhance outcomes in the Greater Baku area and beyond.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not previously covered
or to amplify discussion above):

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development:

The impact of the project on the urban poor and other vulnerable groups such as the elderly and
pensioners on fixed incomes was taken into consideration at appraisal. The project was expected to
assist the population of Greater Baku including the poor to gain improved access to an essential
service. The Social Assessment at appraisal revealed that services for all income levels were
severely deficient in Greater Baku, and the poor spent a far larger proportion of their income on
coping measures to address deficiencies in water supply services (as much as 7 percent compared to
2 percent on average for the non poor). The Social Assessment also indicated that vulnerable people
such as women, the elderly and those on fixed incomes appeared to bear the greatest burden of the
water supply crisis, and by inference would benefit most from the project. A formal assessment of
the project's poverty impact has not been carried out at the ICR stage. However, the poor benefited
from the increase in hours of supply from 6 to 13 hours (on average), with some areas moving up to
24 hours of supply. The poor also benefited from the improvements in water quality which met
WHO standards at the end of the project. The Government is committed to ensuring that affordable
services are provided to all its population, including the poor. The Bank is assisting the Government,
through its ongoing policy dialogue and investment projects, to develop a social assistance program
to mitigate the impact of sector reforms, including measures such as possible tariff increases on the
poor. The Bank has also prepared an extensive review of the water supply sector and the remaining
challenges this year to take stock of lessons learned and establish a foundation for further work in
this sector.



(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term
capacity and institutional development):

The project's institutional development impact, which is defined as the extent to which it has
improved the agency or country's ability to make effective use of its human and financial resources,
has been rated moderately satisfactory due to the mixed level of achievement with respect to
different aspects. While considerable improvements have been gained with regard to use of human
resources, the financial resource management still needs to be strengthened. As a result of the
institutional reforms introduced under the project, including the institutional restructuring to form the
more commercially oriented ARWC (later Azersu), and the support provided through the
twinning/Corporate Partner and CDU, there is evidence that the sector is better run than it was at the


                                                 21

onset of the project and the project was implemented successfully. Staff productivity improved
significantly over the implementation period, and the Productivity Ratio reduced from about 12.3 to
7.8 staff per 1,000 connections. The CDU staff, some of whom became part of Azersu, acquired
capacity for project implementation, including procurement related functions, and can be counted
upon in undertaking this function in future projects financed by the Bank. In addition staff capacity
was built with regard to several operational aspects such as O&M capacity and customer relations,
and recruiting of an experienced person as Vice President of Azersu's investment department. A
special Dispatcher Communications and Customer Relations department was established within
Azersu in 2004, specifically to address customer complaints, and Azersu's responsiveness to
customer complaints had improved. The Corporate Development Plan prepared by the CDU on an
annual basis provided strategic direction for improvement of operational performance. However, the
extent to which the Plans were able to actually translate into concrete actions was hindered by factors
such as a lack of commitment on the part of management to fully implement all the
recommendations.

In terms of financial management capacity, the plan at appraisal was for the restructuring to include
explicit performance objectives and well defined budgets for the sector in order to improve corporate
governance and increase financial discipline. An important tool towards this end was supposed to be
the installation of a Management Information System linked with both operational budget planning
and strategic planning, including inter-alia, a general ledger module with provision for departmental
accounting; an automated fixed asset module to provide all pertinent information on depreciation and
an easily retrievable means of handling revaluations; a general accounts receivable module for fully
automating the billing and collection process; and a cost accounting module to separately account for
wages, materials, and other expenditures in the central and district workshops, as well as in the
treatment plants and pumping stations. This tool (the MIS sub-component) was cancelled during
project implementation due to budgetary constraints. While the Bank's policy dialogue through its
policy and technical assistance operations is working on addressing some of the key financial issues,
including improved regulation, accounting and transparency, the intended results of the dialogue
have not yet been fully achieved. At the same time, the Government recently initiated some actions
to improve corporate governance, including adopting a new Accounting Law requiring state owned
utilities to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) not later than January 1, 2008.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
There were no major unintentional impacts or outcomes of the project.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops (optional for
Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes):
A beneficiary assessment and Stakeholder workshop were not carried out at project completion.




                                                 22

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome


Rating: Moderate
The level of risk to development outcome is rated as moderate on the basis of the existence of both
factors that would enhance the technical sustainability of the investments financed under the project,
and those that may hinder financial sustainability. Technical sustainability of physical investments
in water supply made under the project is likely given Azersu's improved capacity to operate and
maintain the facilities in a sustainable manner, which has been enhanced through the project. The
sustainability of the investments is also enhanced by the general improvement in institutional
capacity to manage service delivery achieved through the project. The increase in tariffs and the
renewed focus on metering will also help.

There is concern related to Azersu's financial outlook and its potential impact on the investments and
service delivery. Azersu as the system operator should optimally receive sufficient revenues from
user fees and government transfers to cover the costs of operation and maintenance as well as to
finance investment costs and debt service. While tariffs and collection rates have increased in recent
years, and Azersu is slowly making positive steps towards self sufficiency, the company remains
dependent on Government support for investment financing for new systems or replacing dilapidated
systems in the short to medium term. Mitigation of the risk to development outcome will require
further improvement in Azersu's financial viability through increased revenue collection, resulting
from a combination of improvements in operational efficiency and in the billing and revenue
collection systems, supported by adequate policy dialogue geared at achieving the desired results.
That said, net Government revenues are increasing rapidly as oil flows ramp up and the President and
Government have repeatedly committed to high quality water and sanitation services in Baku to date,
backing that commitment with the needed budget allocations. As a result sustainability of achieved
outcomes is expected to continue, even if continued budget support for investments is required.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance (relating to design, implementation and
outcome issues)

10.1 Bank:
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending phase):

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was satisfactory.
The Bank team consisted of two core members and seven additional specialists who included a
sanitary engineer, an institutional and training specialist, an environmental specialist, social
specialists, and a finance and economics specialist. Four specialists from EBRD also participated in
the appraisal mission.     Potential risks were identified, and the Bank Safeguard policies were
adequately addressed.     Fiduciary capacity of the Borrower was also assessed, and adequate
arrangements put in place to build required capacity through the twinning arrangement with the
corporate partner and implementation support through the CDU. However, the country readiness for


                                                23

sector reform was overestimated, and the financial performance target was overambitious. The
project design rightly stressed the importance of demand management, but this is not reflected in the
proposed investment, which foresaw the installation of only 15,000 consumption meters. Quality at
entry is therefore rated moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies):

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The quality of project supervision carried out by the Bank is rated moderately satisfactory because
although the quality of supervision was satisfactory in most respects, there were some shortcomings
in ensuring timely project implementation, which contributed to the overall increase in the project
implementation period by at least three years, excluding the additional two year timeframe directly
resulting from the Supplemental Credit.

The Bank Team carried out 23 supervision missions in the field over the ten year implementation
period and responded to implementation issues in a timely manner as they arose. Given the nature of
the operation and associated activities, the skill mix usually included at least one Sanitary
engineer/Water and Sanitation Specialist and a Financial Specialist, who were able to adequately
handle supervision of most of the technical and fiduciary issues arising on the project.          The
internationally recruited supervision team was joined by a local Bank Operations officer who
provided close continuous coordination and liaison with the client. Constant communication was
also maintained with the Borrower through other means such as electronic mail. Over the course of
implementation the project had five different Task Team leaders as a result of the normal
reassignment process within the Bank. Nonetheless continuity in adequate project supervision was
ensured. Project Supervision reports were generally well written and highlighted the key issues.
Monitoring and evaluation however appears to have been rather weak, mainly as a result of the lack
of adequate baseline data and/or ability to accurately measure indicators for some of the key
performance indicators such as UFW, system pressures, and hours of service. Project supervision
also seems to have focused more on implementation of the tangible outputs such as physical
investments and activities, and not enough on the outcomes of corporate development activities. The
final ISRs rated the project moderately satisfactory, anticipating that the 2005 tariff increase would
be matched by high collection rates and therefore significantly improve ARWC's financial
performance. As that has not yet happened, this ICR has chosen a moderately unsatisfactory rating,
creating a disconnect. The moderately satisfactory rating is based on the above shortcomings.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The rating for overall Bank performance is based on the satisfactory quality at entry and moderately
satisfactory quality of supervision, which together contributed to a moderately satisfactory overall
outcome for the project.


                                                 24

10.2 Borrower:

(a) Government Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory on the basis of its role during project
preparation and implementation.       Its performance during project preparation was satisfactory,
especially given that the project was the first operation of its kind in Azerbaijan. There was close
coordination and dialogue between relevant Government officials and the project financiers, the Bank
and EBRD. The Government demonstrated its commitment to achieving the development objectives,
by providing support for the institutional reforms made under the project. As a result the Baku Water
Agency was successfully restructured to form the Apsheron Regional Water Company (ARWC), and
Government provided adequate support for putting in place the required legislative framework.
Allocation of counterpart funding was generally adequate throughout project implementation, with
some delays experienced in availing the funds on a few occasions. The Government was able to
respond to implementation issues that required its attention, such as the need for obtaining the
Supplemental credit from the Bank after the damage caused by the earthquake.
On balance however, the moderately satisfactory rating is justified by the significant delay
experienced in achieving results on the ground in response to what was an emergency situation. It
was almost three years after the earthquake before remediation works were initiated. Another
shortcoming in Government performance relates to the fact that it was not able to push through tariff
increases at the rate needed to ensure the utilities sustainability through tariff income early in project
implementation.     This was only partially achieved at the end of the project.           However, the
Government deliberately changed its strategy during project implementation.              Instead of the
overambitious goal to recover initial investment costs from company revenues, it instead has
continued a reliance on fiscal transfers and quasi-fiscal measures. This contributed to the inadequate
achievement of the financial outcome indicators selected during project design.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing Agency                                      AzerSu Joint-Stock Company


Implementing Agency performance is rated moderately satisfactory because, while most aspects were
satisfactory, there were some moderate shortcomings in performance. The Agency (ARWC and later
Azersu) was committed to achieving the project development objectives. Recognizing the relatively
low institutional capacity to handle project implementation hence the lack of the Agency's readiness
for implementation, the design provided for support to it through the international Corporate
Development Partner under the twinning arrangement and the formation of the Corporate
Development Unit. As a result the project was well managed, and implementation issues were



                                                 25

responded to adequately and fiduciary responsibilities with respect to both procurement and financial
management carried out in a satisfactory manner. Relationships between the different stakeholders
including the Government and project financiers were smooth, and the implementing Agency was
able to play a coordinating role between the different stakeholders, as required.

Transition arrangements for activities supported by the project into regular operations were also
smoothly carried out, and the newly rehabilitated water treatment and distribution facilities were
effectively utilized to improve service delivery. Public relations efforts initiated under the project to
improve demand management were mainstreamed into the Agency operations, with the recruitment
of a public relations officer. Like the Government however, a shortcoming in the implementing
agencies performance relates to the significant delay in responding to the emergency caused by the
earthquake, which took at least three years before remedial works could begin.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Borrower performance takes into consideration both the Government and the Implementing
Agency's performance during project preparation and implementation.               On the basis of the
justification provided above, Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.


11. Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)


The main lessons learned from the design and implementation of the project are the following:

(i) Assumptions used in projecting future performance need to be as realistic as possible, and to take
due consideration of prevailing political, economic, and social risks. Some of the assumptions
considered during project appraisal were too optimistic, and raised very high expectations of the
project's outcome. The assumption for instance that within three years of implementation, ARWC
would be able to generate revenues equivalent to more than the sum of total operating expenses, debt
service requirements and provision for non-cash items including depreciation and replacement costs
was way too ambitious given the existing circumstances, and identified risks such as underestimation
of the extraordinary effort and long-term commitment required to achieve financial viability. During
project implementation increasing Government revenues allowed them to revise the strategy for
sustainable water services to a more realistic level. Azersu had begun to make positive steps towards
self sufficiency by the end of the project, but it still dependent on budget support to achieve
sustainability.

(ii) Development outcomes of investment projects can be enhanced when done in parallel with a
strong overall policy dialogue, including through separate DPLs and other interventions that
address key issues in the sector. The project is one piece of an integrated country program, but it is
important to recognize during preparation and implementation, its limitations in achieving certain
outcomes. The Bank has been engaging in a strong policy dialogue with the Government through a


                                                 26

series of DPLs, investment projects and poicy dialogue which included both concrete policy
measures on increasing tariffs, improving the financial viability of Azersu, and establishing a
regulatory framework. This dialogue also includes establishing International Accounting Principles
and targeting social assistance specifically to alleive the impact of utility sector reform on the poor.
This dialogue has contributed to the positive, albeit slow, progress towards achievement of these
aspects.

(iii) Technical Assistance for implementation of reform components should be packaged separately
from consultancy services for investment operations. Technical Assistance involving provision of
support for both corporate development and investment implementation by the same company
appears to have resulted in differing levels of the company's effort towards achieving the outcomes.
It is recommended that responsibility for investment and reform components be divided into separate
contracts in order to enhance the accountability for each area by the relevant vendors and optimize
their outcomes. In this case the combination of the role of foreign specialists to implement the
investments as well as influence corporate development of ARWC gave unbalanced results as greater
attention appears to have been given to the implementation of investment activities which produced
more visible results.

(iv) Technical Assistance alone cannot bring about reforms unless it is combined with strong
political support and the commitment of all stakeholders, including utility management. Ultimate
responsibility for reform lies with the Government and implementing agency/utility, even where TA
may be provided to facilitate required actions.       All stakeholders need to fully appreciate the
principles behind the reforms rather than just be informed of the associated activities. During the
course of implementation the structure of the sector underwent two major restructurings, and even
though most of the TA activities/outputs were implemented as discussed in Section 4.2, translation
into the required reform outcomes was not fully achieved.

(v) The objectives and design of project sub-components should be consistent with the resources
allocated to them. In the case of the metering component, the project originally only provided for
financing 15,000 meters (only 5,000 were installed during the project), yet set a performance target
of transfer from a normative to a metered billing system by the end of the project.

(vi) The focus on M&E during project implementation/supervision needs to be improved: ARWC
experienced both capacity and systematic issues with respect to M&E, which although noted during
appraisal, were not adequately focused on during project supervision.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies:


Azersu's comments were generally consistent with the ICR's assessment of the project with regard to
the outcomes relating to water supply improvements due to the physical investments and the
institutional reforms made. It however does not provide comments on issues relating to the financial



                                                27

sustainability of the project. A summary of Azersu's comments is provided in Annex 10, and a
detailed report is also attached.

(b) Cofinanciers:

EBRD's independent assessment of the project's performance, prepared in 2001, assigned a `partly
successful' overall performance rating, based on the institution's internal rating methodology which
took into account; (i) transition impact; (ii) achievement of objectives; (iii) environmental impact;
and (iv) company and project performance. Their evaluation of the project's performance with
respect to each of these aspects is summarized below:

 Overall transition impact was rated marginal, based on a lack of readiness of the institutional and
    business environmental, the absence of autonomy of the corporatized ARWC, the difficulty to
    disseminate the experience of a company operating under urban conditions to rural conditions,
    and its very weak performance in financial terms. It was however noted that the project enabled
    the Government to set up an emergency investment programme at a time when it would have
    been difficult to procure any other financing.

 The water quality improvements had not materialized by 2001, due to delays in completion of the
    rehabilitation of the water treatment plants funded under the IDA Credit. It was noted however
    water was safer due to the successful installation of chlorination facilities.

 ARWC's institutional achievements fell far short of the rather over ambitious goals defined
    during project preparation. The impact of the project on the organization of ARWC was assessed
    as limited as a consequence of the limited degree of autonomy granted the central authorities.
    The evaluation further stated that the success of the cooperation with the Corporate Development
    Partner and the CDU was limited, making the transfer of institutional knowledge slow and
    marginal. The limited application of the Corporate Development Plan prepared for ARWC on an
    annual basis by the CDU in accordance with their Terms of reference was seen as an illustration
    of these shortcomings.

EBRD's project evaluation was carried out in 2001, immediately after the EBRD loan closed, and not
after the final project completion date in January 2006, almost five years later. Moreover at the time
the EBRD loan closed, the Supplemental IDA Credit which financed repairs to facilities damaged by
the earthquake that occurred in November 2000 had not yet been approved. Disconnects between the
EBRD assessment and the ICR assessment are thus inevitable. It should also be noted that EBRD's
evaluation, particularly with regard to investments, focused largely on outcomes related to the
investments financed by EBRD, which comprised the Turnkey contract for rehabilitation of the
Water Treatment Plants. On the institutional front, there were also major changes that occurred after
the closing of the EBRD loan, the most notable of which was the formation of Azersu. After the
contract with the Corporate Partner ended and the Supplemental Credit was approved, the project
continued with the CDU taking the lead in supervising implementation, which was done in a
generally satisfactory manner.


                                                28

(c) Other partners and stakeholders: (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):

The completion report prepared by the consultants to the Swiss Secretariat for Economic Affairs
(SECO) focused mainly on the investments financed by the organization, rather than on the entire
project. Like the EBRD report, it was produced in 2002, about three years before the project closed.
The goal of the SECO financed investments which included rehabilitation of 460 booster pumping
stations through a single contract between 2001 and 2002, was to improve the availability of drinking
water to a population of 350, 000 people. Out of the original 460 stations identified, 194 were
actually rehabilitated. In a number of cases, the residents resisted the taking over of the pumping
stations by ARWC, while in others ARWC made a decision not to finance those stations whose
owners who included oil, shipping, and railroad companies were deemed able to finance them
themselves. Overall the project goals were met, and water was able to be delivered under reasonable
pressure to 340,000 customers, 97% of the target population by the end of 2002.




                                              29

                               Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document):
The primary objectives of the Project were to: (a) make emergency short term improvements in the
water supply system to restore the water supply to Baku, in particular to the poorer elements of the
population; (b) improve the water supply system as a whole; and (c) provide the basis for longer term
planning and recovery.       Although the Government later requested IDA assistance through a
Supplemental Credit to the ongoing credit to permit financing of the cost of repair and reconstruction
of Apsheron Regional Water Company (ARWC) facilities damaged by the November 25, 2000
earthquake, the objectives remained unchanged.

The performance indicators with respective to the above objectives were: (i) Improvement in hours of
service from the pre-project average of 6 hours/day to an average of 12 hours/day by the end of the
project; (ii) Reduction in unaccounted for water (UFW) from the pre-project level of 66 percent to
less than 45 percent by the end of the project; (iii) Improvement in water quality and water pressure
by the end of the project; (iv) Adjustment of residential and industrial water tariffs as necessary to
cover operating costs; (v) Change in the billing system from flat to metered rate; (vi) Reduction in the
ratio of employees per thousand service connection or households; and (vii) Reduction in the
Working Ratio from the pre-project level of 0. 75 to less than 0.60 by the end of the project.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority):
The project objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s) - from Project Appraisal Document

                                Original Target       Formally
   Indicator      Baseline        Values (from                         Actual Value Achieved at
                    Value          approval            Revised        Completion or Target Years
                                  documents)       Target Values

                Reduction of unaccounted for water from the pre-project level of 66% to less than
Indicator 1 :
                45% by end of project
Value
                                                   Values were
(quantitative
                66%           45%                  not formally    35%
or
                                                   revised.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/1996 01/31/2006                                December 2004
                Physical losses and UFW at both appraisal and ICR are estimates, given the low level
Comments
                of metering. Azersu estimates actual physical losses at 20% at project completion,
(incl. %
                possibly indicating existence of administrative losses of about 25%, hence the
achievement)
                differential with UFW.
                Improvements in the hours of service from the pre-project average of 6 hours/day to
Indicator 2 :
                12 hours/day by end of project


                                                30

Value
                                                 Values were
(quantitative                                                    Supply at ICR was estimated at
              6 hours/day 12 hours/day           not formally
or                                                               about 13.3 hours/day.
                                                 revised.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/1996 01/31/2006              01/31/2006      December 2004
Comments      While target was exceeded overall, supply varied from area to area in Baku with some
(incl. %      receiving less than 12 hrs/day and some receiving 24hr/day. Actual target achieved
achievement) before project completion.
Indicator 3 : Improvements in water quality and water pressure by end of project
Value                                                            Water quality achieved WHO
(quantitative                                                    standards, and Azersu confirmed
              n/a           n/a                  n/a
or                                                               improvements in system pressures
Qualitative)                                                     due to the repaired booster pumps.
Date achieved 03/01/1996 01/31/2006                              December 2004
Comments
(incl. %      There were no targets provided at appraisal, hence no measurable targets at ICR.
achievement)
              Adjustment of residential and industrial water tariffs as necessary to cover operating
Indicator 4 :
              costs.
Value
                                                 Values were
(quantitative               Tariffs cover
              US$0.08/m3                         not formally    US$0.15/m3
or                          operating costs.
                                                 revised.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/1996 01/31/2006                              01/01/2005
Comments
              The current tariff level made in January 2005 is sufficient to cover basic O&M costs
(incl. %
              without depreciation and debt service.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Change of the billing system from flat rate to metered billing
Value
(quantitative Flat rate                                          Transfer to metered billing was not
                            Metered billing      n/a
or            billing                                            achieved.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/1996 01/31/2006                              N/A
Comments      The level of metering achieved under the project was low (less than 10%), hence it
(incl. %      was impossible to transfer to metered billing. Meters being installed under new
achievement) Government initiative.


              Reduction of the ratio of employees per thousand service connections or household
Indicator 6 :
              served
Value        12.3           Not quantified                       Reduced to about 7.8 staff per



                                               31

(quantitative                                                    thousand connections.
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/1996 01/31/2006
Comments
               Although the target value was not quantified at appraisal, there was a sustained
(incl. %
               reduction in staff per thousand connections.
achievement)
               Reduction of the working ratio from the pre-project 0.75 to less than 0.6 by the end of
Indicator 7 :
               project
Value
                                                 Target values
(quantitative
               0.75          0.6                 were not        1.1
or
                                                 revised.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/01/1996 01/31/2006                              June 2004
Comments
(incl. %       The targeted working ratio was not achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s) - from Project Appraisal Document


                             Original Target Values        Formally        Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator     Baseline
                  Value           (from approval        Revised Target      Completion or Target
                                    documents)              Values                   Years
Indicator 1 :   The project has no intermediate outcome indicators.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Comments

No intermediate outcome indicators were identified at appraisal.




                                               32

                       Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)


Restructuring  Board    ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed at       Reason for

    Date(s)   Approved  Restructuring Restructuring in USD Restructuring & Key
             PDO Change IP      DO                M             Changes Made


12/10/2002   N         S     S                         51.50 n/a




                                 33

                                   Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing1

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                   Appraisal
               Components                     Estimate (USD M)             Actual/Latest           Percentage of

                                                 (US$ million)          Estimate (USD M)             Appraisal

INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
                                                                  6.9                        6.8               98.6
BUILDING
OPERATIONS AND
                                                                23.0                       21.2                92.2
MAINTENANCE IMPROVEMENTS
SUPPLY IMPROVEMENTS                                             18.6                       19.8               106.5
STUDIES AND CONSTRUCTION
                                                                  4.0                        5.6              140.0
SUPERVISION
WATER DEMAND
                                                                  5.0                        5.0              100.0
MANAGEMENT
OPERATIONS AND
                                                                10.3                         7.5               72.8
MAINTENANCE--SUPPL.
SUPPLY IMPROVEMENTS--
                                                                  1.6                        4.6              287.5
SUPPL.
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
                                                                  0.3                        0.3              100.0
BUILDING--SUPPL.
PROJECT SUPERVISION--SUPPL.                                       0.4                        0.4              100.0
                       Total Baseline Cost                      70.1                       71.2
Physical Contingencies                                            0.0                        0.0                0.0
Price Contingencies                                               0.0                        0.0                0.0
                       Total Project Costs                      70.1                       71.2
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                                1.0                        1.0              100.0
Front-end fee IBRD                                                0.0                        0.0                0.0
             Total Financing Required                           71.1                       72.2




1There are some discrepancies in the costs due changes in the exchange rates between the SDR and the US dollar
over the project lifetime.


                                                       34

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            35

                                  Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Part A. Water Demand Management: Desired outputs related to this component, which covered
metering, billing, consumer education, and household leakage, were realized to varying extents under
the project.

(i) Metering and transfer of billing system: By the loan closing date the level of metering in Baku
was only about 6.2 percent for domestic consumers, with industrial and commercial customers at
about 77 percent. Consequently, the metering program was not able to achieve the level of coverage
required to transfer from a flat rate to a metered billing system. About 5,000 meters were purchased
under the project and installed in households in one part of Baku under a pilot program in 46
apartment buildings in poor sections of the city. Under this program external plumbing systems
within the building were also rehabilitated. Although the pilot metering program was successfully
implemented, the amount of funding allocated to metering under the project was not enough to
achieve the level of metering that would be required for the transfer to metered billing.         A
Government decree instituted in 2004 requiring universal metering by 2008 presents an opportunity
for propelling the metering program forward beyond the project, assuming necessary funding and
support is provided. By 2006 about 50,0000 new meters had been installed in Baku outside of the
project.

(ii) Conservation of water at the household level was promoted through the consumer awareness
campaign implemented by NGOs under the direction of ARWC's Public Information Officer. Video
clips were produced on installation of water meters and water conservation, and presented on
television channels in Azerbaijan.       In addition, other promotional materials, including water
conservation manuals for primary schools and company brochures were produced and distributed
across the city. The impact of these public awareness campaigns has not been independently
assessed as part of this ICR.

(iii) The household leakage sub-component identified at appraisal, which was supposed to comprise
household leakage reduction through installation of about 180, 000 toilet cisterns, was not carried
out.

Part B: Operation and Maintenance Improvements. This component primarily sought to improve
operations and maintenance through implementation of a program of leak detection and distribution
network repair, workshop repair, and equipment acquisition. Respective activities were completed in
a satisfactory manner and achieved desired outcomes.




                                                 36

(i) Tools and equipment for leak detection and repair were procured under the project, and ARWC's
O&M staff were trained in their use. This resulted in improved O&M capacity at the utility level.
As a result of the leak detection and repair activities, the response time for leak repairs in Baku
reduced considerably, from an average of about 60 hours to 6 hours.

(ii) About 150 km of deteriorated pipeline were replaced, resulting in a significant reduction in
physical water losses. It was not possible to accurately measure levels of UFW at the start and end
of the project given the low metering level. Average hours of service in Baku also increased from 6
hours at appraisal to 13.3 hours, which was higher than the targeted 12 hours.

Part C: Supply Improvements. Physical investments with respect to this component, which sought to
improve the quality and quantity of water through a program of selective rehabilitation of water
treatment plants and pumping stations, were completed in a satisfactory manner. This included
repair of the two main water treatment plants (Jeiranbatan and Kura WTPs) and replacement of 30
chlorination stations.    Water supply service improvements were realized in terms of: (i)
improvements in water production, safety and quality, through the rehabilitated WTPs and
installation of new chlorination equipment; (ii) improvements in the water transmission system,
through the rehabilitated pumping plants; and (iii) an increased control of water flows in the system,
through bulk water metering.

Part D: Institutional Capacity Building.     Activities under this component were achieved in a
satisfactory manner. The utility entered into a contract with an internationally experienced utility
operator as a Corporatization Partner (CP) under a Twinning arrangement. The CP was responsible
for providing support for institutional strengthening and for project implementation through direct
support to the CDU. This was provided through a team of short and long term international experts
in key disciplines relating to water supply utility management. The CP and the CDU had the
responsibility of assisting in developing and managing both the corporate development and the
investment component of the project. The CDU's primary objectives were: (i) to facilitate the
establishment and development of ARWC; (ii) to facilitate the transition to a new corporate structure
and improve operational and financial performance; and (iii) to manage all aspects of the
implementation of the improvement program.

The CDU with the support of the CP was able to facilitate delivery of most of the required outputs
with respect to the above Institutional Capacity Building activities, in particular those with respect to
formation of ARWC, as well as the management of the investment programme in a satisfactory
manner. With respect to the institutional restructuring, in May 1995, then Baku Water Agency
(BWA), the original entity responsible for water supply services in the Greater Baku area, was
transformed into a corporatized company, ARWC, which was supposed to operate in accordance
with principles of commercially oriented water utilities. Its offices were consolidated under one
headquarters building, refurbished under the project. The number of employees was subsequently
reduced from about 4000 to 3400 in order to improve productivity. ARWC was headed by a
president, who was also the chairman of its Board of Directors. In 2004 the Government carried out
further restructuring of ARWC, and formed yet another company Azersu Joint Stock Company


                                               37

(Azersu) that would be responsible for all water supply and wastewater municipal service providers
across the country. The production units of medium, small towns, and rural utilities were dissolved,
and their functions, assets, and subsidiary organizations transferred to Azersu. Baku Wastewater
Department, which was originally in charge of wastewater management in the Greater Baku area,
was also dissolved and transferred to Azersu. While the structural changes in sector organization
were successfully achieved, desired outcomes with regard to improvements in operational and
financial performance of the sector, and were much slower even with the Twinning arrangement with
the CP.

The level of achievement of the benefits of the Twinning arrangement with the CP was moderately
satisfactory because although most of the activities were carried out, the reform outcomes were
moderately satisfactory. The CP was able to provide on the job training to partners in the CDU,
resulting in transfer of relevant operational skills. With the support of the CP the CDU prepared a
Corporate Development Plan (CDP) on an annual basis, outlining key development activities
required to make the utility a modern efficient, cost effective, and customer oriented water company,
and constituting the focus for the technical assistance to be given under the CP. The CDPs addressed
various operational issues, including technical, financial, commercial and customer service aspects,
most notably support with implementation of a billing program. In spite of the CDPs being prepared
on an annual basis under the project, it appears that the Plans as an output in themselves did not
always translate into actual implementation on the ground.          Full achievement of the benefits
depended on other factors beyond the control of the partners, such as inadequacy of tariff levels, and
the need to change perceptions, which takes time. Ultimately, responsibility for the benefits of
reform lies with the Government and implementing agency/utility, even where TA may be provided
to facilitate required actions.

Part E: Studies and Construction Supervision. In addition to construction supervision, the following
studies were carried out under this component: (i) a Masterplan for the water supply and wastewater
services for the Apsheron Penninsula; (ii) a National Water and Wastewater Policy Study; (iii) a
Water Law was prepared and approved by parliament; (iv) a Water Tariff Study and a Billing and
Collection Review. Delivery of the outputs in terms of relevant studies and reports was completed.
These documents have indeed provided the basis for development of the sector, albeit to varying
extents. The Masterplan for water supply and wastewater services by 2015 was prepared, and is
being used in development of the strategy for the Water Sector which is being done by the Bank and
the Government. The National Water and Wastewater Study and the Water Tariff and Billing and
Collection Reviews were also carried out. A legal and institutional assessment provided the basis for
the preparation of a Water Law that has provided the grounds for reform of the sector. The Water
Law prepared under the project and approved by Parliament in 2000 is one of the key legal
documents now regulating the Water sector in Azerbaijan.




                                                 38

       Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

At Appraisal: A detailed economic analysis of the project was carried out at appraisal. The EIRR on
the water supply investments was estimated at 27 percent on the basis of the quantified benefits,
which included (a) willingness to pay for an improved water supply service; (b) public health
benefits through a reduction in waterborne and water-related diseases; and (c) costs savings through a
reduction in the annual recurrent costs of operating the water supply system, indicating that the
project was a very robust investment. Sensitivity tests carried out at the time also indicated that the
project was generally robust to variations in cost and benefit parameters.

The costs were based on; a) capital costs due to the project and replacement capital costs in 2005,
2010 and 2015, and b) on incremental O&M costs, which were attributable to salaries and wages,
increased materials and supplies plus materials to ensure that existing assets are maintained, and on
higher administrative costs due to the project. Quantification of health benefits was based on the
estimation of economic loss related to the incidence of waterborne and water related diseases as a
result of value of lost production time due to illness; economic loss due to premature death and
economic loss due to medical treatment. The limitations of the approach were recognized, including;
(a) the inaccuracy of health statistics; (b) unreported cases of disease. It is important to note that
there are several externalities that can contribute to improved or reduced health outcomes and several
unrelated diseases that can have symptoms such as diarrhea similar to water related diseases, which
further affects the accuracy of analysis. Incremental savings in operating costs were assumed to
accrue through a substantial reduction in electricity consumption resulting from improved system
operation, higher pumping efficiency, and non-revenue water and through reduced chemical
requirements as a result of the decline in non revenue water.

At ICR: The net present value and the EIRR were recalculated at the ICR stage. In addition to those
made at appraisal, several assumptions were made during the analysis carried out at ICR because of
lack of reliable data on several of the criteria used to estimate costs and benefits, including on the
health benefits directly attributable to the project and on the willingness to pay for services at the
ICR stage. In the absence of reliable health data and despite the fact that water treatment plant
rehabilitation and chlorination station operation have resulted in significant water quality
improvements so that water is meeting WHO quality standards now, the public health benefits have
been assigned a zero value. Other assumptions were: (i) that there were no benefits directly
attributable to the project until 1997 when substantive investments had been made; and (ii) the
reduction in UFW from 70 percent to a conservative 35 percent was achieved steadily over the period
between 1996 and 2002. Relevant data on the actual costs and benefits, where available, was
collected from Azersu and project files in order to estimate the incremental costs and benefits due to
the project. The net present value and the EIRR as recalculated are a positive net present value of the
project (US$ 10.3 million) and a 19 percent EIRR, demonstrating the satisfactory economic
performance of the operation.




                                                 39

         Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
        Names                 Title                Unit         Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Ayse Kudat           Consultant            ECSSD                Social Specialist
                     Sr Water & Sanitation
Jan Drozdz                                 EASUR                Sanitary Engineer
                     Spec.
Piotr Krzyzanowski    Consultant           ECSSD                Environmental Specialist
William V. Mayville  Consultant            ECSPE                Institutional Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Brian Steven Smith   Sr Financial Spec.    EWDEA                Financial Analyst - TTL
Ede Jorge Ijjasz-
                     Manager               EWDWP                Water Engineer - TTL
Vasquez
Farid Alexander
                     Operations Officer    ECSIE                Operations Officer
Mammadov
                     Sr Financial
Ida N. Muhoho                              ECSPS                Financial Specialist
                     Management Specia
                     Sr Water & Sanitation
Jan Drozdz                                 EASUR                Sanitary Engineer -TTL
                     Spec.
Lars A. V. Rasmusson  Consultant           ECSIE                Sanitary Engineer
Paul Kriss           Senior Economist      AFTU2                Economist - TTL
Plamen Stoyanov Kirov Procurement Spec.    ECSPS                Procurement Specialist
Sanyu Sarah Senkatuka
                     Operations Analyst    ECSIE                Operations Analyst
Lutalo
Solvita Klapare      E T Consultant        ECSSD                Consultant




                                         40

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No.     Date ISR                                           Actual Disbursements (USD
        Archived                 IP                DO                 M)
1   07/06/1995         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           0.00
2   08/31/1995         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           0.00
3   11/17/1995         Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory                         0.00
4   02/29/1996         Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory                         0.00
5   04/08/1996         Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory                         1.00
6   06/10/1996         Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory                         1.41
7   09/20/1996         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           1.71
8   01/22/1997         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           1.90
9   06/03/1997         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           3.61
10 07/08/1997          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                           3.67
11 01/09/1998          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          13.83
12 03/24/1998          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          18.44
13 02/12/1999          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          25.01
14 07/02/1999          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          26.93
15 11/05/1999          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          27.59
16 02/29/2000          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          28.15
17 06/02/2000          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          32.42
18 12/11/2000          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          38.18
19 06/27/2001          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          43.80
20 12/26/2001          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          47.04
21 02/13/2002          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          48.11
22 10/17/2002          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          51.50
23 12/17/2002          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          51.70
24 04/02/2003          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          51.72
25 05/07/2003          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          51.73
26 12/09/2003          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          51.72
27 05/28/2004          Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory                        52.17
28 11/30/2004          Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory                        56.62
29 04/10/2005          Satisfactory       Satisfactory                          58.79
                       Moderately         Moderately
30 02/15/2006                                                                   65.53
                       Satisfactory       Satisfactory




                                          41

(c) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)

            Stage of Project Cycle         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)


                 Fiscal Year              USD Thousands (including travel
                                               and consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY94                              126.4
                    FY95                              355.7
                    FY98                                0
                    FY00                               -0.6
                    FY03                                0
                    FY05                                0
                                    Total:            481.5
Supervision/ICR
                    FY95                               8.4
                    FY96                               76.6
                    FY97                              105.7
                    FY98                               67.2
                    FY99                              105.6
                    FY00                               88.6
                    FY01                               73.7
                    FY02                               44.0
                    FY03                               45.2
                    FY04                               46.7
                    FY05                               49.1
                    FY06                               17.4
                                    Total:            728.20




                                      42

               Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                    Ratings                  Borrower        Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
                        Moderately Satisfactory Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
Entry:
                                                  Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                     Moderately Satisfactory
                                                  Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                      Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                     Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                      Performance:

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)
A beneficiary survey was not carried out at the ICR stage.

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)
A stakeholder workshop was not carried out at the ICR stage.




                                               43

             Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Azersu Comments

Achievement of Operational and Technical Objectives: The activities implemented under the project
were aimed to the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and by that had allowed cop with the
challenges Baku water supply system had been facing to. After the reconstruction works in the water
treatment plants and regional pumping stations, the quantity and quality parameters of water supplied
to the city has significantly improved. Particular achievements with respect to specific technical
aspects of the project are outlined below.

        (i)     Quality: As a result of implemented works, the quality of water treated at the
               rehabilitated facilities (Kura and Jeyranbatan water treatment plants) is in full
               compliance with the relevant standards of the World Health Organization.

        (ii)    Reliability: There had been no more major interruptions in operations of the Kura
               water treatment plants once the rehabilitation was completed. In addition it became
               doable to discontinue frequent distortions and ensure a stable flow in the distribution
               network through the reconstruction works carried out at the 25 main pumping stations,

        (iii)   Physical loss reduction: The establishment of leakage detection teams and the
               network rehabilitation works implemented within the project Azersu significantly
               decrease daily water losses and steady the water supply in the city. Procurement of
               specialist plants and other equipment allowed the company to overcome breakages
               and accidents the network in a shorter time and with adequate reliability.

        (iv)   The rehabilitation of booster pumping stations substantially improved water supply to
               the multi-storey apartment buildings and in result water supply services to more than
               350,000 inhabitants were improved.

        (v)    Construction of production warehouses enabled Azersu to establish proper
               maintenance service in each administrative district of the city and improve working
               conditions for the staff.

With all above mentioned accomplishments the project objectives are to be considered fully achieved
and the project operational and technical performance is rated as successful. Achievement of
Institutional Objectives: The corporatization of Baku water utilities set up as a condition for the IDA
Credit effectiveness was one of major achievements of the project institutional objectives. The
twining arrangements established through the corporate partnership contract with international
experience utility operators (Severn Trent and Berlinerwasser Betriebe) had significantly contributed
to the institutional capacity building of former Absheron Regional Joint Stock Water Company



                                                44

(current Azersu Open Joint Stock Company). The corporate partnership started though the support to
the project implementation allowed to develop the organizational structure of the company, donated
to the establishment of billing and collection system that was a new activity for utilities at that time,
provided for training of more than 700 staffs abroad (Turkey, England, France, Germany and
Switzerland) and in country. The staff was also involved in the work of international supervision
consultants (Brown end Rut, CES, DAR) and in result construction and rehabilitation works
supervision skills were developed in house.

Given the complexity of the project activities and challenges faced during the implementation the
Borrowers own performance is rated as successful.

The Bank staff input and support was one of the crucial factors for the objectives achievements and
project implementation. The quality of advice and recommendations, the understanding of local
specifics and flexibility of approach in changing circumstances without scarifying the strategic
objectives were notable demonstrated by the Bank through the course of implementation. As a
Borrower we evaluate the Bank and other partners performance as successful.

One of the important lessons to be drawn from the completed project is that implementation
arrangements and availability of implementation capacity are critical for a successful project. Those
should include not only fiduciary activities like procurement, disbursement, project financial
reporting but also a capacity to perform the institutional reforms. Such capacity should be evaluated
during project preparation and building of such a capacity should be included in the scope of the
project.




                                                45

             Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders



Summary of Overall EBRD Assessment: EBRD's Operation Performance Evaluation Review
(OPER) of the project rated its overall performance as 'partly successful', based on the EBRD Project
Evaluation Department (PED)'s internal rating methodology, which took into account, transition
impact achievement of objectives, environmental impact, company and project performance. The
evaluation verified the Bank's additionality in enabling the Government of Azerbaijan to set up an
emergency investment programme at a time when it would have been very difficult to procure any
other type of financing. The overall transition impact was rated 'marginal', mainly due to the lack of
readiness of the institutional and business environment, the absence of autonomy of the corporatised
ARWC, and the weak financial performance, among other things. On balance however it was noted
that the operation could still have been justified given the emergency nature of the operation, and the
improvements in aspects such as billing and collection.

With regard to specific objectives, the general view is that the objectives were ambitious and were
marginally achieved. For some objectives such as cost recovery and tariff, the evaluators felt that the
Bank fixed the target too high. Objectives with respect to improvements in service quality (quality
and reliability) were generally rated 'partly achieved'. Part of the reason for the poor assessment was
due to the fact that the water treatment facilities had not been completed at the time due to delays
experienced in implementation, and effects of the earthquake. While the review noted that the
objective of corporatising ARWC was achieved, and that some achievements had been made by the
company in behaving as a corporation, its performance was still hindered due to a lack of financial
autonomy. The team felt that the skills and experience developed within the trained CDU staff were
only partly utilized for the core organization of ARWC. The assessment of the objective with respect
to improving financial and operational performance was also rated as not achieved, due not only to
ARWC's failure to carry out necessary measures, but also failure of MOF to allow them to make
necessary tariff decisions.




                                                 46

                            Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents
                                      List of Documents
Staff Appraisal Report
Project and Credit Agreements for IDA 2751
Project Supervision Reports
Implementation Status Reports
Monthly Progress Reports
Quarterly Progress Reports
Project Files (Correspondence)
EBRD Operation Performance Evaluation Review
SECO Final Report
Project Audit Reports
Independent Procurement Review for Azerbaijan
ARWC/ Azersu Financial Statements
Project Financial Statements




                                             47

