Report No. PID10368
Project Name                     Azerbaijan-Greater Baku Water Supply...
Rehabilitation Project Supplemental Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Urban Water Supply
Project                          AZPE73806
Borrower                         Azerbaijan Republic
Implementing Agency              Apsheron Regional Water Company (ARWC)
Address                          67, Tbilisi Ave, 370112
Baku, Azerbaijan Republic
Contact Person: Oktay Asadov, President
Tel: (9412) 300131; Fax: (9412) 983814;
E-mail: cdu@azdata.net
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                May 14, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 20, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 28, 2001
Project Description, Objective and Amount of the Supplemental Credit
1.      A credit for the Greater Baku Water Supply Rehabilitation Project, of
SDR38.8 million, was approved by IDA on July 6, 1995, and became effective on
February 14, 1996 (Credit 2751-AZ). The objectives of the Project are to: (a)
make emergency short term improvements in the water supply system to restore
the provision of water supply to Baku, in particular to the poorer elements
of the population; (b) improve the water supply system as a whole; and (c)
provide the basis for longer term planning and recovery. The Project was
designed as a first operation in the sector with limited objectives and the
reserve of sufficient funds for preparation of a second phase to deepen the
reforms of the management and operations of the water supply services in
Baku.
2.      On November 25, 2000 a strong earthquake measuring 7 points on the
Richter scale with its epicenter in the Caspian Sea 75 km off from Baku, and
6-6.5 points in Baku hit Azerbaijan. The earthquake caused substantial damage
to some of ARWC critical components of the water supply system.
3.      The worst damages were made to the water distribution network, and to
the Kura and Jeiranbatan water treatment plants that are currently under
rehabilitation through the ongoing Project. The number of pipe bursts almost
doubled after the earthquake and since then the monthly average number of
breaks has increased by more than 25 percent reaching levels that are more
than 20 times higher than in well-maintained systems. This is leading to a
significant increase of water losses from the system and lower quality of
services. The damage caused by the earthquake in the treatment plants was on
old structures not included in the rehabilitation activities of the original
project, as they were still operational at the time of design. The earthquake
caused structural damage that puts these components of the water treatment



plants at high risk of failure, in which case the benefits of the
rehabilitation activities will not be achieved.
4.      The Government of Azerbaijan has requested IDA assistance through a
Supplemental Credit to the ongoing credit (Cr. 2751-AZ) to permit financing
of the cost of repair and reconstruction of ARWC facilities damaged by the
November 25, 2000 earthquake. The successful completion of the current
Project and ARWC's ability to improve the supply of water
5.      to the population of Baku, particularly the poorest segments, depend on
the timely reconstruction of the damaged infrastructure. Paying for the cost
of such repairs is beyond the current capacity of the Government or ARWC.
6.      The proposed Supplemental Credit would provide urgently needed
additional financial assistance for three activities. First, to repair the
specific components of the Kura and Jeiranbatan water treatment facilities
that suffered damage during the earthquake. Second, to repair the sections of
the water distribution network and related structures that suffered the most
during the earthquake and are now causing increased water losses in the
system through more frequent bursts. Third, a small portion of the
Supplemental Credit funds would support the initial steps in the
implementation of the Government's policy to involve the private sector in
water supply, as defined in the recently completed National Water Supply and
Sanitation Strategy.
Rationale for Bank's Involvement
7.      The Project and the proposed supplemental financing are consistent with
the Country Assistance Strategy. Both the Government and IDA regard achieving
the development objectives set under the Project as a high priority. IDA has
played a major role in working with the Government on the sector development
strategy and mobilizing financial support for its implementation. IDA has
been instrumental in mobilizing a US$5.6 million grant from the Swiss
Government to improve the small booster pumping stations of the city. As a
result, significant progress has been achieved in initiating a restructuring
program that is essential for attracting private sector investments into the
water and sanitation sector. Furthermore, unless the rehabilitation of the
network is realized as planned, the poor quality and the low reliability of
the water supply would hamper the necessary reform and involvement of the
private sector.
Project Components
8.      The Supplemental Credit would finance the following activities
classified under the project components of the original credit:
Project component A - Water demand management: No activities under the
Supplemental Credit.
Project component B - Operations and maintenance (US$10.29 million; Bank
financing US$9.24 million): The Supplemental Credit would finance the
purchase and installation of pipes and fittings for rehabilitation of about
60 km of the water distribution network that have been estimated to be most
affected by the earthquake. The Credit would also finance the purchase of
- 2 -



additional emergency repair equipment for ARWC and the repairs to the
structural damages caused by the earthquake to ARWC's Surakhani storage
depot.
Project component C - Supply improvements (US$1.74 million; Bank financing
US$ 1.43 million): This component would finance the repairs to the facilities
damaged by the earthquake in: (a) the Jeiranbatan water treatment facility
(including the chlorination building, the by-pass line stream I, the
horizontal clarifiers stream III, and the filter building stream III); (b)
the Kura water treatment facility (including the radial presettlers stream I
and the sludge tunnels stream II); (c) the Mashtaga and Khatai water
reservoirs. It would also finance the completion of the master flow meters
system to monitor system performance.
Project component D - Institutional capacity building (US$0.44 million; Bank
financing US$0.44 million): This component would continue to finance the CDU
and institutional strengthening activities in the financial and operational
aspects of ARWC.
Project component E - Studies (US$0.3 million; Bank financing US$0.3
million): This component would finance consultants to assist ARWC and the
Government in the process to involve the private sector in the provision of
water supply services in Greater Baku. This component would be supplemented
with grant financing.
Project component F - Project supervision (US$0.59 million; Bank financing
US$0.59 million): This component would continue to finance construction
supervision activities using local and international supervision consultants.
Financing
9.      The cost of the IDA-financed part of the Project is revised from SDR38.8
million at appraisal to a current SDR48.8 million, resulting in a net
increase of SDR10 million (USD12.72 million equivalent), net of taxes and
duties, which would be covered by the proposed Supplemental Credit.
Implementation
Implementation Period:                   FY 2002-FY2003
Executing Agency:                       Apsheron Regional Water Company (ARWC)
Project Administration and Coordination:
10.     The arrangements for implementation under the ongoing Project have
proven effective and would be continued. ARWC would be responsible for
implementing the investments components and the corporate development aspects
of the technical assistance component of the Project through the already set
up Corporate Development Unit (CDU). ARWC has recruited several consultants,
financed by IDA, to assist the CDU in the supervision of rehabilitation
works. The staff and management of ARWC involved in the implementation of the
Project have considerably enhanced their technical and managerial skills and
the consulting assistance provided is further strengthening their
implementation expertise.
-3-



Sustainability
11.     The sustainability of the project after implementation depends on: (i)
the capacity of ARWC to increase its revenues to a level required to cover
adequate operation and maintenance expenses; (ii) the Government provides
ARWC the enforcement tools to collect water fees; (iii) adequate
institutional arrangements are put in place, possibly with the involvement of
the private sector in the provision of water supply services; and (iv) the
reforms established in the National Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy are
effectively implemented.
Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI) N
Environmental and Social Aspects
12.     The Project has an environmental category B rating which continues to be
valid for the supplemental financing, as the project components remain
unchanged. The rehabilitation of the water network would bring about the
needed improvements in the quantity and quality supplied to consumers, thus
leading to overall environmental improvement and increase in the quality of
life
for all segments of the population, particularly the poor, women and the
elderly. The Project has been implemented following the recommendations of
the Environmental and Social Assessments conducted during project
preparation. ARWC will continue the implementation of these recommendations
and will continue to report these activities in its Annual Environment and
Safety Report.
Contact Point:
Task Manager
Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1870
Fax: (202) 522-0010
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending June 1, 2001.
- 4 -



