Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2751 AZ
Project Agreement
(Greater Baku Water Supply Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
APSHERON REGIONAL JOINT-STOCK WATER COMPANY
Dated July 6, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2751 AZ
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and APSHERON REGIONAL JOINT-STOCK WATER COMPANY (ARWC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Azerbaijan Republic (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
thirty-eight million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 38,800,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that ARWC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and ARWC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be relent to ARWC on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ARWC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ARWC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ARWC shall otherwise agree, ARWC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. ARWC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. ARWC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARWC shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ARWC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
ARWC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ARWC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06  Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, ARWC shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between ARWC and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Projectþs objectives;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
ARWC on said plan; and 
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) ARWC shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of ARWC responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
ARWC shall:
Page  3
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for ach fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARWC shall 
generate for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
1995, total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its: (i) total operating 
expenses; (ii) debt service requirements; (iii) non-cash charges including 
depreciation; and (iv) taxes and payments in lieu of taxes.
(b)
Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, ARWC shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by ARWC and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of 
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the 
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that ARWC would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for ARWCþs fiscal years covered by such review, 
ARWC shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the structure or levels of is rates) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net non-operating income.
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
(iii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
total expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred in the generation  of revenues in (A) above.
(iv)
The term "total expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration and adequate maintenance.
(v)
the term "non-cash charges" means all non-cash charges including 
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 
4% per annum of the average current gross value of ARWC's fixed 
assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to the Association, 
but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(vi)
The average current gross value of ARWC's fixed assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross 
value of ARWC's fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at 
the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Association.
(vii)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(viii)Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
Page  4
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARWC shall 
not incur any debt, in addition to the EBRD Loan, unless a reasonable forecast of the 
revenues and expenditures of ARWC shows that the estimated net revenues of ARWC for 
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.2 
times the estimated debt service requirements of ARWC in such year on all debt of 
ARWC, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term þdebtþ means any indebtedness of ARWC maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall  be deemed to be incurred: (A) under loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
adjusted to take account of ARWC prices in effect at the 
time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in 
effect during the twelve-month period to which such revenues 
relate, and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest, and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by ARWC 
not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt 
in question, which both the Association and ARWC accept as 
reasonable and as to which the Association has notified ARWC of 
its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of ARWC.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable 
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Page  5
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ARWC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify ARWC of this event. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For ARWC:
Apsheron Regional Joint-Stock Water Company
10 Murtuz Mukhtarov Street
Baku 370001
Azerbaijan Republic
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ARWC, or by 
ARWC on behalf of the ARWC under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Executive Director or such other person or persons as the Executive 
Director shall designate in writing, and ARWC shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
APSHERON REGIONAL JOINT-STOCK WATER COMPANY
By /s/ Fikret Yusifov
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Turnkey contract
 
The rehabilitation of water treatment plants under Part C of the Project shall 
be carried out under a turnkey contract comprising the design and rehabilitation of 
the facilities and provision and installation of equipment therefor.
(b)
Prequalification
 
Bidders for the turnkey contract shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Two-stage bidding procedure
 
The bidding procedure for the turnkey contract shall be carried out in two 
stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
International Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract and $590,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement for Small Works
Page  7
Works (including repairs to existing facilities and installation of equipment), 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to exceed 
$4,500,000 in the aggregate, shall be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three pre-qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to successfully complete the contract. The contractors shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
 
Goods which are locally available, off-the shelf items of small value and 
standard specifications, estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and 
$700,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of at least three price quotations obtained from qualified suppliers or 
contractors, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations for bidding, a proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to: (a) all contracts for goods and works procured under Section 
I.B of this Schedule; (b) all prequalification procedures; and (c) the first two 
contracts for works procured under Section I.C.2 of this Schedule, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultantsþ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions 
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such 
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments or a 
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; or (d) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
Page  8
of this Agreement.
1.
ARWC through its CDU shall be responsible for the overall coordination and 
management of the Project and for the procurement of works, goods and services 
thereunder.  CDU shall be maintained and shall operate with staff and resources 
necessary for the implementation of its functions and acceptable to the Association.
2.
ARWC shall:
 
(a)
not later than December 31, 1995, through CDU, prepare a Corporate 
Development Plan;
(b)
not later than March 31, 1996, submit such a plan to the Association for 
its review and no objection; and
(c)
not later than December 31, 1996, implement all such measures required to 
ensure the achievement of the objectives of the said plan, taking into consideration 
the Association's views on the matter.
3.
ARWC shall:
 
(a)
not later than September 30, 1995, appoint, with qualifications and 
functions and under terms of reference acceptable to the Association: (i) a public 
information officer, to develop a public relations strategy; and (ii) a human 
resources and training coordinator, to nationalize personnel services and develop 
training programs; and 
(b)
not later than December 31, 1995, establish a leakage inspection repair 
team with qualifications and functions acceptable to the Association.
4.
ARWC shall prepare and furnish to the Association semi-annual reports on the 
progress in the implementation of the Project.
5.
ARWC shall:
 
(a)
not later than June 30, 1996, complete a water tariff study, under terms 
of reference acceptable to the Association, to examine ARWCþs water charges policy, 
tariff structure and rate levels by consumer category;
(b)
promptly after completion of the study, furnish to the Association a copy 
of the findings and recommendations of the study;
(c)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to comment on the 
findings and recommendations of the study; and
(d)
take into account the findings and recommendations of the study in 
preparing tariff structure and policies.
6.
Not later than November 30 of each year, ARWC shall prepare and submit to the 
Association for review and comment its proposed budget and tariffs for the following 
year with supporting financial projections.
7.
ARWC shall:
 
(a)
not later than December 31, 1995, prepare an action plan, acceptable to 
the Association, for the effective recovery of outstanding water bills and thereafter 
implement all such measures as are required to ensure the achievement of the 
objectives of the said plan, taking into account the Associationþs views on the 
matter;
(b)
not later than December 31, 1997, complete an asset valuation study under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
establish a program to monitor and implement effective measures to 
improve efficiency in energy utilization and conservation.
