Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
Credit Number 2751-1 AZ 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Project Agreement 
 
(Greater Baku Water Supply Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
APSHERON REGIONAL JOINT-STOCK WATER COMPANY 
 
Dated June 30, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 2751-1 AZ 
(Amendment
)
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 2003 between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and APSHERON REGIONAL 
JOINT-STOCK WATER COMPANY (ARWC). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated July 6, 1995, as 
amended to date, (the Development Credit Agreement) between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty eight million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 38,800,000) and to carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Development Credit Agreement; 
(B) 
the Association has agreed to provide to the Borrower on the basis of the 
Borrower’s request an additional assistance in amount of ten million three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,300,000) upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto, hereby agree to the following 
amendments to the Project Agreement: 
ARTICLE I 
Amendments of the Project Agreement 
1. 
The address for ARWC specified in the Section 5.01 of the Project Agreement  is 
revised as follows: 
“For ARWC: 
Apsheron Regional Joint-Stock Water Company 
67 Tblisi Avenue 
Baku 370112” 
 
Page  4
2
2. 
Part C of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement  is amended  by 
adding a new paragraph 1 to read as follows:  
 
Page  5
3
“1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than $450,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,300,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Improvement of Bidding Procedures 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provision of Section I of the Guidelines: 
(i) 
the bidding period should not be less than 30 days from the date 
of publication of the Invitation to Bid or the date of issuance of 
the bidding documents to the bidders, whichever is later; 
(ii) 
pre-qualification shall not be used for simple goods and works 
but shall be conducted for large and complex works; 
(iii) 
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms.  If 
registration is required, it shall not be denied to eligible bidders 
for reasons unrelated to their capacity and resources to 
successfully perform the contract (e.g., mandatory membership 
in professional organizations, classification, etc). Post-
qualification shall be conducted to verify that the bidder has the 
capability and resources to successfully perform the contract; 
(iv) 
bidding documents shall be made available to all bidders who are 
willing to pay the required fee; 
(v) 
state-owned enterprises of the Borrower shall be permitted to bid 
only if they are legally and financially autonomous and operate 
under commercial law; 
(vi) 
the opening of bids shall follow immediately after the deadline 
for bid submission and bidders' representatives should be 
permitted to attend; 
(vii) 
a single envelope procedure shall be used for the submission of 
bids for goods and works; 
Page  6
4
(viii) 
procuring entities shall use the Association’s regional standard 
NCB documents, which shall be satisfactory to the Association 
prior to their issuance to bidders; 
(ix) 
bidders shall be required to submit bid and performance 
securities in an amount appropriate to the estimated value of the 
contract and in a form acceptable to the government; 
(x) 
evaluation of bids shall be based on quantifiable criteria, clearly 
defined in the bidding documents.  Responsiveness of the bid to 
the interests of the country, the region or the procuring entity is 
not an acceptable criteria; 
(xi) 
contracts for long duration (more than 18 months) shall contain 
appropriate price adjustment provisions; 
(xi) 
Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s 
prior concurrence; 
(xii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder”. 
3. 
The earlier paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 are re-lettered 2, 3 and 4 respectively and the 
titles now read as follows: 
“2. International 
Shopping
3. 
Procurement for Small Works
4. National 
Shopping
”
4. 
Paragraph 2 of Part C of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement is 
amended to read as follows: 
“2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract and 
$700,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines”. 
Page  7
5
5. 
Paragraph 2 of Part D of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement is 
amended to read as follows: 
“2. Prior 
Review 
 
With respect to: (a) all contracts for goods and works procured under 
Section I.B of this Schedule; (b) all prequalification procedures; (c) all contracts 
for works under Section I C.1 and Section I C.2 of this Schedule; and (d) the first 
two contracts for works procured under Section I.C.3 and Section I.C.4 of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply”. 
6. 
Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
“Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the 
Association in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for studies to support the reform of the water sector under Part 
E
of
the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may 
Page  8
6
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished 
to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 
2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants 
shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.”  
7.   
A new paragraph 8 is added into Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement to read as 
follows: 
“8. 
ARWC shall support the implementation of the Program to Strengthen 
the Financial Discipline in the Water Sector and to provide quarterly progress 
Page  9
7
reports in formats acceptable to the Association on the implementation of the 
measures in this Program”. 
8. 
A new sub-paragraph (e) is added into paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement to read as follows: 
“5 (e) not later than December 31, 2002, complete a study, under terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association, to examine and propose revisions to the 
methodology and procedures to set water tariffs”. 
9. 
Paragraph 7 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement is revised to read as 
follows: 
“7. ARWC 
shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than September 30, 2002, prepare an action plan, acceptable to 
the Association, for the effective recovery of outstanding water bills to enable 
accounts payable and receivable of ARWC to be gradually eliminated, and, after 
the Borrower’s approval, implement all such measures as are required to ensure 
the achievement of the objectives of the said plan, taking into account the 
Association’s views on the matter;” 
10. 
A new paragraph 9 is added into Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement to read as 
follows: 
“9. ARWC 
shall: 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Environmental Management 
Plan (EMP) adopted by the Borrower on June 28, 2001; and 
(b) 
ensure by all necessary measures the implementation of the Project’s 
EMP prepared as part of the environmental assessment studies.  
Towards that end the ARWC through its CDU shall ensure that: (i) 
recommended mitigation measures are incorporated in the design of 
Project works; (ii) such measures are implemented during the 
construction period and subsequent operation of the Project facilities; 
and (iii) the CDU is staffed with appropriate expertise to oversee the 
implementation of the EMP”. 
Page  10
8
11. 
Entry into Force and Effect  
 
This Agreement Amending Project Agreement shall come into force and effect 
on the date upon which the Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement 
becomes effective. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement Amending Project Agreement to 
be signed in their respective names in Baku, Azerbaijan Republic, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
/s/ Akbar Noman                                                   
 
Authorized 
Representative  
 
APSHERON REGIONAL JOINT-STOCK  
WATER COMPANY 
 
By: 
/s/ Avaz Alekperov     
Authorized Representative 
 
