oni ant of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4298-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt250.0 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 19, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
On December 15, 1986, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1 = Mex$887.90; the free market exchange rate stood at US$1 = Mex$889.00.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)            =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)        =    2.20 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (MT)      =    2,205 pounds
I liter (1)            =    0.26 gallons (gal)
Abbreviations
ACF                 Average Cost of Funds - Costo Promedio Porcentual (CPP)
BANRURAL            Banco Nacional de Credito Rural, S.N.C.
BdM                 Banco de Mexico
BNCE                Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C.
CONASUPO            Compania Nacional de Subsistencias Populares
DGPI                Direccion General de Promocion Industrial
EDI                Economic Development Institute
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FIFE                Programa de Financiamiento de Inversiones Fijas para las
Exportaciones
FOMEX               Fondo de Fomento a las Exportaciones de Productos
Manufacturados
FOMIN               Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
FONATUR             Fondo Nacional de Fomento al Turismo
FONEI               Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GIRA                General Interest Rate Agreement
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDB                 Inter-American Dt.velopment Bank
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
IMCE               Mexican Foreign Trade Institute
LDC                 Less Developed Country
NAFINSA             Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
NIC                 Newly Industrialized Country
PROFIDE             Programa de Financiamiento de Exportaciones en Divisas
PRONAFICE           National Industry and Foreign Trade Development Program
PROFIEX             Integrated Export Development Program
PVP                 Present Value Payment System - Sistema de Pagos al
Valor Presente
R&D                 Research and Development
SAP                 Special Action Program
SECOFI              Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial
SEMIP               Secretaria de Energia, Minas e Industria Paraestatal
SHCP                Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
SOEs                Statements of Expenses
SPP                 Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
SVIR                Standard Variable Interest Rate



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
IIOD
ScKCoD IEPORT DEVEloPtrT LO"N
Loan and Project Sury
Borrower:           Banco Nacional dt  Comercio Exterior, S.N.C. (BNCE)
Guarantor:          United Mexican States
Beneficiaries:      Fondo de Fomento a las Exportaciones de Productos
Manufacturados (FOMEX)
Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI)
Fondo Nacional de Fomento al Turismo (FONATUR)
Amount:             US$250.0 million equivalent
Terms:              15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:              BNCE would relend in U.S. dollars up to an estimated-88Z of
loan funds to FOMEX, FONEI, and FONATUR for the project's
working capital and fixed investment components. It would
on-lend, without intermediaries, the remaining 12X of the
loan for fixed investments. BNCE would charge to FOHEX,
FONEI and FONATUR, on all amounts relent, interest rates on
a par with the first Export Development Project, currently
equivalent to the Bank's standard variable interest rate
plus one-quarter of a percentage point. The financial
intermediaries would be guaranteed a minimum spread current-
ly equivalent to one-and-one-half of a percentage point on
U.S. dollar-denominated subloans, and two percentage points
on peso-denominated subloans, as under other Bank-financed
lines of credit to industry. Maturities would be up to I
year for working capital subloans, and up to 13 years,
including 3 years of grace, for fixed investment subloans.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government
on all principal repayments, and by the project executing
agencies on interest payments.
Project
Description:        The objectives of the proposed project-the Bank's second to
support the development of Mexico's exports-would be to
help increase and diversify the country's non-oil exports by
supporting reforms of the policy framework for export devel-
opment, assisting institutional development, and providing
finance to exporters. These objectives would be achieved
through three specific project components, which include:
expansion of FOMEX's working capital financing of direct
exporters and introduction of finance for indirect export-
ers; provision of finance for the fixed investment require-
ments of exporters, including tourism; and support for a
technical assistance program for specific studies and
training.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project
Risks:          The project faces risks in four specific areas which could ad-
versely affect Mexico's non-oil export performance: (i) delays
in economic stabilization and inadequate exchange rate manage-
ment; (ii) a slowdown in trade liberalization; (iii) insuffi-
cient progress in institutional/administrative improvements; and
(iv) rising trade protectionism in Mexico's principal trading
partners. Policy and administrative measures taken by the Gov-
ernment already and actions proposed for further liberalizing
trade and promoting non-oil exports, including institutional
arrangements, combined with the industrial restructuring poli-
cies supported by the recently approved Industrial Recovery and
Industrial Technology Development Loans, should improve Mexico's
non-oil export performance. A comprehensive review process
under the project, combined with the proposed measures, would
enhance the success of Mexico's export development strategy and
afford the Bank and the Government an opportunity to consider
additional policy and administrative measures needed to deal
with any of the risks that may materialize.
Financing Pla:                                          Cofi-
Executing Agencies    nancing
(BNCE, FONEI, FONATUR,  (Ex/la
FONEX) and Mexican    Bank of
Bank     Co-werclal Banks       Japan)  Investors   TOTAL
USS millions Equivalent
PROFIDE Fund (Pre-
Shipcent Working        175.0            50.0             -           -       225.0
Capital Financing)
FIFE Fund (Fixed         74.5            22.0           240.0       87.5      424.0
Asset Financing)
Technical Assistance      0.5             0.5             -           -          1.0
and Studies 
TOTAL                 250.0            72.5           240.0       87.5      650.0
Estimated                                   (Bank FY/US$ Millions)
Disbursements:1/
87        88        89       90        91
Annual             15.0     116.5      86.5      28.5      3.5
Cumulative         15.0     131.5    218.0    246.5    250.0
1I  Since a majority of loan funds will be disbursed for working
capital financing of exporters, the standard IDF disbursement
profile does not apply. The above profile is based on perfor-
mance under EDP-I (Loan 2331-ME).



- iii -
Staff
Report:       This is a combined Staff Appraisal and President's Report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPENT
REPORT AND RECOOENDATIE OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO BUNCO NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR, S.E.C.
WIT THE GUARAnTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECY
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
the Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C. (BNCE) with the Guarantee of
United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$250.0 million to help finance a
Second Export Development Project. The loan would be repaid over 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The BNCE
would relend in U.S. dollars up to an estimated 88% of loan funds to FOMEX,
FONEI, and FONATUR for the project's working capital and fixed investment
components. It would on-lend the remaining 12% of the loan for fixed invest-
ments without intermediaries. On all amounts relent, the BNCE would charge
interest rates on a par with the first Export Development Project, currently
equivalent to the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus one-quarter of a
percentage point. The financial intermediaries would be guaranteed a minimum
spread currently equivalent to one-and-one-half of a percentage point on U.S.
dollar-denominated subloans, and two percentage points on peso-denominated
subloans, as under other Bank-financed lines of credit to industry. The Gov-
ernment would repay the principal of the Bank loan, while the implementing
agencies would pay only interest and other charges. Foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the Government on all principal repayments and by the
agencies on interest payments.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.     An Economic Report on Mexico (Mexico:  Recent Economic Developmentsand
Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 14,
1984. An updating Country Economic Memorandum is scheduled to be issued later
this year. Recent economic developments and a provisional assessment of the
consequences for Mexico of the recent sharp decline in oil prices are discussed
below. Country data are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.     Mexico experienced three decades of high and stable growth from the
1940s to the 1960s, based on an inimrd-looking groutb strategy. By 1970, how-
ever, Mexico had largely exhausted the early and efficient possibilities for
import substitution, and the economy started to slow down. The Government at-
tempted to foster growth through expansion of public sector expenditures,
rising subsidies, and the protection of high-cost domestic production. Public
sector expenditures as a percentage of GDP increased by more than half between



-2-
1970 and 1976, from 20.9% to 31.9Z. This strategy failed to sustain sound
economic growth, and in 1976 Mexico experienced a serious financial and eco-
nomic crisis. New oil revenues led Mexico to a quick economic recovery in
1977, but these additional resources removed the urgency of policy reforms.
Starting in 1980, rapidly rising public expenditures unmatched by revenue
growth led to increasing public sector deficits. While inflation rose, no
significant pressure was felt to adjust the overvalued exchange rate, thanks to
the oil earnings and the relative ease of obtaining foreign finance. But the
balance of payments deteriorated as imports increased rapidly and non-oil ex-
ports declined. An appreciating exchange rate and lagging domestic interest
rates encouraged capital flight.
4.     The crisis came to a head in 1982.  Public sector expenditures reached
the unprecedented level of 40.1Z of GDP, while the deficit reached nearly 18%
of GDP. In February, the Bank of Mexico stopped supporting the peso, which
then experienced a 40% devaluation. A large wage adjustment and continuing
slack in the oil market tended to undo the effects of the devaluation and kept
the balance of payments under strain. Inflation nearly quadrupled, from 29Z in
1981 to 99Z in 1982. Commercial banks, which had granted Mexico substantial
credit in past years, declined to commit new funds in the amounta required.
These factors led to a second devaluation of 35% in August 1982 and the suspen-
sion of amortization payments on most of Mexico's external public debt. Capi-
tal flight continued as private sector confidence was shaken by the nationali-
zation of the banks in September 1982 and by the mandatory conversion of U.S.
dollar deposits into pesos. Exchange controls were introduced, and quantita-
tive restrictions (QRs) were extended to control all imports.
5.     Beginning in late 1982, with the support of an Extended Fund Facility
from the 1IMF, Mexico undertook a stabilization program based on drastic con-
traction of domestic demand through fiscal, exchange rate, and monetary poli-
cy. The peso depreciated to an unprecedented new low in real terms, and import
controls were tightened. Public sector expenditure (excluding interest pay-
ments) in relation to GDP declined over the period 1983-85, from the high of
40.1% in 1982 to about 30% by 1985. Public sector investment was cut from
about 1OZ of GDP in the late 1970s to 6.6%, a 10-year low. The public sector
deficit declined from 18% of GDP in 1982 to 10% in 1985. Real wages fell 20-
25% between 1982 and 1984. Most public sector prices were raised in real
terms.
6.     The stabilization effort during 1983-84 was impressive.  Imports fell
25Z, non-oil exports (including border industries) rose 40%, and the trade bal-
ance showed unprecedented surpluses in 1983-84. Despite declining oil prices,
net foreign reserves increased from a negative US$2.0 billion to US$6.5 billion
between the end of 1982 and the end of 1984. A massive foreign debt restruc-
turing was successfully negotiated. The balance of payments strengthened in
1983 and most of 1984, but the real exchange rate was rapidly deteriorating,
leading to difficulties ahead. The optimistic reaction to Mexico's success in
1983-84 overlooked the short-term focus of the stabilization program and the
absence of long overdue structural reforms. Optimism turned to disenchantment
a year later, when it became clear that stabilization in the absence of more
fundamental structural reforms could not restore Mexico's creditworthiness and
that sustainable economic growth would not be possible without such reforms.



7.     Despite tighter fiscal and monetary policies, inflation in both 1983 and
1984 turned out to be much higher than had been projected by the IMF and the
authorities, with consumer prices rising by 80% and 59%, respectively. The
fiscal deficit fell substantially in 1983 to 8.5% of GDP, but then levelled off
in 1984. GDP fell in both 1982 and 1983 (by 0.5% and 5.3Z, respectively), and
recovered only partially in 1984 (by about 3.5%). GDP per capita by 1984
remained below the levels of 1980. By late 1984, as the Government prepared
for the mid-term Congressional elections of July 1985, fiscal policy began to
ease, and public sector borrowing increased substantially. Monetary policy
became accommodating, the exchange rate appreciated further in real terms, and
the fiscal deficit rose well above program targets, primarily as a result of
higher-than-expected inflation and, hence, higher interest payments on the
domestic debt of the public sector. The brief recovery of growth in 1984-85,
after two years of contraction, was accompanied by rising inflation, and turned
out to be short-lived.
8.     Most program targets were missed in 1985.  The fiscal deficit rose to
9.9%, inflation increased to 63.8%, non-oil exports declined by over 10% from
their 1984 levels, and most components of the balance of payments deteriorat-
ed. Net foreign reserves declined by more than US$2.4 billion. While external
public debt did not change much during 1985, the domestic debt of the public
sector surged. As a result, crowding out of the private sector in the credit
markets was severe, as the share of the public sector in total credit reached
an unprecedented high, in excess of 75% in 1985. The brief spurt of GDP growth
between mid-1984 and mid-1985 came quickly to a halt in late 1985.
9      Both short-term measures and structural reforms were introduced during
1985 to deal with the emerging new crisis. These included removing import
licensing requirements from an additional 40% of merchandise Imports, thus
reducing the share of imports subject to QRs to 37% of total imports, down from
100% in 1983. The controlled exchange rate was devalued by almost 20% in real
terms, and the system of preannounced fixed daily crawl was replaced by a more
flexibly managed float. Important economies were announced in the public sec-
tor, including the elimination of some 25,000 full-time positions and plans to
turn 230 small state-owned companies over to the private sector. The Govern-
ment also started to rationalize parastatal operations. Further, aggressive
adjustment of the controlled exchange rate and a consequent narrowing of the
margin between the controlled and free rates, combined with tight domestic
credit, brought capital flight to a virtual halt in the latter part of 1985.
Recent Developments
10.    The 1986 budget was initially drafted with the aim of inducing a drastic
correction of the public sector deficit so as to compensate for the 1985 over-
runs. However, in early 1986 the economy was severely affected by the sharp
drop in international petroleum prices and the consequent fall in national
income, export receipts and public sector revenues. Mexico's loss from lower
oil prices during 1986 has been estimated at about 6.5 percentage points of
GDP, and has resulted in greatly increased pressures on the balance of payments
and higher inflation (estimated at an average of 85%), notwithstanding tighter
credit policies and a continued real depreciation of the currency, reaching
nearly 50% between mid-1985 and mid-1986. Output is expected to drop by about
4% for the year.



- 4 -
11.    The Mexican Government has responded to these deteriorating conditions
with a strong economic program of growth-oriented adjustment and structural
reform. The program has been framed in a medium-term horizon to encompass both
the demand management measures required to deal with pressing domestic and
external imbalances and the supply-oriented structural policies necessary to
foster economic efficiency and thus reinforce the country's growth prospects in
the longer term.
12.    The most fundamental policy reform in this economic program is the shift
from decades of inward-directed growth behind high protectionist walls, towards
a more outward-oriented development strategy based on gradually declining pro-
tection, to improve the efficiency and export competitiveness of the economy.
In addition to the trade liberalization measures discussed earlier (para. 9),
Mexico has recently joined GATT and announced a calendar which calls for a
further lowering of tariffs to a maximum of 30% by October 1988.
13.    A second fundamental structural change is the decision to reduce the
size of the public sector, improve efficiency of public sector firms, and cut
back on subsidies throughout the economy. Along these lines, the Government
has intensified its efforts in divestiture-selling, merging, closing, and/or
transferring non-strategic and non-priority firms-and industrial reconver-
sion. Furthermore, the authorities are strengthening the public finances
through a combination of changes in the structure of the tax system, adjust-
ments in the prices and tariffs of public enterprises, and reductions in public
expenditure in relation to GDP.
14.    Other major reforms relate to the following areas:  In agriculture, sec-
toral reforms will include, inter alia, liberalization of external trade in
agricultural commodities, internal marketing and price deregulation, reduction
of credit subsidies, and improved contro'l and targetting of remaining subsi-
dies, and cutting back on input and consumer subsidies. In the area of foreign
direct investment, the Government is taking further steps to streamline the
administrative procedures for initiating and approving foreign investment proj-
ects, so as to increase the flow of foreign capital to selected sectors. The
Government has also launched a process intended to improve public investment
management.
15.    The success of the economic program will critically depend on the com-
plementary framework of macro policy management. In this regard, the program
includes pursuing flexible interest and exchange rate policies. The former
will ensure a competitive yield on domestic savings and greater reliance on
interest rates to promote an efficient utilization of financial resources and
increase credit availability to the private sector. Maintaining a stable
exchange rate, on the other hand, will help protect Mexico's external competi-
tive position, build international reserves, and facilitate the liberalization
of commercial policy.
16.    The reforms being implemeted are vital not only-or even primarily-to
the improvement of Mexico's external creditworthiness. Even if Mexico had no
external debt problem, the reforms now being implemented would still be neces-
sary for Mexico to recover employment growth commensurate with the growth of
the labor force, since the most employment-generating activities in Mexico are
in exports. Mexico exhausted the opportunities for sustained inward-directed



- 5 -
growt.h and employment by the late 1960s--well before the external debt became a
problem. Mexico's export performance has been steadily eroding over four
decades, so that today Mexico has one of the lowest export-to-GDP ratios in the
world, and has continually lost its share in world exports over that period.
17.    The program is being supported by the international financial community
through a comprehensive financial package that could provide over US$12 billion
in net new disbursements through the first quarter of 1988. A key element of
this package is an 18-month IMF Stand-by arrangement that will disburse SDRsl.4
billion. In addition, the financing package includes substantial increases in
the exposure of multilateral (in particular, the World Bank) and bilateral
(Japan, CCC) creditors and about US$6 billion from commercial banks. The
financing package is very closely linked with the structural reforms being
undertaken (as well as their pace) by the Government: for example, the trade
liberalization measures are being supported by the US$500 million Trade Policy
Loan recently approved by the Board.
18.    The package also contains several contingency facilities--to be funded
by the commercial banks and the IMF--that may provide an additional US$2.4 bil-
lion.  These contingency facilities would ensure that public sector investment
would not fall below levels targetted in the program, in the event of lower oil
prices, and permit an increase in selected public sector capital outlays, if
the economy does not appear to be overcoming the present recession by the end
of the first quarter of 1987. Among other components of the financial package
are modifications in the terms of existing commercial bank debt, rescheduling
of US$1.8 billion in Paris Club debt, and agreement in principle to refinance
previously restructured private sector debt (US$11.2 billion), as well as main-
taining existing credit lines with the Mexican banks. Further details on the
financing package are provided in Annex 1.
Mediu.-Term Prospects
19.    Mexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic growth
should improve, provided the Government is persistent in pursuing its current
stabilization program, accompanied by the major structural adjustment policies
described in the preceding paragraphs; private sector confidence is restored;
and the international environment remains reasonably favorable, including open
markets for Mexico's non-oil exports. Restoration of private sector confidence
is crucial, since only a strong and dynamic private sector will be able to
raise investment and production from the present depressed levels and supply
the increasing non-oil export surplus required for the resumption of growth and
the attainment of sound balance of payments prospects. As regards the external
environment, the international financial community should be prepared to pro-
vide continued financing in support of sound, growth-oriented economic
policies.
20.    The fundamentals for future recovery look promising.  First, Mexico has
a rich natural and human resource base and close proximity to the wt "'s
largest market; second, the drastic fall in the terms of trade is unlikely to
continue, and should begin to turn around on even conservative assumptions
about the future world price of oil-any improvement in the terms of trade will
have significant salutary effects on fiscal, financial, and balance of payments



- 6 -
performance, as well as directly on growth, investment, and, hence, employment;
third, the 30-40% drop in real wages since 1982 appears to have brought Mexican
unit labor costs to internationally competitive levels, even below those cf
Southeast Asia.
21.    Under moderately favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's
economic growth could reach a sustainable 4-5% a year toward the late 1980s.
However, without continued progress in the areas of fiscal discipline, domestic
efficiency, and non-oil export development, Mexico could enter into a period of
prolonged stagnation, or negative growth, characterized by insufficient labor
absorption, falling standards of living, high inflation, and continued balance
of payments difficulties.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
22.    Mexico's external public and private debt increased by about US$9 bil-
lion during 1983-84, and by less than US$1.0 billion in 1985, to US$94.2 bil-
lion. The net new borrowing requirements are expected to average some US$5-6
billion per annum during the remainder of the decade, with the debt service
ratio remaining around 70%.
23.       At the end of 1985, the Bank's share in Mexico's public debt was
5.1%. The Bank's share in Mexico's total public external interest payments was
4.3%. The Bank's exposure in Mexico as of September 1986 amounted to 7.39% of
its total portfolio. As the Bank moves forward with its expanded assistance
program to Mexico, these ratios are expected to rise significantly by the end
of this decade. In the expectation that sound economic policies will be pur-
sued in the future and that the external environment will remain favorable for
the execution of these policies, Mexico is considered creditworthy for this
loan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
24.    As of September 30, 1986, Mexico had received 98 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$8.99 billion, net of cancellations and terminations; of these,
62 loans totalling US$4.1 billion were fully disbursed. The Bank held US$7.08
billion, of which US$3.10 billion had not yet been disbursed. Some 35% of Bank
lending has been for agriculture and rural development, 19% for industry, 8%
for power, and 16% for transportation; the remaining 16% has been for water
supply, tourism, urban development, and vocational training. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans as of September 30, 1986.
25.    Of the US$8.99 billion total lending, about US$4.7 billion was for
establishing or strengLhening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the com-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments in agriculture, industry, and tourism. These credit programs have
facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale indus-
trial and tourism enterprises.



26.    The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978 to
1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and Bank
officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater atten-
tion was focussed on project monitoring. As a result of these measures, most
of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented satisfactorily until mid-
1982, and disbursements rose from US$91 million in FY78 to US$448 million in
FY82. However, the 1982 financial crisis again caused delays in the provision
of cou&,terpart funds; consequently, disbursements in FY83 declined to US$389
million. A Special Action Program (SAP) was established in early 1983 to help
the Government by alleviating the counterpart funding constraints on develop-
ment projects, and 18 Bank-financed projects (including the US$350 million
first Export Development Loan approved in mid-1983) are receiving support under
the Program. Partly as a result of the SAP, disbursements during FY84 improved
significantly at US$528.87 million, or 35% over disbursements in 1983, and
increased further by about 49% in FY85 to US$787.93 million. However, dis-
bursements went down by about 18% to US$656.2 million in FY86. This decline is
attributed mainly to the acute shortage of counterpart peso funding, lack of
credit demand, and the delays in declaring effectiveness of a number of
projects.
IFC Operations
27.    As of September 30, 1986, IFC had made investment commitments in 27 com-
panies in Mexico, for a total of US$765.8 million, of which US$623.2 million
had been sold, repaid, or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC investments is
presented in Annex II. IFC has been workiLig together with the Bank to:
Ci) identify investment opportunities which would best suit the needs of the
Mexican private sector in the current phase of the stabilization program, and
(ii) assist the Government in reviewing the requirements of the country's capi-
tal markets, both through economic sector work and specific proposals for ven-
ture capital operations. The IFC has carried out three operations in the motor
vehicle and cotton seed business. The provision of foreign exchange and export
production have been the principal objectives of these operations.
Bank Strategy
28.    The Bank's major objectives in Mexico prior to the 1982 crisis were to:
(a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the bene-
fits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, directly or indirect-
ly, contributed significantly to output and employment; (c) help reduce
Mexico's urban/regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks which prevent
rapid growth. These continue to be important objectives of Bank assistance to
Mexico. However, following the '982 economic crisis and a reassessment of the
Bank's role in Mexico, the Bank Management concluded that: (a) increased Bank
lending, critical to Mexico's recovery, must be linked to central policy re-
forms; and (b) the Bank should play a central role in assisting Mexico's return
to voluntary lending. To prepare itself for this new role, the Bank has inten-
sified and broadened its economic and sector work. Specific policy reforms
that are presently being pursued through a dialogue with the Mexican Government
cover priority macroeconomic and cross-sectoral issues, such as trade liberali-
zation, rationalization of preferential credit systems, improvement in public
sector pricing, and investment and subsidy reduction. Traditional lending
incorporating project- or sector-specific policy issues will be conducted in
parallel with policy dialogue on cross-sectoral or macro policy issues.



- 8 -
29.    As a result of these initiatives, the Bank is expected to be in a posi-
tion to contribute to Mexico's external financing needs in 1986-87 in a very
substantial way. Net disbursements for this two-year period have been target-
ted at US$2.3 billion (including about USS180 million, representing the net
present value of guarantees), which would be achieved through continued project
lending and new quick-disbursing operations in support of policy reforms and
structural adjustment in key sectors. The Bank's annual commitments would be
raised to US$2 billion over the next two years, assisting Government initia-
tives in the agriculture, industry, transport, and urban sectors. To lend
broader support to Mexico's adjustment process, the Bank has, in addition and
with the Board's authorization, initiated negotiations in October to put in
place guarantees for the commercial banks' cofinancing and growth contingency
facilities up to a total of US$750 million. These are the principal elements
in the current phase of the Bank's assistance strategy to Mexico, which are
considered critical to the success of the country's stabilization efforts and
resumption of sustainable economic growth.
30.    Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the sec-
tor's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population living in
rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending.
The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico aims at: (a) a more effi-
cient and rational use of natural resources to increase production; (b) produc-
tivity improvements of cultivated lands, with emphasis on the productivity of
small farmers; and (c) promotion of employment-generating investments in rural
areas. To support these goals, infrastructure investments in Bank-assisted
projects have been complemented with support services, such as extension, mar-
keting programs, and credit. The Bank has made 12 loans in FYs8O-86 totalling
US$1,855.0 million, for irrigation, rural and agricultural investment projects,
and agro-industrial and livestock credit programs. A loan for a Second Tropi-
cal Agricultural Project was approved by the Executive Directors on March 4,
1986. Projects for irrigation rehabilitation, extension and research, fores-
try, agro-industries, and agricultural credit are in various stages of prepara-
tion. Special emphasis has been placed in recent years on the development of
rainfed areas.
31.    Bank lending for industry between FYs8O-86 amounted to US$1,145.3 mil-
lion, covering areas of small- and medium-scale industry, mining, vocational
training, capital goods industries development, and export development. After
the 1982 crisis, a US$350 million loan was approved to assist in Mexico's non-
oil export sector. The loan contributed to an intensive and continuous policy
dialogue between the Bank and Mexican authorities regarding: (a) export promo-
tion and trade liberalization policies; (b) administrative and institutional
aspect of export promotion; and (c) financing of non-oil exports. Based on the
lessons of experience under that sector adjustment operation and broad economic
sector work, a new comprehensive assistance strategy has been formulated to
guide the Bank's lending work for industry. This strategy supports: (a) trade
policy reform to move towards greater uniformity of incentives and greater
international competitiveness; (b) complementary financial sector policies to
raverse the prolonged contraction experienced by Mexico's financial system,
including its securities market; and (c) measures required to encourage ade-
quate supply responses, particularly through export promotion and industrial
restructuring.



-9-
32.    Bank lending for transport has focussed on regional development,
strengthening of institutions, and rationalization of public investment outlays
and pricing policies. Between FYs8O-86, six loans amounting to US$753.7 mil-
lion were approved, including two in each of the following three subsectors:
highways, railways, and ports. Additional projects to support the above goals
were undertaken in the urban sector. During FYs8O-86, eight loans were
approved in the urban sector totalling US$1,013.5 million, in the fields of
water supply and sewerage and urban development. A Municipal Strengthening
Project, a Solid Waste Pilot Project, and an Earthquake Rehabilitation Project
were approved by the Executive Directors on March 25, 1986. Additional proj-
ects are under consideration in the transport and urban sectors, aiming at
strengthening the various institutions in the areas of planning, management,
and finance.
33.    The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting Mexico through
various courses/seminars dealing with policy alternatives and institutional
reforms. EDI training is specifically directed at courses/seminars on water
supply and sanitation sector management, transport policy, agricultural policy,
industrial development and finance, and macro policy analysis.
34.    The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest source
of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico totalling
US$3.44 billion as of September 30, 1986. Over 50% of the total has gone to
agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to transportation,
industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure, education, munici-
pal development, and preinvestment. The IDB and the Bank have coordinated
their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans for the national
integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural and livestock cred-
it, small- and medium-scale industries development, and hotel development
projects. The IDB is also providing a program of assistance for earthquake
rehabilitation and reconstruction, and two loans in the health sector, total-
ling US$41.3 million, were approved on June 27, 1986. The International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22.0 million for
a rural development project in the State of Oaxaca, which was appraised by the
Bank's staff and for which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for
administering the loan.
PART III - BANK SUPPORT FOR TRADE REFORM AND INDUSTRIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
35.    To assist the Mexican Government in its endeavor to implement an export-
led growth strategy, the Bank has, since the 1982 crisis, placed particular
emphasis on strengthening the country's external and industrial sectors. This
approach focusses on the required policy reforms, but, at the same time, sup-
ports specialized programs designed to intensify the industrial sector's
response to policy reform. The Bank engaged the Government in a dialogue con-
cerning trade policy and prepared a US$500 million Trade Policy Loan, which was
recently approved by the Board, and would support Mexico's multiyear trade
adjustment program for 1986-88, designed to rationalize the tariff system and
reduce non-tariff barriers. The proposed project and the Trade Policy Loan are
mutually complementary. It would make little sense to concentrate on non-oil
export development without comprehensive trade liberalizatlon that gradually
deepens the reforms which will shift Mexico's economy towards greater unifor-
mity of incentives and greater international competitiveness. And, the Trade



- 10 -
Policy Loan assures that the Government's commitment to trade reform is put
into effect according to a satisfactory timetable. The full benefits of trade
liberalization would, in turn, not materialize unless Mexican exports were
promoted by a broad export development strategy, which the proposed project
would support.
36.    Other specialized programs assisting industry in its adjustment to poli-
cy reforms and structural changes are also necessary to round out the economy's
supply response. To achieve that and to complement the objectives of the pro-
posed loan, as well as those of the Trade Policy Loan, the US$150 million
Industrial Recovery Loan and the US$48 million Industrial Technology Develop-
ment Loan, would help strengthen the financial position and expand the produc-
tion of industrial enterprises and support technology development at the
enterprise level, as well as improved technology services to industry. These
objectives would be achieved through the provision of finance, institutional
measures, and technical assistance.
37.    Based on the experience acquired under ongoing industry projects and
broad economic sector work undertaken with greater intensity in the recent
past, the Bank has, jointly with the Government, also assessed the need for the
physical and financial restructuring of key industrial sectors and specific
enterprises, with a view to making these more efficient and internationally
more competitive. Ways in which financial and other Bank assistance could be
provided are also being explored, both for the public and private sectors.
Bank lending is now being expanded to provide some of the key ingredients re-
quired to achieve the restructuring objectives of the industrial sector. Gov-
ernment initiatives are being introduced in: (a) public expenditure planning
and budgetting; (b) subsector and enterprise evaluation for restructuring; and
Cc) implementing Mexico's new parastatal law that was adopted in Hay 1986, in
order to enhance the efficiency of parastatal enterprises, through increased
management autonomy and accountability. A Fertilizer Sector Adjustment Loan,
the policy conditionality of which is currently under consideration by the
Government, could be the first major industrial restructuring operation to be
supported by the Bank. It may be followed by lending for other key public
industrial sectors, the restructuring of which has been programmed in the
Government's 1986 budget, including in particular segments of the steel and
capital goods sectors.
38.    An "industrial reconversion" loan is under active consideration by the
Mexican authorities and the Bank. This operation would be designed to provide
Bank lending and assistance to Mexico's industry sector for structural adjust-
ment during the remainder of the present Presidental term, which expires in
end-1988. It would, in addition to setting basic sector policy targets, lay
the groundwork for broad financial support to both private and public enter-
prises, including financial restructuring through the provision of associated
risk capital and other forms of innovative financial instruments, physical
restructuring, and modernization measures. Such broad-based support, together
with the necessary sector policy reforms, is necessary to maximize industry's
competitiveness and response to the Government's efforts to increase industrial
efficiency.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE EXPORT SECTOR
Past Performance
39.    Mexico's exports have fluctuated in the range of 8%-13% of GDP during
most of the past four decades, in spite of repeated albeit short-lived attempts
at liberalizing trade and promoting exports. The predominance of an import-
substitution economic growth model throughout this period, the persistent
inward-looking attitude of entrepreneurs and policymakers alike because of the
country's rich resource endowment, and the relatively large domestic market
explain the substantial anti-export bias of the incentive regime and the
country's modest export performance.
40.    Initially, the share of manufactured products in total exports was low.
Aided by fiscal incentives, institutional support, and other complementary
measures, it grew from 0.25% in the late 1960s to about 50% by 1975. In the
mid-70s, however, when petroleum resources became the dominant source of eco-
nomic growth in Mexico, the pattern of the economy as well as of the external
sector changed radically: crude petroleum's share in merchandise exports grew
from 11% in 1975 to 74% in 1982. The balance of non-petroleum merchandise
exports comprised 142 of manufactures and 12% of primary products, such as cof-
fee, cotton, fresh fruits and vegetables, and minerals. The portion of domes-
tic manufacturing output that was exported had peaked in 1978 at 5.5% and
declined to less than 4% in 1982. The decline was caused, among other factors,
by a continually expanding domestic market, worsening world market conditions
in the 1970s, and a rising inflation in Mexico well in excess of the inflation
experienced by its principal trading partners in 1978-82, coupled with a gradu-
ally appreciating exchange rate. A rise in total exports in relation to GDP
from about 8% in 1970 to slightly over 13% in 1982 was due to a tenfold
increase in oil exports in the same period.
41.    Mexico's non-oil exports have a broad basis, including products for
which the country has a comparative advantage because of natural resources or
relatively abundant labor (e.g., processed foods and minerals, chemicals and
petrochemicals, and wood products), and others for which the availability of
skilled labor, quality control, and technology are critical (e.g., designer
clothing and footwear, steel rolling mill equipment, small electric motors,
automotive parts, and foundry casting). The proximity of sizeable markets in
the Western and Southwestern U.S.A. offers considerable advantages to Mexican
exporters. As a result, more than 70% of Mexico's manufactured exports reach
the U.S.A. Although Mexico's exports are diversified, which reflect the broad
structure of Mexican industry, the bulk of the growth in manufactured exports
during 1983 and 1984 came from four subsectors, namely, petroleum derivatives,
chemicals, steel, and automotive parts. Only 35 products account for two-
thirds of Mexico's non-petroleum exports.
Initial Government Strategy after 1982
42.    Upon taking office in late 1982, the present Administration set out to
reverse the unfavorable trend in Mexico's non-oil export performance. More-
over, its 1983/84 policy measures were designed to ensure that the country's
productive installations survived the crisis and that the combined impact of
massive devaluations (para. 5) and drastic drops in domestic demand upon enter-
prises heavily indebted in foreign exchange was adequately alleviated. Strict



- 12 -
foreign exchange controls were introduced in Mexico for the first time, and
non-tariff trade barriers were raised to an all-time high level (paras. 4-5).
Coordination between foreign exchange and trade controls was also introduced.
43.    Efforts at export promotion succeeded in the short term, mainly because
of the massive devaluations of 1982, depressed domestic markets in the wake of
the 1982 crisis, emerging recovery in the U.S.A., and the adoption of policy
and institutional measures for the promotion of non-oil exports. In response
to these stimuli, non-oil merchandise exports grew by 32.5Z in 1983, while
manufactured exports rose by 52%. This new trend continued through the first
semester of 1984, when both total and manufactured exports grew at annual rates
of about 40%. Because of similarly high growths in tourism, border transac-
tions, and transformation services (the so-called "maquila"), Mexico earned in
foreign exchange an additional 28-30% of its total non-oil export revenues in
1983-84.
44.    As domestic recovery emerged in the second semester of 1984, however,
the growth in merchandise exports began to slow down. A traditional attitude
of complacency towards exports by Mexican entrepreneurs only aggravated this
process. Unabated domestic inflation, coupled with a gradual appreciation of
the peso in 1984, increased the temptation for under-invoicing exports, while
strict foreign exchange controls remained in place. In the second semester of
1984, total non-oil merchandise exports grew 18.4% annualized, while manufac-
tured exports grew 18.9%. Export performance declined further during the first
nine months of 1985, in part because of underreporcing of export sales, and
non-oil merchandise and manufactured exports actually dropped by 11.8% and
10.4%, respectively, over the 1984 levels.
Second Phase of the Government Strategy - PROFI
45.    By late 1984, it appeared that Mexico's financial crisis had been large-
ly controlled, and the Government began to turn its attention to medium-term
structural problems, particularly in the trade policy and export promotion
areas, in order to overcome external imbalances and to reduce the structural
distortions which had emerged in the early 1980's and led to the 1982 crisis.
Reforms were needed to resume sustainable growth. In July 1984, the Government
launched the national program of industrial development and foreign trade
(PRONAFICE) for 1984-88, which touched on the broad objectives of rationalizing
Mexico's protective system to shift towards efficient import substitution and
export development, and outlined a policy framework and specific measures
required to develop non-oil exports.
46.    Yet the decline in non-oil export performance in the second half of 1984
(para. 44) raised concerns about the viability of an export-led growth strate-
gy, unless effective measures were taken to regain the growth momentum of non-
oil exports that had been registered in 1983 and in early 1984. Indeed, as
domestic demand rose significantly in the second half of 1984 and the first
half of 1985, many marginal exporters were lured back to the domestic market
because the basic export incentive framework was not sufficiently corrected,
even though the conceptual framework for policy reform in this area had been
laid down in the 1983-1988 National Development Plan, and subsequently, in
PRONAFICE in 1984.



- 13 -
47.    In particular, the Administration recognized that the anti-export bias
of the incentive regime had to be reversed and that supportive macro policies
liberalizing the trade regime and managing a realistic exchange rate were pre-
requisites for any basic change in the attitude of Mexican companies towards
exports. The Government also recognized, however, that its macroeconomic poli-
cy measures would have to be complemented through specific, export-oriented
action programs, to achieve improvements in export performance over the medium
term.
48.    The Integrated Export Development Program (PROFIEX), issued in the
second quarter of 1985, spells out the Government's medium-term export develop-
ment program. The program envisages growth and diversification of Mexico's
non-oil export base, primarily by means of export policy reforms, further trade
liberalization, encouragement of industrial efficiency, and improvements in
public sector support for export development. Mexico's export sector is capa-
ble of responding positively to the incentives under PROFIEX, and non-oil
exports are expected to grow at annual rates of 15%-18Z over 1986-89. The
early results under PROFIEX are promising. Non-oil exports grew by 30% in the
first half of 1986, over the same period of the previous year. The prominent
features of PROFIEX are discussed in the following paragraphs.
49.    Creating a Free Trade Status for Exporters.  The most important measure
in the Government's export development strategy is the creation of a "free
trade zone" environment for all exporting companies, which would expand and
improve the temporary import regime and the value-added tax rebate mechanism.
The trade liberalization process that the Government has now begun will take
several years to be completed, so that the negative impact of price distortions
for exporting companies will only slowly dissipate. The free trade status
envisaged in PROFIEX provides for an expansion of the temporary import regime
and a modification of the tax rebate procedures to enable the tax-free importa-
tion of inputs for export production, thus putting Mexican exporters on an
equal footing with competitors of other exporting countries.
50.    Moreover, the free trade status will not be limited to direct exporters,
but will also include indirect exporters-i.e., companies that supply inputs to
directly exporting companies. The main vehicle for the inclusion of indirect
exporters into the free trade status will be the recently introduced "domestic
letter of credit," a document issued by the direct exporter to the indirect ex-
porter, certifying his role as a supplier. In addition, to ensure that import
movements will be adequately monitored, PROFIEX also envisages an upgrading of
Custom's administrative capabilities under the Secretariat of Finance and
Public Credit (SHCP), including computerization, to ensure adequate control of
import and export movements.
51.    Simplifying Export-Import Procedures.  The simplification of export-
import procedures is another important element in the future export promotion
strategy. Improvements had already taken place after the 1982 crisis, but
despite some achievements, administrative procedures for foreign trade contin-
ued to be highly bureaucratic, causing delays in general and constituting a
deterrent for smaller firms, which are relatively new in the export business
and have no administrative infrastructure to deal with these problems. PROFIEX
now stresses the need to eliminate administrative and legal obstacles that
hamper foreign trade operations, especially in the area of export permits.



- 14 -
52.    Improving Export Finance and Insurance.  Before the 1982 crisis, Mexican
exporters, particularly larger firms, had sufficient access to foreign and
domestic credit to finance the production and sales of exports. Pre- and post-
shipment financing was provided through the "Fondo de Fomento a las Exportacio-
nes de Productos Manufacturados (FOMEX)," a rediscounting facility that
operated up to 1983 as a Banco de Mexico Trust Fund, as well as through selec-
tive credit schemes rediscounted directly by the Banco de Mexico. The transfer
of FOMEX from the Banco de Mexico to the BNCE strengthened the institution of
the latter, and was the first step in simplifying institutional arrangements in
Mexico's export sector. Traditionally, FOMEX's interest rates carried a sub-
stantial subsidy. The foreign exchange crisis in 1982 and the ensuing controls
posed a new challenge to Mexican exporters, mainly by the sudden disruption in
external financing flows and the lack of convertibility of the peso. Peso-
denominated domestic financing schemes to support exports--mainly the so-called
"1.2%" and "1.6%" lines funded from the Banco de Mexico's reserve require-
ments-continued after 1982 and provided heavy interest subsidies.  Interest
subsidies began to be phased out gradually in 1984, followed by more aggressive
adjustments after a major bilateral trade accord was reached between Mexico and
the U.S.A. in 1985 (Annex VII).
53.    Additional steps were taken in 1986, based on the recommendations  of a
high-level Committee that was set up in late 1985 to consolidate all export
financing facilities. Management of the so-called "1.6% line" has now been
transferred from the Banco de Hexico to the Banco Nacional de Comercio
Exterior, S.N.C. (BNCE). The Government also began to focus on a series of
issues affecting performance of the nation's export sector, such as the ade-
quacy of insurance and guarantee schemes available to exporters, linkages
between pre-shipment working capital and fixed investment financing, mechanisms
required for making finance available to indirect exporters and trading compa-
nies (including, in particular, introduction of the domestic letter of credit),
and the expansion of FOMEX financing from the manufacturing sector to all non-
oil exporters, regardless of ownership and sectoral specialization (Annex
VIII).
54.    The Bank's previous project was effective in assisting various Govern-
ment agencies to study the experience of successful East Asian exporters and to
adopt financial schemes that helped ensure "free trade" status for exporters,
as well as suppliers who generate value added in export products. As a result,
the domestic letter of credit-previously not used for export finance in
Mexico--was introduced in early 1986, and a joint policy insurance is being
adopted to cover the commercial and political risk of BNCE, FOMEX, and the
financial intermediaries, through COMESEC--a private insurance company that has
undertaken to enter this market, possibly with increased public sector
participation in its equity base.
55.    Providing Non-Financial Services.  PROFIEX also assigns a key role to
trading companies in future export development. To this effect, it envisages
the conversion of some of the existing export consortia--mainly consolidated
export departments of several exporting companies-into fully operational trad-
ing companies that buy domestic goods at their own risk for foreign market-
ing. In addition, considerable economic and sector work has been carried out
in Mexico in the recent past to assess the export potential of specific prod-
ucts and subsectors and to advance specific recommendations for market penetra-
tion abroad. Some of the studies-financed by the previous Bank loan (Ln.



- 15 -
2331-ME)--were detailed enough to provide useful inputs to firms for making
decisions about their export strategies. Further studies are needed in areas
of finance, marketing, administrative procedures, productivity efficiency, and
marketing of selected products to groups and policy reform, in order to imple-
ment the Government's overall export development strategy designed to establish
neutral status for exporters and to boost non-oil export performance.
56.    Streamlining Institutional Responsibilities.  Several specialized insti-
tutions share responsibility for Mexico's export sector. Trade policy and
related plans and programs are formulated and implemented by the Secretariat of
Trade and Industrial Development (SECOFI). Its Under Secretariat of Foreign
Trade has capable and experienced staff, particularly in trade and price con-
trols and related administrative processes. The Customs agency is a Direc-
torate General of SHCP, and exercises physical control of merchandise move-
ments. BNCE and FOMEX provide the bulk of export financing, although credit
for fixed investments is also intermediated by FONEI and FONATUR and commercial
banks.
57.    Non-financial services were, since the early 1970's, provided by the
Mexican Foreign Trade Institute (IMCE), which helped organize industrial fairs,
undertook export promotion missions, provided market information to potential
Mexican exporters, and prepared subsectoral studies to identify product groups
with comparative advantage and a potential to penetrate foreign markets. IMCE
maintained 25 foreign offices and 8 regional "delegations" within Mexico to
gather and provide information to exporters. However, IMCE was ineffective in
building up its services and technical assistance to individual exporters,
partly because of an excessive concentration of its staff, some 900 in all, in
Mexico City. Also, IMCE's attempt to install the so-called "single window"
facility, which was designed to consolidate into one step all administrative
requirements for processing the documentation of imports and exports, did not
succeed because the other sectoral institutions with primary responsibility for
the functions involved were reluctant to delegate authority to IMCE as
appropriate.
58.    By late 1985, the Government decided to streamline the somewhat ineffec-
tive and dispersed institutional structure characterizing the nation's export
sector, responding to the need for clear responsibilities and effective support
to exporting companies. In particular, the Government implemented the
following measures:
a)     Redistribution of INCE's Responsibilities.  Because of the ineffective-
ness of IMCE in providing support to exporters, the Government decided
to dismantle the institution and reassign its responsibilities to SECOFI
and BNCE. The former has absorbed most administrative tasks, among them
the streamlined management of export permits and certification of export
products, including management of the "single window" facility. The
BNCE, whose principal responsibility previously was limited to the
provision of finance, has taken over responsibility for non-financial
assistance to exporters and export promotion. Both SECOFI and BNCE are
expected to rationalize and streamline administrative services, to
provide more efficient support to Mexican exporters in the future;
b)     Improved Coordination among Government Agencies.  To better coordinate
the numerous institutions responsible for the Government's policies,



- 16 -
financial and non-financial services, and administrative procedures for
exports, a high-level Ad Hoc Committee was established in late 1985 to
prepare specific proposals for Mexico's medium-term non-oil export
development. The Committee, which was composed of the Secretary of
SECOFI, the Director General of the BNCE, and the Director General of
one of the two largest commercial banks, proposed in early 1986 suitable
policy instruments designed to broaden Mexico's non-oil export base and
achieve the growth target of the Government's Export Development
Strategy-especially through encouragement for first-time exporters and
small- and medium-sized manufacturers. Because of its success in ini-
tiating action, this Ad-Hoc Committee was transformed into a permanent
policymaking committee, discussed below.
c)     New Charter for BNCE.  In November 1985 the Government also submitted a
new Charter for BNCE to the Legislature. It was passed by Congress in
late December 1985, and constitutes the first comprehensive law regulat-
ing BNCE's operation since its establishment in 1937. The most signifi-
cant change introduced by the new law is BNCE's participation in deci-
sions concerning trade policy. That has been achieved through the
establishment of a high-level Foreign Trade Promotion and Development
Committee, chaired by the Secretary of SECOFI and comprising the Secre-
taries of Finance and of Foreign Relations, as well as the Director
Generals of the Banco de Mexico (BdM) and BNCE. BNCE's staff is serving
as a secretariat to the Committee. Its mandate is to design, propose,
and put in place policies and measures for export promotion, mainly in
the areas of finance, insurance, and guarantee schemes, and the provi-
sion of technical assistance, including promotion and the carrying out
of studies for non-oil exports.
Past Bank Assistance For Export Development
59.    The Bank has had considerable involvement in Mexico's export sector
since establishment of the US$100 million pilot PROFIDE fund under the Bank's
Capital Goods Industry Development Project (Ln. 2142-ME) in April 1983. In
June 1983, the Executive Directors approved a US$350 million Export Development
Project (Ln. 2331-ME) to help Mexico recover from the financial crisis of 1982
and overcome the chronic foreign exchange shortage. While the pilot PROFIDE
fund had the single objective of providing urgently needed foreign exchange to
exporters, the export development project had the broader objective of support-
ing the Government's export development strategy, including policy reforms,
streamlining of administrative procedures, and institution building. The lead
agency under the project was BNCE/FOMEX. Fixed investments in industry and
tourism were channeled through FONEI and FONATUR respectively, two specialized
Trust Funds.
60.    Performance under the first Export Development Project, including dis-
bursements, an assessment of the loan's impact among Mexico's exporters, and
the project's contributions to the policy dialogue between the Bank and the
Mexican authorities, are summarized in Annex IV. As explained in the Annex,
loan commitments and disbursements were slow initially because subsidized
finance from other sources was available and the requirement for submitting
annual export plans under PROFIDE were perceived by borrowers as an unwarranted
intrusion into confidential company information, curtailing real demand for



- 17 -
credit. Both issues were addressed in 1984-85. Interest subsidies on other
credit lines are being phased out (para. 52), and requirements for annual ex-
port plans have been simplified (Annex IV). As a result, commitments and dis-
bursements have expanded at a satisfactory pace since early 1985. At this
time, virtually the full loan is committed, and disbursements amount to US$181
million, accounting for 50% of the loan amount. In view of the above, dis-
bursement projections for the proposed loan now can be based on actual perform-
ance under Ln. 2331-ME.
61.    The loan's impact was especially critical in helping prepare measures to
improve the basic incentive framework for exporters, strengthen the temporary
import regime, and expand preferential administrative arrangements and avail-
ability of finance to indirect exporters. In essence, the previous Bank proj-
ect assisted the Mexican authorities in adapting the Government's export
development strategy to evolving economic/financial circumstances, and provid-
ing studies and assistance required for measures which the proposed loan would
support further. The first Export Development Project achieved its major
objectives and provided critical inputs for preparing the proposed loan.
Export Strategy Paper
62.   The proposed Second Export Development Loan would support implementation
of the Government's export development strategy, as spelled out in the PROFIEX
documents. Proposed policy reforms and the instruments required to implement
them, together with a detailed timetable, have been prepared by the Government
to ensure that additional actions for promoting non-oil exports, including
those contained in a second PROFIEX document issued in March 1986, will be put
into effect. To assure timely actions and coordination in carrying out the
above program, the Government has submitted to the Bank a Letter of Export
Development Policy, which is satisfactory; it is reproduced in Annex V.
63.    The central theme of the Gcvernment's Policy Letter is the creation of
neutral status for exporters in Mexico. Specific actions and a timetable for
these actions have been designed to expand the "free trade status" to indirect
exporters and trading companies; streamline the temporary import regime; sim-
plify indirect tax reimbursement procedures and maintain flexibility in the
application of foreign exchange controls to exporters; extend financial support
to all activities generating value added for exports; and simplify and compu-
terize the customs procedures. It also formally confirms the transfer of the
management of the "1.6%" line of credit to BNCE, and reiterates the Govern-
ment's intention to put in place a joint-policy insurance for exporters and to
maintain in operation the domestic letter of credit for indirect exporters. A
program of action in the above areas would be supported by the proposed loan.
It would be complemented, however, by additional measures, which would be
undertaken by the various Government agencies for amending the PROFIDE Operat-
ing Regulations (para. 70) to allow financing of indirect exporters and trading
companies.
64.    To monitor closely implementation of the Government's export development
strategy and coordination among the various agencies, the Bank would, as part
of the proposed project's supervision, review with BNCE (the Borrower), SECOFI,
and other relevant agencies, progress in carrying out specific policy measures,
introducing administrative reforms and institution building to implement the



- 18 -
policy reforms. The timetable contained in the Government's Letter of Export
Development Policy would serve as a basis for Government and Bank monitoring
during implementation of the proposed project. The reviews would afford the
Bank and the Government a timely opportunity to consider additional export
trade policy measures and new administrative or institutional arrangements
which may be necessary to ensure that the project's objectives are met. Given
the formal consultation process that would take place between the Government
and the Bank regarding trade policy, under the Bank's Trade Policy Loan, super-
vision missions for the proposed project would be scheduled immediately follow-
ing each semi-annual trade policy consultation. This would provide a linkage
between issues affecting foreign trade in general and exports in a narrower
sense.
65.    In addition to monitoring progress under the Government's export devel-
opment strategy, the periodic reviews would also cover specific project-related
matters, such as the performance of loan disbursements, and, when necessary,
reallocation of loan funds among the various categories, including, in parti-
cular, the funds allocated for indirect exporters, who would borrow for the
first time under Bank-financed credit programs; the adequacy of interest rates
charged to loan beneficiaries; implementation of the planned measures for
indirect exporters and trading companies; and execution of studies and the
project's technical assistance program.
PART V - THE PRoPosED PROJECer
66.    In late 1984, the Bank initiated a broader trade policy dialogue with
the Government and introduced some adjustments in the design of the first
Export Development Project (Ln. 2331-ME). Discussions with Mexican authorities
about the Bank's continued support of non-traditional export development began
at that time, and a preparation mission for the proposed project visited Mexico
in April 1985. A pre-appraisal mission followed in September 1985, and the
project was appraised in November the same year. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. during the period September 23-30, 1986. The Mexican delega-
tion was headed by Lic. Ricardo Penaloza Webb, Financial Adviser in BNCE, and
included Lic. Antonio Cervera Sandoval, Head of the Industrial Sector Projects
Department in SHCP. There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report. Annex III
provides supplementary data on the project.
Objectives
67.    Rapid expansion of non-oil exports is essential to Mexico's resumption
of sustainable economic growth and effective balance of payments management.
The Bank's continued involvement in export development through the proposed
project would contribute to the growth and diversification of non-oil exports,
as well as the structural base of these exports, by supporting Mexico's
expanded export development strategy (paras. 62-63). These objectives would be
achieved by: (a) providing finance to exporters through comprehensive
financial services by the Borrower; and (b) strengthening, streamlining, and
expanding the non-financial incentive framework for exporters.



- 19 -
Project Description and Loan Components
68.    A Bank loan of US$250 million is proposed to support the project's
objectives, which would be achieved through three specific components, as
follows:
(a)    Provision of working capital finance for the imported raw materials,
components, spare parts, and services of exporters;
(b)    Provision of long-term finance for fixed investments by exporters, con-
sisting of the establishment, expansion or improvement of the export
capacity of exporters and the construction, rehabilitation, or expansion
of hotels generating predominantly foreign exchange revenues; and
(c)    A technical assistance program for studies designed to improve the
financial and administrative support system to exporters and the produc-
tivity and efficiency of selected product groups and for supporting
indirect exporters.
69.    Working Capital Component (PROFIDE).  The amount of US$175 million,
accounting for 70% of loan funds, would be allocated to provide short-term pre-
shipment finance for the imported input requirements of export enterprises.
Essentially in line with arrangements under the Bank's first Export Development
Project, any enterprise established in accordance with Mexican law and engaged
in manufacturing, processing, agro-industry, tourism, and trade, or in the pro-
vision of services, but excluding petroleum extraction or any related produc-
tion process, would be eligible for working capital financing, provided that
the enterprise can show an export plan, export order, or foreign and/or domes-
tic letter of credit proving the enterprise's commitment for generating value
added for goods and services to be exported.
70.    Indirect exporters and trading companies would have access to short-term
financing under the Bank loan for the first time, on condition that arrange-
ments for channelling funds to them efficiently, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank, are in place. In addition, as a condition of the Bank's approval of
subprojects, indirect exporters would have to submit copies of their production
plans and agreements with final exporters, domestic letters of credit, bills-
of-exchange, proof of import requirements, and/or any other document or infor-
mation that may be necessary to establish that the enterprise's production will
generate value added for exports.  To cover the estimated needs of indirect
exporters, some US$75 million of the total of US$175 million available under
the project's working capital component, would be specifically allocated for
these end-users.
71.    Finance for pre-shipment working capital would be channelled by BNCE/
FOMEX Through commercial banks co eligible export enterprises. The PROFIDE
Fund--set up with Bank financial assistance in early 1983 and operated by
FOMEX--would implement this loan component. The amount of the outstanding bal-
ance under any line of credit granted by PROFIDE, including any balance under
previous Bank loans, would be limited to 100% of the exporter's estimated an-
nual export earnings-or, in the case of indirect exporters, up to 100% of the
value of goods supplied to final exporters for sales abroad as evidenced by the
appropriate documentation, or US$10 million equivalent, whichever is lower.



- 20 -
The Bank would finance up to 100% of the subloans. FOMEX would approve credit
applications on a first-come-first-served basis to any eligible exporter or
indirect exporter; it would have the right not to authorize a line of credit
for any enterprise that has adequate alternative sources of finance. Should
the need for rationing PROFIDE funds arise, FOMEX would give priority to enter-
prises with proportionally the highest domestic value added, but would, in
addition, take into account the relative amounts of foreign exchange generated
by the enterprises. PROFIDE's operations are governed by its Operating Regula-
tions, which were agreed between the Bank and FOMEX under the first Export Dev-
elopment Project. To allow indirect exporters and trading companies timely
access to PROFIDE funds, these Regulations would be amended, as a condition of
the loan's effectiveness, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
72.    Fixed Investment Component (FIFE).  The amount of US$74.5 million,
accounting for nearly 30% of loan funds, would be allocated tu provide long-
term finance to eligible exporters, indirect exporters, and trading companies,
as well as hotel enterprises generating foreign exchange revenues. It would
cover the fixed investment requirements of establishing, expanding, or modern-
izing the export capacity in manufacturing, processing, agroindustry, tourism,
and mining, but excluding petroleum extraction or any related production pro-
cess. The proceeds of the Bank loan would cover the foreign exchange component
(estimated at 55%) of eligible subprojects up to an amount equivalent to the
expected incremental foreign exchange earnings from exports or tourism, or--in
the case of indirect exporters-the value of parts and components incorporated
into the final export products, which are attributable to the proposed invest-
ment over the first four years of the project's operation, or US$15 million
equivalent, whichever is lower.
73.    Bank financing to any enterprise, however, including any balance under
PROFIDE or FIFE, would be limited to a cumulative total of US$20 million. To
strengthen this limitation, BNCE would--as a condition of the proposed loan's
effectiveness-amend its Operating Regulations to ensure that single company
exposure is limited to 5% of the PROFIDE fund and 10% of FIFE funds, at any
given time. Subloans would finance up to 80% of subproject costs, with the
remaining 20% to be financed by the investors. In line with FONEI's Operating
Regulations, however, its share of financing would be limited to 70%. Subproj-
ect appraisal and supervision criteria adopted by BNCE in its Operating Regula-
tions for FIFE under the first Bank project have proven to be satisfactory, and
would be applied in implementing the proposed project.
74.    Similar to the arrangements under the first Bank-financed Export Deve-
lopment Project (Loan 2331-ME), BNCE would wholesale FIFE funds to FONEI and
FONATUR, except for an estimated US$30 million (accounting for 12% of loan
funds), which BNCE would relend, without financial intermediaries, directly to
enterprises for fixed investments in industry, agroindustry, and mining. FONEI
would be responsible for subprojects in the manufacturing and processing sec-
tors, with an estimated US$20-30 million of loan funds expected to be used for
this purpose, and FONATUR would handle subprojects in the tourism sector, with
US$15-20 million expected to be used for hotel investments. Allocation of
funds among BNCE, FONEI, and FONATUR would be reviewed between the Bank and the
Borrower in the framework of project supervision, and adjustments would be made
as required by the evolution of effective demand for credit in the various
sectors.



- 21 -
75.    Technical Assistance Component.  This component, for US$u.5 million of
loan funds, would provide for consultant services, training, and the related
equipment and facilities of the project implementing agencies, thus helping to
carry out the Government's export development strategy more effectively.
Specific studies would be done on the: (i) development of comprehensive finan-
cial packages for export industries; (ii) implementation of an administrative
system for providing non-financial export incentives to indirect exporters and
trading companies; (iii) customs procedures and the need for improvements,
including the introduction of computerized systems; (iv) productivity, effi-
ciency, and marketing of selected product groups enjoying significant export
potential; and (v) technical and marketing assistance to indirect exporters
regarding, among others, their product design and quality control. A satisfac-
tory plan of action for implementing these studies, including a timetable and
institutional arrangements for each, has been received by the Bank.
Borrower and Relending Term
76.    BNCE would be the Borrower of the Bank loan and would relend an estimat-
ed 882 of the loan funds in U.S. dollars to FOMEX, FONEI, and FONATUR for the
project's working capital and fixed investment components, under separate
contractual arrangements with each implementing agency and the Government.
Evidence of satisfactory contractual arrangements for the transfer of loan
funds to FOMEX, for the project's working capital component, would be a special
condition of loan effectiveness. Evidence of satisfactory contractual arrange-
ments for the transfer of loan funds to FONEI and FONATUR, for their respective
share of the project's fixed investment component, would be a condition of
disbursement. The remaining 12% of the loan would be used by BNCE to finance
the fixed investment requirements of enterprises and the project's technical
assistance activities. BNCE's financial performance and sLructure have, in
general, been satisfactory, with a growing capital base (Annex IX).
77.    As under the previous Export Development Loan (Ln. 2331-ME), BNCE would
charge interest to the project implementing agencies on all amounts relent at
rates equivalent to the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus cne-quarter
of a percentage point. Banks as financial intermediaries would be guaranteed a
minimum spread comparable to those allowed under other Bank-financed credit
programs, which currently amount to one- and one-half of a percentage point on
U.S. dollar-denominated subloans, and two percentage points on peso-denominated
subloans (paras. 79-80). Banks would be free to set their spread above these
minimum levels, according to the credit risk of the subproject or the benefi-
ciary enterprise. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government
on all principal repayments and by the project implementing agencies on
interest payments.
78.    To further strengthen the financial structure of BNCE, the Government
would repay the principal of the Bank loan, thus increasing BNCE's equity base;
the Government would, in addition, bear the related U.S. dollar/peso exchange
risk, as well as the risk arising out of fluctuations of the exchange rates
between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which the Bank loan is repay-
able. However, interest payments and the associated foreign exchange risk
would be borne by each implementing agency and BNCE, when they perform as a
first-tier institution. In addition, the Government and BNCE intend to explore
other ways of increasing BNCE's capitalization in the short run. The resulting



- 22 -
increase in BNCE's capital is expected to reduce its gearing ratio, which is
high though not excessive, given BNCE's role as a financial agent of the Gov-
ernment, which implies that the vast majority of its assets are guaranteed by
the Government and, therefore, dces not represent a real credit risk of its
own .
Terms and Conditions of Pre-Shipment and Fixed Invstment Financing
79.    PROFIDE subloans for pre-shipment working capital of exporters and trad-
ing companies would be denominated in U.S. dollars. Interest would be set at
rates not less than the effective interest rate at which 180-day Bankers'
Acceptance maturities are traded in the New York market (the nominal Bankers'
Acceptance rate quoted on the market is a discount rate) plus one percentage
point. This covers the spread of the commercial banks. All PROFIDE subloans
would have maturities to cover the exporter's production cycle up to 360 days.
A commitment was received during negotiations that FOMEX would keep the repay-
ments from working capital subloans in the PROFIDE account and use the proceeds
of this fund in financing the working capital requirements of exporters
throughout the life of the Bank loan.
80.    Investors under FIFE would have an option to denominate their fixed
investment subloans: (a) in U.S. dollars, and pay interest at rates not less
than the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus two-and-a-half percentage
points; or (b) in Mexican pesos, and pay interest at rates not less than the
ACF plus two percentage points. Both rates adequately cover the spread of the
commercial banks. Interest rates on subloans denominated in pesos would be set
in accordance with GIRA. The peso option may be particularly attractive to
indirect exporters whose revenues are in local currency, although it would be
available to final exporters and trading companies too. Fixed investment sub-
loans would have maturities of up to 13 years, including a maximum grace period
of three years.
Financing Plan and Initial Allocation of Loan Funds
81.    The table below summnrizes the initial allocation of loan funds, which
is based on current estimates of demand for the various programs under the pro-
posed project. At the initiative of the Mexican Government, discussions have
been held with the Export-Import Bank of Japan in respect of a cofinancing
package designed specifically to support investments under the proposed proj-
ect. Final agreement on cofinancing arrangements is expected to be reached by
the parties in the near future. The Executive Directors would be informed of
the outcome in due course. Complementary financing by BNCE, the implementing
agencies, the commercial banks, and investors to cover the full resource
requirements would be as follows:
Cofi-
Executing Agencies    nancing
(BNCE, FONEI, FONATUR,  (Ex/Im
FOMEX) and Mexicen    Bank of
Bank     Commercial Banks        Japan)  Investors   TOTAL
US$ Millions Equivalent
PROFIDE Fund (Pre-
Shipment Working        175.0            50.0             -           -       225.0
Capital Financing)



- 23 -
Cofi-
Executing Agencies    nancing
(BNCE, FONEI, FONATUR,  (Ex/Im
FOMEX) and Mexican    Bank of
(Continuation)          Bank     Commercial Banks        Japan)  Investors   TOTAL
--          --- -US$ Millions Equivalent ---
FIFE Fund (Fixed         74.5            22.0           240.0       87.5      424.0
Asset Financing)
Technical Assistance      0.5             0.5             -           -         1.0
and Studies
TOrAL                 250.0            72.5           240.0      87.5       650.0
Bank Review of Subloans
82.    Given FOMEX's good performance with PROFIDE under the first Export
Development Project, the Bank's prior review of subloans would be limited to
operations which would, when added to the outstanding to the same enterprise,
exceed US$5 million equivalent, and the first three operations with indirect
exporters. The Bank would also have prior review of the first three fixed
investment subloans to indirect exporters and all other fixed investment
subloans in excess of US$5 million equivalent.
Procurement
83.    Exporters, including indirect exporters, would follow established com-
mercial practices for the procurement of raw materials and other inputs from
countries eligible under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines in implementing the
project's working capital component. FOMEX would verify that the prices of
goods and services financed with loan funds through PROFIDE are reasonable.
Goods and services financed under the project's fixed investment component from
FIFE would be procured in accordance with standard procedures applicable for
Bank-supported industrial development finance projects. The financial inter-
mediaries would ensure competitiveness of the price and quality of the items
purchased and their suitability for the purpose intended. As under the Bank's
first Export Development Project, this would be based on comparisons among
competitive quotations from several suppliers, taking into account factors such
as compatibility with existing facilities, delivery terms, maintenance require-
ments, and the availability of spare parts. Any beneficiary who applies for
Bank financing of a procurement package estimated to cost in excess of US$2
million, would be required to follow limited international tendering, with the
participation of a minimum of three suppliers, at least one of which would have
to be from a country other than Mexico. Studies financed with loan funds under
the project's technical assistance component would be carried out by consul-
tants whose qualifications and terms and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements and Anditing
84.    The Bank would disburse agaivst:  (a) 100% of the CIF costs of imported
raw materials, goods, and services which are financed by PROFIDE; (b) 100% of



- 24 -
foreign expenditures for directly imported goods and services, 70% of expendi-
tures for imported goods purchased off-the-shelf in Mexico, and 45% of the
ex-factory cost of domestically manufactured goods and services, which are
financed by the project's fixed investment component, FIFE; and (c) 100% of
expenditures for services and goods required for the project's technical
assistance component. Withdrawal from the loan account for contracts valued up
to US$500,000 equivalent would be against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs),
with the supporting documentation to be maintained by BNCE or the other execut-
ing agencies, and, upon request, made available for the Bank's review, except,
however, for withdrawals for FONATUR subprojects, which would, in all cases, be
fully documented. As under the previous Bank loan, expenditures made more than
180 days before the date when the request for financing is received by the Bank
would not be eligible.
85.    To help start up the project and keep disbursements at a suitable pace
during project implementation, the Bank would make initial deposits of US$17.5
million into a Special Account to be maintained in foreign exchange for PROFIDE
in BNCE's account, and US$5 million into a separate Special Account to be main-
tained for FIFE also in BNCE's account. The above levels of the Special
Accounts represent approximately the amount that is expected to be disbursed
over a three-month period, assuming disbursement periods of 24-30 months for
the PROFIDE and 48 months for the FIFE components. Demand estimates supporting
these assumptions reflect experience under the first Export Development Project
and take into account the expected impact of financing to be provided to indi-
rect exporters and trading companies under the proposed loan. It is estimated
that loan funds would be committed by September 30, 1989 and fully disbursed by
September 30, 1990. Disbursement projections are provided in Annex XIII.
86.    The accounts of the Borrower and FONEI, FONATUR, and FONEX, including
those kept for the purposes of the project, the Special Accounts, and state-
ments of expenditures, would be audited annually by independent auditors accep-
table to the Bank. The audit reports, including an opinion with respect to the
supporting documentation for the statements of expenditures, would be submitted
to the Bank annually, within six months after the end of the fiscal year of
each agency as appropriate.
Project Benefits and Risks
87.    The proposed project would be a significant step in assuring continued
Bank support for Mexico's export development strategy, which is complementary
to broader Government efforts at a comprehensive trade reform. Through the
Trade Policy Loan, the Bank also intends to support the gradual opening of the
Mexican economy. In a general sense, the thrust of the proposed project would
reinforce the Government's endeavor for introducing an export-led economic
growth model in Mexico, without which the country cannot be expected to resume
sustainable economic growth. Promotion of non-oil exports is expected to
strengthen the supply response of Mexico's economy to the broad structural
adjustments which are being introduced. Thus, the project would generate time-
ly and significant benefits for Mexico's economic restructuring. The proposed
project would also generate substantial employment as export industries absorb
on average 35-40% more labor than general economic activity.



- 25 -
88.    The proposed project would make a critical contribution to the growth of
Mexico's non-oil exports over the next three years. Taking experience under
the previous Export Development Project into account, it is estimated that some
75-100 exporters and 120-200 indirect exporters would benefit from PROFIDE
financing using proceeds of the proposed loan. In addition, some 50-75 export-
oriented enterprises, including up to 15-20 hotels catering primarily to for-
eign tourists, would borrow under the project's fixed investment component,
FIFE. The provision of both pre-shipment working capital and fixed investment
financing is expected to improve the utilization of existing production capa-
city and to modernize and expand Mexico's export production facilities. It is
estimated that growing non-oil exports will bring US$1.1-1.5 billion in addi-
tional revenues each year. Annual export plans of the firms expected to bene-
fit from loan funds are estimated to account for roughly one-third of the
country's non-oil exports during the project implementation period.
89.    The Government's ambitious growth targets in non-oil exports would not
be possible without assuring "neutral status" for exporters and progress in
implementing a comprehensive export development strategy, institution-building,
and expansion and strengthening of non-financial incentives to exporters. The
proposed project has been designed to support actions in each of the above
areas. The Government's Letter of Export Development Strategy received by the
Bank in connection with the proposed loan spells out a critical timetable for
PROFIEX's implementation, focussing, among others, on financial instruments,
free-trade status for exporters, and other promotional measures. The Letter
also sets out institution-building goals, such as the strengthening of BNCE's
technical and promotional capabilities, including assistance to direct and
indirect exporters, as well as other measures required to streamline Mexico's
import-export procedures, including, in particular, modernization of the
customs systems, which is a prerequisite to the expanded use of the temporary
import mechanism by exporters.
90.    The proposed project's success would be measured by the effective imple-
mentation of the Government's export development strategy, and ultimately, by
the country's non-oil export performance. Growth in Mexico's non-oil exports
may be adversely affected by several factors, and four of those constitute
specific risks for the implementation of the proposed operation. First, the
Government may be slow or altogether fail in restoring internal and external
confidence, which may, especially if the exchange rate management were to be
inadequate, delay the economic stabilization process and discourage enterprises
from increasing their efforts to export. Second, a decline in the performance
of Mexico's external sector and a consequent reduction in foreign exchange
reserves may mount political pressures on the Government for continued protec-
tion of domestic industries and slow down the announced trade liberalization
process; these, of course, would help perpetuate the existing anti-export bias
of the incentive regime. Third, progress in improving institutional and admin-
istrative arrangements affecting exporters may be caught up in bureaucratic red
tape and fail to provide the assistance and non-financial incentives required
for overcoming the traditional inward-looking attitude of Mexican entrepre-
neurs. A fourth risk--which in no way could be controlled by Mexico--would be
a rising trend in trade protectionism in Mexico's principal trading partners.
Finally, demand for pre-export financing, particularly the willingness of
exporters and indirect exporters to borrow in foreign exchange, may affect loan
commitments.



- 26 -
91.    The Government's commitmeit to economic stabilization and the consistent
management of its stated exchange rate policy over the last 10 months served as
a basis, together with recent budget cuts and investment deferrals, for the
recently concluded discussions with the IMF regarding an 18-month Stand-by
arrangement. The ensuing program is expected to act as a successful catalyzer
for economic recovery in 1986-88. Policy and administrative measures already
taken by the Government and actions for completion of the phased trade liberal-
ization process, as well as the continued promotion of non-oil exports, are
expected to provide effective support to the project's objectives. Institu-
tional arrangements, in particular the strengthening of BNCE and enhancing its
role in trade policy decisions, would, together with the above mentioned Gov-
ernment commitments and policy actions, reduce the probability of unsatisfac-
tory non-oil export performance. In addition, a comprehensive review process
during project implementation would afford the Bank and the Government an
opportunity to consider additional policy and administrative measures in a
timely manner in order to deal with any of the risks that may have material-
ized. The above export promotion policies and measures will be complemented by
Government's efforts to assist Mexican industries in their adjustment to policy
reforms and structural changes. The recently approved Industrial Recovery and
Industrial Technology Development Projects would help strengthen the financial
position, restructure and expand the production of industrial enterprises, and
support technology development at the enterprise level. The export policy and
administrative measures and institutional arrangements, combined with the
authorities' efforts in the area of industrial restructuring referred to above,
would enhance the success of Mexico's export development strategy so that the
probability of the risks facing the project is acceptable.
PART VI - RECOENALTION
92.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
December 19, 1986



ANNMX I
Page I of 3
FACT SHEET ON THE MEXICAN EXTERNAL FINANCING PACKAGE
Maturity/
Anount     Grace      Interest
A. Commercial Banks                         (US$ Bnr)  i(YFear
1. New Honey
(a) Direct Syndication                   5.0 11    12/5   LIBOR + 13/16
(b) World Bank Cofinancing 2/            1.0       15/9   LIBOR + 13/16
2. Contingency Facilities 31
(a) Invetmuent Support Contingency       1.2        8/4   LIBOR + 13/16
(b) Growth Contlngency 4/                0.5        12/7   LIBOR + 13/16
3. Modification in Payment Terms of Existing Debt
(a) Pre-1983 Debt437                               27 LIO    136
(Previously Restructured)           437        20/7   LIDOR + 13/16
(b) Debt Contracted in 1983/84           8.55      NO      LIBOR + 13/16
Change
(To be restructured on
4  Private Debt (FICORCA)                  11.2    terms comparable to the
restructuring of public
debt).
(The minimmu level to
5. Interbauk Credit Lines                   5.2    be maintained until
June 30, 1989)
B. Other 1986/87 Financing
1. TF
Stand-by Facillty (18 months)        SDR 1.4 (about US$1.7 bn)
Oil Price Contingency                SDR 0.6 (about US$0.7 bn)
2. World Bank 5/                            2.3
3. IDB                                      0.4
4. Japan 6/                                 1.0
5. Paris Club 7/                            1.8       10/5
6. CCC                                      0.6
Note: Total net additional resources to be made available co Mexico under
the package (including Paris Club rescheduling and contingencies)
for 1986/87 amount to about US$16.2 billion.
1/ To be reduced by amount saved by Mexico in 1987 as a result of lower
spreads on old debt and shift from Prime to LIBOR, negotiated as part
of the overall package (estimated at about US$300 million).
2/  B-Loan cofinancing with World Bank transport sector loans. A
non-acceler able World Bank guarantee for USS500 million Is being
negotiated.
3/  In lieu of oil price contingency proposed by IMF.
4/  Has US$250 million in World Bank guarantees.
5/  Includes net present value (NPV) of the two Worid Bank guarantees of about
US$180 elllon (face value of US$750 million).
6/ US$250 million in cofinanclng witb the World Bank Trade Loan, US$250
minllon for steel projects and US$500 million for the Pacific Petroleum
Project.
7/ Reschedaling of 1002 of the principal falling due through the first
quarter of 1988 and 60% of the interest payments falling due through
the e" of 1987.  Interest on rescheduled debt to be fixed bilaterally
on the basla of "appropriate market rates."



ANNEX I
onnm-ugfutmuwwi mtmrno                                                                    Page 2 of 3
mlfl  mU                    milat turn 11151. 0  ilium~~~~~~~4cs                                              41         0^ =I Om laI                                          0 
U                                U.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 123.11   lb.!)   1111.141  lmLi    U.31  01311   31.01    I.L11  .31.411    8.33  L6  'Loa    A.01            11.1W    mU.4   lOIN"   l01.1
iL    U Ifi mm                                12?     -i       4.*      I.0     -Ltl   -'.#      u.S       .1*   -H         lt --                         .                      .-  1    9L     -L.U    -1.12
U?'                                                  tl    is.!   all."   lI11s.9    1thf   10.31   113.011  ILOI  Zllaa6    1.61             s..11   t.eu8    Ij610.a ta                   10  lot.m   im.o
lUSt  -lu. Wu                                 a. il           l-       Si.?    3.l    umI   ltD            Lb.1    1oaT     My1      LIZ3    iou   -i#.oo      L.0              S."u    11.80    *.le      tO
Ists  is.L  US                               LII    till4  U23.91   .1    39.31   lisa7   mLa            11.,     ma2    eP         is9    tIAl    Lit    '.21                 -.S      I:K    1f13    *11.4
u        mm ra                                .1s4   -LU      -LU2    4.18       l.fl    t1i.ll    W      13.141  FIX      U1.N         -                                       A.l      -.Z      La    U."
WMin                                         Mu3   I1t?.!?   142.0   1n."1411e1S  011.11   lOin1  131.6   041.36  tS4S               m.31    LW       4.U11    LI?7            to.it    '?.:I   II.sZ     It
m m                              u.n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L    Wo.3    u."    N1A  43LN    21.11    C."     .na1    ns.   ft.2    ci2     t       -'.,A    u.s1             :2-s       1,    tout1   ato
namM    WIn                                  WA      *8.14    CIA4    41100.8    0u.oi    O1n   41621   ILk31   Ito    31ini    1.18    Iea,    -1.II   tees                    it."     E.su    ::.:    nh
IV  tiEi  to=                                -1.18    -Z.64.1          4.141  -t1.U3   411.18a   4622    -LWF    -Lw4       -111 HA 10 1 t.1t    :.o           tG.              -I-Il   -*.41    4-1i1   -La1
mu,1. omit                                   Il.lt   31.1    SYUb    tII        as4     nLS      an t.11N  u4.1   Za        1.0       . i-l    .01    24 .      .ul    iim      10 2l-lI   11.11           L.1
smiami                                       11.11   1.8 II    LI Lb  18. 16.i           8.L4    11.21   ILI1I   ILlS   IlM          La5      LOu     Lio    *.0o               1.2:    ta3       u.s     9.4
ll&AIWhlI a in                                .1     606      e. t      a -4 *941 I'     7u.01    Mb.3     ?Lfl7     1t    1.31   u.11  LU1    9.U    -:.ou0   es6             -rg        ix              11.*
fibs                                         go.o6 TA 11111ui.3    S.C   181.11   161.3   15*I  lIte41  to3."    1.01                LI6      1.81    a."4     eel4            I1.r    ,o.:l   SE    IL"
[Wu". YTM                                       S0      WM1     11     YAP3    NM?    lilt     1110     OM           IEU       21nl2
du      oft   ION        Nil    lilt      Itm        4111   Ion      "S      IS11
liUNinlall                        ill~~~~~~~~~~    x 5?   li2e   law0  H11   sup1    M"e    "A3    aim    Ims
(VIlE   C                         1W~~~~~~~~~~~o  201  Si"l    110   noI    ISOe    3M          MI    no        an
a-oct. mars                                  I=    EV    FM  IsemI   mm   on    cu   SWa   4a   rip
wan,  am                                       11l1   bm        nilf    214201   21149   1118  01MD    ?ll          mm       MIR
ffts~~~uI~~~g            UN      101     mis   14101    15411   h~~~~~~~~~Ilts   15013  lOllowa   inn
Sc    If                               [MS  Roil  anl    M    om   U"9  M"   us   uS"    a
MIR mum 1135.10
am  PON  IM!                               sl.      401.4   tlLU    1195*    OLD    "IsI  ib.          11 EL    ILO    121.1
M mitS                                       mui   aun  tam   128.1  lTwo  o-Lu  misl s1tsm                        wali pate
~mu                                     r3.4l   tIC      NtA      34.l    h-S0   iNsO   ta0    amL    ML.  A VI
ateR OL gm  nIAnM It rl'
S    maimU                                  IL"    N3.E    MI,         mat1    tO.       u.s    2t1    22.1   2n.m    U.s
S t limIt                                10056  14uil1  ILE       1t.9l    MAll    21,21   UN-l    h-N1   ILK0    19
swilk                       4.11LSt Lis      t..   4.U        -LU      -1.31   -1.80    -LU~  -iLS       61.1
(VIlE. INIUMr                                8.3    lest0   1.0*    112    11.11         Li9    LU-       SJO    1.1  1I.e0
*ic? mUll                                   -2.0 7p            11    -lEVI6  -1r.66   -0.30   -4L        4.0.18  -18.80    -LAIII
wM      altQ  -alp tiltE
S hMariln 000 W                                     .a    1741,4    ZLIs   1.I5U4
S I t   M       0 5 1 .                        .     1 1   . : 41  tI L 7  [ V. "4  21 ,.1 1 1,E
cAL in    t .f       o         i                -     L  i   I LM      MLII    30.33il
OiL ints StEW?                    -  '.21~~~~~~~~~~L 14.1* 12.39  LZ.1                                                                         10.1
SW      -   1.24  tiE   7.42  LU                                                                                      LU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14
altvim i-                                            180      MD.4    PL9.8   200.21                                                                         ILe
0133                              .    110~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7W1 iL8   Z57.28   218.17                                                               7.7
am                                             .   IO.o   1143.3  M1212.   =21.31
Slfltn                                       0.14    L204                      P.M5    LU                          Lip1                      Loi    3.20                               115       1.18
noon                                         6.01     0.1*                     am.1    3.11                       -LX                       lt.18    01118                            tN.U    111.12
MIlls                    7.11     0.10                     03.10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aL  U.s      a.eS                      14.      u.n6                             im.      it
"Mt                                          way1   21.01                     to..   OWN                          LIT                       11.22    LII                              IlLS01   180.0
U1 im Fit aimj M0N i              to a  cSUEStu  miam On FK        fi VoLa
a,  a       a  is3 IFNOII UK EOl  M. iWN S    lI) "" 111.0  113M"11'.             a
maimsWIU   IA
a.m VP. mmmun or rne. M gmt UMol



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
UL  6        ,  m_131.365 m31sV  'ei ii
__1.6l                       .m  _m=          __is
~~~~~~~~v ~ ~        ~             ~            ~           ~            u zu.  *1  o a1eo
imumi  agjggw  Wjb               232      9936~~~~~~~i  2m    3442  226        121S     3*24    36361     *332    316I
low& IIOIW  IM                       11      1"is   am        MN      1.06      tlU          I1    1s07    Ion         ,^
11311L                                         -a1*5    -3137   -231 m              3962    1411    19        nE         Ms      U3u
31116  IN=                                      .49    -343    -46        -16    -IP*       -p       -94      -K3      -1T13    -me
11    11 Pn_3                                 *29    -1        -3m       4361    -3212  -3639    -,m1 -61*    93      -US    -3a14
03l    "    I  ULM                            -321    -416    -n2    -144    - l    3324              42        Sol   -343      -34
nnR Blowl UNrN                                  in    M    I               lip  ILa           W            "I   "I    m               %
flx  I1361 11 1311a. IV                         29    36l  46               W    an-  2               II3    1           1 ID 4
o119613                                       "1        33a     46K      112"    1271*     4        all    91         *212  393
nww                     *               nm    O im i    a%   no zum   AM 1291
14  l31                                          -        -      -2in      -1                1463      2N *              **      -931I
gm3 CWITL                                       113      32       25 ms            4161    4-3l   -AM         -4e      -2          4
a 1t 4611     t-.3W6                           -i6       -13*    -i62      -W       413    -4*6      -,3       22       -3      -116
3111-6                                           4F -               r6    1-- -
immno         um ONS
PAI  ML 3    Ll. C_
356.     33      614   362.1   6   331.96   7149.3    371436   9.46
is                      ... .z:                                   ...~  2 ... ;    ...                     . ......... ...
gm   -VTLILiLIIL                                                                          611            4I
--11  .IU,11613.                            132.46   123.4     3.3   29.3   366.2   429.36   44.3
131361 1a.96   2*33    96."   *11.6  IILI.   224-7    29r3 1
-=3LM                                         16.4 6   3.3 m     33    23 9.411 3.2            4   201.3 1
." a lot si                       _           r       s           r.sn ilc   zrlX EZ 
1I.IC 131    IC"I m     0 133              1I4.3  326.4  1373            4233  36."   9*13.  9* 3 r3                                                                 [B1OW. KDT
3161 1    P3311al 11.4    133.76  4669.16 .3  332.9  3163.96  2666.3   3L3
P31   UP3? SE1393E i611                      * 92.46  IL3.     1614.   6391.   93.    954.76  99  .21473.                                                            aM111. 31. 3963
--         low ;I116   E318 W                                                                                                                      IC A S LI.
PILIC KIT SEWlVI  IUD          Z         L2J   Z.LI       32.61   2.34    35.6    3*.*         12.13     3.3                                   115                             11L3     P61
in                                      DA    L11
36E3  IE  OF PUBLIC 31  t537I6                                                                                                                 ClW 1F. 3 142    14.3S
..  1313mI5 S I 11W -16f 9R1                 7.0          I 1137 6   143.       14.35   13.61    11.2b    I                                 6     1                                36          .34
N... M .                                           .
4. no1w  1116W in1 U1                         -     4.9   9.9  L66   49    L.4    L2                          .
115                                                                                                                                    SlW                                   1ri6    199.39
365 ElIP_ 
a.  16 .LL6       L .1 .31161               ILJ3      9.0      4.3 3 .14          L35      4.a      4.      5L.
4.  1I1 KI S316     M1      CF               7.JS     7.36      3.a1     Lus      3.6 La    .4      341  L        .23
_ZIDI 3E13635
I1  IL3 FI 33 61            1111101   M  .2    ID   _ltC D    71. 4 6 1.
21  S          61 3OI L a I E      514.299 M  M6511l..ll -.
--- 313 3IU E W          II. *  M  D      t 
mo 1. 19%



U11 II
PFp I of 2
STATUS OF BANK ISOUP OPEKATIOKI IN MEXICO 1/
inm.mmm.uu.mmmUmm mm. m... mm.....................  -U U
A. Itstement of lonk Leans (As ot September 30, 100B
FlearL                                                 Amount Lose        Und1r-
Lean No.   Year    Borrwe-r         Purpose                       CanceLLations    burred
oe Loans fuLty disburand                       4,100.73
170B-5    1379       MAFINSA        Irrigation                          12.00         37.40
1712-5    13g0       MAFINSA        Industry                           175.00         11.29
1B20-u     1350      NAFINSA        Be/Ned Miming                       40.00          7.59
1O05-S    1930       NAFINIA        Irrigetton                         100.00        125.87
I100B      Iai       MAFINSA        Irrigation                          23.00          0.77
113       1331      EAMOIRAS       water Suppty                       125.00         4D.02
1313       loll      EANOIRAS       HatLwaey                           150.00          0.12
1345       13B1      NAFINSA        Notnted Agri1ulture                204.10         67.43
1364      t131       BANPEICA       Port Oevelopmont                     4.51          0.01
log0       1331      EANOBRAS       Urban Development II               184.00         98.49
2043       1S51      NAFI11A        Integrated RureL Dew.              175.01         35.53
1100       1o33      NAFINdA        Integrated Rehab II                 35.00         55.11
2149       lUll      NAFINSA        Capital goads Industry             152.30         39.43
9114       13o1      NAFINSA        PolLutin Coatrel                   25.00         11.15
2101       13BS      IAFINSA        an Fernrnde Agrie                   43.40         tS.45
1104       less      IANOIKAS       Urban Engineering                     3.20         5.53
1202       13BS      NAFINSA        Agriculturel Marketing             115.00         59.11
2231       13le      SAMOUNAS       Third Water Suppty                 100.30         71.07
R2at       1O3S      NAFINlA        Third Om/Ned Industry              175.00         25.11
2lii       133S      BANCONEXT    Expert Oevelepment                   3S0.00        183.71
2423       11O4      BANOBRAI      NHighways                            00.00        113.15
2450       1034      BANPEJCA       Ports                               73.30         35.57
2510       1335      NAFINIA        Chiapas  ural Read*                 22.00         19.95
2513       1335      NAFINMA        Chiapas Agri* Oem.                  30.00         33.7B
2548       1335      NAFINSA        Sm/Nad Seelt  ininlg ZI            105.00         15.70
2559       1935      NAFINMA        Vocational Education                31.00         B8.11
2575       1335      BANO8RAS       RaiLtuay  V                        200.00        267.30
2810       1930      NAFINSA        AgricutturaL Credit                180.00         84.54
2611       1911      BANOIRAS       Low-Income %ousing I               150.00        135.41
2653       lose      NAFIN          Proderith 11                       109.00        102.08
1305      ltos       BANR08AS       Earthquake  aeh-b.                 400.00        359.75
280B       Igoe      BAN08RAA       Munctpeta Strengthening             40.00         37.98
2889       lose      BANOBRAS       Sotid Waste PiLt                   25.00         22.10
2745 3/   1187       EANCOMEXT    Trade Policy Loan S                  500.00        500.00
2741  S/   1337      NAFIN          IndustriaL Recovery                150.00        150.00
2747       1937      MAFIN          TechnoLogy OeveLopaant              48.00         48.00
TOTAL                                           8,980.3S
Of which has been re-Aid to the Bank           1,911.62
Totat now outstending                          7,078.76
Amount soLd                  39.34
Of which so bean repaid   33.34                     .O0
Totat now hetd by Bank  2/                     7,078.75
Total undieburead                                            3097 .04
1/   The status of the preJa-ts  Listed In Part A Is in a superetad report on
att lank/IDA tinanced projects In *xeeut10n, which Is updeted twice yearLy and
circulated to the Executive Directors on ApriL 30 and October 31.
2/   Prior to exchange adjuat-ente.
3/   not yet effective.



A II
Page 2 of 2
D. -teomet% of UPS sEaeetmsasseeof  sepember 36t. 15SD
------------------------------------------- Use *ttlen ---------
Year              OWbtlie                      Type *f Business                 Luau      Equity        lnteL
1355/US    Industriem Perfoet
C1rela. S.A.  1/                 Induatrial Equipment              0.0                      0.0
less       Irlatel da HXates, N.A.  1/          A.C. Engine Overhaul              0.5                      0.5
13s        ALeere Solear  S.A.  1/              Twtst DriLl                       0.8                      0.5
1Sve/8I   Co-pe-te Fundideor  F1orre 1
55/5        oee   da Nonterrey, G.A. 1/  StasL                                 3.5         31.4         38.7
less       Tubes de Aeora da Heenie,
G.A.  1/                         SteeL                             0.5         0.1          1.0
lSSS       Luimi-a del Hay. G.A.  1/            Bedams Sulphate                   0.7                      0.7
18/4fS8    Industrie dSt Mierre, G.A. 1/   Conetruction Equipment                             3.5          3.O
1370       Hinere del Herta, l.A.  1/           Iron Ore Mining                   1.5                     1.
1371       Celenes Neziosna, l.A.  1/           Textiles                         12.0                     13.0
1872       Preaetore de PapaL Periedicee,
S.A. de C.V.  1/                 Pulp and Paper                     3/          e/           3/
1373/71    Cements Veracruz. SA.                Ceaent                           15.S                     1S.8
1974/S1   Cenoun Arietes Hotel                  Tourism                           1.0         D.3          1.3
1375/7S    Hazing:. l.A.                        StBeet                           12.0         3.3         15.
1075/S1   Pepel-e PenCeress,
34          B.A.                              Pulp end Paper                  10.7          5.0         15.7
197a       Tareftelat   Mexicenee, B.A.         Petroohamloele                   13.0                     1S.0
13703/4   Cementee Toltece, B.A. 3/             Cement                         1SS.0          7.9        175.3
1371/51    Hotel C-minD Keel Ixtepe,S.A.    Toursme                                           5.1          3.1
1373       Conduotoree Monterrey, B.A. 3/  ELectriomt Wire  Csbls              10.0                      13.0
ISog       Industriese Reiatel. G.A.  3/   Pertioetoberd                         20.0                     35.0
ISao       Vidria Plane de
Mexieo  B.A. 3/                  FIt Il-se                      114.3                     114.S
19S3       Miners Reel de AngeLes,
B.A. de C.V.  S/                 Mining                         110.0                     110.0
1991       Celuleosoue  Centaure, B.A. 3/   Pulp end Paper                      53.5 5-.5
*131       Corporecion Agreiuduetrial
B.A.  3/                         Agri-Businese                   11.3          3.0         14.3
13984      H-teles. B.A.                        Motor Vehicles I
Aces-sories                   '.0         1.4          4.4
1984       Capitel goods Facility  It           Industrial Equipment           109.0                     100.0
19Se       Proteison                            Cotton  se-d Ftour               3.0          0.8          2.8
1395       Primso  3/                                                           15.4                      16.4
1083       Celulase  y Pepst de Durango,
B.A. de C.V.                     PuLp end Paper                  10.0            .1 a1 1.
Totat Bross Commitments                                             715.7         50.1       765.3
Less Cancellatione, Terminatione,
Repayment, and Sales                                            53 .7         33.5        *23 2
Total Commitments How Held by IFC                                   116.0         2  S.      142 .
Total Undisbureed (incLuding participante)                           15.3          *.S        33.0
1/  Investments which have been fully cenc-lled, turainated. *ritten off,
sold, redoeeed or repe1d.
2/ U8b25,O00.
3/  gross commitment incLuding emounts sold to pxrticipante.
LCINXsIFCOPER
ElArev Lo 10/14/8U



ARnME III
MEXICO
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by Country to Prepare Project:    About six months
(b)  Project Prepared by:                           Banco Nacional de Co2ercio
Exterior
(c)  First Bank Mission:                            April 1985
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                November 1985
(e)  Negotiations Completed:                        September 30, 1986
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                April 1987
Section II: Specaa Bank Iplementation Actions
Disbursement of US$17.5 million in the PROFIDE Special Account and US$5
million in the FIFE Special Account as loan effectiveness and related disburse-
ment conditions are fulfilled.
Section III: Special Conditions
Amendment of the PROFIDE Operating Regulations to allow financing of
indirect exporters and trading companies and satisfactory contractual
arrangements between the Government and BNCE, the Borrower, for passing on loan
funds would be special conditions of the proposed loan's effectiveness
(paras. 71 and 76).



ANNEX ILV
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPFENT PROJECr
Past Bank Assistance for Export Development
1.     Following the establishment of the US$100 million pilot PROFIDE Fund
under the Bank's Capital Goods Industries Development Project (Ln. 2142-ME) in
April 1983, the Executive Directors approved a US$350 million Export Develop-
ment Project (Ln. 2331-ME) in June of the same year, to help Mexico recover
from the financial crisis of 1982 and overcome the chronic foreign exchange
shortage. While the pilot PROFIDE fund had the single objective of providing
urgently needed foreign exchange to exporters, the Export Development Project
had the broader objectives of supporting the formulation and implementation of
the Government's export development strategy, including policy reforms, im-
provements in administrative procedures, strengthening of the institutions and
delivery mechanisms of financial and non-financial services to exporters, and
carrying out a program of studies for defining subsequent phases of Mexico's
export development strategy. The lead agency under the project was BNCE/
FOMEX. In addition, loans for fixed investments in industry and tourism were
channeled through FONEI and FONATUR respectively, two specialized Trust Funds.
2.     Loan commitments and disbursements were slow initially because of the
availability of highly subsidized local currency financing, but the subsidy of
these competing sources is being phased out according to the terms of a bilat-
eral U.S./Mexico trade agreement. In addition, the preparation of annual
exoort plans--required under PROFIDE-ran into some difficulty, because firms
were unwilling to share with public sector agencies what they perceived to be
confidential internal information. In 1984, PROFIDE's Operating Regulations
were adjusted, making loan funds more attractive to exporters, and FONATUR
overcame initial difficulties in implementing Bank-style projects. Since then,
over 80 exporting firms have obtained working capital financing, supporting
annual export plans in the order of US$1.25 billion and importing an equivalent
of US$550 million, which in 1985 accounted for 20% of the nation's non-oil
exports and 5% of total imports, respectively. The bulk of Bank financing sup-
ported eight large parastatal and private manufacturers in steel products,
fertilizers, petrochemicals, chemicals, and auto parts, which reflects the cur-
rent high concentration of Mexico's non-oil exports in these sectors. In addi-
tion, the project's fixed investment component (FIFE) supported over 30
manufacturing and agro-industrial firms and 12 hotel projects.
3.     Following the September 19, 1985 earthquake, the Bank amended Ln. 2331-
ME on a temporary basis, allowing up to US$52 million to be used by exporters
for earthquake rehabilitation investments, under virtually the same terms and
conditions as the FIFE subloans. So far, US$30 million have been committed to
help restore the telephone network installations for international calls.
Virtually the full loan is committed at this time, and disbursements amount to
US$175 million, accounting for 50% of the loan amount. It is expected that
loan funds would be fully disbursed by mid-1987.



AN     IV
Page 2 of 2
4.     The project contributed to an intensive and continuous policy dialogue
between the Bank and Mexican authorities regarding export promotion and trade
liberalization. It helped to clarify the role of indirect exporters and trad-
ing companies; rationalize the official export financing programs under the
umbrella of BNCE/FONEX; and conceptualize improved export credit insurance and
guarantee schemes. The temporary import regime was modernized and expanded,
and foreign exchange controls were operated in a manner to maximize the amount
of foreign exchange exporters could freely utilize from their own earnings.
With the Bank's help, Mexico strengthened the linkages between working capital
and fixed investment financing of exporters under PROFIDE and FIFE, respec-
tively.
5.     In addition, through PROFIDE, FOMEX financing facilities were expanded
beyond the manufacturing sector, making all exporters eligible, regardless of
ownership structure and sectoral specialization outside the petroleum sector.
Under FIFE, fixed investment financing became available to tourism enterprises
generating foreign exchange, as well as to "maquila" industries.  The Bank loan
was also successful in supporting the institutional development of BNCE/FOMEX,
FONEI, FONATUR, as well as the commercial banks, thus strengthening the finan-
cial and non-financial incentive framework for exporters. In addition, it
financed key studies of export promotion, effective protection, trading compa-
nies and export consortia, and the Customs procedures. A seminar on foreign
trade in July 1985, vhich was widely attended by Mexican and international
specialists, was also organized with Bank assistance.
6.     In summary, the first Export Development Project achieved its major
objectives in the policy, administrative/institutional, and financial fields.
BNCE and FOMEX have particularly benefitted from the Bank's assistance, as both
institutions have matured considerably over the last three years, improving the
capabilities of their technical departments; rationalizing and expanding their
financial programs; and significantly contributing to the ongoing national
dialogue in respect of trade reforms and non-oil export development.



AWn   V
Page I of 11
00CO
SECOND KIPORT DEVEWPMHDT PROJECT
GOmERoU{XT SThTEKET OF EXPORT DEVELOPMENT POLICY
(English Translation of Spanish Original Letter)



ANNI V
Page 2 of 11
Mexico, D.F., Mexico
December 1, 1986
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
Washington, D.C. 20433
Through this letter, we would like to inform you of the major
directions and measures tho Government of Mexico has adopted in economic and
trade policy, particularly regarding promotion of non-oil exports.
Economic Policy
The Government of Mexico has instituted an economic program that
focuses on growth and the pursuit of structural reforms. Two basic principles
have guided formulation of the economic strategy proposed for the immediate
future:
(a)   a return to sustained growth of the economy, in a climate of
financial stability; and
(b)   introduction of the measures needed to resolve internal and
external disequilibria and foster efficiency in the economy.
Within the framework of these basic prirnciples, the strengthening of
public finances is a major program component, since it can help abate
inflation, reduce oressures on interest rates, and increase the resources
channelled to the private sector. Accordingly, the Government is following a
policy of reviewing the structure of taxation, prices and tariffs, and public
expenditure, wlth a view to achieving greater efficiency in resource
allocation.
./.12



ANNE V
Page 3 of 11
As part of the campaign to rationalize Government finances, the
Mexican auLhorities will intensify their efforts to promote structural change
in the parastatal sector via the sale, merger, and/or closure of non-priority
and non-strategic public enterprises and by raising the efficiency and
productivity levels of those that do have priority or strategic status.
It is also the intention of the authorities to continue their
flexible interest rate policy so as to ensure competitive returns on domestic
savings and foster better utilization of financial resources.
Development banks and official development funds will continue their
operations under supervision, while the preferential interest rates they grant
will be made available selectively to users engaged in high-priority
activities.
Exchange rate policy will continue to be applied flexibly, so as to
protect Mexico's competitive position abroad, strengthen its international
reserves position, and facilitate liberalization of trade policy.
Restructuring of Mexico's external debt was a major element in the
attempt to alleviate its general debt problem and restore its external economic
relations to a normal footing. However, the steep fall in the price of oil and
the uncertainty pervading the oil   rket have increased the country's borrowing
requirements substantially, while curtailing its access to voluntary lending.
The necessary steps have been taken to fit the economy to absorb part of the
"oil shock," but resources from abroad will be needed to cover the financing
shortfall expected between now and late 1987.
Such resources will be earmarked for support of the policies the
Mexican authorities are taking, with the objective of restoring economic growth
and ability to meet external payment obligations.
By institutiing appropriate aggregate demand policies and structural
adjustments on the supply side, the Government is attempting to increase
domestic savings and improve resource allocation, so as to strengthen the
balance of payments in the medium term.
Over the last four years, a selective policy has been followed to
encourage foreign investment, particularly in the spheres of non-oil exports



AMU  V
Page 4 of 11
and technology transfer, within the present legal framework. Similarly,
further measures will be taken to simplify the administrative procedures
associated with initiating and obtaining approval of foreign investment
projects and to increase the flow of external capital toward pre-selected
sectors.
External Trade Policy
The National Development Plan (PND), the National Industry and
Foreign Trade Development Program (PRONAFICE), and the Integrated Export
Development Program (PROFIEX) all focus on the external trade policy objectives
of balancing, expanding, and diversifying Mexico's trade relations through a
steady increase in non-oil exports, together with judicious efficient
substitution of imports. They also make explicit the strength of the
Government's political will to effect structural reforms in the external trade
area that will replace an import-substitution orientation with a strategy of
export promotion and greater external competitivity. Under this strategy,
foreign trade becomes the driving force of the Mexican economy and the
instrument for achieving improved levels of production, employment, and foreign
exchange earnings.
To achieve these objectives, measures of a structural nature are
being taken in two areas of Mexico's foreign trade. Firstly, there has been a
continuing determined rationalization of protection, designed to expose
domestic industry gradually to increasing competition from abroad. Secondly,
promotion of non-oil exports has been intensified so as to ensure their
profitability over the short, medium, and long terms-a promotional effort that
is to be permanent, so that this sector may provide increasing coverage of
Mexico's import needs and debt-service obligations.
Rationalization of Protection
In view of the commitments to economic reorganization and structural
change that the Government has undertaken in its national and sectoral plans,
it proposes, as already noted, to continue the process of rationalizing
protection levels. This will be achieved by gradually replacing prior
licensing requirements with tariffs, restructuring tariff protection, and
eliminating official prices, once the mechanisms directed against unfair



Ala= V
Page 5 of 11
foreign competitive practices are in full operation. One of the overall
purposes here is to open up the economy gradually, without exposing domestic
production to the effects of a sudden withdrawal of protection.
This policy of rationalization of protection means eliminating
excessive protection and anti-export bias, and correcting resource allocation
patterns, thereby providing greater economic rationality to the system of
protection. As a result also, the import tariff system will reveal the extent
of protection more clearly and guide with greater efficiency the decisions of
producers and consumers.
Consistent with the guidelines and objectives, the Government's
political will to gradual rationalization of trade protection was demonstrated
in 1986. With the adjustments introduced in October, the number of positions
in the General Schedule of Import Duties (TIGI), where prior licensing
requirements bave been replaced by tariffs, was brought to 7,540. This
represents 92% of the Schedule, or 70Z of total imports.  At present, only 638
tariff positions remain subject to controls.
ln order to give these measures greater weight, the tariff structure
was adjusted to remedy inconsistencies in the levels of protection afforded
production. Similarly, April 30, 1986 saw the launching of a tariff reduction
program on a 30-month time horizon, with changes to be introduced over
intervals of 10 months, the intention being that it should lead to a tariff
schedule consisting of only five duty rates in a range from 0% to 30%.
Furthermore, over the course of the year, approximately 200 official prices
have been eliminated from the Import Tariff Schedule.
The Government's efforts to create a stable and trarsparent legal
framework for external trade represent another facet of the guidelines, goals,
and criteria by which protection is to be rationalized. Of key importance are
the Regulations issued pursuant to the Foreign Trade Act and published in the
Official Bulletin of November 25 last. Since they define the operational
mechanisms and procedures for investigating unfair foreign trade practices,
they limit discretionality in decision-making, and will eliminate instances of
disguised excessive protection.
On November 15, 1985, in order to underscore the stability and
consistency of its external trade policy, Mexico began negotiations for



ANNE V
Page 6 of 11
accession to GATT. These were concluded with the Working Group on July 1,
1986, whereupon the Council of Representatives recommended to the Contracting
Parties that they approve the terms of accession. Accordingly, on August 24,
Mexico became a Contracting Party to the General Agreement.
It is important to note that Mexico will soon begin the process of
adhesion to the Codes relating to subsidies and countervailing duties,
antidumping, valuations for customs purposes, import licensing procedures, and
technical barriers to trade.
Export Promotion
The Integrated Export Devd:Ioprnevt Pr.gram (PROFIEX) of April 1985 is
a mechanism for coordinating economic rp I.cy instruments ttat foster non-oil
exports.  PROFIEX strategy consists iii: cmoJdinatiOg inlLauments and policies;
integrating goals, actions, and methods '^f suipport; and evaluating and
monitoring results. In practice, export promotion serves as the point of
confluence for macroeconomic and sector policy goals.
During PROFIEX's first phase:  the system of import duty rebates to
exporters was updated and improved; Lhe decree promoLing Temporary Import
Programs for Exports was put into effect; the Import Schedule for Exporters was
issued; financial assistance was streamlined and expanded; a more flexible
attitude was taken to foreign investment likely to generate export activity;
the export promotion effort was intensified; steps were instituted to simplify
bureaucratic procedures (e.g., by eliminating licensing of most categories of
export goods); and a more dynamic stance was taken in international trade
negotiations.
On March 17, 1986, additional export promotion mi:aasures to be
implemented through PROFIEX were officially announced. Sonme came from the
agency's own drawing board, others were adaptations of new instruments to the
Mexican context, while still others were responses to specific concerns voiced
by Mexico's own export community. Overall, these measures provide conditions
of free trade for Mexican exporters on a par with' those enjoyed by their
counterparts in other countries, and aim to:
(a)   provide support for exporters  -- iS ot  rust;



AIRKI V
Page 7 of 11
(b)   broaden the coverage of this support by extending it to
indirect exporters;
(c)   eliminate the bureaucratic and legal obstacles that so often
impede foreign trade; and
(d)   streamline and reinforce coordination with enterprises and
production sectors to develop, expand, and consolidate possible
export potential.
The measures adopted consist of a wide range of actions, which may be
summarized as follows:
A.    Financial Support
BANCOMEXT provides credit through its programs in support
of pre-shipment, export operations proper, import
substitution, imports of spare and replacement parts, and
industrial equipment.
-     Introduction of the domestic letter of credit to provide
financial support for indirect exporters.
-     Financial support through the Fund for Financing Fixed
Investments of Export Enterprises (FIFE).
-     Financing of working capital in pesos or other
currencies.
-     Introduction of the FOMEX-COMESEC Joint Guarantee and
Insurance Policy.
-     Transfer of the -1.6% line- financing program from the
Bank of Mexico to BANCOMEXT to fund exports of primary
products.
Agreement between BANCOMEXT and FIRA to cooperate in
financing exports of agricultural and agroindustrial
products.



AlfI v
Page 8 of 11
B.    Assistance and Facilities for Utilization of Foreign Exchange
by Exporters
The exchange control system has been modified to allow
exporters to apply up to 100% of their foreign exchange
earnings to the cost of future input imports, without
providing guarantees.
Deductions will also be available to exporters against
their commitments to sell foreign exchange earned to the
Central Bank, in amounts equivalent to downpayments on
future input imports to be made by their suppliers or
companies with which they themselves are affiliated
through capital holdings.
A study is being made of a possible mechanism to give
exporters and importers short-term coverage of their
exchange risks on foreign currency operations due for
settlement at a future date.
C.    Fiscal Support Facilities
Tax liability of trading companies on export value added
to be zero-rated.
D.    Modification of Temporary Import Regime
Reduction of the cost of fiscal guarantees.
Where applicable, authorization will be given for final
import of products, provided the import duties chargeable
on any imported inputs incorporated in these products are
paid.
Approval of optional change of status from the assembly
industry regime to temporary import regime.



AM=X V
Page 9 of 11
Means will be developed of facilitating temporary import
arrangementst connected with indirect export activities.
The temporary import regime will be linked to the
domestic letter of credit so that indirect exporters can
time their temporary imports in a more efficient manner.
E.    Customs Facilities
-     Exporting companies may designate representatives with
powers of attorney to act for them in connection with
their shipping operations.
-     Review of the scale of charges governing services
provided by registered customs agents.
-     In-factory customs clearance for some export companies.
-     Blanket revolving guarantee on temporary imports.
-     Export of goods valued at up to US$5,000 allowed on
simple declaration of value.
F.    Support for Trading Companies
Modification of legal framework governing trading
companies.
Financial support through the Program for Financial
Support ("Programa de Apoyo Financiero," PAF) on the
basis of direct billing or endorsement of invoices.
With the encouragement of these measures, there has been a
significant increase in Mexico's non-oil exports over recent years, despite a
falling off in growth in late 1984 and early 1985. In the first seven months
of 1986, non-oil exports increased by 30.2%.



ANNEX V
Page 10 of 11
The package of measures adopted is beginning to show results.
Nevertheless, in view of the Government's clear commitment to implement
structural reform of the economy to Improve its integration and competitiveness
abroad, it is essential to continue the adoption of further measures and
actions to foster exports, particularly of manufactured goods.
The Government regards the promotion of export activity as one of its
preeminent commitments. It is conceived as a permanent exercise to channel
national efforts and make them more productive and efficient. It demands
unremitting attention to sound organization, efficiency in the use of
resources, and simplification of administrative procedures. Accordingly, the
idea for PROFIEX, from the very beginning, was that it should be a process of
continuous refinement and enhancement in the light of a constant interchange of
ideas and experience with the country's production sector.
With this in mind, the Government, either directly or through the
entities and agencies involved, will aim in the immediate future to:
(a)   Introduce an appropriate and extensive scheme for guarantee and
insurance arrangements to cover the pre-shipment activities of
final and indirect exporters alike. This scheme is expected to
be operational by December 1987;
(b)   Deepen and consolidate the FOMEX-COMESEC Joint Policy, so as to
establish an efficient system at the earliest possible date;
(c)   Improve and simplify administration of the Temporary Import
Regime for Exporters;
td)   Establish a computerized system for customs transactions by
December 1987;
(e)   In 1987, establishment of an appropriate national information
system on product demand in international markets will be
initiated; and
(f)   Continue efforts to improve the system of tax rebates on value
added by exporters.



ANNX V
Page II of 11
Additionally, the Government's policies recognize that the results
obtained through PROFIEX depend not only on the success of specific export
promotion measures, but also on the coordination of mac.roeconomic and sector
policy instruments. Therefore, exchange rate policy will aim to provide a
climate of confidence for those engaged in production for export. Similarly, a
continued concerted effort will focus on rationalizing trade protection, so as
to improve tha productivity of domestic plant and prevent the attraction of the
domestic market from undermiling the effect of export production incentives.
1s/                                        / s/
Lic. Luis Bravo Aguilera                    Lic. Francisco Suarez Davila
Under Secretary for External Trade              Under Secretary for Treasury
and Public Credit



Table 1: INUOD - kaCALUf   Wt!S a PXIQ   U8DWIZ Da GE oNz            *e     1970, 1974-46
(US$ MilllUia 3Tiweer*)
1970      1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       19i0        1961        19U         1963        194        1965         9
195       i"6
1. Total Herdvalse 6&,oru         1,289.6    2,853.2    3,062.4    3,655.5    4,649.8    6,063.1    8,759.2    15,307.5    19,419.6    21,229.7    23,312.0    24,054.0    21,835.1    14,399.3    9,94.9
A.       ral a                   36.4      123.1      437.8      539.9      903.4    1,773.6    3,764.6     9,878.4    13,829.7    16,100.7    15,143.2    15,196.0    13,3U.7    9,519.A    3,15.1
3. Tt=l Gb-tol
8. Tot  iFl rolaS              1,251.2    2,730.1    2,624.6    3,115.6    3,746.4    4,289.5    5,033.6    5,429.1    5,589.9     5,129.0     7,168a      6,6m.0    8,5m2.3    4,579.7    5,93U
Ulkroiaed Paterials
(rWoltuz, Uwst&             622.6     854.0      892.3    1,175.1    1,312.6    1,500.9    1,778.6     1,545.5     1,460.9    1,233.3     1,186.5     1,461.0     1,3.2          -
l FLehiq)
p"etr' o  Il                 184.1      376.0      2D7.6      209.3      217.0     212.5      317.2       495.3       677.2      501.6       523.7       536.0       514.4        -          -
Pufeactuweu                  444.4    1,499.8    1,524.5    1,729.6    2,125.1    2,574.0    2,936.0    3,362.9     3,4V.3      3,3S6.1    5,447.8     6,843.0     6,65.l         -
1Lm l1m1                       -          0.4        0.2        1.7       1.6        2.0        2.0         5.3         4.4        6.0         4.8         1.4        4.1         -          -
11. TaLwm (Met)                      223.6      450.5      354.3     412.5      470.5      602.0      750.5       626.2       184.5      618.2      1,183.2    1,307.1        -           -          -
111. lorIer Tractilz (Net)            221.9      397.2     335.9      419.6      714.9      731.6      673.5       592.7      933.8       183.6        37.3       191.0        -           -          -
TV.   vitfn  f    Traefofetion        82.9      375.1     332.4      365.6      344.6      452.3      637.6       773.4      976.3       851.3        18.4     1,155.3        -           -          -
S.arc  bar de Ibio; Seretariat of PfgI ng dA   ttizn.
0U
0
'3
-n



Table 2: MEXICO - MANUFACTURED EXPORTS, 1975-85
(US$ Millions Equivalent)
1975    1976   1977   1978   1979  1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985*
Manufactured Exports, Total              1,525   1,730  2,125  2,574  2,936 3,383  3,427  3,386  5,448  6,843  6,685.1
Food, Beverages, and Tobacco               455      531    638    737    799   770    679    707    725    822    747.1
Textiles, Clothing, and Leather Goods   168         182    180    189    209   201    181    150    191    275    207.1
Wood and Wood Products                       26      36      51      73     72    58      59      52     82      98      91.4
Paper, Printing and Publishing              40       62      64     67      74    86      81      78     75      97     99.1
Petroleum Derivatives                       26       16      39     25      96   4i7    611    261    738  1,244  1,351.1
Petrochemicals                               16       8       5     64    113   117    133    116    136    161    106.9
Chemicals                                  205      236    241    250    335   395    457    441    628    756    676.2
Plastic and Rubber Products                   7       9      16     20      20    21      23      26     44      65      50.3
Non-Metallic Mineral Products               62       82    140    156    136   129    125    140    210    289    315.3
Basic Ferrous Metals                        48       54      92    137    132    71       64    112    319    378    246.0
Basic Non-ferrous Metals                    123      87      85    136    146   121       70    378    562    510    403.2
Metal Products, Machinery and Equip.    326         399    542    680    755   938    894    888  1,663  2,075  2,300.2
Other Industries                             22      28      32     40      47    48      50      36      75     74      91.2
* Preliminary Estimates
Source: Banco de Mexico
0q
LCPI2
October 1986                                                                                                                         0
_q C



Table 3:  MEXICO - EXPORTS/IMPORTS OF nIF   LGMST' PUBLIC ND                      Pa     NE   Vt1I
PRIVATE SECTOR EfolTIN  vINM  IN 1984                          g
CUSS Mltlon.)
Neas of Fir.                    Exports         Imports
1.  Petroleos Mexicanom                      16,496          1,228
2.  U. Mactonal Productores Hortalizas          358              4
3.  Met-Hex Penoles, S.A. de C.V.               3;9             14
4.  General Motors de Hexico, S.A. de C.V.    272               11
5.  Instituto Mexicano del Cafe                 252              0
6.  Volkovagen de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.          201             37
7.  Chrysler de Mexico, S.A.                    198             02
8.  Industrial Hiners de Mexico, S.A.deC.V.   162               30
9.  Mexicana de Cobre, S.A.                     147             20
10.  Celanese Mexicana. S.A.                     112             34
11.  Azufrera Panaericana, S.A.                   84              2
12.  Carplastica, SA.                            79             42
13.  Petrocel, S.A.                               74              4
14.  Siderurgica L. Cardenas Las Truchas, S.A.  61              152
15.  Induscria Fotografica Interamricana          59             37
16.  Tereftalatoo Mexicanos, S.A.                 58              9
17.  Exportadora de Sal, SA. de CV.              55              8
18.  Altos Hornos de Mexico, S.A.                 54             31
19.  Copa nia Occidental Mex., S.A.  de C.V.      51              0.9
20.  U. Ganadera Regional Chihuahua               48              0.2
21.  Rassini  hoeem, SA. de C.V.                  46             11
22.  Vitro Flex, SA.                             46              8
23.  IBM de Mexico, S.A.                          45             87
24.  Quimica Fluor, S.A. de CV.                   45              2
25.  Transuisiones Equipos Mecanicos              42             26
26.  Rylsa, SA.                                  42             44
27.  Tuboe de Acero de Mexico, S.A.               41             65
28.  Fertilizanteos Mexicanos, S.A.               39            116
29.  Celulosa y Dertvados, S.A. de C.V.           39             24
30.  Rules Mexicanos, S A.                        36              4
31.  Fibras Quiuicas, SA.                        36             12
32.  Cemencos Anahuac del Golfo, S.A.             35              1
33.  Fabrim-r, S.A.  de C.V.                      35              0.6
34.  Nissan Mexican&, 3.A. de C.V.                33              3
35.  Cit  'acional de Subsistencias Populares   32            1,735
36.  Volkart Heruanos 8ex., SA. de C.V.          31              0
37.  Cordeoex, S.A. de CV.                        31              0
38.  Pronociones Industriales Hex. ,S.A.deC.V.   30               3
39.  Fundidora Monterrey, S.A.                    29              6
40.  Polycio, SA. de C.V.                        27              2
41.  Nenak, S..                                   27             15
42.  Coupania Miners Autlan, S.A. de C.V.         26             20
43.  Tabacos Mexicanos, SA. de C.V.              26              0.3
44.  Corporacion Const. Camp., SA. de C.V.       25             15
45.  Federacion Regional S.C.I. Pesq. Cent.       24              0
46.  Dia Kouatsu Nacional, SA. de C.V.            24              0.8
47.  Industrias Xerografic a, SA. de C.V.        23             36
48.  Industries Monterrey, SA.                   23              6
49.  Industries Negromex, S.A. de C.V.            23              4
50.  Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A.               23             66
Subtotal        20,144         4,058.80
Z of Total Exports             0.84           0.36
Source: Secretariat of Conserce and Industrial Develop_uDt.
LCPI2
January 1986



ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 15
Table 4: MEXICO - PERCENTAGE OF EXPORTS GOING TO THE U.S.A. FROM
THE TWENTY-FIVE LARGGEST EXPORTING FIRMS
Exports        % Going to
Name of Firm                 (US$ Millions)    the U.S.A.
1.  Petroleos Mexicanos                       16,496             52.0
2.  U. Nacional Productores Hortalizas           358            100.0
3.  Met-Mex Penoles, S.A. de C.V.                339             73.0
4.  General Motors Mexicano, S.A. de C.V.        272             98.0
5.  Instituto Mexicano del Cafe                  252             57.0
6.  Volkswagen de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.           201             20.0
7.  Chrysler de Mexico, S.A.                     198             76.0
8.  Industrial Minera Mexicana, S.A. de C.V.  162                50.0
9.  Mexicana de Cobre, S.A.                      147                 _
10.  Celanese Mexicana, S.A.                      i12             58.0
11.  Azufrera Panamericana, S.A.                   84             82.0
12.  Carplastica, S.A.                             79            100.0
13.  Petrocel, S.A.                                74             n.a.
14.  Siderurgica L. Cardenas Las Truchas, S.A.  61                40.0
15.  Industria Fotografica Interamericana          59             33.0
16.  Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.                  58             n.a.
17.  Exportadora de Sal, S.A. de C.V.              55             n.a.
18.  Altos Hornos de Mexico, S.A.                  54             88.0
19.  Compania Occidental Hex., S.A. de C.V.        51             76.0
20.  U. Ganadera Regional Chihuahua                48            100.0
21.  Rassini Rheem, S.A. de C.V.                   46             91.0
22.  Vitro Flex, S.A.                              46             65.0
23.  IBM de Mexico, S.A.                           45             n.a.
24.  Quimica Fluor, S.A. de C.V.                   45            100.0
25.  Transmisiones Equipos Mecanicos               42             87.0
1/ Not applicable.
Source: Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Development.
LCPI2
January 1986



Tle 5:   a0D -        S AS A P1N           CF SIUM (FM UL., 1964)
Total Swa    TOWa SuI          Expors/
Type of  r_k As       uk In                                                                            Ta San (In pow)              (In USO        (In US5)       SLIM (Z)
1im    Kvorar        S.1                     Mm o Fnim                        NHjor PrcAa
1964           19g3           1964            1984          1964
e       1.0           I      Fatrolin Hadc                                Petrolae               4,019,206.1    2,492,700.0      16,496.5       21,703.3         0.8
IP       3.0          15      )pt-Im  ean        S.A  de C.V.              t1idt                    88,159.0       66,096.0          339.1          476.0         0.7
H 4.0                 5      CGnral lator  de Hdco, S.A. de C.V.          AtIw                     156,636.3       72,675.3         272.2           A6.9         0.3
11      6.0           9      VollkwAn da lidoo, S.A. de C.V.             h& wtin1e                 117,639.9       59,158.8         201.2          636.3         0.3
H       7.0           6      Quysl.r de ?ldco. S.A.                       htctie                   149,956.4       61,793.1         198.7          809.B         0.2
IF       8.0          DI      lmtrial1    ds,  e   ed, Sl.. de C.V.        Hin"U                    54,346.0       44,461.0          162.5          293.5         0.6
iP      10.0          11      C    P.jms H      dc,                        %Matiles                 102,807.0      59,272.0          112.1          555.1         0.2
XP      13.0         51       petro1 l, S.A.                              PMtgoucals                22,953.0        14,726.0          74.2          123.9         0.6
E      14.0          29      Sidn*rgics L. Car     _ L  Trud s, S.A.      Iron &S.tuul              39,059.0       21,618.0          61.1          210.9         0.3
E       18.0          7      Altos Hum  de  xIod, SA                      Tzx & Steel              178,713.0       62,151.0          54.2          749.0         0.1
E      21.0          95   h a"in  Re, SA. de C.V.                         A" PFt                    11,483.5        5,927.8          47.0           62.0         0.8
1      23.0          37      III de INzim, S.L                            E1ectraic                 32,994.8       19,573.2          45.8          178.2         0.3
IP      26.0          12      Hyl"s, SlA.                                  Irn & Stl                102,762.6      57,923.3          42.0           554.9         0.1
E      27.0          24         ade Am de Mdo, S.A.                       Iru & Stei                46,268.1       26,000.7          41.0          249.          0.2
IP      29.0         41       Xlulos  y Deimt , S.A. de C.V.               Cauls                    30,917.1        19,609.1          39.5          166.9         0.2
E      30.0         61        Hd.    ,         SA.                        hatzr & Plastics          IB,644.7        9,643.0          36.7          1W.7          0-4
U7      31.0         50       Fnr  Qd.c, SA.                               TtI1.                    24,143.7        13,39.4           36.0            D.4         0.3
IP      32.0        117       G t  Andue  dil Golfo, S.A.                   ra                      28,440.0        20,587.0          35.9          153.6         0.2
H      34.0          21      Niasm Ha    lnu, S.A. de C.V.                Autet                     60,734.0       28,873.0          33.5          32J.0         0.1
1      35.0           3        Qca lHdci1 de &UhitoLaa iopilnm             oIpd                    319,661.6      172,423.5          32.9        1,727.2         0.0
IF      36.0         67       Pkcol a      imtriala       Hi, S.A. C.V. Pat- cua                     12,743.0       5,094.2           30.3           68.8         0.4
E      39.0          25      nircdm   yItAris,  JLA                        L  4 Steel               45,057.0       24,961.0          29.2          243.3         0.1
1P      40.0         64       Pollcyo, S.A. de C.V.                        RIdr A Pl.tJ.s            13,110.6       6,782.6           27.2           70.8         0.4
41.0        162       1k, SJ.                                     Auto Par                   6,263.3        3,133.6          27.2           33.8         O.B
IU      42.0         59       C qade   lm   Autlm., S.A. de C.V.           HIZIM                     19,234.0       13,491.7          26.7          103.9         0.3
IP      43.0         35       Cip1oe Is Ta,%aialm rhx1ca, SA. de C.V. Tobc                          33,268.3        13,465.8          26.0          179.6         0.1
H      47.0          31      Xzhbatre 1erqfim, .A. de C.V.                Ocwr Hbd. bIntrrle    3S,037.0           26,444.0          23.5          205.4         0.1
IP      49.0         49       L-Antrim 1Npx_, S.A. de C.V.                 Olzcal                  25,532.7        12,665.3         23.2           137.9         0.2
IF      50.0         19       Kiabarlyaxk di s       , S.A.               Iqr                       65,173.0       37,195.0          23.0           351.9         0.1
U7      51.0         97       Yen,rth lticiu, S.AL de C.V.                 AutomtlAe                11,XD.2         2,699.8           22.5           61.0         0.4
IP      52.0        116       Q4uta del May, SA.L                          Olca1                     9,653.6        5,196.8          22.0            52.1         0.4
53.0        164       A    fot,w, S,A.                            Aito lUt                   6,233.8        2,486.4          20.3           33.7         0.6
54.0        22D      iMutrias    icw         rraigu, SSA. de C.V.  Eleotdos                  4,682.0        3.790.0          20.3           25.3         0.6
IF      57.0         154         H     y PFodtin (4dLa', S.A. de C.V.  OhLca1s                       6,640.0        5.470.6           19.0           35.9         0.5
E      58.0          17      Aeromv  de    o, S.A.                        Truwrt                    74,604.4       48,60.6           19.0          402.9         0.0
IF      59.0         149      ftRts %hftlare s  io1.a, S.A. de C.V.    ?btal Ptducts                 6,734.6        5,014.6           18.5           36.4         0.5
IP      60.0         38       C4arria lbkcti_, SJL                         Bwerage                  31,773.8       32,668.2           17.9          171.6         0.1
61.0        171      Olympa de dIco, S.A.                         Ielernam                   6,044.8        4,527.8          17.7           32.6         0.5
IF      65.0         22       Irdmtrl  linstol, Sl.  de C.V.              ChpicaL                  55,84.0        34,327.2           16.7          301.6         0.1
IP      67.0         94       Vldrien Iterrey, S.A.                        GIs"                      11,527.3       7,606.6           16.3          62.2          0.3
69.0        183      Hg1lett-pedark   de Ousdalajars, S.A. de C.V.  Electrodi                5,596.7        3,101.0          15.6           30.2         0.5                           I
IU      73.0         69       CeaJ ftpo,  ".A  de C.V.                     Ribbr and PlFtlsr         16,516.0       8,405.0           14.8           E9.2         0.2
1l     76.0          10      Ford Hotor C     , S-L                       Auttive                  114,393.0       54,0K1.0          14.4          617.7         0.0
Total                                                  18,854.2       33,404.3         0.6                          I  0
hial (bdtht PnE)                                       2,357.7        11,701.0         0.2                          O"
I,4
1:  E - huata                                                                                                                                                                                         4
1Y - Privte Firm
H - 4ltlmtlsmul
Sourowi leczetad  of Gro  md Inutrual lawlpmt.



ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 15
Table 6:  MEXICO - IMPORTS/EXPORTS UNDER THE TEMPORARY
IMPORT REGIME, 1983-85
(USS Thousands)
1983       1984         1985
Exports                           839.3      1,292.3      1,447.7
Imports                           863.9      1,123.4      1,562.9
Intermediates                     393.7        725.7          -
Capital Goods                     411.2        345.           -
Consumer Goods                     59.0         52.5          -
Z of Total Imports                103.0         87.0        108.0
to Exports
Z of Intermediate Imports          47.0         56.0          -
to Exports
Source: Banco de Mexico.
LCPI2
October 1986



ANNEX VI
Page  7or 1
Table 7:  MUXI(O - NATIONAL BANK FOR FOREIGN 7RADE'S (RICE) BALANCE UEET
(Mex$ Millions)
Balance Sheet - Assets         1981        1982        1983        1984         1985
Cash and Banks                     937        4,787      17,474      21,946        46,526
Investwents                        686        1,449      12,003       4,995         9,985
Loans                           96,231      237,969     454,243     667,121      1,404,967
Receivables                        955       24,898      44,959      66,623        143,442
Other Assets                       580        1,057       1,925       3,982        10,531
Total Assets                    99,389      270,160     530,604     764,667      1,v15,451
Balance Sheet - Liabilities      1981        1982        1983        1984         1985
Sight Deposits                   5,240       27,469      44,769      58,006        83,926
Term Deposits                    2,355        4,957       8,001       8,983        35,245
Banks                           88,227     233,034      469,734     670,583     1,435,629
Payables                            12           29          84           7        14,146
Other Liabilities                  728          871       1,971      11,283        25,197
Total Refinancing               96,562      266,360     524,559     748,862      1,594,143
Capital                            600          618         618       9,000         9,000
Reserves                         1,667        2,267       3,595       3,858         8,060
Current Profit                     559          916       1,830       2,947         4,248
Total Capital                   2,826         3,801       6,043      15,805        21,308
Total Liabilities               99,388      270,161     530,602     764,667     1,615,451
Source: National Bank for Foreign Trade (BNCE).
LCPI2
July 1986



ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 15
Table B:  NXCO - NATIONAL BRNK FOR FOREIGN MMADE'S (BNCE)
PROT AND LOSS STATEIWI
(Mex$ illions)
Profit and Lose Statement         1981       1982        1983         1984         1985
Interest Earninp                 12,419      29,055      53,359      94,724        129,038
Comission Earnings                    0           0           0           0              0
Total Eadnings                   12,419      29,055      53,359       94,724       129,038
Interest Expense                 11,019      27,381      49,367      85,441        116,103
Other Financial Expenses              0           0           0           0              0
Total Expenses                   11,019      27,381      49,367      85,441        116,103
Net Interest Income               1,400       1,674       3,992       9,283         12,935
Service Income                      132         236         543       1,154          3,016
Service Expense                       S           2         302          87          1,026
Net Service Income                  127         234         241        1,067         1,990
Other Income                         98         825         143         (514)          164
Gross Margin                      1,625       2,733       4,376       9,836         15,089
Personnel Costs                    462          609       1,039       2,711          4,009
Non-Personnel Costs                 100         549         514        1,307         2,783
Total Costs                         562       1,158       1,553       4,018          6,792
Net Income before Taxes           ',063       1,575       2,823       5,818          8,297
Taxes                               504         659         993       2,871          4,049
Net Income after Taxes             559          916       1,830       2,947          4,248
Source:  National Bank for Foreign Trade (BNCE).
LCPI2
July 1986



ANNEX VI
Page 9 of 15
Table 9: MEXICO - NATIONAL BANK FOR FOREIGN TRADE'S (BNCE)
COMMITMENTS BY TYPE OF LENDING PROGRAM,
1983-85
(Mex$ Billions)
1983        1984         1985
Pre-Shipment/Export                73.1       198.2        360.9
Imports                           91.6        149.7        214.4
Import Substitution                11.6        23.5         96.8
Industrial Equipment               18.0        11.7         30.1
Other                               6.9       140.9          0.0
Financial Agent                   36.6         84.6         92.2
Total                            237.8        608.6        794.4
Source:  National Bank for Foreign Trade (BNCE).
LCPI2
October 1986



ANNEX VI
Page 10 of 15
7h1a 10:  W=1m  -   g    AND DV     FDWI=  BY PI1/
Pc-dpwtSIM                                     %on                           Ttl
Year
Per Yewr    Bln         Per Year    blahce       PerYer Y1ew   a          Per Yew      Blm
1964           0           0           57          53            0           0           57         53
1965           0           0          127         130            0           0          127         130
1966          50          24          346         251            8           8          404         283
1967         165          40          470         335            5           7          640        382
1968         183          63          679         489            8           9          870        561
1969         234          87        1,166         727          10.4        107        1,504        921
1970         399         132        1,523         872          161         153        2,083       1,157
1971         500                    1,900         861           21         144        2,421       1,225
1972         758         288        2,440       1,085          111         184        3,309       1,557
1973       1,245         530        3,152       1,320          129         236        4,526      2,086
1974       1,292         378        5,055       1,813           65         241        6,412      2,432
1975       1,302         406        5,193       1,753          150         321        6,645      2,480
1976       2,654         712        7,418       3,874          196         427       10,268      5,013
1977       5,174         946       12,287       5,160          309         562       17,770      6,668
1978       6,997       1,323       13,281       6,681          653         736      20,931       8,740
1979       9,860       2,379       17,538       7,332        1,740       1,529      29,138      11,24A
1980      10,652       1,732       24,072       7,534       12,619       5,612      47,343       14,878
1981      13,415       2,689       37,835      12,227       23,543       7,737      74,793      22,653
1982      21,577       4,788      129,781      43,471       28,249      12,249      179,607     60,508
1983      59,903      19,360      164,983      80,571       34,628      14,708     259,514     114,639
1984     107,927      24,997      303,924     114,493       42,669      17,846     454,520      157,336
1985     203,092      56,786      458,507     254,546      120,723      51,133     782,322     362,465
1/ Eund for the De1 lop5ent of Exports of Marufaccreld Goods (FCMEX)
Scaree: N3tioxal Bak for Foreip Trade (ENCE); MEL
ILPI2
Octcber 1986



ANNEX VI
Page 11 of 15
n11:  mm  - m              MIAD mm  FmEG Br 5 uW 1I
Pre-Mpgzt                   Sales             Taqxrt-&"e~tation                Thaul
hr Thu       hJan        Mr kar       h1an        Fr Thr        blam        Per Sr        IA
1964            0           0          100          100            0           0          100         100
1965            0           0          100          100            0           0          100         100
1966           12           8           86          89             2           3          100         100
1967           26          10           73           88            1           2          100         100
1968           21          11           78           87            1           2          100         100
1969           16           9           78           79            7          12          100         100
L970           19          11           73           75            8          13          100         100
1971           21          16           78           72            1          12          100         100
1972           23          18           74          70             3          12          100         100
1973           28          25            70          63            3          11          100         100
1974           20          16           79          75             1          10          100         100
1975           20          16           78           71            2          13          100         100
1976           26          14           72          77            2            9          100         100
1977           29          14           69           77            2           8          100         1O0
1.978          33          15           63          76            3            8          100         100
1979           34          21           60          65            6           14          100         100
1980           22          12           51          51            27          38          100         100
1981           18          12           51           54           31          34          100         100
1982           12           8           72          72            16          20          100         100
1983           23          17           64          70            13          13          100         100
1984           24          16           67          73            9           11           OD0        100
1985           26          16           59          70            15          14          100         100
1/ Ftxd for the Iqelopt of Mqpou   of Mdumcared Goods (FE=)
Saor: htixitl Bak for Fbmi8p             (M3C); RIC.
oe12
toe  1986



ANNEX VI
Page 12 of 15
Table 12: MEXICO - GUARANTEES BY FOMEX1I/
(Mex$ Millions)
Guarantees
Year
Per Year     Outstanding      Paid      Recovered       Net
1964           13              11           1           0           1
1965          44              47           0            1          (0)
1966         153              99           0            0           0
1967         181             148           4            4           0
1968         117             162           0            0           4
1969          88              153          1            1           0
1970         123             174           0            0           1
1971         213             215           7            3           4
1972         346             178           0            4           3
1973         196              189          1            1           0
1974         402             354           0            0           1
1975         511             432           0            0           0
1976       1,042             859           0            0           0
1977       2,431           2,207           0            0           0
1978       2,757           3,164           0            0           0
1979       2,118           2,914           3            3           0
1980       2,932           2,950           0            0           3
1981       3,101           2,818           1            0           1
1982       8,419           8,536           4            2           3
1983      21,000          20,164          75            1          77
1984      28,341          16,433         231           85         221
1985      23,923          14,800        n.a.2/       n.a.2/      n.a.2/
1/  Fund for the Development of Exports of Manufactured Goods
2/  Not applicable
Source:  National Bank for Foreign Trade (BNCE); FOMEX.
LCPI2
October 1986



AINEX VI
Page 13 of 15
Table 13: mEXICO - FOMEXI/ FINANCING BY PRODUCT
Product              1980        1981       1983         1984
(Mex$ Millions)
Food and Beverages            5,234      7,030       28,784      43,984
Textiles and Leather          4,564      5,005       12,954      28,711
Wood Products                   969      1,406        8,564      12,118
Paper and Printing              809      1,325       3,738        5,934
Chemicals                     9,926     15,180      48,715       77,815
Plastics                        317        780        8,788      26,250
Minerals                      1,534      4,658      26,013       41,521
Iron and Steel Products       3,613      4,724      34,319       76,788
Machinery                     3,208      4,264       15,021      28,287
Transport                     1,029      1,588       7,919       22,262
Other Products                3,406      4,819      23,526       36,023
Exported Services                74        280       3,588        3,526
Financing of Consortia           37         94        1,553         841
Total                        34,720     51,153     224,482      404,060
(Percentage)
Food and Beverages               15         14           13          11
Textile and Leather              13         10            6           7
Wood Products                     3          3            4           3
Paper and Printing                2          3            2           1
Chemicals                        29         30          22           19
Plastics                          1          2           4            6
Minerals                          4          9           12          10
Iron and Steel Products          10          9           15          19
Machinery                         9          8            7           7
Transport                         3          3           4            6
Other Products                   10          9           10           9
Exported Services                 0          1            2           1
Financing of Consortia            0          0            1           0
Total                           100         100         100         100
1/ Fund for the Development of Exports of Manufactured Goods
Source: National Bank for Foreign Trade (BNCE); FOMEX
LCPI2
January 1986



ANNEX VI
Page 14 of 15
Table 14: !EXECO - FOMWXI/ SALES FIKANCIN BY MESTINATION
Product              1980        1982       1983        1984
(Mex$ Millions)
North America                11,706     17,263      90,060      185,992
South America                5,920       8,005      19,960      29,973
Central America               1,207      1,532       5,692       7,693
Caribbean                      485         917       5,509      12,461
Western Europe                2,230      5,302      24,888       33,837
Eastern Europe                  402        411         334          356
Asia                          1,918      3,990      17,190      30,139
Middle East                      14          9         102          318
Africa                           65        186         597        1,981
Oceania                         125        219         651        1,174
Total                       24,072      37,834     164,983     303,924
(Percentage)
North America                    49         46          55           61
South America                   25          21          12           10
Central America                  5           4           3           3
Caribbean                        2           2           3           4
Western Europe                    9         14          15           11
Eastern Europe                    2          1           0            0
Asia                              8         11          10           10
Middle East                      0           0           0            0
Africa                            0          0           0            1
Oceania                           1          1           0           0
Total                           100         100        100          100
1/ Fund for the Development of Exports of Manufactured Goods
Source: National Bank for Foreign Trade (BNCE); FOMEX
LCPI2
January 1986



ANNEX VI
Page 15 of 15
Table 15: MEXICO - RESOURCES AVAILABLE UNDER THE 1.6 LINE OF CREDIT
Month         1981       1982         1983          1984         1985
(Dollar-Denominated Resources)
(US$ Millions)
January        278.7      423.7         44.4         26.9          24.5
February       301.4      423.5         40.7         24.6          23.5
March          283.1       423.9        37.2         25.1          23.2
April          277.8       421.3        31.5          24.4         23.0
May            286.4       427.4        27.7         24.3          22.9
June           299.7       427.1        29.0         24.6          23.5
July           320.2       414.3        26.1         26.3          24.6
August         328.8       416.5        24.7         26.6          23.7
September      347.3      308.1         25.5         25.1
October        363.6       156.1        25.7         26.3
Noyvember      393.0        86.3        26.4         26.3
December       417.8        55.8        26.3         26.8
(Resources in Local Currency)
(Current Mex$ Millions)
January                                6,163.0     38,175.8      71,490.0
February                               8,291.5     39,804.1      76,072.0
March                                  8,996.5     40,507.3      76,724.0
April                                  8,884.5     48,332.0      75,715.0
May                                    9,853.0     53,321.0      71,172.0
June                                  11,712.1     56,081.0      81,271.0
July                                  12,879.7     60,471.0      81,173.0
August                                14,044.3     59,913.0      81,125.0
September                   463.5     17,445.0     61,719.0
October                   1,820.1     20,356.2     66,375.0
November                 4,844.5      28,040.5     69,283.0
December                 5,668.0      33,610.6     71,064.0
Source: Bank of Mexico.
LCPI2
January 1986



ANNRM VII
Page 1 of 4
mEZICO
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Export Credit Availability and Interest Rates
1.     Mexico's banking system, which is comparatively well developed and effi-
cient, provides most basic financial services (export/import financing, payment
transfers, insurance, and guarantees) to exporting companies. However, the
financial coverage of exports has decreased in recent years, pointing at tight-
ening credit availability for exporting companies. The system of preferential
interest rates, designed as an export incentive, is making export financing
unattractive for the commercial banks and, thus, serves as an impediment to
improvements in the supply of financial resources.
Credit Availability
2.     Traditionally, Mexican exporters, particularly larger firms, have had
adequate access to both domestic and foreign banks to finance production and
sales of their exports. Prior to the 1982 crisis, foreign loans were abundant-
ly available--even to firms of medium size. Domestic financial assistance to
expo-ting companies is being provided through the Banco Nacional de Comercio
Exterior (BNCE), the Fondo de Fomento a las Exportaciones de Productos Manufac-
turados (FOMEX), the Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI), directed credit
schemes, and resources of the commercial banks.
3.     BECE provides short-term and long-term financing to exporters and
importers, and has emerged as the most important channel for resources of for-
eign export/import banks. Its programs cover financing needs of exporters
during pre-shipment and post-shipment, the import of raw materials and spare
parts, import substitution of products with a high value added content, and the
financing of in-bond industries. BNCE's loan portfolio comprises some US$3.2
billion, of which over 90% is dollar-denominated. Loan commitments in 1984
amounted to some US$470 million, of which about 31% were made for export
financing; 45% for the financing of imports; 7% for import substitution; and
the remaining 17% for other programs (Annex VI, Table 10).
4.     FOHEX, a Trust Fund originally established in the Banco de Mexico (BdM)
and later transferred to BNCE, is offering financing for pre-shipment, sales,
and import substitution, in addition to guarantees covering the country risk of
importers of Mexican products. In December 1984, FOMEX's portfolio amounted to
US$815 million equivalent; its annua'l commitments, mostly short-term loans,
totalled US$2.7 billion equivalent. Of this amount, US$642 million were com-
mitted for pre-shipment financing; US$1.8 billion for sales financing of Mexi-
can exports; and US$254 million for the financing of import substitution
activities (Annex VI, Table 11).
5.     FOOKI, established in 1971, provides long-term financing for the pur-
chase of industrial equipment, emphasizing exporters and their suppliers.
FONEI's total loan portfolio amounts to US$190 million equivalent (December
1984); its 1984 commitments totalled US$74 million equivalent. The number of



ANNX VII
Page 2 of 4
projects, and with it the amount of funds committed for this purpose, has
increased substantially over the last two years, in line with the general
upsurge of Mexico's industrial exports. In 1984, 57% of commitments under the
equipment financing program were for export-oriented projects, up from 34% in
1983 and only 14% in 1982.
6.     Directed credit schemes (i.e., the "1.2%-line" and the "1.6%-line") pro-
vide additional financial resources. The 1.6%-line finances the export of
"non-traditional primary products" to "non-traditional markets." Originally,
it was funded through commercial bank deposits. Today, however, it is a US$100
million credit facility in foreign exchange offered by the BdM to commercial
and development banks. Only some 30% of the line is actually being used,
because of the restrictive eligibility requirements applied by BdM. The cur-
rent portfolio of the 1.6Z-line is to be transferred to BNCE, thus the obliga-
tions of BdM would cease. The 1.2%-line obliges commercial banks to assign
1.2Z of their deposits to export financing--originally at subsidized interest
rates (paras. 12-13). At year-end 1984, the total amount outstanding under
this line was US$368 million equivalent. The larger commercial banks with a
strong position in the export financing market (BANAMEX, BANCOMER, BANCA
SERFIN) lend these funds directly to exporting enterprises; other commercial
banks with a weaker market position onlend the funds to FOMEX to fulfill their
lending obligation.
7.     The co- ercial banks' own resources appear to play only a marginal role
in export financing; the bulk of their operations (more than 90%) are being
rediscounted through FOMEX. As a result of the preferential interest rates
that are being offered, customers ask their commercial banks for FOMEX financ-
ing to the extent possible, using commercial resources only as a last resort.
8.     However, the demand/supply balance existing prior to the 1982/83 crisis
has been fundamentally disturbed. Financial resource requirements are increas-
ing because exports have risen substantially over the last two years. Although
the export performance deteriorated in the second half of 1985, balance-of-pay-
ments constraints, as well as limited internal growth prospects, will require
further export increases in the future, thus raising the pressure on available
financial resources. At the same time, the availability of financial resources
is becoming increas`.ngly constrained. Foreign borrowing, for much of the past
one of the most important sources for domestic and international activities,
has dried up almost completely as foreign banks are now only granting over-
drafts for transaction accounts of their correspondent banks in Mexico. Domes-
tic resources are being used to a substantial degree for covering the public
deficit, limiting private access to adequate export financing.
9.     As a result, export financing has become increasingly tight.  The
amounts available under the "1.2%-line", which are tied to the deposits of com-
mercial banks, have declined in relation to manufactured exports. The decreas-
ing export coveragel/ of the financing provided through the FOMEX system is
indicative for the declining resource availability:
1/ Defined as export financing divided by export volume.



ARMI VII
Page 3 of 4
Pre-shipment finaucing covered some 7X of manufactured exports during
most of the first half of the 1970s. Beginning in 1976, the export cov-
erage increased, peaking in 1981 at 16X. Because of the export boom of
the following years, however, the export coverage declined to only 9%--
despite an increase of almost 40% in real terms in the amount of
available financial resources.
Sales financing.  The coverage of manufactured exports through FOMEX's
sales financing program experienced even more pronounced fluctuations,
particularly during the last five years. During much of the 1970s, an-
nual commitments under the sales financing program covered some 28% of
manufactured exports, because the growth in manufactured exports was
matched by a corresponding growth of financial resources. In 1981 and
1982, the export coverage sharply increased to some 431 because availa-
ble resources increased in real terms, while the amount of manufactured
exports stagnated. In 1983-84, however, the situation reversed; while
exports sharply increased, the supply of sales financing fell some 33Z
in real terms in 1984. The overall level of manufactured exports cov-
ered by FOMEX pre- and post-shipment financing is below that for suc-
cessful middle-income exporting economies for which comparable data are
available.
-       3Guarantees have played only a minor role in the financial services of-
fered by FOMEX. In 1984, total guarantees represented just 21 of manu-
factured exports. In real terms, guarantees even declined some 22% from
1982 to 1984 despite the sharp increase in manufactured exports.
10.    Starting in 1985, the Government's tight monetary policies have imposed
additional constraints. Imposition of a marginal reserve requirement of 90Z on
deposits has effectively dried up the supply of resources for commercial lend-
i-5 and is probably particularly affecting export financing, given the higher
risks and complexities involved in this type of financing operation. The lack
of financial resources is compounded by the tightening liquidity situation of
many companies. The high debt burden which many companies face is resulting in
high financial costs and is increasing borrowing requirements. The interest
capitalization of the Government's FICORCA scheme, while helpful in the begin-
ning, is now coming to an end, and will exert its liquidity toll upon partici-
pating companies in the years immediately ahead. In addition, the grace period
of the rescheduled loans is running out, imposing additional requirements on
the cash flow of the affected companies.
11.    If Mexico is going to implement an aggressive export promotion and
development strategy successfully, a considerable effort on the part of the
banking system will be needed to increase the coverage of non-oil exports
financed. Financing of export activities will have to become an attractive
area for comercial banks which are now only marginally participating in the
total financing offered. of particular importance would be the mobilization of
commercial bank resources for exporting activities. However, the commercial
banks would only be attracted if interest rates for export financing would
increase.



AMNX VII
Page 4 of 4
Interest Rates
12.    Before implementation of the bilateral trade agreement with the U.S.,
interest rates under various export financing facilities (e.g., FOMEX
pre-shipment financing; "1.2-line" and "1.6-line") were lower than comparable
market rates.
-      Interest rates for pre-shipment financing have traditionally been
subsidized. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, FOMEX was charging a
fixed rate of 8%, which became highly negative once inflation picked
up. In 1983, FOMEX changed the fixed interest rate system to a
CPP-based system and began gradually raising the interest rate, which
reached 50% of CPP in 1985.
-      Under its sales financing program, FOMEX is now charging a rate of 6.6%
(dollar basis). Increasingly, FOMEX is using a reimbursement system
under which it reimburses to the bank of the importer the difference
between its own interest rate and the market rate in effect at the time
that the loan was made to the importer.
Financing under the "1.2%-line" is being made available at a rate of
CPP minus 5 percentage points, implying a loss for the commercial banks
making the loan, if compared against marginal funding cost. Lending
under the "1.6%-line," originally made at a fixed rate of 3Z, is now
being made at a rate of 50% of LIBOR.
13.    The 1985 bilateral agreement between Mexico and the U.S., however, now
obliges the Mexican Government to remove subsidies from all export financing
operations of Government-owned or Government-controlled institutions or
financial resources.  The agreement defines, in its current form, the
app] icable minimum interest rates as follows:
a)     For peso resources, exporters would have to pay, at leaet, an interest
rate equivalent to the higher of either: (i) the actual funding costs
of the financing institution (taking into account, however, only "Loans"
to tnat institution); or (ii) the average of the average cost of funds
to the banking system (ACF) and the Government-issued certificates
(CETES); and
b)     For dollar resources, exporters would have to pay an interest rate
equivalent to, at least, the actual funding costs of the financing
institution or the funding costs that the institution would incur if it
were to borrow funds in international capital markets.
14.    The difference between the current interest rate and the future refer-
ence rate would have to be removed in three steps by December 31, 1986. As a
first step, the Mexican authorities adjusted the interest rate of FOMEX's pre-
shipment credit line, by increasing the rate in January 1986 from 50X of the
ACF by an amount equivalent to one-half of the shortfall, with respect to the
rate agreed uder the agreement, as stated in para. 13 (a) above. Since then,
adjustments have been made quarterly to maintain the relative rate at the same
level, by adjusting to the current ACF and CETES rates. A final adjustment is
expected to be made by FOMEX in December 1986, in order to raise its pre-ship-
ment interest rates to a level equivalent to that required by the agreement.



ARNME VII(
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
SECOND EXPOYr DEVELOIPMET PROJECT
Financial Services to Exporters
Export Insurance and Credit Guarantees
1.     Export insurance and credit guarantees are being provided by FOMEK,
which offers insurance mainly for political risks; and COMESEC, which oifers
in'urance for commercial risks. FOMEX has been providing political risk insur-
anc- to Mexican exporters and their financial institutions for the past 20
years. The risks that are being covered include changes in import licensing
procedures of the importing country, foreign exchange inconvertibility, general
strikes, physical catastrophes, wars, and expropriation or confiscation of che
exported goods in the buyer's country. In addition, FOMEX offers separate
policies for losses caused by the refusal of a public buyer to pay and by non-
payment of a buyer because of insolvency or protracted default. FOMEX offers
policies tc both the exporter ("export insurance") and his commercial bank
("creeit guarantees").
2.     COMESEC, a majority privately-owned and -operated company, provides
global and case-by-case insurance policies to cover commercial risks, such as,
insolvency or protracted default of the buyer, or non-acceptance of the goods
as a result of the buyer's financial difficulties.  COMESEC charges a premium
of about 0.50Z-0.70Z for its services, depending on the assumed risk associated
with the policy. For its own risk analysis, COMESEC uses information available
at banks and professional credit information agencies in the buyer's markets.
COMESEC reinsures, with some 40 reinsurers, some 92% of its insurance liabili-
ties.  Ten reinsurers are COMESEC shareholders, 14 reinsurers are other MeUican
insurance companies, and 16 reinsurers are foreign insurance companies. In
early 1986, the Government decided to increase its participation in COHESEC:
BNCE is in the process of acquiring a 51% share in COMESEC, which would allow
it to unify the terms and conditions for risk coverage between FOMEX and
COMESEC and introduce a uniform insurance policy, covering both political and
commercial risks.
3.     To analyze the availability of export insurance and credit guarantees,
the Bank commissioned a study of EOMEX's and COMESEC's insurance activities
(June 1984). According to this study, all important export insurance and cred-
it facilities are available to interested exporting companies. However, the
study does suggest improving service quality and simplifying administrative
procedures.
4.     One Policy Insurance.  Currently, an exporting company requiring compre-
hensive insurance coverage for both political and commercial risks has to nego-
tiate and execute two different insurance policies: political risk insurance
has to be obtained from FOMEX; commercial risk insurance, from COMESEC. Ac-
cording to experience in most other countries, however, a "one policy insur-
ance," providing comprehensive coverage for all types of risk, can facilitate
the procedures for the exporter and save administrative costs for the insurance



AENK VIII
Page 2 of 5
institution. The Government, as well as the institutions involved, agree to
the principle of the "one policy insurance." The Government and BNCE have, in
fact, taken the first steps to unify and streamline the provision of export
insurance coverage. According to current plans, COMESEC would be responsible
for the issuing of the comprehensive insurance policy to the exporting company,
and it would continue to provide the commercial risk coverage. However, it
would issue the pclitical risk coverage in the name, and for the account, of
FOMEX. To unify policies and procedures, the Secretariat of Finance and Public
Credit has authorized BNCE, which is currently holding 10% of COMESECts capi-
tal, to increase its share to 51%. The remaining 49% of COMESEC's shares would
continue to be held by privately-owned insurance companies.
I1.   Insurance Requirements and Premium Policy.  FOMEX currently requires
that all of its borrowers obtain political risk coverage for preferential cred-
its and interim financing regardless of export destination. As a result, FOHEX
collects a high percentage of its premium for insurance coverage of exports to
the U.S. and other countries, with negligible political risk. Although this
insurance policy helps to accumulate reserves for losses incurred in riskier
countries, it also puts exporters to the U.S. and other low-risk countries at a
competitive disadvantage. A cross-subsidy would be justified only if the
implied disadvantage of U.S.-destined exports uere offset by the current or
potential gains in the export level to the riskier export markets. Therefore,
FOMEX should review its insurance requirements for U.S. exports to determine
whether the cross-subsidy is warranted.
6.     The above-mentioned consultant study contains further proposals of a
more technical nature that would improve insurance coverage for exporters.
These proposals i-aclude, for example, a clearer separation of commercial and
political risk coverage (currently, FOMEX also covers some commercial risks),
coverage of import license cancellations under FOMEX's post-shipment policy,
coverage of the shipment time, and the assignment of policy proceeds to commer-
cial banks that are financing the export operation. These issues could be
addressed in the technical assistance program of the proposed project, which
could help in the detailed design and implementation of the "one policy insur-
ance," the analysis and review of FOMEX's insurance requirements, and the
implementation of the above-mentioned technical proposals.
Product Development and Service Intensity
7.     Until now, exporting companies have received only limited assistance
from the commercial banks in designing suitable export financing packages, cov-
ering all financial and services needs. Typically, a customer would have to
define his own financial needs and then apply for the respective financial
product in his commercial bank. In particular, exporting companies complained
about the lack of assistance in the analysis of their export operations and in
the design of integrated service packages, covering all financial service needs
of the company, including resource requirements, commercial and foreign ex-
change risk coverage, payment services, and cash and foreign exchange manage-
ment. The lack of adequate services is especially severe in the cases of small
and medium first-time exporters, which have neither the expertise nor the
resources to define an adequate financial framework for export operations.



ANNXM VIII
Page 3 of 5
8.     In addition to the establishment of a forward exchange market, exporting
companies could benefit from other financial products and services, especially
in the merchant/investment banking area. For example, the intermediation of
joint ventures between Mexican exporters and foreign distributors, hholesale
companies, or retail chains could help in product design, adaptation of foreign
technologies, and international marketing of domestic output. The intermedia-
tion of long-term currency swaps between joint venture partners or for foreign
investors that are interested in setting up an export venture in Mexico could
facilitate foreign investment. The usage cf subordinated debt instruments,
especially conditional loans to first-time exporters, could provide additional
incentives for export ventures.
Financing of Indirect Exporters
9.     Making financial and non-financial export incentives available to all
Mexican producers participating in the generation of value added for exports is
one of the important innovations to the export incentive framework introduced
under PROFIEX. Io this effect, BNCE has, under the technical assistance com-
ponent of the first Export Development Project, contracted a task force orga-
nized by the Mexican Institute of Technological Research (IMIT) to explore ways
to enable indirect exporters' access to FOMEX financing and other export incen-
tives. IMIT issued, in August 1985, a progress report on the structure of
financial support mechanisms for indirect exporters ("Estructuracion de
Mecanismos de Apoyo Financiero a Exportadores Indirectos").
10.    According to this report, a Domestic Letter of Credit (DLC) would be
issued by the direct exporter to the indirect exporter "back-to-back" with the
issue of an international letter of credit, which the direct exporter allegedly
receives at the time his customer orders the merchandise. The direct exporter
would then issue, based on the international letter of credit, a domestic let-
ter of credit to his suppliers, provided a sales contract is defining the
responsibilities of both parties; a certificate of technical capability ("Cer-
tificado de Capacidad Tecnica"), to be issued by the direct exporter, certifies
that the indirect exporter is technically capable of delivering the inputs in
the required quantity, quality, and time frame. The indirect exporter could
then rediscount the DLC issued to him with his commercial bank, and thus
receive financing for his own production cycle.
Export Consortia and Trading Companies
11.    Currently there are very few full-fledged trading companies in Mexico.
On the other hand, export consortia exist, most of which were created in the
early 1970s based upon a fiscal incentive scheme (CEDIs). Initially, the con-
sortia had a rather impressive growth and have, over a number of years, ac-
counted for approximately one-fifth of Mexico's manufactured exports. With the
elimination of the CELI incentive, however, their financial viability has
become questionable. Set up as foreign trade departments of their respective
members, many consortia lack the operational experience, financial resources,
and staff quality that would be required for the operation of a trading
company.



ANfRX VIII
Page 4 of 5
12.    However, while the transformation of all export consortia into trading
companies may not be feasible, some of the more advanced export consortia may
well be suitable to operate as full-scale trading companies in the future. For
example, the export consortium of the Alfa Group has advanced plans for the
transformation into a trading company. Other export consortia may want to fol-
low. The project would include a study of prospects of the individual export
consortia, assessing their potential to increase Mexico's non-oil exports.
Suitable candidates for conversion would be identified, and the legal, finan-
cial, and operational issues that would result would be evaluated.  In addition
to the possible conversion of existing export consortia, the formation of new
trading companies should also be explored. I:, particular, cooperation or joint
ventures with distributors in important foreign markets (especially the U.S.)
appear to hold some promise.
Institutional Implicatious of Financial Service Improvements
13.    A program for upgrading financial services to exporters would require a
clarification of institutional responsibilities among Mexico's financial inter-
mediaries. While the Government originally intended to use the nationalization
of the commercial banking system for a complete overhaul of the financial sec-
tor, little has been done in clarifying the role of the development banks, the
commercial banks, and the trust funds ("fideicomisos"). Instead, the existing
institutions are largely left alone in deciding which parts of the financial
services market they would like to serve and what kind of services they would
like to offer.
14.    Mexico's commercial banks are developed and efficient financial inter-
mediaries in most traditional banking products (loans, deposits, payment trans-
actions). For the supply of short-term loans for pre-shipment and sales
financing, the commercial baaks would appear as the most suitable intermedia-
ries. Also, payment transactions and foreign exchange deals are probably
carried out most efficiently by the commercial banks.
15.    At the same time, however, it appears unlikely that the commercial banks
would be interested in filling th'- gap in the supply of more sophisticated
financial services to exporters. The strategic differentiation among customer
groups, financial services, and regions is still at an early stage. Most of
the banks, while claiming some specialization in certain segments (such as
large firms), offer services to every company and have difficulties in differ-
entiating themselves from immediate competitors. Moreover, for the banks most
active in export financing (BANCOMER, BANAMEX, and BANCA SERFIN), export
financing represents only a small portion of their activities in comparison to
their overall size. Thus, it is unlikely that a market niche such as export
financing would receive the management commitment required for a substantial
upgrading of the services.
16.    The current credit market conditions serve as a further impediment to
the development of better services. While commercial banks operating in devel-
oped financial markets with a high degree of competition usually attempt to
leverage their financial resources through increases in their fee business,
Mexico's commercial banks have little incentive to invest in service intensive



ANNEX VIII
Page 5 of 5
activities, given the tight credit situation and the high interest spreads that
result, making lending and deposit taking the more attractive business
opportunities.
17.    Given the problems of the commercial banks, it appears that BNCE would
be the best institution to embark upon a program to improve financial services
to the exporters. In contrast to the commercial banks, BNCE is, through its
charter, devoted to the promotion of foreign trade. Moreover, BNCE is suffi-
ciently small to be able to develop new approaches in the export financing
market, and its management is committed to institutional improvements while
avoiding duplication of efforts with the commercial banks.



ANNEX ID
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Co-ercio Exterior (BNCE)
Financial Performance
1.     Profitability.  Although more than 90% of its assets and liabilities are
dollar-based, BNCE publishes its balance sheet and income statements in pesos,
converting stock and flow figures at the respective monthly average exchange
rates. According to these data, BNCE has, over the past five years, achieved a
return on equity (RoE) between 20% and 30%. Since Mexican inflation rates
exceeded BNCE's RoE by a substantial margin, the RoE has been negative in real
terms during most of the five-year period. However, BNCE's capital has grown
by about 7% per annum in real terms between 1982 and 1985. Moreover, if sub-
ordinated liabilities (loans from the Government) are included in the capital,
total capital growth, in real terms, has been 30% per annum over the same
period.
2.     BNCE's gross interest margin has fluctuated around 1% of total assets,
ref lecting its business mix--large size customers/operations and low spread on
individual loans. BNCE's net fee income has risen from 0.06% of total assets
in 1983 to 0.17% in 1985, indicating BNCE's attempt to attract more fee-earning
business that does not involve commitments of financial resources. BNCE's
administrative costs have been low, representing about 35% of the gross margin
or 0.4% of total assets.
3.     Debt-Equity Structure.  At year-end 1985, BNCE's capital, as shown in
the balance sheet, represented 1.3% of total assets. If other reserves and
quasi-equities were included, total capital would represent 3% of total assets,
equivalent to a debt/equity ratio of 34:1. This gearing ratio, while high,
does not appear excessive, given BNCE's role as the national bank for external
trade financing and the fact that a vast majority of funds it administers are
guaranteed by the Government and thus do not represent any credit risk for
BNCE. If only assets which are not guaranteed in any way by the Government are
taken into account, BNCE's debt/equity ratio at year-end 1985 stood at
approximately 3:1. In any case, the Government and the BNCE recognize that the
financial structure of the latter should be reviewed. Both have the intention
to address this issue, first, by capitalization of loan funds allocated to
PROFIDE (working capital) and the portion of FIFE (fixed investment) on-lent
directly by BNCE, and second, by considering additional measures that would
have an impact in the short run.
4.     Asset and Liability Structure.  BNCE's assets consist mainly of long-
term, dollar-denominated loans, representing some 90% of total assets. The
remaining 10% of total assets are made up of liquid funds, investments in
bonds, interest receivables, and other loans to other banks. A small propor-
tion of liabilities (7%) is made up of demand and time deposits. On average,
BNCE's balance sheet has grown substantially in real terms over the last
several years: in 1982, the real growth was 37%, in 1983 9Z, and -9% in 1984.
In 1985, the real growth rate was once again above 30%.



ARMK IX
Page 2 of 3
Institutional Development
5.     Over the last several years, BANCOMEXT has grown in its traditional
financing operations, and has assumed new responsibilities in export promo-
tion. With the proposed Second Export Development Project, BANCOMEXT will take
on additional responsibilities in providing financial services to exporting
companies, improving export insurance and credit guarantee schemes, integrating
indirect exporters into the financial and non-financial incentive systems, and
promoting trading companies. Moreover, the recent transfer of responsibilities
of IMCE to BANCOMEXT imposes further strain on limited staff resources and
management time. To cope with these functions, and to position itself as the
main supplier of sophisticated, fee-intensive financial services to exporters,
BANCOMEXT would have to clarify a number of strategic issues, as discussed
below.
6.     First Tier vs. Second Tier Operations.  Currently, BNCE operates as a
first- and second-tier institution. It refinances some operations of other
commercial banks (mainly through FOMEX), and conducts direct business with cor-
porate customers. As a first-tier institution, BANCOMEXT competes directly
with a number of commercial banks active in the same market segments. For the
future, it should be possible to define a sensible distribution of first-tier
responsibilities between BNCE and the commercial banks. Assuming that inten-
sified financial services to exporters would not be supplied by the commercial
banks for some time, BNCE would have to continue first-tier operations--at
least in the "non-traditional" service areas.
7.     Customer Base.  BNCE's future customer base should be carefully selected
to ensure that scarce financial and manpower resources are being deployed most
effectively. In view of the limited number of important exporters, BNCE could
define its future target customers on a name-by-name basis, taking into account
such factors as the company's growth and export prospects, its financial
strengths and requirements, the sophistication of its financial management, and
the quality of the export services it already receives through domestic or
foreign commercial banks.
8.     Product Line.  In line with the strategy outlined above, BNCE would
offer service and fee intensive products that require a higher degree of
sophistication. BNCE would have to decide, however, to what extent it should
also offer traditional export financing to companies that have difficulties in
obtaining the required services from commercial banks (e.g., small firms, first
time exporters, and indirect exporters).
9.     Price Policy.  Until now, BNCE's management has emphasized the need to
provide services at "preferential" prices, because of its function as a devel-
opment bank. This approach, however, eats up financial resources that would
otherwise be available for additional lending, and provides a disincentive for
commercial banks to follow into markets opened up by BNCE. In addition, subsi-
dized prices make it impossible to judge customer appreciation for the
particular service offered.  The revision of its present price policy would,
therefore, be an important part of the definition of BNCE's future strategy,
particularly for services in which BNCE would enjoy a monopoly.



AM=  XX
Page 3 of 3
10.    Risk Exposure.  The commercial banks are following a Lonservative risk
approach, focussing largely only on blue-chip customers with good-looking bal-
ance sheets and ample collateral. While BNCE has to limit its risk exposure
adequately, it may also want to assist export ventures that would not be eligi-
ble for commercial bank financing as a result of, for example, insufficient
collateral. However, if BNCE would be willing to finance riskier operatiosq,
it would also have to ensure adequate returns to cover higher losses.
Characteristics of Exporting Firms Financed under ED? I
11.    About 50 exporting finms have to date (June 1986) obtained fixed asset
financing (FIFE component) under the first Export Development Project (Loan
2331-HE). Forty-five percent of the FIFE funds were channeled to firms in the
manufacturing and agroindustrial sectors, some 22% in tourism, and one-third in
the telecommunications sector (the earthquake rehabilitation subloan to the
telephone company ("Telefonos de Mexico"). Seven firms, accounLing for some
45Z of total FIFE financing, are in the parastatal sector.
12.    Under the working capital financing (PROUIDE) component of the loan,
some 85 exporting firms obtained financing between early 1984 (when the loan
became effective) and mid-1986, in the manufacturing (85% of all firms), agro-
industrial (8%), mining (6%), and telecommunications (1%) subsectors. About
10% of the beneficiary firms have a majority State ownership, and accounted for
some 18X of all PROFIDE financing. The beneficiaries' export plans amounted to
some US$1.4 billion, representing some 25% of Mexico's non-oil exports in 1985;
and their import requirements reached US$600 million (about 6% of the country's
total imports in 1985). More than 70% of loan proceeds given for pre-shipment
financing to date has been given to eight large firms producing traditional
manufactured exports (steel and steel products, fertilizers, petrochemicals and
chemicals, and autoparts), largely reflecting the current structure and high
degree of concentration of Mexico's non-oil exports.



ARM l
Prge 1 of 2
SECOMD SXPORT DZYLWNENT PROJECT
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A.     BNCE would prepare the following information:
(a)    Commitments and Disbursements Pertaining to Lending Operations
by Components - FIFE, PROFIDE (annually):
- Line of Credit/Subloan Size
- Economic Sector
- Financial Intermediary
- Currency Denomination
(b)    Subproject Performance by Loan Components - FIFE, PROFIDE
(annually):
- Type of Enterprise (Final Exporter, Indirect Exporter, Trading
Company)
- Sector of Economic Activity
- Financial Composition of Subprojects/Credit Lines
- Investment Costs (Projected and Actual, FIFE)
- Value of Exports (Annual Export Plans and their Realization -
PROFIDE, Expected Incremental Exports - FIFE)
-  Import Requirements (PROFIDE)
- Foreign Exchange Generation
- Employment Impact (FIFE)
- Subproject Implementation and Delays
- Current Project/Line of Credit Pipeline
(c)    Technical Assistance Program (semiannually)
-  Progress Report on Studies Undertaken under the Project
(d)    General:
- Comments on Overall Project Implementation and Adjustments as
Appropriate
B.     For monitoring purposes, the following indicators apply:



Page 2 of 2
By mid- By mid- By mid- By mid-
1987     1988      1989      1990
1. Financial Input
(a) Loan commitments*                  25%       75%       95%    100%
(b) Number of firms
financed under PROFIDE*            60      175       275      275
(c) Number of firms
financed under FIFE*               15       50        70       75
2. Results of Operations
(a) Value of annual exports
financed under PROFIDE
(US$ million equivalent)*         750     1,750    2,500   2,500
(b) Incremental exports
generated by FIFE
(US$ millions equivalent)*        125        750    1,150   1,250
3. Institutional Matters
(a) Mechanisms to provide
indirect exporter                 Under
financing                       application
(b) BNCE improved
management information                        50%        Fully
system                                    advanced  implemented
* Cumulative



ANE  XI
Page 1 of 7
mEIco
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPME   PROJECT
Principal PolicS Measures Affecting Trade, 1982-1985
Dates
1982  February 18:    Bank of Mexico withdrew support from exchange market;
peso depreciated from 26.89 to 44.64 per US$1 by the end
of February.
March 10:       SECOFI announced a program to reduce import duties to
levels prevailing in June 1981 for 1,500 items.
June 5:         Bank of Mexico announced it would intervene once more in
exchange market and would allow peso to depreciate at 4
centavos per day.
August 5:        Dual exchange market was established; preferential rate
to be applied to priority imports, servicing public
sector external debt, and interest payments on private
-ector external debt; non-petroleum exports and all other
transactions to be converted at freely floating rate;
peso quoted at 48.41 per US$1 in preferential market and
75.77 per US$1 in floating market.
August 11:      CEDI payment for specified non-traditional exports were
suspended.
August 12:      Commercial banks authorized to purchase foreign exchange
at rate of approximately 70 pesos per US$1.
August 18:      Commercial banks authorized to buy and sell foreign
exchange at the free market rate.
September 1:    All foreign exchange transactions were subjected to
official control through the Bank of Mexico; two basic
exchange rates established, a preferential rate to apply
to foreign obligations of the public sector and domestic
credit institutions, interest and principal payments for
private sector obligations contracted before September 1,
1982, and specified imports to be determined by SECOFI;
all other transactions (including exports, tourism
receipts and border transactions) to be effected at
ordinary rate; most imports were made subject to prior
licensing; foreign currency-denominated deposits in the
Mexican banking system were no longer permitted; banking
system was nationalized.



A Ii
Page 2 of 7
1982  September 6:    Preferential exchange rate established at Mex$50 to US$1
and ordinary rate at Mex$70 to US$1.
September 17:   Prior licence requirement established for all imports,
except certain personal items and goods with small value;
list of imports eligible for preferential exchange rate
announced.
October 11:      Regulations issued to permit exporters to establish com-
pensation accounts linking their payments for expenses
associated with exporting to their foreign exchange
receipts.
October 29:      Free exchange market authorized in border and free trade
zone areas.
December 10:    Exchange system revised and controls and foreign ex-
change transactions lifted; two exchange rates estab-
lished to be operational on December 20; a "controlled"
rate to be fixed by the Bank of Mexico would be applied
to all merchandise exports, payments for imports speci-
fied by SECOFI, certain specified capital transactions,
transactions of the "maquila" industries and other tran-
sactions to be specified; free exchange market authorized
for banks and exchange houses and would be used for all
other foreign transactions subject to specified limits;
import duties reduced on imports to be effected at
controlled rates.
December 17:    Regulations established regarding opening of special
accounts by exporters based on export proceeds.
December 19:    Regulations issued concernirg establishment of accounts
by foreign commercial banks for the settlement of inter-
est payments on foreign obligations by Mexican private
sector.
December 20:    Controlled exchange rate set at Mex$95 per US$1, free
market rate quoted at Mex$150 per US$1.
1983  January 17:      Import duties on approximaLely 2,000 items, accounting
for about two-thirds of the value of imports reduced by
about 11% on the average.
February 8:      Prior license requirements removed for imports of spare
parts for machinery and equipment costing less than
US$1,500 per transaction.
1983  February 25:    Regulations issued allowing enterprises to establish
deposits denominated in U.S. dollars acquired at official
exchange rate for servicing of suppliers' debt incurred
prior to December 20, 1982, and coming due prior to June



ANRME XI
Page 3 of 7
1983  February 25:    30, 1983.  The option would be available until July 15,
(continued)      1983, with Banco de Mexico announcing the repayment
schedule prior to August 15, 1983.
March 4:         Regulations issued authorizing exporters to use the for-
eign exchange proceeds of their exports to meet all
expenses associated with exporting and production for
export, to pay for imports for which licenses have been
granted. Exporters also authorized to engage in barter
transactions approved by SECOFI. Exporters with approved
annual export programs can obtain import licenses for
their import requirements on a yearly basis.
April 6:         Formal announcement of a foreign exchange futures scheme
and associated financing offered by Banco de Mexico to
facilitate rescheduling of private foreign debt.
May 2:           Liberalization from the prior import license for
temporary imports destined for export production.
May 9:           Announcement of immediate actions in support of exports,
including liberalization of export licenses, exemption of
export duties, simplification of export and customs
procedures, fiscal incentives, and financing of exports.
June 22:         Announcement of the "single window" facility for
exporters administered by IMCE.
July 22:         Inclusion of additional import tariff items under the
controlled exchange rate regime and purchase of foreign
exchange required for imports at the controlled rate.
August 3:        Initiation of FICORCA operations.
December 9:      Establishment of the Joint Advisory Commission on Foreign
Trade Policy ("Comision Mixta Asesora de Politica de
Comercio Exterior" - COMPEX) as an interinstitutional
body (including private sector representatives), to coor-
dinate trade policies, evaluate export-oriented projects,
and propose measures to accelerate foreign trade
procedures.
1984  January 27:      Inclusion of all merchandise imports in the controlled
foreign exchange market.
February 3:      Formalization of administrative arrangements for simpli-
fication and streamlining of export certification   pro-
cedures, including --equired arrangements with other
Secretariats and agencies.
February 6:      Foreign exchange risk coverage for new private sector
debt with maturities exceeding 2.5 years.
I



ANNEX xI
age 4 of 7
Harch 4:         Rescheduling of other private debt in arrears, including
foreign exchange risk cover and associated financing.
June 17:         Extension of validity of import licenses from 6 to 9
months and automatic issuance of import licenses for
imports not exceeding US$30,000.
June 17:         Reduction (from 1,843 to 544 tariff positions) in the
number of items in automatic negative list.
July:            Initiation of reforms of regulation on trading companies
and export consortia and strengthened coordination of
fiscal measures affecting these firms.
August 20:       Liberalization of 827 additionai tariff items (with a
total of 2,816 positions, accounting for some 15% o4 1983
merchandise exports).
August 20:       Exemption from import licenses for imports not exceeding
US$100 per tariff position or US$500 per operation.
August 20:       Adjustment in tariff levels for 529 items with the
objective of reducing tariff dispersion.
December:        Daily rate of devaluation increased to 17 cents.
1985  February 15:    The U.S. Export-Import Bank suspended a special US$2
billion export credit program for Mexico and Brazil.
February 28:    De la Madrid ordered an additional US$465 million in
federal budget cuts through reduced subsidies and
Government investments.
March 6:         rhe daily rate of devaluation was change; the dollar was
raised against the peso by 21 centavos a day, rather than
17 centavos.
April 2:         519 prcducts were removed from the list of imports
requiring import licenses. Coverage of quantitative
restrictions was reduced from 85% to 78% of total
imports.
April 23:        Mexico signed a bilateral agreement with the U.S.  This
agreement commits the U.S. to show injury, before
invoking countervailing duties on Mexican exports, in
exchange for a commitment from Mexico to eliminate
financial and other subsidies to exporters.
April 26:        The Government published PROFIEX, a program geared
toward promoting non-oil exports. One of the measures
introduced is the extension of a system of temporary
imports to benefit not only direct exporters but also
local producers-of inputs for export activities.



ARNEM xI
Page 5 of 7
April __:        The Mexican Government modernized the concept and
administration of drawback system, by broadening the
definition of inputs entering export production which
qualify for import duty reimbursement.
May 9:           The Government amplified the admission scheme for imports
needed for export production. Exporters who export 10%
of their output can avail themselves of a three-year
temporary import (replenishment) program. Exporting
firms may also sell a maximum of 30% of tne value of
their exports in the domestic market without paying for
duties on its import content.
June 6:          The Government announced the DIMEX, a system of import
certificates. In this scheme, exporters with a minimum
of 30% degree of national integration may obtain a
certificate to import up to 30% of the value of their
exports, ',ithout a prior import license. The exporters
will pay a floor duty rate of 25%. The certificate is
also transferable. DIMEX applies only to 72% of total
imports (i.e., 930 items or 28% of total imports are
still blacklisted).
July 10:         The Government cut oil prices.
July 22:         De la Madrid announced five measures for structural
change. They are:
(1) Restructuring of Federal Government and parastatals;
(2) Increased and accelerated substitution of the system
of licensing with a tariff system;
(3) Exchange rate flexibility to promote non-oil
exports;
(4) Monitoring and reduction of smuggling, and active
implementation of the tax system; and
(5)  Deepening of financial intermediation.
July 23/24:      The Government reduced the quantitative restrictions (QR)
coverage from 78% to 40%.
July 25:         Mexico devalued the "controlled" peso against the U.S.
dollar by 17%. Beginning August 5, the peso will float.
IBM was granted 100% ownership of a Mexican firm, and
will be the first fully foreign-owned firm, that is,
provided IBM exports 90% of its total output.



A=NNX XI
Page 6 of 7
July 25:         Specific measures to operationalize measures (1) and
(continued)      (2) above announced on July 22:
(1) Cutting budget by US$410 million in 1985;
(2) Eliminating jobs of 15 Under Secretaries and staff,
20% cut on some expenses, and a salary freeze;
(3) Reorganizing of their budget by State-run
corporations;
(4) Eliminating import permits for 36.9% of all imports;
August 5:        The "controlled" peso was floated.
August 7:        SECOFI announced the further liberalization of imports to
free trade zones--333 import tariff categories for free
trade zones were eliminated; 575 items remain in force.
Liberalized items included fresh and processed foods,
seeds, chemical products, auto parts, and industrial and
agricultural machinery and equipment.
August 9:        SECOFI (notably Secretary Hernandez) announced that
Mexico may join GATT at the start of the next
multilateral rounds, which is likely to be in mid-1986.
June-October:   Import reference prices were extended to 370 additional
tariff positions (up from 845 to 1,215 positions). This
increased the coverage of import reference prices from
4.4% of total import value to 7.6%.
October-         Some tariff positions had QRs restored, while others
November        were freed.  A net of 92 additional tariff positions
were released from QRs, accounting for 1/2% of total
import value.
November 15:    Submission to the Congress of a New Organic Law of
BNCE. This increased BNCE's role from an export
financing and promotion io3titution to an important
policymaker. The new organic law creates a high-level
Foreign Trade Promotion and Development Committee, of
which BNCE will be a member.
November:        Dismantling of IMCE.
November 26:    Formal application of Mexico for GATT membership.
1986  January 20:      Publication of BNCE's new Organic Law.
March 17:        Announcement of PROFIEX 1986, spelling out detailed
additional measures to support non-oil exports.



Page 7 of 7
April 30:        Announcement of new Import teriff schedule; maximum
tariffs reduced from 100% to 45%; publication of a
calendar to gradually reduce tariff dispersion and number
of tariff ranges (from 10 to five); and establishment of
end-1988 0-30% tariff range.
May 2-4:         Mexico begins formal discussions to accede to GATT.
June 5-19:       Final stage of negotiations with the Bank on a Trade
Policy Loan successfully concluded.
July 25:         Mexico signs protocol of accession to GATT.
August 24:       Protocol of accession to GATT becomes effective.



Table 1: MEXICO - PRINCIPAL CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBLOANS FINANCED UNDER THE EDP-I (LN. 2331-ME)
(US$ Dollars)
....................................... ................................................................... . ................................................................................................................... ---__.  
Fire                        Fomwieadl List          lsis                 fluud         urmai1ti    laiwi              C at. ltiei             i iuted  k41ac4d       hdaq            legal  etIs,
lsatmi-   ot           slit                  leotis              1l11i           fetal    'e".ea              Eapg3       E Impt         Eim ts peMlAid S
dawy Ct   teiet       cuisrw                                                                                               Ml                            pzaq
Iaa.gt*a.**...S,t.*.I,.*,..a.f...................
rlulw  h bolts, S.A.   NU           1-12            A                154,1W .S40  13.00,WA.0   14,4*0,440.0 * 
urialilaaee   nuicm,          dE     lAI              A                  4,14",W."    15,W,KQ.          I3,'4S,S.&5             S        1,9I9,  t.   4,014,Ne.M   69,wo,.w              1JUlt.0
Ede  of kite It                     i*-*i             A                 521,i0,55e.K    l S,O,.W    24,415,WS.i            --           43,;5,'?0.W  21,111,2r.12   66I125,0I.U 4        *l2I1,.h
liker  lEieicsn, S.A.       luur  IA-iS               a                 14,2111,W.0      I,;0I,.         l,lW,.w    i,3h,sb.             3I,;2i, .    1i4,51 L,01.U   Ie,444,92LUW    112210.1
leel         baume,         IIU     1i-11             A                 i0,315 6,.    12,U13,Vi.W          122,154.44     122,I3.0     I4i,il,eW.a3 iie,4,.w.w    azus,m.e   I               M4S.41
iesab  bacou,               If       IA-11            A                 14,42,40.0   12250,d.460   ,115,6e.40             A,1.1    1i,t110.4.          1450,1.0         14|,U11L4       ISII11.0
Ivime de bea.e, S.A.         wwv  iA-1i                  1A               Y2UW44  7"*" 7,2"404.             3224.4S4      322,544.00    aI,49,W0.W    5,Zl9,19L12    I,71,m.U    II             .*
Yituirsa, 4 a'.A.           m t      ia-1             a                  4,lN,M.K'   4,1N,0.m              114,1M.A        W,11i.6      1,01,6l4.N    3,H1,54S."        3,0 61,5.1       60411410.441
1desiale aslemirit,         Su       IA-0             A                  3,24,04.4       3,;O4SI,'O  l,4 6,#3.42          S1U,353Y         .44,W        5,614,N4.N       I,M1,.3          "w"4 4
hiu  V Cetaqude,            It      1-40             A                  2',1,.4 0        ,&, - ','w.4    I,I15,MI.54  )I.a       d       7.59" t,*..  s,W9, .2n   l,34,1ALw             7111S.hS
Vabrw, AmUrr, I.A.    on             ia-es            I                  i,ps,SI.is    2.,03,0.14          911,I-.5-                     I0,43,ln.9      ,3 ,W.u         J1,eUU1.S       1"iH lY."
VW  IIHavsti  l  ha.        KS       1l-4U            I                  2,452,0(.44    2,40,4*.0           i,1l1.m         24,SZ2."4      ,5,4.         ),W6,I,IS 1 4,1i4                I%".*
Vidria huiju I         .a. S  N      1L-1             S                  3,293,ZA7,i&    2,444,143,132.52                     ---              * 4, .I    *42W1          2,H  ,40.IG      91143.U1
rdatlin truK.                 le    il-S, 11                                                      .4       41,443.4       41,9L1.t,6 ?,026,                33.4          1,w41.03 251l44 I420n.41.4
told 1eledivl               K        I-)5       .     I                  I1,k.k     i,k2 WS.               245,442.43      11,64.1 41  U 0I 4.H  1i,ia,351.13   l1Iff,IILI1                6 U1W1
dilin AilI    de            K        il4l             S                  1,124,04.0      1,124,60J         562,5644.      U2,540.w       3,3,44,.4               1              1                .4
1.t11 de bilge, SA.         NE       18-i4            S                  1.124,*0.0      I,124,h0.W        161,2.04           --.         1.t1*,*.4              I *                            0 .4
viaraiw  LO4 kyus, L.A.    N          1i-Il          I                  2,054,   .12    1,528,d4.       1I,19i5.  5        -,III,520..3   4,144,lla.49    1,fli,Jn."9     aiiUb.I1
ace Alt(teredel, 54        KU        1I-1                                1,iSI,i93.tv    1,IS2,40.i        44,4.44           ---         I, ,5.4    3,40,2.4             l,514,46.W       HM Il.N
l.dstr;ss kuelsIem          h        il-SI t        l b,00,Kc.4                          I,s,40,W          15505.0        153,601.1     I1,14.144        21,714.46       I9,25.4.i
Y,ara hlnic, L.S.           NM       lb-it            S                  l,21S,Nl 93i.     111,U0.06       C4,431.4          ---         3,11,911.11   2,015,014.4i    1,W,12.IS          41116.11
ladests bi                 IC 11     S-IlS    S         I                  42s,50.40       1U2,504.0       SQ,54.44       111,1600       i,f5,W4A.              *              *.fl
tl,aetace EAliaee           lmeew  11-2s              b                    W4.m60           W,"W.N         707,154.0        -            i.C6,fl6.W             I        '.l0
Irequuin, 1                SS        1217            7                   i,519,500.0o      09,444.44      412;,110.U       4S,1S5.17    4,125.45 0.b    1,124, 1.1       ,5      .fl      42 .44
laa  I1 Film, 1.|    KS             I-2I             I                      0,00.00        00,444.04       9,744.          ---              4,0 0,. I,44,V.             S l;1,2 44              .
flatke Q  WasI              Sacr   1-41               I                    502,0.4         S20.00          144,10.        145,lmi.0 4        ,4           576,S43.05      W2I,GL           15N.
IikidC.ltU#i j R. 1         A        1-24             a                    S0,*.              5,M.W"        51,1335.4      1i,152.4t      1,554,00.00       m,mml9I        q19,PJ."       33540.4
Source: IVC/Plrlom
ICP12
January ltUi
Ia.a



"r~~~~~PN "
I- tm p *w3
"1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~soIPO Pi .ww                                                     1111
me  ~~~~~~~~~~~vdkipdpwim                                    losII
| 4si-  m 99                                                        mue                                         "Pi
ff,ChaAiIa                                                                                                                *. .                                      elbi
i11~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "  t@ *11 lwp  ml itid                                                                          *,s,_, *
w;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Inp                                                1 1" uujw    lilin                                              s1,a s'i* 'i
IC,                                        Sib                       t i ,                                     ezbt
ts6                                        I 61 1,                                                          - .b,
*11UKDPID IIWI *1                                                       SI8$S1 1il Id S
N'isM  I' i*1   Id 1184 itIPl Pi llSlM2
1011           1161        W#10         IIIII                    "'           "It                                        i-Ai #I del p  eos
"5StiU1     UetVMglisg l.eiiesl IIU1l*li  19lWlf 5iill&   sMw'i*i "'s*e 1Sll                                                      '_*"              01 b1
we@           in                     wsee          *-.        U'eW        sea'e         eeW                    ._"^ we;                         p ux  21w 
WIU'Ut 'S t 111W         Wtl'llt WUUl"%lll  &OlNlt Hem         sU'e "  KIW'II  sUZe                            U           it    in    'SN -lW  WBl
we                                    eW          wu,         enec           we        s m                               c-e n            "ml   sinem 'wam
" I            a        t           trw*ee           --hosiw'u "     ,el euM'f         "M1i'6 1-ll    "i                                    *1M  wabaiN
we             in         in         ee's                    si,i'l"      .0,11"If     lo5e61s                 I         1141l  -          Ire Ne *I M 9"I
WIUII    KIACUI  W*II(    W~~~~~Irw6*               goU 5UZ1     wee'lu,      w09ri                   I         li-Il J1131~IN *IiI l?Ul?wMl sil
w1e            a           I        whuiCh        *l'tU..    "'HU         olewii       WlII'U                  I         U-Il                    II 'PAi'lp
"'*|                                 -@S          "tt'1        '- f Orooolt w'tU' 0,611                                   J1  X      "     "t q'  "JI111"116
smug        iw-wism     uliwel    5KIiC              ---!   s-e"' t      ee1s'9       eeau                    6         1141  SUI       ^99I9A "9 "o IIlisd
5*g'~5    g'Ug'NI    "'"'1V        5U|NU9        9-h'Wl'dl Or'w'                      "',1U          I           *-Il              11      Phi tidv  nlim
wouE    grul6ul    walit    W*9001Ci                  .      61OS*'Il    SoWN,0        sw l                              wi-si     u        Ali"" llini'NS
510            I           *        '90941so      !n101N6    It9*IinIe   'tU'llil    W       I                           t o-l    _31111)1  I 43mg
.5e            I   t'    :     *                              --  ""IuSS   w '"e    4111111                    1 et-II III                1*1AInl uWMa2
1, 1-- .                                                       '.*"T      WMI'I    1e41,I                      I         II       l U    lfpinIlil
111S11101    41I0S;    0*eEI11t    0me1100"       W1p,"       S1KLSI    e9,0*69 1'gmg                                    ti       U 3        Mwj WN813e19
swm         w1e'u*       wwift    Ceebe.I         *w'll         uil      *WI " W'0111    ewMeeh                6         1141    U           la 'tN 'awliN
rwis    wru'm           eelutn *       ,011eug    W*'A l1N9fI W"4WCI H'W               W"N'wi                  I11                U      n  siD  Np "m1m
NUIIIi    wMleIMI   41IJepi   w1iseZCI                ...    5I"10C1      0104411      Ow5611                            11-41    U       6 '11's aA laN  mm6
UlMKl    U1W             IL*lub   "'Wsit1tl -'111!    U1'"9  t              '59tC       e'wIu                            tl "IT11 Wat-AInU "O11M"
MIMI    Ka'uw           IIw'it    ws wtiv         0 6Nsllil   "H!U'Sl    SWIAl    Nt"11l Ovt'llf               I          l-l      1      1  as liNm1 ll
4wum       "'WlLa    U'ilue   ttW'oll    W99111    WM9I0 H11,0",                       weeie                  I          il-Il 1itl 1     's "fal ""l*I
*||E *e uipn itltl @w**ls t^  S )  S I    i       S    I  *151          MIS @t    SII                                ip
pw  lea   s_'^'         @'Slt"'"'UI                  - Glek loam     pp    ''l1tl    "'"'Ett                 IM         tR    411O      '' 11I1 
let""b 155        hss        515U59 itN'l    N'IS4 Intel pN !sAPl  11111 1't113               t PW                       11t1                          5 ml  I114e   III
,______~~~~ ... .. . ... .......... ................... . . ...... .. .... __ ...... ._ ......................... . __ ......__................ . ...
(8zwTTou  Ori)                                     (uo;punuT:uo3)
(z34-ucZ  tN) I-dcIR zHI *dul UiZONVNI4  SNVYlgnls  ao SDIISIZUDVHD 'WdIO1DNIld - O1IXZH  21 Tl'q



ANNEX XII
Page 3 of 3
Table 2: MEXICO - DISTRIBUTION OF LOAN COMMITMENTS FINANCED
UNDER EDP-I
(Percentage)
Subsctor                                   Share
Retal. and fatal Products                    15.1
Autoaobiles uad autaparts                    24.0
Electric parts and aachinery                  ;.8
Cheaical s                                     .2
Nonietallic Minerals                         21.5
Light Nanufactures                           20.4
(Footwear, qlass, plastic, textiles,etc.)
Telephone                                    10.0
Niscellaneous                                 2.0
Total                                       100.0



ANNEX XIII
Pa ge I ofI
MEXICO
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule 1/
(USS Millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year and             Disbursements           Cumulative
Quarter (Ending Date)            in Quarter             Disbursements
-986-87 (FY87)
rarch 31, 1987                        5.0                      5.0
June 30, 1987                        10.0                    15.0
1987-88 (FY88)
September 30, 1987                   17.5                    32.5
December 31, 1987                   30.5                     63.0
March 31, 1988                      37.5                    100.5
June 30, 1988                       31.0                    131.5
1988-89 (FY89)
September 30, 1988                  28.5                    160.0
December 31, 1988                   24.5                    184.5
March 31, 1989                       19.0                   203.5
June 30, 1989                       14.5                    218.0
1989-90 (FY90)
September 30, 1989                  11.0                    229.0
December 31, 1989                    7.5                    236.5
March 31, 1990                        5.5                   242.0
June 30, 1990                        4.5                    246.5
1990-91 (FY91)
September 30, 1990                   3.5                    250.0
1/  The disbursement schedule is based on the experience of the
first Export Development Project and takes into account the fact
that up to 70% of loan proceeds are expected to be disbursed for
working capital purposes and therefore does not -orrespond to
standard IDF disbursement profiles.
October 1986



UNITED    STATES    OF    AMERICA
I'
.r    K ._Cd
+   Chihuhua   LsPW%
BAIA +;              i.u              Cso Ch..gr                                                                     N4J6
CAl IFORNIA            .                                          ar \
N -V
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lO6 D UW 17 A    L. 0                                                  r'A
C+ZIFOBNIA  La P rw       .                      Ano        \     . S
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LJ.JG Sv Aj9Nf :                                                 0  ,a>>r-   -
M.xorl /U .                                              |eon
-. 'v fw;e~~PicI. , r
20~~~~~~~~~ 4g; JZ bu+ 
P_rt2Url4rl>*    G\O]dGuadaia
1 / A I I 5     X7 0           
Masionill -. -                 GU- --Ai
-~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0IOU  o                                               iiA2C.30D   oo  an
I..i
A.-
KILOMETERtS 0      00      200      300     400      S00
MILES0 1O0                       200            300
Ir..A.p...dy*  MMaw_  _ebdV.g&   b.0
j*_  J_.*.h        _l.1    _____SC
---_-__lt. _d Ws__e~~II0



IBRD 15553
6o- 90JANUARS IWI1
30
M E X I C O
^,  a_^   National capital
0     Sttle capitols
0    Principal cities or towns
-        Divided highwavs
i   /   ---   Selected moin roads
t  k S-   - Railroods
R;vers
+     Principal airports
t O   - _   State boundaries
International boundaries
M t  rA ~A UZiJS.--
, r  YictrioS                                                                                                    v
j9Ca>,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ameh .'-'
- uisPsot;  < ,;    Tompico
-to lsi0;2o  /      2                                                                                               V"Ir  *1  /  t  trBSCAi hrIboo/  J
t %sd^co C z   J                                                                            fPaw R            /    *UmEt'20'
~~~~~  \> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Campeche                                                 _
--   E    XI OT              l                                                                  g| 
, Chlizonsmg?   %>,Ooxoco   _  _   Z-                    \                  i ~~~~~BELIZE
TuxIlo.GiGtierrez
l    GUATEMALA
Topoch                                    HONDURAS
_ I--



